Hello everyone Hello TG Thank you so much for being our guest on another live Hello ok so we bring a lot of people on our channel we are interested in knowing their points of view that's why we talk to them one way we encourage here so many people and people from many different fields when we bring in the most A name that people have been asking, why is TG not coming up? TG is a demand that we need to hear from many people. Finally, after listening to many people, I tapped your number and today we have reached a situation where we are talking today. Anyway , thank you very much for accepting our invitation without any exception. Today without wasting much time let's get straight to the point. The people who are in the audience have said that we should talk to you for at least two hours. The order I got from above is one hour . see you another day non stop is awesome yeah no tds I just told them I need it I know how hard it is so that's the point anyway before we start what do you want to preface about us or this situation first oh I have a lot to say about you because outside I have the most My friends are ex-naxlites and atheists ex-naxalite current maoist is not the gun-toting type there were old naxalites K Venu Civic Chandran Prasad Vellathul Stephen in sevens why are they like this I and they have a vibe like atheist many people like me hate me or think he is a nuisance I have never met an Atheist till date. Another thing I have seen is that all the Atheists I have met have a sterling character, their social interactions, behavior, honesty, character integrity, these are all impeccable. All the Atheists I have met are 100% Atheists with impeccable integrity and dignity. But as a human being, some of the finest human beings I have ever seen in my life are atheists . This is my first remark. This is the reason why I associate with such atheists and that is the reason why atheists like me. They also changed and they said you agree with us on a lot of things the level of disagreement is very low then why are we keeping someone who agrees so much why is it difficult for you to come with atheists because you are a member of RSS I said I have no problem or in your organization I said there is no such thing in our organization go anywhere I have complete freedom to speak whatever I want, because I only insist on the concept of the nation, and there is no other argument, whether I worship God or not, become an atheist, become a believer in God, whatever happens to a human being, that's the way it is, then there is an acceptance, so I have no problem. Incredibly Honest Intellectual Honesty Speak with conviction that what he is saying is true At least the person who is saying it needs to be convinced that it is true. I haven't seen a single trait. Can't be honest and know some things. Well, don't you know. Oh, I read it and I haven't seen that book. A trait that says this. This intellectual honesty is generally decreasing in Kerala. In politics, leave it alone. That thing has no value. Honesty or integrity has no value in any politics. No place worth but other wise now literature poetry social criticism do not see an intellectual integrity in it everywhere I believe that those who show it are atheists that's why I have a mental affinity with you OK I remember when our club house discussion was going on some days ago we were in some discussion during 2021 22 periods Both of you have come to a room and discussed something in a club house room. Then I objected to something you said and then there was a situation where a small dialogue was exchanged back and forth . The reason for doing it is actually a response that came up here in relation to what our Tommy Sebastian said in connection with the Bhagavad Gita . Many people have responded to it from various angles and the response that you have made to it is the most remarkable of which these blasphemy laws should be removed from here. It should never happen. You have made an observation, so I have a question, now you are saying that you are a member of the Sangh Parivar, you are saying that you are an RSS worker, then in our eyes you are not only a follower of a Hindu religion, but also a person who is responsible for its protection, when there is a voice that says this blasphemy law, its gate. When you come to the method of saying no, we don't want a gate, it doesn't fit. How do you reach that level? What is the reason for it? It doesn't fit. I myself went to the club house for this, and one of my friends told me, can you tell me, Sir, that section 295A should be removed. In the name itself, what is this? It is a window room that we start in the club house. It was during this Corona period. People had nothing to do. They stayed at home. The club house is the club house. I said that I will do it. I put a house for that purpose and justified my point in it. When I say that it is this religious belief or I have a responsibility to protect that belief, I think that belief should be constantly tested and criticized. At the end of the Bhagavad Gita, Sri Krishna says to Arjuna, I said, &quot;Think about it and criticize it. Do you think it's right? &quot; He said what he had to say and criticized it and then did what he liked. Arjuna did what he liked. Sometimes Shri Krishna intervened and said, &quot;You can go this way if you don't like it. You are the one who makes the point. There was a dynamic between them. But finally , a culture that says ' His advice is to do as you like, do as you like.' I think that when you say don't criticize, religion has a fear inside it, it means Arif, do n't criticize me, I am the ruler and pass no law. This is reinventing the wheel, assuming that things that have been criticized in the past have been criticized in such a way that they are new and then put it as a new criticism. When I hear this, I feel like, Oh, I heard this 25 years ago. That's why I mention AT Cove in my video. That's the point because there are very few people who criticize religion in such a logical way. In my experience he is like AT Kovin He was a Psychiatrist so he knows what to say and how to speak how to get people in his hands. You sit like that with a closed mind and you talk for an hour and a half like water falling in chumma chembala. The advantage of AT Core is that he knew how to open these minds. When I was in college, I was studying AT Core's lecture in Thiruvananthapuram. The audience was overflowing and he gave a lecture there. I liked it very much. He took ash from the sky and gave it to him. Sathya Sai Baba was one of his many targets that day. Satya Sai Baba used to do this . He took ash from the sky and gave it to his followers like this. AT Koil said, &quot;It's not a big deal. You can give me your hand.&quot; After saying bhasma, the people below from the stage extended their hands and gave bhasma to everyone and then the final act attracted me . There is no post in college but then I am a little hero in my circle of friends so I said no let's call Korin and they said ok let's go and call someone I said I will call you all you need to do is get permission from the college I told the principal the principal gave the permission when I went to see Poovur He is in normal clothes, wearing a coat and all this, and he is lying on a gray chair, only his belt is undone. After eating, his stomach does not swell, so he has untied his belt, he has a cigar in his hand, only he has not put on a hat. I see him in this costume. He asked me very lovingly, what is the matter, who is here ? Let's come, there are two or three conditions. One, I don't need a car. If you say, Mathew, a relative of mine lives near your college. I will go to that house this evening. I will be there . Don't even offer a glass of cumin water , warm, just put it on the table, I don't need anything else, I won't eat anything, I don't drink anything, just a glass of cumin water, our Malayalee style cumin water, that's enough, I said, sir, we need something else, what is it, sir, take the ash from the sky and show me, he burst out laughing. If you want to take the ash and show it, you should give it to me before the speech. If so, I can take it and show it. I said that we can do that. I went to Chala market and got a packet of ash for 50 paisa and bought ash for 50 paisa . As soon as we got out of the car, he said, &quot;Sir, ashes.&quot; He bought them and put them in his coat pocket. Then my Arif put oil and cake in his eyes and looked like this. I couldn't see when he was taking these ashes from this coat pocket. He says he can take it from the sky if he wants. His hand goes up. He rolls it up and gives it to everyone . There is an attack, it was so fundamental that we all became atheists and all the college kids in the audience turned their heads. This will be a great disaster. If we bring this man and he has completely turned his head, that is his logic. He said this Mahabharata. Bhagavad Gita is nothing. He dissected it. He examined it. After establishing that he is crazy, do so much and that's it. Swami Vivekananda is a big cornerstone of this. After pulling away that cornerstone, The Whole Religion, The Culture, Everything Will Collas, just pull out a single stone. That ability was extraordinary. Later, we countered this and everyone was in a state of confusion. No age, can he pass an exam and all these difficulties? Then we approached many people and asked him to pray. Swami Satyananda Saraswati was not a big and well-known monk at that time, but he had a small ashram, a one-room building . After saying this his disciples would have come to beat me but his old disciples know this very well they don't accept it there is nothing wrong with them then I don't know when he stopped then I heard that he stopped anyway when he went to see us he was a beedi not even a cigarette we said Swami this happened AT Kori came and made us complete atheists We can't get out of this well after leaving Swami. That man has pushed us into a deep well. We have to save Swami. Swami said I have nothing to argue with. I have a mission of mine. Someone preached somewhere and answered that. Go there and meet. This program is nothing for me. Children, I am Swami. I have my own mission. There is an agenda and I will go outside of it. Then I will say only one thing. This AT Kapoor once went to study for the title of bishop and failed. So he could not become a bishop. In his despair, he said that he is an atheist. He said that he is an atheist . Satyananda Saraswati Swami told us that if he had gone to a bishop's lesson or failed, that's why he is an atheist, this is not relevant. He is a well-known atheist. Now something like this happened in his life. It is not a shortcoming. Samhau someone. There can be many reasons for someone to come to a school of thought. If this is the reason, I did not see it as a shortcoming. So Swami left us and we ourselves. It is a professor in the civil department and then a counter speech but that counter speech is like saying that our own yard does not smell like milk . We had heard the speech and then we casually told Pulli that there is no one to say this as a counter, then Pulli said I should say enough or if that is the case I will say it and then he said that overall this is a balance and after a while you will not forget that incident, the seriousness of a speech will decrease day by day. It will decrease, so it will go away, but that incident is also in my mind, so I saw Atkur and then I went out of Kerala for some time, there is no logic, especially faith in Jesus is not there already, so this life, work, marriage, pillars, you were going like this . Then I thought that it is not right to sit and bite my mouth just like that. Notice a book called Chinvad Palam, it is near Thiruvalla, Chungappara, in this Chungappara, someone wrote this book and did not publish it at home, my father put it out, his name is Sam Jacob, we are the deceased KP Yohanan of the Believers Church, his group is an evangelist group. After that, the bridge will become thin and thin and you can't cross it. Okay, that's how there is a song in the past in KT Muhammed's play or something like that. There is a song saying that if you cut a hair into seven strands and tie a thin bridge, then the hair strands will be torn into seven strands and it will be so small. It is a book written by Chinmava by saying that faith is the Chinwad Bridge and criticizing the Prophet. There is a reason why he wrote this. Muslims printed a book in Thiruvalla. I have not been able to read that book until today. In it, Jesus Christ was mocked like this. The Bible and all that is ours. Don't say, Adam and Eve, it was a serpent that made them eat the forbidden fruit . Jehovah cursed this serpent for the crime of making them eat the forbidden fruit. You will now have to crawl on the earth. There is a question. Until then, did serpents walk like this with their hands and feet. So there are disputes like this. I made it a big dispute. I don't take it, but I know that this will happen, but once we argue at this level, we can't get anywhere, that's the point of saying that it's impossible to fight and win this Narayanaguru. Such arguments will not get us anywhere . But this was the content of the book of their Muslims, and when they had read it, they wrote it and printed it, saying that it was an alternative book to the book, and then kept it at home and thought about whether they wanted it or not . At the time of the prayer at home, there were 100-150 people gathered there. One of them said, &quot;Let's do something. Let's take this book written by Sam and distribute it. He wrote it for the first time in his life and printed it. Anyway, now we don't want it anymore.&quot; They gave it to the 40 or 50 people who had gathered there and said that there is no problem. Some of them said that it could be anything. They put it here and there in the car or scooter. After the prayer, everyone went home . There was a commotion in the college, a similar commotion took place in Chungkapara, the police registered an FIR, they arrested three of them, the magistrate remanded them, the district court upheld the remand, they came to the High Court, the High Court did not release them, they did not grant bail, they came to the High Court for the purpose of bail, the High Court said it is out of regius, this book It should not be written and published like this, you have deeply heard the feelings of Islam therefore we can not allow such nonsense in this country and then it is mentioned in their name 153A 295. These two sections are 153A. Our Comrade Pinarayi Vijayan's biggest weapon is 153A . 153A has been released in the name of almost everyone in Pullinadu. No major arrests have been made . I think a case in a high court saying that this woman should get equal rights to her father's property and a red petition by VP Zuhra to help VP Zuhra, do you know Abdul Ali Mash Ali Mash of our Vadakara? There was a Parameswaran brother here in Vaytila. The atheist died. He was an old man who said that he was Parameswaran with a simple impeccable character. He somehow came into my contact. I don't remember the exact way. I translated it and that's how I got to know Ali Mash and VP Sura. VP Sura was in Kozhikode at that time. If they come from Panayapalli for this case, they live in our Panayapalli area. If Arif knows Panayapalli in Kochi, then I am a big officer, so I have a company car . Chetan told me that there is a problem with the book called Chinwad Palam. It is a big problem in Pathanamthitta . It started appearing in the newspaper. Then they were arrested and they are in jail. Who is looking after it? Their close relatives or the church . They say that they should come to the way of Jesus . They get two feet of Muslims. The police did not catch anything. They are bastards. They are from somewhere in Wayanad. They can't go to Wayanad and get beaten up from here. They are staying at some friend's house and they are in trouble. So we went there and said that we should go there. It's a hole, these are the atheists, the book is Bharatiya Ratiwadi Sangam, I think that's what it was called at that time. Anyway, I met C. Ravindran first when I was going to preach there. He probably forgot that we met there. We did not agree to the banning of the book, then we gave a horrendous speech, and no one did anything. We came back from Tiruvalla very safely and filed a writ petition in the High Court demanding that the ban on the book should be lifted . Judges are needed for the rest of the matter. Single bench, division bench, two-person division bench is enough . Book ban is special. Three benches are needed to check it. Three benches stayed and called us. Let's go and see. This is the principle. Weather you can publish a book criticizing a religion, especially Islam, because the other book is not banned. Christians did not make a fuss. If it is said that it came out first, a book against Christians against Christ is not banned. Christians do not complain about its name. They do not make a fuss. Achwanandan was banned by the government in 2010. When this case came for hearing, there was no government lawyer. The government lawyer assigned someone else to be a private lawyer. The private lawyer is a lawyer I know. I can't do it. Can you do this for me and if the lawyer wants to, I can tell another lawyer to appear. That is permitted in the court. Then he said, I am horrible, horrible, four. We can say all the arguments, it doesn't matter now, there is no issue as far as the government is concerned, it was a law and order issue, if it is banned, there will be a commotion, then ban it, the government has no vested interest, so we said Achu is a communist, he should have studied with freedom of expression. Off expression comes second, if it is banned, there will be an uproar. It has been banned, and the uproar has stopped. Now the court has lifted the ban, so let's throw it away . There was nothing special about this lawyer from the side of the government. The history what ever is returned in the history of islam is copied and quoted this man wrote in the book if it is obscene if obscene is good what ever sentence you have used that also this sam kid Jacob is taken and quoted and then you are going to hang him and take away the ban But later on, that Chinmalam will not be in circulation or in this controversy. Once these books are in controversy, everyone will read them, and when the team will read it again, it will be difficult for the said team. Because of that, we went and said that we have achieved a great thing for us, we have established freedom of expression, and we went out and drank tea. When I intervened, the item 295A came to my head. Basically, the problem of this is that it is written in the Indian Penal Code that religion should not be criticized. Earlier, it was 295A . Now it has come as a new mini. From July 1st, the number of Indian law is 299. It has changed to 299A, and 299A is now 295A. There is a reason why this section was not there in the original IP CC, there was 295 which means that if you defile, destroy or destroy a place of worship, if you do this, you will be imprisoned for two years or a fine or both. Still, Arif must understand that if you destroy a place of worship, the punishment is two years imprisonment along with a fine. It has not been told how much the fine is, according to the magistrate's logic, it is Rs. 1,000 or 2,000. That is, a building has been destroyed and many people are making a lot of noise saying that this is the Babri Masjid, I think, do you know what happened in the legal angle of the Babri Masjid ? It was only two years before it was dismantled. What happened was in 1924, Rangeela Rasool said that a book was released in Lahore and what is the point of releasing it. Muslims came out targeting Sita in three books. Sita was not the only one who saw Sita . Distributed , let Hindus say something in midi as usual , but there is Arya Samaj in it, Arya Samaj wrote a book in Urdu saying that one of them is Rangeela Rasool, and if you say Rangeela, colorful colorful Rasool is Rasool, colorful Rasool . The Prophet's behavior towards women can be said to be worthy of praise because it is written in such a way that this is the way it is written in this book. It can be given any meaning . He writes and then says that Rasool is great, so is this a joke or a praise, but if you say it anyway, you will say it is a troll. This is a problem, a problem, a big fuss . It seems that it received a call at that time. If we were asked there, the call came back for 10 seconds. Should we go back and say no? Let's start by saying. The Legislative Council of Lahore checked it and said that this is a somewhat ambiguous writing, but there was no material to ban in it. That's all. Nothing more than that. The incident did not stop here, there was a big commotion in Lahore, Amritsar, there and here in Delhi, in Juma Masjid, in which one of our Ali brothers, Ali, preached in it. Mahatma Gandhi wrote in Young India, that was the biggest problem . Mahatma Gandhi criticized this sharply and later many people say that Mahatma Gandhi did it until he gave a speech.I even asked him if he published such a book and kept quiet.I do n't know . Again he came to the High Court and the High Court said, &quot;We do not see any merit in this. If you want, you can say that you have offended a religion, but offending a religion is not a crime. You should listen carefully. It is not an offense to criticize or criticize a religion, therefore find any reason to punish this man.&quot; When it was over, Achuthanandan banned this book as a law and order issue. When it was over, the book was banned. It was not enough that many people banned it. Actions should be taken to prevent such incidents from happening again. This is how the British passed 295. After the destroying error GS Place, it became additional and said 295A and added the additional section in 1927. That's why the police are now terrorizing people like Arif. You don't do 295. You do n't do anything to beat up or urinate in any place of worship . I will read the language 295 A.Sonstigius Tiles of 295 Insulting the religion, what is the meaning of all this? In this talk, I am calling Arif a 10. Arif is being rude. Everyone is saying that Arif is insulting him and why is he keeping silent? Arif says I don't think it is wrong . This is not the case here, the people who follow the religion felt that they insulted the religion . If they make a fuss, the police will take a case . They said that TG Mohandas should be arrested immediately, the policemen said that he has not done anything like that because there were 2000 people and they came to Kochi that night and Paravur police will pick me up . The state police chief will call what is the problem there, what is he doing? Sir Mohandas should be arrested. After the arrest, Sir Kilavan is lying there, cheating, listening to medicine and chanting. Hear, why don't you go ahead with this load for as long as this program. If these 10 20000 people make a noise, what will they do? You will fulfill their demand. If you want to arrest Arif, you will arrest Arif . This is the fine decided by the Magistrate. If the matter is correct, the case is to be given station bail. The punishment is three years or less. If the case is to be given station bail, then there are two categories, non-bailable and bailable. No, it should come under bailable but it is non- bailable . Jadhoom in the name of law and order, after going to the district court, the district court will really understand this politics. They have merit in what Arif said, they will understand the matter, but once they decide to grant bail to release Arif, there will be a march to the collectorate. There is a publisher and he was stabbed to death Some people wrote that he was stabbed to death in the court compound The person who wrote this publisher was not caught He escaped Attempts were made to assassinate the publisher thrice Once he escaped from the edge The second time the person went away and stabbed someone else The third time is a 20-year-old young man named Ilmuddin The killing of this Ilmuddin was declared divine by the Muslims after he was hanged. If this publisher is not a bad person, did I not say that he is the one who published an English book in Urdu that said &quot;Married love with extra-marital relationship, married love with extra-marital relationship, etc. This man was a daring man. After that, he died after many years.&quot; An award for an international publisher or something like that. Postmus is dead and you don't know anything about this. He died long ago and was killed. This is how the police will advise Arif. Arif, don't even try for bail. If you come out, you will be killed. You will be safe in the court. They will unofficially say See it is safe to keep this man. INSIDE NOT OUTSIDE HIS LIFE IS IN DANGER YOUR LADSHIP PLEASE UNDERSTAND THE SITUATION After saying this then the court will do ok let him lie inside now let him lie inside like this he will come and go now it is a crowd and its size that decides whether it is an IPC 299 offense this cannot be a Let the civilized society accept this. If you come and say that anything can be done in this country in the name of law and order, it is not right. I am a big gangster. There are 10,200 people and Kattayans in Fort Kochi. If I scare Mattancheri by saying that he will die, Law and Order, he should not do anything, let him sit there, think that it can't be seen, so religions should not be left to the decision of the crowd. Religions should be criticized . Let me criticize. The most beautiful criticism I have ever seen is one criticizing Sri Krishna. Surinder Sharma is a comedian from Haryana. I don't know if you have seen it. I don't know if you have seen it. His speech is in Hindi mixed with Haryana. He is very funny. Married many times but did not marry only Radha whom he loved the most Krishna had no obstacle to marry Radha there was no obstacle to marry Rukmini but he didn't He chased Rukmini away as if he had been kidnapped and got into a new place and married Rukmini Poor Radha After falling into Vrindavan, this is the situation that this man is criticizing. Radha first calls Krishna Dwarka, then when he called Krishna Dwarkadhish, Krishna lowered his face and his eyes filled with tears. One day in the evening when he came from outside and finished his mother calls him Ajaykumar come here Ajaykumar's heart breaks and his mother has left him that means his mother has left him his beloved grandfather This is how Sita is not Krishna is called Dwarkadhish King of Dwarka Can't they love this and that poem like this After I come to talk it will be long. Anyway he was criticizing Krishna in a beautiful manner in which any devotee will feel that there is a merit in this. Isn't it fair for this man to say that Krishna who married so many people why didn't he marry Radha who devoted her whole life to him since childhood? Those who followed him will feel that this is all, and any believer will feel that there is merit in what he is saying. There is nothing to agree with, but inside he will feel that this is one way of doing the criticism. He was saying no, in the current situation, people are adopting a modern way of criticizing, even that language is using that modern language. Now we are seeing that especially the current young generation is understanding and using their slangs. This is what we are seeing today. Do you know what concern I have come to this? I am afraid that it is Islamized , of course , because Islam achieves many things by using force, then we also use force and things will only work in this way . They think that we are stupid and worthless. It doesn't say the letter, so we have to react like Islam. This is something I need to pay attention to. This is our Hussain, the painter. What Hussain is it? MF Hussain MF Hussain MF Hussain's nude picture is Saraswati's nude picture . Don't say Hindus, they are tearing it in 96, Arif, what happened to my society, between 1976 and 96, many people thought, OMG, Hussain painted it there, no, for 20 years, MF painted that picture and displayed it in many places . There is an art gallery , when it was exhibited there, the first time people could not tear the picture and tear it down , before that the police stopped it . But my society didn't have such a character. Now it is coming. Now after 96 years, we are in 2024. This character is slowly increasing. Now let alone these gods, if you criticize even the mythological characters, Hindus will start reacting. If you criticize a Panchali, if you criticize Kunti, there is a doubt . At the time we all use a word legend. Means now if I say ok even people who are our friends who are Hindu religious people who used to say that is so in our legend today they are not ready to even use the word legend. It has come to my attention, of course, I have looked at all these things, aren't they suspicious? Arif, there will be some exaggeration in it, there will be some fact, and the rest will be some history . My society has come Witch is Unwearable for Me That phone call was about five or eight years ago on Asianet some serial or something is for children in it there is a boy in the role of Lord Krishna and these children are being fed behind the curtain after this program and there is chicken biryani in it He is in the role of a meat Lord Krishna He is holding a flute in his left hand.He is biting the chicken with his right hand.This is the scene . When I was told to leave it, sir, I don't have any heat, I said that I don't have that much heat, but I was keenly observing how my society is changing and they are slowly inching towards the behavior of Islam which I consider very dangerous. Correct I have noticed that Hindus are attacked maximum Hindu Mythology Hindu Gods Bikos who ask for that but still I say do it not Muslim's do I said Muslim's do Muslim's attack physically heard or not physically when Islam is attacked physically what makes you feel good when someone beats wife Arif if I am happy about it I said it is not a good behavior so saying that I will be fine if I criticize Islam is not a good thing. Atheists will also feel why I am being singled out. Politicians will also feel these things. None of them are unintelligent. I have told this to the communists who hesitate to criticize Islam for many reasons. I am a communist woman and I write a lot on Facebook. I don't have the ability to draw but as you know I can draw and put it on Facebook if I want. I said, can I do the same for Prophet Muhammad? Then the woman asked why should I do that? I said no, Ayyappa , I can do it for Prophet Muhammad, why is it not my favorite picture? I started getting hot and said Maram asked if I can draw Ayyappan without getting hot madam it was a great relief because I don't know how to draw great happiness but I can draw it anyway I asked about Abi it's getting hot Mohandas One thing our friendship should be very decent you ca n't enter into my boundary which picture should I draw what should I do I decide what to eat and what to wear and what to wear communists have a fixed number what clothes and what food to eat none of this is just saying what food to eat let me ask one thing arife our basic food is salt non-iodized salt can you buy me some arif I am non-iodized salt I am my Most of my life I ate non-iodized salt I don't have goiter not even a coconut If I have goiter there is a cure I go to the doctor Why is the government treating me I don't have the right to decide what treatment I want No that's it sir That's one thing I It is a matter that has been included in this as a question. Now when I listen to you in many conversation fragments, when a topic related to our Patanjali came up, I noticed a response you made, that is, Patanjali is a topic related to our Baba Ramdev. In the way that you spoke there then, I understood it. Yes, if you are talking directly about the issue, what happened behind the incident, if you are talking about what can be said at the level of science , Means is a person who has a small role in it . We keep on saying that if we take this while we are sitting , when did Patanjali launch the name of the drug in Corona, we are not only saying that it is enough to take this, but they are using allopathy of modern medicine, they are using allopathic medicine by saying that it will cause harm, and there is a violation of the law, and there is a violation of this Magic Remedies Act. This is going to court as part of the advertisement. Going to court has not been done by other companies after asking . That's why we can't include the rest of the companies in it . I thought at that time that you didn't see this issue that Patanjali did here. If I thought that I should make another video, then it didn't happen then. Besides, this issue of iodine, even if it's an iodine issue, now when milk is given, it contains fortified milk. We give it and add vitamin A and vitamin D to it. Now we add it to the oil. This is an important issue in our health care public health policy making, which is to reduce the health care burden. One of the differences between hundreds of thousands of people coming together and sitting down to give medicine for goiter is reducing a national burden and that's a consideration . Sometimes there may be misunderstandings, that's why I thought I'll clear it right there. Is there anything to add to it? No, there's nothing to add to it. That's all I'm saying. Am I free to not treat it ? I'm sick and I decide . I 'm so old. There is no point in living like this.Do I have the freedom to decide that I am ready to go or can the government come and say that we can't do it and treat it ? It should be available in the market now it is not available and this challenged item went up to the Supreme Court and this IDS salt Supreme Court not only ratified this IDS assault but also suggested that action should be taken as per adulteration law if it is not iodized and if it is not iodized i.e. if the salt is not adulterated with iodine then it will be punished. Whatever it is you are mixing something unless you mix it you will be punished this is not just me arif i am this topic Since I was in IDEA, I remember that there was no scientific study, nothing. First, it started in 2004. At that time, the central government said that there is a goitre-affected area. Identify that area and arrange to give this IDES salt-free or salt-free to the people there. There are many people who don't need iodine. After this, I asked many doctors and they said no, what kind of study is this, there is no scientific study, nothing, then it spread everywhere, the product that was decided only in some areas and then it became through out India and then it became the last nail with it. Do not sell it without adding it. This is what has happened with this law, this is what has happened to this RSS, Swadeshi Jagaran Manch and many others indirectly, I passed the message to our current hero, Arvind Kejriwal. file RTI all arrangements like this I could not hit direct talk but gave a message no one picked it ok ok I lost I lost I lost what can I do I can go to a citizen and then go to Supreme Court I have nothing to wrestle I have no money and no one to do it I that Still I think that was an unfair thing to impose on people then corona these claims can be made by anyone we have many methods of medicine like allopathy homeopathy ayurveda unani all these things the government is accepting and building hospitals and colleges and giving degrees for it so anyone can claim anything I I don't remember what I said in my video. Do you remember this doctor Dr. K. Madhavankutty? He lived in Kozhikode before his death. He was an eminent doctor. He wrote 10 42 books on medicine. He was the principal of these three medical colleges in Trivandrum, Thrissur. I will give you a prize of 1000 rupees if you prove that there is any benefit to someone's teeth. My pension is very low. I will give you 1000 rupees . It is a product that has no scientific basis. Then they put fluoride in the paste and it comes out. It's all foolishness but then nobody questions it when the multinationals that are being backed up by the big globby Proctor and Colegate family or all of them have an inbuilt contempt for us. That's what bothers me as a Hindu and a member of the RSS, you look down upon that man because he's a Hindu monk, if he 's doing the same program in a coat and tie, maybe he'll be talkative, I don't want to argue further. On that, because in this field of medicine we can argue without getting anywhere, we can argue day and night, Arif, I will answer that, then I will say Arif, it goes like this, that's why our topic is not that, yes, yes, let us come back to our original, that's all there is to it, that's what I said. In order to minimize the issue of the vaccine there, a conscious effort came through the advertisement. It is a topic of that day and we have to show it. Let me say with a food note. Has it not been proven that there is a side effect? Have you not seen the report? It is wrong in the newspaper . The study that said there is a side effect of the vaccine, it was us, our team, we wrote the refutation and we sent it. It was a wrong design. We have exposed it . It is available in the region and we can publish it. Now I can write what I want to refute and publish it. If we pay money, we can get it published. So, there is that mechanism, so we handle it there. It was specific, what it said was the side effects of any vaccine, and now we go here and now we get the same side effects that we get from any vaccine, MMR or any other pentavalent, pain, fever, we don't call these side effects, they are the symptoms that we expect to have as part of it. Let's leave it as a part of the action to know about it. I saw a video on whatsapp the other day where a woman takes a tablet and releases a lot of tingles from its periphery. The other woman asks why this side is tingling like this so that it doesn't have side effects. WhatsApp University is a bad university. I have seen a lot of things going on. The reason why I say it like that is that it is not just this one religious criticism that I say is our field. In fact , before I entered into religious criticism, what was going on or was being done was to demolish these pseudo-sciences or these alternative medicines. It must have been at least a year. I was looking for who Arif and what else. Just for curiosity. Don't think I was following you. Don't think that I was following you. Who was this party, where and what was I looking for? Then someone from your essence group told me that I was different. So I don't know. Reasonably well about your background anyway coming back to our issue my basic problem is this islamization of hindutvas it has come and gone and it has come to the point of criticizing even the mythological characters like Kunti Arjuna and what is the result of all this now MT has written the second volume and it is pro Bhimasena. A great novel written by VT Nandakumar in the past by saying that the novel is my Karnan, it is a view of the Mahabharata from Karna's point of view, so there have been many literary works that survived the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, and took the story from it, Kalidasa's Abhijnana Shakunthalam, which is a portion of the Mahabharata, and Kalidasa burned it and turned it into a great poem . Come this is my fear Someone will feel that you are playing with now Kumaranashan's Chintha Sita in that Aashan gives a little more weight to Sita Nothing makes Rama smaller than Rama but lifts Sita up This was first done by Kampan in Kambaramayanam It was Kampan who elevated Sita to an extraordinary height as a bigger character than Rama How many centuries after Kampan Ezhutachan wrote it after what did Ezhutachan stop Sita like that but you lifted up all these things in literature even in imagination, freedom is their domain in literature and so you write . When we read a war, we have no other words to describe the war. This is such a terrible war. Why don't we give freedom to this? Has it been written I don't think so No Has anyone written a novel about Muhammad If you know the condition of the people who took the film I am telling Arif everyone said that in Thodupuzha Newman College Joseph sir's hand was chopped off and nothing happened to the Popular Front which was a big shame Popular Front won in that ward In Kerala as far as I know the character Muhammad is a good or bad character. Not in a movie, not in a poem, not in a play, not in an article, not anywhere, Muhammad disappeared and Kerala started fearing Muhammad and then said, Oh, we fired Joseph Joseph Mash, in fact, we fired that man . Take the lines written by PT Kunju Muhammed and put our annotations or semicolons and give them to the children. We should put semicolons in the right place. This is the great sin he committed. This whole riot was for this and then it was a failure by cultural Kerala absolute. I still tell myself this from time to time. So someone told me that there is a movie with a character named Muhammad, Mohandas said that it is not that popular but there is one . Like this what will happen Hindus are majority in India there is some Islam Christianity in Kerala if we leave kerala nothing like that we can't put a gate and lock it only for kerala imagine if hindu society behaves like this where in u can't speak anything on mahabharata or ramayana or any character that will be A Horrible Situation I say for its freedom take out this 299 or old 295 a it's not required in India India is a free country ok I think it is not possible to think at this one level it is not possible for the people here who stand on the side of Islam because I insist after saying what We know the situation of Chekannur Maulavi and many other people who say that they are now X Muslims criticize the religion. We know that whatever the issue we are facing, we see it there and it is not acceptable . At least if we look at it, the Ahmadiyyas have come forward, but these same Ahmadiyya Muslims are there in Pakistan hunting after these minority Christians and minority Hindus . That is the biggest joke . It is a fact that he spoke with the minority Pakistanis, so the issue you mentioned is an issue that the public, especially the Islamic community, should take very seriously. I also have an opinion. Okay, I am a human being. I have not seen Chekanur Maulavi. He has done the case and there is nothing left for him to wander. If we look at his face, we will feel sad. He is not a big rich man but he was going on fighting . I know this Arif CBI cannot hand over a case investigated by CBI to NIA unless any explosion or treason comes into it. NIA is not an organization above CBI. To the satisfaction of a good man named Salim Haji, I consulted a lawyer in Delhi and he said, &quot; I am also sad to hear the whole story, Mohanlas, but you can't move a case after telling me that you want this investigation. At the very beginning, the court will say, 'What is it? It's not. It can't be considered. Legally, I will not stand.'&quot; Salim called Haji and said like this sir it is technically not possible so we can't do it still that man will be sad after this case and I think that spirit is there Salim if I ask him what is the matter to name him and people don't say like this that Kerala is number one in our Kerala what can I say like this people Like Salim Haji, like VP Suhra, people are still alive. That reality is before us. I have one or two more questions. It would have been better if we had been given another 10 minutes . One more issue of such people will be taken up there then how is that TG see see what is the presumption in this after putting the presumption that Dabolkar was killed by Hindu terrorists it has not been proved yet Gauri Lankesh now no one is investigating what happened to that case I was investigating six months ago it was a family feud because Gauri Lankesh a news paper There was some magazine that was a rich magazine. After his father's death, there was a fight between his brother and sister. He had some gun and that's how Gauri Lankesh was killed. Then one of our Pansara is from Maharashtra. Yes, he is a CPI member . The Shiv Sena people made a fuss there and then the people releasing this book said you should not make a fuss and read He Has Praised Shivaji. There is no law that says Shivaji is bad because he is a communist. That law exists in Kerala . If you say to the communists in Kerala that Shivaji was a good man, they will jump into trouble. In Maharashtra, the communist in Kerala is not like that. That is the law, Communists in Maharashtra will not speak ill of Savarkar. That is their law. After convincing them by saying this and this, there has been no controversy over Pansara's book. I personally don't know what happened to Pansara's case or Kalburgi's case. Arif Nok Dabolkar's speech is on youtube there are many speeches of Dabolkar Dabolkar is an atheist I can understand Dabolkar's video in Marathi it is very difficult to understand but I understand that video when Dabolkar is alive I watch that video Dabolkar starts his speech by singing praises to Savarkar and Ambedkar Veera Vinayaka Damodar Savarkarki Baba Sahib Bhimrao Ambedkarki like this His accent was in Marathi slang and he was saying why a Hindu should kill Tabolkar A Man Who Was Respecting Savarkar Respecting Ambedkar Why Should He Kill Meerly Becos He Is An Atheist How Atheist Should Hindus Kill And Dabolkar Superstition Nirmarjan Samiti This Is Superstition Not Against God His Points Always Be Superstition Many Rituals Matter Campaign against this in villages and villages. This was the job of Thapolkar . Some people will get angry that he is anti-Hindu in any way or should be killed. Blame the practice and say it is bad. There will be people who get angry . So what is our haji now? Chekannur Chekannur Maulavi Chekannur who was talking to balance Chekannur Maulavi Desperately we need somebody then Dabowalkar could not be found in Maharashtra for so long Chekannur they were killing in 93 says Dabolkar or Gauri Lankesh anyway it is after 2000 who was killed in these seven years? Zoe was balancing there Let us not jump into that it is very clear that Muslims are the most violent among this group. Unfortunately Muslims are not Christians or Hindus. Christians had that characteristic. There was a play saying that this is the sixth sign of Christ. Then there was a big commotion that day. After telling the two Naxalites who asked for this Chinwad Bridge, they are both lawyers in the High Court and asked if this Chinwad Bridge could be affected, Parameswaran Chetan and I went with him and Parameswaran Chetan took me and told me that these two were my disciples. Because they are eminent lawyers, two of them , Parameswaran Chettan, died, poor thing, we have a third lawyer, now advocate Ramkumar argued for them. Chinti Palam's advocate Ramkumar is a different group . Don't artificially balance it by pretending to be something. Athlete atheists don't do it. Let others do it. Its political content. I can understand. I'm not going to wrestle with it because I'm smart. At least that's what I said about the case. Or I'd say go and look at the work. Because there is no meaning. Political arguments. Can you stop the political propaganda ? Doubts can be answered. Questions can be answered. Propaganda has no answer. You can't reply to propaganda. That's the last question. You said it was an idea. What are some of the thoughts you shared regarding the formation of an alliance between BJP and Muslim League in Kerala? What is the sentiment behind it? That's all I mean BJP is my favorite party in general I don't hold any position in BJP I will vote for BJP if they come to power it's good it doesn't mean that they are all saints because if you ask which party likes an RSS man there is BJP and the rest are the ones who go around saying that RSS should be beaten and killed RSS is okay Those who say that, that's why they should come to power, because it is very difficult to come to power in Kerala, you are indoctrinating Christians and Muslims by making Christians and Muslims believe that they will kill you , and you have not seen it in Manipur. So I thought like this, Panakkad, the current ones, the ones before this, and the ones before that, no one has called Modi a fascist, the RSS has never been called an upper casteist, only Congressmen and communists have called him. Now look at the Christians, Maralanchery or Kallarangat Kapilingat, there are so many saints, none of them call the RSS an upper class fascist . RSS is also criticized but these words are not used in that combination like upper caste fascist KM Mani never called RSS, BJP or fascist till his death PJ Joseph is alive now he didn't call PC George then he will join BJP yes then why not u alai ur Self in the past there were some problems between you two. I will be honest with Arif. Muslim League is a communal party. Is there a question? Yes, I will ask it. Sasitaroor Sasitaroor once said that Muslim League is not a communal party, it is a community party . I don't have it. I looked and there is a logic in what he said. Now if a person from the Muslim League becomes a minister, his staff will be all Muslims. It is because they are Muslims and not because they are Muslim Leaguers. If Mohandas is caught and made a minister . I will appoint them after saying that they will get 10 paisa and live. This can be called a community feeling. It should not be called communal. Communal has a different connotation. It is not in its true meaning. When we call someone communal, it has a connotation of being a xenophobe. Muslim League does not have it. I have checked. No, since earlier No, they were a little more liberal. Now they don't light the lamp. They did not light the lamp for the inauguration of the Muslim League. This actually happened when CH Muhammad Koya became the speaker. At that time, KPCC president CK Govind Nair was the Muslim League. CH Muhammad Goa can be made the speaker. CK Govindan should take a single shot and resign from the Muslim League. If he resigns then this will not work. The MLA position will not work. All this was during Rajiv Gandhi's time. Anti- defection law was coming . What happened here in Malappuram after resigning from the leadership of the Muslim League and becoming the speaker , all these bearded and head-dressed people gathered together and said Koya is the one who put the cap of Islam at the feet of Nair . CH Muhammad I said in many places, did you light the lamp? I hit a number that day because I did not light the lamp to show that I am a greater Islam than the one who wears this title and beard. Nothing is going to fall down but nothing is being done except that there are some things like this, when I said this in the first interview, this is the word I used when I said this in Kerala politics, the Muslim League has noticed that they have not defected, except that once they have gone beyond and beyond, they generally keep their word, they are generally calm, so they are encouraging terrorism, what are we? After saying that, they will give a big speech but not for a popular front line, often they have to compromise because Jamaat is with Islam and also a popular front because the pressure is too much and all the parties are feeling this . BJP should not join hands with BJP , even though BJP did not join hands with PDP in Kashmir, not even a fourth of them are called Muslim League heroes. What else? If Ar Agrible has said that I should be outcasted from the community and out of politics because of that, let it be. I am saying this one idea Bikos as a citizen we can criticize and catch each other without any fuss as a citizen but there should not be a mood of cutting and killing. Even when we have opposing opinion Arif and I should have that same mind and approval to enter the same hotel and have a cup of tea I must accept you and You Must Also To That Extend Accept You Must Also To That Extend Accept The more I accept, the more I accept. If my memory is correct, I had this idea in my mind. Until a few days ago, when I was sitting like that, I happened to listen to this argument of yours. The leaders of the Muslim League are showing a tendency to include religion in it. Have you noticed that those who leave the League are not leaving the party, they are leaving the religion, they are leaving the Deen? Have you noticed that there is also a similar framework of Islam that is entering there because of this Islamization of Radicalization of Islam as I say Hindus is also happening. Earlier Islam was a bit more. Now I have not seen anything like this burqa in my youth. It is a piece of cloth. You can see the ears, you can see the hair, you can see everything . If you put that thing as Kashi Thattam and then it was a role that it was decent civilized and there was a problem . Now that's how it is now in this round I have a big problem . I ca n't know which one . It could be Sukumaran, it could be Sukumaran and Sulaiman, so we have to keep it, this is a security threat, the first thing is that's what you say, of course, yes, whatever you said, I took half an hour extra today . Love speaking to ethics is not what I am saying because of that what I said in the beginning is your civilized behavior is ok and integrity public behavior public behavior is one factor and I would request all of you to key that standard so that you attract more and more people you attract Hindus I have no fear of Hindus becoming Atheists. Has anyone noticed that in Devaswom Board temples it is written that non-Hindus are not allowed to enter, it is not written that non-believers are not allowed. This is a community that has tolerated big famous atheists. Why didn't even Arif Hussain help Ravichandran? Why is it so difficult to mention the names of two people? You are the well-known and well-known atheists. That's right. You should mention them on social media. Something bigger than this. I don't know if there is any measurement, it's okay to see from the outside, anyway, that 's all we're saying, that's what you said, that is, our aim here is to ensure a peaceful cohesion of everyone, this whole war is being waged here for the sake of living, and not thinking that after death, some Rambha Tilothama Huriras will get nothing, so here's beautiful. What compromises can be made in order to make it? What new activities can be done ? He is a person who upholds the spirit well, so I am extending a big appreciation to our audience and thank you for joining us today. See you again on another occasion. Thank you . The sentence is often we can follow when those people say something , I think there is no mistake in the words, there is no mistake in the right ideas, but if there is anything abrasive in the word used, I bake your pardon, thank you, thank you, thank you, so much, bye , okay, you can see your own comments on the topics that our guest spoke about. The point is that we do not intend to convey our opinions to them or make them argue . We are always reminding that it is something that anyone can do. Cancel culture and this balancing program as well as this and that and some of these wok methods are not very desirable things for us nowadays. I want to say that we all have to remember that, so I think a lot of people will join us today. A lot of people have spent their time here and have come through comments and other forms of support. If the people who are watching close their eyes and like the video and give encouragement, we can reach more people. Especially what he said today, I believe that it will do the most good for the Muslim community here. What he said here today is something that people who are Muslims should definitely listen to, because he said things that would never cross the mind of a Muslim, even though he is a Hindu, that is, something that says blasphemy, you see here a Hindu religious person who says that it should be encouraged. Why did he say this? You can hear in the video that it is a communal environment , if it is to bring it to a peaceful level, if it is to reduce the religious animosity, that is the thing that makes a big way for it. The more evil is created there, the more important it is, the more we do, the more we change ourselves, so that we bring things to the point where there is no need for a law here. We should be able to grow in a mature way, that is the one idea that we have to put forward. Anyway, I am not going to extend it anymore. Anyway, you can like and share this one thing and write your opinions through comments and your disagreements. Let's invite him on another occasion in the same days. I had written about 10 to 12 questions about the topics that need to be discussed that day . Don't worry, we can do it more time or more often and we can bring clarity to more things. There are a lot of things, especially some questions related to the Modi government, criticisms of the performance of the BJP regarding the inadequacies of some of its current policies, and so on. Let's ask more views like this with other guests we will still be here you sit there again with next guest in front of you we will be running tomorrow on Praveen Ravi's channel saying PR Talks on Praveen Ravi's channel we will have NEET exam after that or prepare for it and it will be held second time whatever for NEET People who are waiting for it , children, their parents , a small conversation for them, we are doing it tomorrow on Praveen Ravi's channel, a review of it will be on our channel, then some other topics will be live on our channel, so you can participate in it, the name of that channel is PR Talks, you can subscribe to it. If you follow the channel , you can hear that talk . All the people who are gathered here today will join tomorrow. Things that may happen in the future, especially if you go to these alternative medicines, you will be in danger in the future . As for not taking it, I am an old homeo doctor and will talk about it in detail there, so I will not extend anything here, I will stop here. Thank you to all people , thinking you will do the rest without forgetting. For people who want to support in this way, its details are in the description. Your every like , share, comment, and your response to the comments below this video will be of great help in increasing the reach of the video. Hope that