Here's a riddle for you. a large number of burly Russian soccer fans possessed by the same malevolent spirit We're not going to give you the answer just to other people when they've been on the you'll be able to make an informed guess. They are like sets of jagged teeth that angry. Get bitten or even swallowed by those But let's start with something not teeth-related. Cross Fire on the London Underground. What people been collecting a lot of fluff and other stuff especially back then, things slipped We aren't talking about a few hairs and some when we say things. It was later stated there under the main carriage, much of it these were the old escalators with wooden steps. lit up a "fag" a fire started. That turned carried the flames, which in turn heated the escalator now looked like the stairway to hell. for many people to escape. 31 people died, Just so you know what it felt like for some "A police officer was shouting: 'Get out, get told the BBC he was in a state of shock He said, "I could hardly walk and was Here's how being burned usually goes. which causes extreme pain. Then the nerves kill a person outright. But then their skin The trauma might cause the person to pass out by The flames damage the respiratory tract, and Even if they survive, they often die days Pathologists in burning cases often state the Those that didn't get eaten up by the People don't even have to have one small burn to of Medicine, smoke inhalation by itself has rate for burns with smoke inhalation is 30 to 50 how much smoke, age, and the health of the victim. and inhaled a lot of smoke, you would fall a few minutes. Death would also be rapid. imagine. It happened in 2015 in China. escalator with her child. Staff were waiting someone steps off was loose. It seems that staff known just how wrong, she would have run back When she got to the top, she pushed her son She wasn't so lucky. As she stepped onto swallowing her. Her entire body Her husband later said, "There were Nobody telling her not to step off." showed that two workers at the mall almost met that dodgy panel. A better word would be trapdoor. it remained on for another five minutes. That was The company that made the escalator was Let's remember it was 2015, and this was one On top of that, the Chinese media said deaths on escalators in recent months. escalator you and many other people That happened in a subway station in Beijing in Station Exit A on Line 4. One boy died, and thirty described how it happened. He said, "First there started going down. Then wave after wave of Another person said, "People were screaming It was going down very, very fast. I could barely Maybe you think going backward wouldn't be a fast on one of those very long escalators, people. News reports didn't say how the person Another escalator accident in China around In another, a boy almost lost his were three gruesome accidents in one week there were 49 escalator accidents and 37 deaths. reading all the reports that many of them escalators. However, some were in jest to Maybe you think, ah, China, it's not exactly and safety standards. Such an accident, you Think again. of Health says there are about 10,000 injuries accidents involve old people, with more women between men and women is pretty equal. alcohol intoxication was involved. are no match for the unadulterated In that report we could find skull fractures, bashed in faces, but no deaths. story in which a boy died after falling but the escalator was not at fault. The boy It goes without saying that if young is an exhilarating experience for them. But just remember that the fall back down can cause Here's more advice for parents. a girl getting her hair stuck in an escalator up a toy. This caused her a lot of pain and a the emergency stop button just in time. The news hold onto your kids when on an escalator. an escalator, too. As you'll In 2015, a woman was riding a subway escalator and the Metro in Montreal is pure, heated Still, scarves can be problematic. happened to the woman. He said her "scarf got to try to get it out and her hair got stuck, too." If a person is strangled, it can take maybe 10-30 all have seen someone who's been choked out in an it might take a person around five minutes to but they were too late to the scene. shocked that something they considered harmless "Personally, I'm really traumatized because very careful now about any threads Hmm, wait a minute, did she say Yep, shoelaces. We have an Fortunately, no one died. The guy lost a leg, It happened in 2015 in a mall in Mexico City. and when he rode the escalator with his buddies, getting off. He was lucky to survive. to check their footwear before they ride either. These accidents are uncommon. but as one escalator manufacturer said, they have A man in Northeast Washington in the US realized caught at the bottom of the machine and he was no one knew what had happened. He may have and that's how his clothing was caught. "This is a shocker. We don't know what to make the largest subways system in the US at the escalators in its 21-year history. A spokesperson "We can only do so much. After that, Two previous fatalities also involved items of strangled. In one case the drawstring of a girl's the news just said a woman's clothes were was intoxicated at the time. In yet another the lights next to the escalator. but they have happened. In 2013, a 42- year was caught on an escalator in downtown Seattle. a bottle of brandy and staggering around. the escalator. He didn't or couldn't that vicious little part at the front. It We're not sure if all the drunk accidents happen report such deaths or their news reports another case of a drunk guy being killed on an neighborhood of New York City in 2018. down. A bystander told the press, "He was at the All you see is this guy sprawled face down." The As for drunken escalator surfing, of where doing daft and dangerous stuff In 2007, a drunk guy did that on a Las Vegas the MGM Grand and New York-New York. He rode was wiped out by eight previously imbibed over onto the sidewalk, where he broke his neck. In 1963, an elderly woman was riding the subway in because we can only find one source, but we know to retrieve it, but it seems the machine then became wedged between two steps of the moving As for those soccer fans, after what do you think happened to them? game was a huge one, a Champions League match lot of Moscow fans on one escalator at Rome's La possibly 100 people on the escalator. started going down really fast. We don't for an escalator. Bodies started piling up at Some people were crushed at the bottom and some Amazingly, no one died, although some seriously. One person had You can understand the injuries were significant the machine. One bystander later said, "I An escalator, one meter from me, began If that wasn't bad enough, Roma won the game 3-0. Ways to Die." Or, for something equally