By now, you've probably started using ChatGPT, right? It's not rocket science. Anyone can answers. In school, we learned that there there are. It's not going to tell you that, but it's and you're just going to waste a lot of time going I decided to spend some time to find the best My first tip for you is to take advantage of by clicking on your profile icon. So, when you go hand over a note to ChatGPT that explains who you to respond. This way, you won't have to repeat So, the first question is: what would to provide better responses? It helps if you for example, if you're a teacher, an accountant, a lawyer, let it know. This relevant to your line of work. If you want tell it where you live. Not the exact address, you could say, &quot;I'm a software developer based in &quot;I'm a marketing professional in New York writing The next question is: how would you like starters, like how formal or casual should &quot;Language and tone should be friendly and opinions on topics or remain neutral, and if can really make a difference because you can So, for example, let's say you're good in you get stuck, but you don't like seeing all what you could write is, &quot;When I ask for Excel without any explanation.&quot; If you were a programmer explanations, you could type in, &quot;When I ask code with code snippets without additional In this case, I'm picky about Excel formulas. Now, let's go and start a new chat, and I'm sure this works. Let's say I'm in Excel, and I'm it's returning everything that's greater than 12,000 and 15,000. And I have no idea values. I'm going to go back to tell it to update this Excel formula so it returns And when I send this, it just provides Now, without that custom setting, this is what end up with a lot longer explanations don't know your way around, but if Another thing that could be quite helpful is confidence level of its answer. This could we can also expand on this and say, &quot;When a valid URL with the source for your answer. inform me.&quot; Okay, so let's test go ahead and start a new chat, and let's ask When I run this, I get: 1990: West Germany, Brazil, France. Confidence level is high, and I get a list so these settings can be really helpful. Now let's move on to prompts. The if you ask ChatGPT to write some text for you, right? Even if you're emphasizing tone and the style that you want, it might not the good news is that you can teach it to write first, we're going to explain to ChatGPT &quot;I'd like you to help me write articles from whatever type of blog or article you need. style based on examples that I give you. You'll this makes it easier to refer to later. &quot;After content is. You'll then write the article Okay, so it understands what we're trying to do to go and grab some copy from my website. Let's it in as example one of LG_STYLE. Now I'll give and grab the other copy from here, and paste it personable, and aims to establish a connection. I want to write an article about the Cool, start writing it in my personal writing you can, of course, continue working also come back to this chat and ask And by the way, if you love your daily coffee, coffee around here. Next up is self-critic. review its own text and provide feedback. Now, let's say I asked ChatGPT to provide me with a summary it comes up with this reply which I'm not really critic. Be ruthless, analyze the text, and tell me and provide step-by-step feedback on potential specific examples could make the summary better, It also went ahead and revised this original and Excel's strengths. From there, you can further emphasize and include some of the previous Next up is self-prompting. So, how about using Here's how you can do that. So, let's say I want participate in our team-building event. To get the five perfect ChatGPT prompts that will really show around writing an email to my team encouraging Before you write anything, ask me questions until It will usually come back with some questions dates, and locations and other useful information. for any particular incentives or benefits, I've then I send this off, and it creates five possible help me get the best reply. So, one is, &quot;Draft an join a special team-building event. Mention the one is, &quot;Compose an email inviting your team to importance of building strong relationships within Okay, so I like number three better. I'm just me with a prompt, but I actually want it to run Now, we can see it has a nice subject, the tone bonding and relationships. Right, so we like we can share stories, laughter, breakfast. There's no work, no deadlines. Now, compare this to a case where I tell it to write an email to my team to no surprise that I get a very generic email about events are designed to do. So, as you can see, But you can also take this self-prompting a step got the different prompts, we could ask it why information about the reasons it thinks this I'm going to ask it, &quot;which prompt do you find the combines the key elements I provided, so it Often when you ask ChatGPT to write something, avoid this is to tell it from the beginning to stick to a specific in every single reply, you can add it to your prompt. So, for example, we want to know the Excel. I'm going to add that the maximum length of A few moments later. Okay, so let's double-check. I'll copy this, go to a new page, browser, and paste in the text. We can see another alternative is to tell it to reduce the a good prompt for that is, &quot;Now, say the same as many words or whatever percentage you need. You until you get the crispiness that you like. Specify the output format. ChatGPT has many for example, you can tell it to give you &quot;Create a table with the winners of the FIFA should be year, winner, and runners-up.&quot; So, we use the shortcut Ctrl+C to copy it, move over to Now, alternatively, you can tell it to output copy the code from here and paste it into a text Now, if you need this, let's say for Moments later... I'm just going to test this out. So, I'm our site in an HTML editor. Then, when but it doesn't look really nice. I'd let's improve the prompt and ask it to add Later that night. Now, when I replace the code, I have a table that's a lot easier to read. Right? So, you can also like JSON or XML. Or if you need it as a Pandas data frame, you can do that as well. Just give it a try. SO, these are some tips to get the most out of It really comes down to the old principle: and you'll definitely make better use of these subscribe if you aren't subscribed yet, and