Please turn on subtitles in your language. Rome, Italy Love - Specialty Croissants 7:30-15:30 Open every day A bakery specializing in croissant dough bread just opened in November 2023. On weekends they sell over 500 croissants. Enjoy the secrets of croissants and many other artisan breads. Chef Gabriele Marziali Egg wash (egg yolks, cream, honey) This spray allows me to apply the egg mixture without touching the dough with a brush. This is to keep the bread from losing its shape as much as possible. Every morning I bake croissants in the oven five or six times. I am now going to spray the egg mixture over all the bread. This is cream, egg yolks and honey. This method is very fast. If you have to use a brush, it is first of all inconvenient. This bread is easy to apply with a brush, but difficult with croissants or pain au chocolat. I put custard cream here. I am Marziale Gabriele. I was born in Rieti however now i live in Rome. I am Love's pastry chef here at 51 Tunis Street,Rome. I graduated from the hotel school in Rieti near Rome in 2009 and entered the restaurant industry as a chef. I worked as a cook for about 10 years. I then started learning Pastry. I did not take any schools or lessons, but learned on my own. I started making croissants after seeing Instagram. For example, Cedric Grolet's Instagram has influenced me. He is a cake maker influencer and I watched his croissant and pain au chocolat videos. I went to his store in Paris with my wife on our honeymoon. From the time I began this career, I already had a focus on this type of product. It took about four years. Every day, little by little, through my own trial and error, I am not perfect yet, but I am moving in the right direction. I always think that for us, craftsmen, there is always room for improvement on everything Nothing is perfect, you know. The best way to develop yourself is to make This is syrup. This is a cinnamon roll made with croissant dough. This is made like Pain Suisse. Inside is an almond custard with cinnamon. It is a crunchy bread, simple but likable. Top with chocolate ganache. It is called &quot;MOON&quot; bread and is made with our Supecialty coffee beans. Coffee dough, coffee custard cream, coffee ganache, coffee crumble cookies. All are made with our coffee beans. This is custard cream with dark chocolate. we use a single-origin chocolate made by an Italian company and It's 72 percent cacao, Equador. I stir with a hand blender when I make custard cream. When I add the chocolate at that time, the aroma remains strong. These are cacao nibs. For this I use custard cream. The sugar is melted and shining. If the bread is taken from the silicone when it is hot, it will come off, so it must be taken after it has cooled down a little. These are Pain Suisse. For Pain Suisse, I apply syrup. Inside is custard cream. This is apple pie. It is made with croissant dough and inside is almond custard cream, apples, cinnamon, egg whites, and powdered sugar. This is Danish bread with custard cream. We use seasonal fruit, so right now we use strawberries. We use fruits that are in season because we have a market right in front of us. We use the highest quality, most delicious seasonal fruits. Place in a quick refrigerator to cool. No coloring is used in this black bread because it is made with black cacao. The shape of this bread reminds one of a truffle. Inside is custard cream with truffles and hazelnuts. On top is vanilla and truffle chocolate cream, with truffle shavings on top. This is a cream made with white chocolate, fresh cream, and vanilla. Passion is needed to do this work. Making a regular croissant is not technically difficult. It is difficult to make croissants like ours. You have to take care of a lot of things. I think machines and raw materials like the ones we use are essential. You must use high quality ingredients and study the techniques. Above all, the customer must like it. If it looks good, but doesn't taste good, no good. On the contrary, if it tastes good but looks bad, you won't get good feedback from your customers. The first thing our customers do when they walk in here is take pictures of our products. It deserves the satisfaction of being appreciated even before it is eaten. If the customer eats it and likes the taste of the product, that's a bingo. We opened in november of 2023. We received good reviews as soon as we opened. This was because all of us, those who were with me, were both more focused. We all worked as a team and focused in the same direction. I think that was our strength in arriving at the quality of our product. This time of year we can use cherries too. It depends on the season. This is our croissant. It is very simple, but must be as precise as possible. Since this is a manual process, no two pieces are the perfectly same. It is almost the same, just a little different. Croissants and pain au chocolat are the simplest but most difficult. Because every step of the process has to be accurate. These two breads are far more difficult to make than this black bread. There are various precise processes, and it is much more complicated to make a good croissant. 7:30, opening time. There is a line every day before opening. I now roll out the croissant dough. Later, I will work on wrapping the butter into this dough. This is the early part of the croissant fold. Once this dough is chilled we wrap the butter in this, but it is a delicate job and we must be careful with the temperature of the dough. We must be especially careful when using high quality butter. They are very delicate and will melt at about 28 to 30 degrees Celsius. Some butters will melt at lower temperatures. The butter we use is an Italian butter made by a company in Val di Susa. It is very artisanal butter. This is a high quality butter suitable for this type of work. To make our croissants, we first make the dough on the first day and let it ferment. This dough I'm using now was made yesterday; on the second day, the butter is folded into the dough. Then, it is fermented further. In total, 2 or 3 days are needed. Furthermore, we don't just make croissants and pain au chocolat. Cinnamon rolls, MOON, apple pie, stuffed croissants, Queenie Amant, Pan Swiss, Venetian, Danish....... So it's a difficult job and we try to do it in the best way possible just to give the client a better result. this is our intent. We are at &quot;LOVE&quot; via 1251 Quartiere Trionfale Prati, behind the Vatican Museums We are open daily from 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. so come visit us for breakfast and we have our Instagram page. Thank you very much for viewing I hope you like it! This is a ham-and-cheese croissant. Two minutes before done, place cheese on top. I have to put the cheese on top at the end or it will burn. I put oregano over the tomato sauce. This is a little bit more rustic. But it's our choice to make this traditional savory breakfast thing. This is a softer, rustic bread than croissant dough. we use specialty coffee. Specialty is a technical term. We use high quality coffee only arabica species. The major coffee beans used in the cafeteria are Arabica Robusta. Arabica has more organoleptic varieties more complex to grow in comparison that Robusta. and thus gives us more richness of Flavors of fragrances. &quot;Specialty&quot; is not just the quality of the coffee but also the preparation. so cultivation, extraction of the grain, roasting, and then preparation. &quot;Preparation&quot; includes whipping milk not too hot, knowing how to use expensive machinery , To know how to make a recipe for each coffee we use. We have 15 coffee beans right now These are the coffees we use now. All of them have different recipes. We need to know how much it needs to weigh to extract it the best in espresso or filter or cappuccino, or also its Pairing with milk. We also choose vegetable milk well. We don't only use cow's milk. There are also quality milks. Cappuccino &quot;LOVE&quot; is our cappuccino with double espresso. We handle Specialty coffee and recommend a double coffee extraction. We use light Arabica beans, which have less caffeine and are less bitter compared to the blend beans many cafes use. Ok if you want to see the list, we also have various originals of our specialty coffees. Let's do this one, ok. if you wanted to try something a little fruitier, we handle specialty coffees. They are all only high quality rabica coffees of different origins as you see there is the whole list of our coffees. All of them can be made into a &quot;LOVE&quot; cappuccino . The one you see in the menu above is a Brazilian cofee beans. We use it as the closest possible coffee to an Italian espresso taste. to make a not too drastic transition between a classic coffee and specialty coffee There are some that are lighter roasted coffees. They have a little more fruity flavors they also go well with milk . But of course if the first time for you, maybe we can go with Brazilian beans. Would you like to go with Brazilian coffee beans too? Or would you like to taste something else? Croissant dough with coffee. In the center, we have coffee custard cream , on top a milk chocolate and coffee ganache , and crumble cookie made with spelt flour. The same coffee beans are used for all of them.