Hey everybody, it's Andy, with this week's Today we're going to tell me about yourself. This one goes out for all those people on and my YouTube subscribers who have pelleted shoot this video, well this one's for you. We're going to have some fun with this today. I've got three great techniques you can choose You can pick, which ever one best suits you, want to talk a little bit about this question, around it, so that you can prepare your responses. Now, this question is terrible for a couple The first one is related to the employer. First off, it's lazy, it's ineffective and actually going to get the information the or not you're a good fit for the company. Great interviews design well thought out questions them to make those determinations, but the this, it's even worse for you because it puts greatest trip wires in the job interview. The number one reason why you do not get hired, reason on why you do not get hired, I'm not is, your inability to map your fit and value employer needs at the moment. Think about what's happening when you're in You know you're fabulous. I know you're fabulous. The employer has even said you're fabulous They've also said the same thing to all the interviewing, but only one of you or maybe he or she who best maps their skills and qualifications the person that they hire. How do you know what it is that they need? Let's get into those techniques. The first one and my favorite one, is to simply &quot;Please tell me about yourself,&quot; my favorite my background is lengthy and diverse, is there like me to discuss, so that you can make a fit for your company?&quot; Simply ask. Now, I know there are a whole bunch of you a question with a question, that's just bad I was told never to do that.&quot; That's ridiculous. It's fine to answer a question with a question, They've likely asked you this question at beginning of the interview. They dumped you into a wide open field. It's okay for you to ask for some guidance, It only took you ten seconds to do that. What's worse than you answering a question talking about something that's fabulous about nothing to do with helping them determine they need. Now the more important thing we should focus for any questions you ask of any kind at anytime the beginning, the middle, or maybe batched you need to be able to anticipate the possible What could their replies be? Now, the beautiful thing about this particular is there's likely only two responses, so when background,&quot; their response is going to be, both of them. If they say, &quot;Yes there is a particular part just jot the notes of what they asked for about how your qualifications meet those things Beautiful. That's the best scenario, but they might say, Now, you're no better or worse than we were question, so here's your pro tip on how to Always bring in the job description. Anytime you go in for an interview, physically with you. If you ask that question and somebody says, pick up the job description and say, &quot;Okay, on your job description, that you're looking roll has these responsibilities, so I'm going job description, so that you can get some or not for your company.&quot; That's another option in the event they don't way, you can have some comfort in knowing need. Now, for those of you who simply refuse to another one, is then simply go right into and say, &quot;Okay, if it's all right with you, to what I think is called for in the job description.&quot; That's another option. You can go right into that if you don't want I know some of you are out there saying, &quot;Well, have a job description. There wasn't a job description,&quot; or maybe really have a good idea. Well, I've got something for you too, but here. If you are in a job interview, I'm going to the job entails, otherwise you shouldn't be have some kind of idea about what the job yourself,&quot; and you don't want to ask for clarification no and you don't have a job description say, I assume that the job entails this and that you to know that I have, so that you can make I'm a good fit for your company, so I'll share Now, you've given them your assumption about the important skills that you need to have. If you are incorrect, there's not an interviewer Mr. Smart Job Candidate, that's not entirely Here's what the job really entails and here Now, you've got the information you need, If they don't stop you and they don't say then take some comfort in knowing that you're That's how I would handle the, tell me about There's three things. Ask the question. Is there a part of my background that you'd and say, &quot;Based on the job description, I'd to this,&quot; or if you don't have the job description then say, &quot;Here's my assumption about what in order to be successful,&quot; and let them interrupt I've given you these techniques, what I haven't responses and those stories, but I have to In the description, there are two great giveaways. One is an ebook, called Ace Your Job Interview Job Interview Questions. I've got the 14 Most Effective Job interview why the employer asks them, what the employer I also have a fantastic job interviewing webinar Keys to Ace Any Job Interview. This job interviewing, coaching is one solid to answer and ask questions in a job interview. You're welcome to take both of them. The links are in the description. If you enjoyed this video, give me a like, it anywhere other than my YouTube channel to the blog for more on this subject, more to know about your career and job searching, of goodies as well. Until next week, have a great one.