stop stop Where are you taking me? Pengpeng, what are you going to do? stop Peng Peng You can't kill me I am your mother You can't kill me Don't you know yet? I am not your child What are you talking about my mom It's her Zhang Wei Zeng Qian Wife Unexpected? You raised your son for 20 years. It's mine and Qianqian's. Thank you for raising him so well. how so? What about my son? We had our children born on the same day. You live next door to me I switched them as soon as the baby was born. Zhang Wei and I are first love To become rich He had no choice but to marry you, the daughter of a wealthy family. Do you know how much I hate you? Don't waste your energy. Your son's death Just think of it as for me and Qianqian This is compensation for all these years of sneaking around. don't worry Wife You can go down and accompany him soon. Son, let's give her a ride. OK Mother Peng Peng Peng Peng Zhao Wei I hate you Zhao Wei I hate you This is a hospital Are you having a nightmare? You scared the kids to tears. Zhang Wei 2018? Twenty years ago? I was reborn to the day I gave birth to my child We were born on the same day. You live next door to me I switched the baby as soon as it was born. What are you doing? This is not my son. It's so noisy It's Zeng Qian's voice So annoying Why is the child crying? Give him sleeping pills I want to bring the child back. I can't let her abuse my child anymore. What are you doing I named it Zhang Xiaogou I beat him every day It's no use begging for mercy Mom will protect you well in this life Zeng Qian, Zhang Wei This life Enjoy the taste of your own fruit. Are you the pregnant woman who lives next door to me? Listen to them We were born on the same day. It's fate. This hospital is famous for its expensive Zeng Qian is just an ordinary office worker Where can I live with money? Now think about it It should be that Zhang Wei has been using my money to subsidize her. Yeah, it's fate. Did you choose this place because it's close to home? I live next door to Jinhu Hua Ting Jinhu Hua Ting What a coincidence! I'll move there soon. We are really destined to be together. Yeah, maybe we're neighbors. In the previous life, I was a neighbor of Zeng Qian Zhang Wei takes special care of Zeng Qian I just think he is enthusiastic about people I never thought that I would Has been being fucked by her husband's mistress Then what about later Two families You must move around more. By the way, have you named your child? Zhang Peng Our child is called Zhang Peng Zhang Wei is thoughtful Always remember I want to name our child Zhang Peng Zhang Peng is a really nice name. Who said his name is Zhang Peng? The child takes my last name Fang Shuheng this Wife, are you kidding me? How can a child take the mother's surname? In my previous life, I took your face into consideration. Reject the father's proposal to let the child take the mother's surname I will never let my children Have any connection with you yes Children should not be spoiled by their fathers You let Mr. My husband I'm the son-in-law. All my food, drink, accommodation and transportation depend on my family. Even the doctor's job is due to my family's connections. He doesn't need any face. Fangdi, how can you say that? Oh yeah What's your child's name? Why can't I see his father? Oh, my husband is on a business trip. The child's name has been chosen Zhang Xiaogou Zhang Xiaogou This name is good to live with. What a cute name puppy Good sounding So cute Yeah, as cute as a puppy. Puppy Puppy I let go of not only you My son wants to call the dog What about me later? I would also like him to guard like a dog Hello Zeng Qian So proud I hope that when you know the truth You can still laugh go out What's wrong, wife? You should live in the study room from now on. Wife Did I do something wrong? No, it's just that the child cried in the middle of the night I'm afraid of disturbing your rest You little bastard Oh, I just know how to cry It's so noisy, it seems to be Zeng Qian's voice Beat the child again Probably. We are a high-end community The sound insulation should be good Our bedroom is close to their balcony. Unless you deliberately play on the balcony Otherwise we can't hear it Really interesting It seems like he called me on purpose. Wife, are you overthinking? Husband, you said he beat the child Would the child's father feel sad if he knew? How do I know this? Or you go and persuade Not very good I'm not the child's father. Shuheng is also your child In your previous life, you watched him suffer. Zhang Wei, don't worry I won't let you go either. I look forward to when you find out the truth Will you still be as calm as you are now? Today is Shuheng's birthday I came to give him a birthday present Hurry up! Happy Birthday Shuke Auntie bought you some new clothes to try. See if it fits. Or a famous brand? Zhang Qian, you are thoughtful. Mom, today is my birthday too. Can you buy me some clothes? What to wear You deserve it too. Hey, isn't this the one he's wearing from the bookstore last year? I remember the book was accidentally scratched. I threw it away I don't know, maybe I picked it up myself I never buy it for him. Why are you feeling sad? If you feel bad, buy it for him. What should I buy him? I'm not his mother. His mother doesn't care about him. Who do I feel sorry for? Yeah, who do you feel sorry for? You just need to take good care of Shu Han. Take good care of my son The son trained him to be a talent I just want to sit back and enjoy the benefits Zeng Qian, enjoy your sweet dream. How proud you are now How desperate I was after I learned the truth Shu Heng is back Mom, I'm back. Mom, let me help you. I'm back No need to take the college entrance examination tomorrow Go back to the house to study Honoring my mother without interfering with my studies I rank first in the city every year. What about your dad? You are not filial. mom I am 18 years old There are some things I can see clearly My dad has a special relationship with Aunt Zeng next door I've seen it many times. Uncle mom If you want a divorce I support you Say Good Here it comes You start to do it. Find someone to beg for mercy, right? I will kill you Why You stay here and don't move. mom What to do You Eighth Master Lord, save me Lord, Fang Lin, please get out of my way. Don't delay my educating my son. Apologize, what are you doing? This is my home The brat has learned to steal money now, hasn't he? The college entrance examination is tomorrow. You're going to expel me from school today. I stole your money just to leave this house Leave you You didn't tell me Your academic performance Last one every year What's there to go on? It's a waste of money. It's enough to kill you. Aunt Zhang, this is my home Do you want to go out? Shuhao is back Shuhao will take the college entrance examination tomorrow How is your review? Shu Heng ranks first in his grade every year The teacher said that it would be no problem to get into Huaqing University Oh, Huaqing University Shu Heng, you are so promising. Unlike some beasts I can't even get into a college. What's going on Mani? I said a few words to you and you don't want to listen, right? Get back home now! Don't let me kill you again. oh Brother Zhang Our sewer is clogged. Could you please help me get through? Come on, we are all neighbors. good Zhao Wei, when are we going to get the baby back? Shuheng is almost 18 years old Wait until he finishes the college entrance examination. Shuheng is a good kid He will definitely be filial to you. husband When can we be fair and square? No more sneaking around Soon I was preparing the marriage property Wait until all property is transferred I'll divorce him. Reuniting you and your son lay down You are waiting for me Aunt Fang, you are very rich, right? Can you give me some money? I saw your husband hugging my mother He cheated Give me some money I can help you get evidence of cheating What do you want money for? I want to leave this house Leave my mom Aunt Fang You saw how my mother treated me. From childhood to adulthood, I was either beaten or scolded Aunt Fang, please help me. I can't help you Aunt Fang Can you help me I don't know why When I saw you, I felt you were very kind. I have had dreams several times I always dream that you are my father She takes good care of me in every aspect of my life. Hire the best teachers for me Let me get into a key listed university Get ahead I am your mother You can't kill me yes In my previous life, I tried my best to take care of you I raised you but you killed me You are just an ungrateful person after all. But you can help yourself In today's society, everyone is very powerful. If you expose his behavior Are you afraid of leaving him? Do you understand me? What are you doing sneakily? Pour me some water It's none of your business What are you saying? What are you saying? Hello everyone My name is Zhang Xiaogou I was abused and beaten by my mother for many years. Look These are all evidence Not full every day Not warm enough Please help me Please help me Help me get out of this house Leave my mom This is stepmother, right? That's too vicious. This woman is the one playing the elevator Who knows what this woman's name is? Which job should I report her to? Her name is Zeng Qian Working at a promotion company This puppy This beast This beast Leng Qian is going to the Finance Department to collect her salary and get out now. Why did the good officer fire me? Why expel? Online public opinion ferments Said our company hired a dubious person A poisonous woman For the sake of the company's innocence You were fired You can go now Supervisor abuses his own children How can you be a mother like this? Worse than pigs and dogs Not a human being The beast is a beast. You beast, you little dog Kill you mom I was wrong, mom. I won't dare to do it again Let me out Let you out No way you dare bring me disgrace Just wait to starve to death here, mom Mom, I was wrong. Mom, I won't do that again. You let me out Feng Ling asked me to do this. Fang Li It's that bitch Fang Li Let me expose you Mom, please let me out. Mom, I won't do that again. Then you deserve to die. Start Today I won't give you a bite of food Take a sip of water You just wait to die. I was wrong, mom. Very hungry I haven't been given a single drop of water for three days. No, I can't let this bitch starve to death. Fang Lin, let me shoot Shut up bitch Zhang Tian, are you sick? It's you Jiang Xiaogou secretly recorded the video, right? I lost my job and I'm not done with you Let me go You Zhang Qian You Zhang Qian Oh no, your son is jumping off the building. Fang Li, what are you doing? Call 120, don't shout If you want to die, die quickly Wait for you Could it be the mother who abused her child online? It was her No wonder you are not allowed to call 120 for help Do you want your child to die? What's it got to do with you? He doesn't save us. What do you care about? Zeng Qian, have you thought about it? Now you think we are rescuing Zhang Xiaogou If he dies or becomes disabled by then Don't regret it Regret I never regret Let go, let go, let go Who is the child's mother? Who is the child's mother? He is the mother of the child He's in an emergency now. Serious leg injury Need to be taken to hospital immediately Otherwise, the legs can't be saved. No one is taking you to the hospital. This is my child. Aren't you the child's mother? No more treatment His legs can't be saved. If I can't protect you, I can't protect you. Go away, you are no different from an animal. What's it got to do with you? My own child I decide his fate Zhang Qian Zhang Xiaogou is not just your son It's a life. He has fainted now. You're killing me by stopping the doctor from saving lives. It's going to jail. I'm going to jail. Jail Let's take him to the hospital first. Come and lend a hand momentum Doctor Zhang, this patient fell from a high floor. Severe leg infection You should go and have a look Please let me go. Why are you here? Find a puppy Why did you send it now? His right leg is seriously infected. It has to be amputated. Amputation is better Then cut off both legs. He's a waste anyway. Disabled is better Zhang Xiaogou is your son. Song Qian, you have crippled him. Aren't you worried that he will hate you or me? I don't rely on this kind of crap for my retirement. What does he hate about me? What does it have to do with me? Doctor Zhang Blood collection completed I will send it to the laboratory for blood type analysis immediately. Advance to the operating room to prepare for surgery Doctor Zhang You haven't mentioned the second conservative treatment option. Conservative treatment Conservative treatment We use the latest equipment in our hospital for treatment. But the cost of treatment has also increased fivefold 5 times I don't have the money to treat you Resolve the debt quickly You've got to think about it. Send your son in for amputation. The rest of his life is really ruined. What if it's ruined? Doctor Zhang Please prepare for surgery yes yes Laugh in the past The louder the laugh, the better You're about to reap what you sow. Hahaha this is too funny Zeng Qian, your son is still in there undergoing surgery. How come you don't even care a bit? What I'm worried about Even if he died in the operating room, it has nothing to do with me. Are you still human? How can you be so cruel to your own child? Zhang Xiaogou has grown up Already 18 years old I have no nurturing significance for him. I am willing to pay him the restraint fee today. That's a great mercy. I warn you Are you all willing to be a saint? Raise him for the rest of his life I welcome you to sign up. mom Shuhao I didn't see you when I got home Neighbors said you were in the hospital. Are you sick? Mom is fine, it's Zhang Xiaogou who is in the hospital for emergency treatment Is Shuhao's college entrance examination over? How did you do on the exam? It's ok, mom. The results are out Reached the score of Huaqing University Huaqing University is so great That's great. Shuheng is indeed my master Excellent genes Much better than the son of that bitch Li Now all I have to do is tell Shuheng I am his biological mother. Fang Li You are ready to expose a disabled son. Not good During amputation The patient suffered severe bleeding Need for blood transfusion The patient's mother came to confirm the blood type Why are you telling me this? Also asked me to confirm my blood type I don't know his blood type. 18 years I waited for 18 years Just waiting for today Zeng Qian, you're about to reap what you sow. Zeng Qian, when the child was just born The nurse will tell us the blood type of our child. What is your child's blood type? It happened 18 years ago I don't remember He has RH negative blood type. Also known as panda blood Your child It is RH negative blood Commonly known as panda blood Be careful to take care of it Don't get hurt. Baby, mommy will replace you. Don't hate mom Mom wants you to live a better life. Also known as panda blood What did you say Birth of a child Nurses will do blood typing tests Don't you remember this special blood type? It's impossible How could Zhang Xiaokou have RH negative blood? I clearly exchanged my child for Fang Li. Shuheng I want to ask What is your blood type? B blood type You finally found From this moment on you Open the door Open the door Open the door Open the door Open the door and calm down What are you doing? No explanation We don't explain. Did you agree to the open-door surgery? The operation is now halfway done. How can you just say you won't do it? I won't explain What do you want to do when you open the door? Be Cool Shuheng, you remembered it wrongly. You have RH negative blood. Not B blood Mom, I did it wrong before. I am your mother What's your blood type? Can't I understand? You are under too much pressure from studying. So I got it mixed up. Is Shuheng also RH negative blood? yes It's fate What's wrong? The father of the child is my husband Xu Jing It's never been strange I personally paid for the child. No mistakes The one whose limbs were amputated must be Fang Wei's son. Why By the way, Shuheng Wait for your results to come out next month. Mom will host a graduation party for you Oh well Zeng Qian, if you don't mind Bring your puppy along. This kid lost his leg. It must have been painful. Just take him here to relax. certainly I will definitely attend Shuheng's graduation party in person to congratulate him how's it going The operation was successful Dr. Zhang's opinion on the puppy's condition I want to find time to discuss this with you. Then you should talk to Zeng Qian first. Shu Heng and I will go home and wait for you Thanks Honey, can we not waste time? Change the child back quickly. I am worried about abnormal dreams I am more worried that Shuheng will not recognize me. So all my 18 years of careful planning went down the drain. I have already transferred all of Fang Li's assets. I can file for divorce next month. Shuheng is a good kid If he knew you were his mother I will not deny your disbelief next month Fang Lin just said We are going to prepare a graduation banquet for the bookstore next month. We will announce the truth of the matter on that day. OK good Mom, why are you stopping me? Don't let me teach that couple a lesson! Even if he is my mother, so what? I was raised by you I only recognize you He is not your mother You are already 18 years old It's time for me to tell you the truth Ah, so that's how it is Mr. Zeng thought I was his child That's why you lied to me that I was your aunt. It is negative blood If you didn't find it in time He switched me and Zhang Xiaogou But I might be the one getting fired today. I kept this truth in my heart for 18 years Just to see them reap what they sow. They want to announce everything at the graduation banquet Then I will be at the graduation banquet Let them pay a heavy price Oh, don't worry. I won't let go of those who bully you. Shuhao You are everything to me Zhang Wei, you are back. Dad, how is the puppy? Oh, he was discharged from the hospital today. Oh, what a pity. I'm disabled at the age of 18. Dad, when you performed surgery on him Will there be a little bit of pity and heartache? What is there to be reluctant about and feel sorry for? He's not my son. Look at your son I received the admission letter from Huaqing University today. Huaqing University The best universities in the country He is my son indeed. You really did it Hey, I want to hold a graduation party for my son. Invite all relatives and friends to witness What do you think? Of course you can Our son is like this Excellence should be celebrated It's next Saturday. Why next week? Not this week? Of course, before next Saturday. I can completely transfer your property. Next Saturday is an auspicious day It is natural to choose a good day for a wedding. A good omen? Okay, then I Book a hotel first Come back to eat in the evening Come back early. Shuhua What happened to mom? Please accompany me to Aunt Zeng's house. There's something I have to tell you. What's up? Your background Shuheng If my mother hadn't exchanged me for the ransom Zhang Xiaogou's fate is mine. Dad, tell me. Shuheng Actually, your mother is not Fang Lin Twenty-three thousand How come? yes Your father and I were a couple. 18 years ago, in order to have a better life Your father had no choice but to marry Pineapple, a rich girl. And me We are afraid that you will suffer I'm afraid you won't get a good education. So 18 years ago, you and Zhang Xiaogou were swapped. Let you be Fang Li's son Now you have completed your studies It's time to know the truth. Mom, what do you mean? So I am not your son No wonder you are so nice to Fang Shuheng To make me like this Just because I am Fang Li's son shut your mouth Because you're that bitch's son. I tell you I will return you to Fang Li on the day I leave Hengsheng College Shuhao hopes you can understand your parents' painstaking efforts Do this All for our family to live a better life Uh Dad I see Once aunt If you were really my mother I will recognize you But Just in case Respect Auntie Can you do a DNA paternity test with me? DNA Paternity Test What paternity test do we need? I was the one who took you by my own hands You are my own Can I still lie to you? Just be a kiss Sub-identification This way Shuheng would have a better idea Do a DNA test report now It should be released on the same day at the Hengsheng College. Let's reunite as a family on the day we go to Hengsheng College. I didn't conflict with them. Personal identification I also did the results with Zeng Qing Will come out on the day of the entrance banquet good Mom, let me show you something. These are all evidence that your father cheated on you. And there is evidence of the transfer of my property I waited for 18 years Just waiting for this day Zhang Wei On the day of Zeng Qian's graduation banquet I'm going to ruin your reputation. Unbearable pain Mom, I'll help you. Congratulations! Shuheng has been a good student since he was young. This time I was admitted to Huaqing University I really make you proud. Yes, Shuheng. I have been proud of you since I was a child. This book has a bright future. Unlimited You two are blessed with a happy life. Mom and Dad, I will be successful in the future I must respect you well. Shuhe, today's banquet You are the protagonist Do you want to go on stage and say a few words? Yeah yeah Say a few words Go, son. Come on stage and say a few words good Let's go Thank you all for coming from afar to attend my graduation party Today is a special day I would like to take this opportunity Thank you to a very important person It can be said that if there is no him There would be no me today She is my mother Fang Li Wait a moment Shuheng is not your mother Your mother Zeng Xi, what are you talking about? Shuhao is my child Fang Lin and I were in the same hospital. Having children on the same day The hospital took the wrong two children away Zhang Xiaogou is your son in the crime scene And Shu Heng is my biological son Fang Li I have been separated from my biological son for so many years. It's time we exchange the baby back. There is also this kind of thing This is too weird. Could there be something wrong, Sun? Qian, you have no evidence. Is there any evidence that Shuheng is your son? I know there is no evidence You won't believe it easily. So Shuheng and I did a DNA paternity test Someone will deliver it to you later. About 10 minutes Wait, you looked at the DNA paternity report. You will know You will believe that everything I say is true I don't believe it My husband, when I gave birth to Shuheng You are with me Did you know about this? I know it's hard for you to accept. But the grace of giving birth is greater than the grace of raising. I beg you I beg you to give my son back to me, please Zhang Xiaogou is your biological son Although he broke his leg But you can't give up on him. Oh my god, all these years It is not easy to cultivate Such an outstanding university student Now I have to give it to someone else. That's right Everyone knows how much Fang Li has paid for Shu Huan. Shuhuan was admitted to Huaqing University That's all thanks to Fang Li's guidance. Years of love and hard work It's not something that can be easily given up. That's right, who can bear this? Concubine I think you are talking nonsense. fart Ma Zengqian came here to recognize the child. How do you mother? You didn't even know the hospital took the wrong baby impossible Shuhao is my child It must have been a lie. Honey, you're a doctor. At first I told him The baby was born in the hospital where you work. How could I be wrong? They've done paternity tests. This could be fake Zeng Qian actually dared to do a paternity test This should be right. Shuheng should be Zeng Qian's son Shuheng I will definitely love you well for Fang Li in the future After all, I am your biological mother. I have worked hard to raise Shuhe for more than ten years. There is no way I would mistake your child for Zhang Xiaogou Oh, it's the wheelchair in front of me. This child Fang Li You can't abandon him just because he's disabled. So you don't have a son. I'll tell you the truth I've already told Shuheng Shuheng promised that as long as I saw the DNA test report Let me be your horse Reunite with me Thank you for all these years Such an excellent child. Shuheng, you will recognize me as your mother, right? Aunt Sun, if the paternity test is true I will recognize you as my father Look, Fang Yi is you. Shuheng Why do you do this? I am your mother Don't you want your mother? Mom, although you raised me for 18 years But you can't stop me from meeting my biological mother. Shuheng How can you just let outsiders provoke you? I just believed in evil. I raised you with great difficulty for 18 years. You said so Where do you put me? Fang Li, don't be anxious or sad. Don't you have a puppy? Although he can't take care of you in your old age But at least you have a son. So that you won't be alone and helpless when you are old. Yes, Fang Shuheng I don't want to be your son I do. As long as you take care of me every day Leave all your money to me I would love to be your son. Look how sensible the puppy is. It also knows how to sympathize with you. Oops, although What about me later? I don't have to worry about someone taking care of me in my old age. But I'm still worried about you After all, raising a disabled son The pressure must be huge. Fang Li, it's all your fault. Children can make mistakes How could I marry a foolish woman like you? It's all your fault. It's all your fault. Our son has become a cripple. I want to divorce you What did you say divorce That's right I'm not only going to divorce you As a punishment I'm also going to make you leave the house Zhang Wei, you are a son-in-law Why do you ask me to leave the house? Why should I Just because you are stupid Just leave your property to me. Face slap These years I have transferred all the money. There is not a penny in our town. Lao Li, don't underestimate your son-in-law. You take your bandit son with you Go steal your mother's house Today I ask everyone present to bear witness for me. I want to divorce Fang Ning Xiaoqi, I want him to leave the house with nothing. I want him to leave the house clean Leave the House Wouldn't he become a pauper? He has no money to support me. Mom, you raised me for 18 years. Please take me in. Don't let me help you suffer, mom Go away You have no right to interrupt. Fang Lishi has been captured until now to be honest As a woman Loving a man at the same time I'm really jealous sometimes. Why is it good? Why can you marry him openly? And me I can only be a mistress who can't see the light Gave birth to a bastard child Everything today It's all your own fault. To be honest, I was looking forward to it. I am looking forward to you knowing the truth today. What would the reaction be? But I was disappointed You didn't hold Shuheng and cry bitterly. Ask him not to leave you Start Today I accept your husband and son. Thank you for your dedication to the family over the years. Start Today I will play the role of wife and mother well. Oh, that's right. Uh, there's one thing that's very strange to me. Aunt Zheng When I had a physical examination at the hospital You said your son has RH negative blood type, right? Yeah My child is indeed RH negative blood type Aren't you RH negative blood type? Why But I went for another checkup last week. mom Did you make a mistake? This medical examination report shows that I am blood type b What Shuhao, what blood type did you just say? B blood type are you sure Sure Shuheng, you remembered it wrongly. You have RH negative blood. Not blood type B Mom, I did it wrong before. I am your mother What's your blood type? Can't I understand? Fang Lin You were outside the operating room that day. You said Shuheng has RH negative blood? I remember Shuheng was RH negative blood. Did I remember it wrong? Or is it that the hospital did not make any mistakes? Don't worry, you might have remembered it wrong. Maybe our son is not level 21 blood at all I did a paternity test. Paternity tests don't lie. That's right Maybe it's too long I remembered it wrongly I'll change the child myself Absolutely Shuheng is just a child Hello, I am a doctor at the Private Hospital of Zhongjiao Excuse me, who is Ms. Zeng Qian? It's me Hello, Ms. Zeng Jian Your appraisal report is out The reason is that only the paternity test report Certificate Heng is my child Just deal with him, right? Aunt Zeng If the paternity test shows that I am your child Don't worry, I will definitely recognize you as my mother. Now I have been admitted to Huaqing University No worries about not finding a good job in the future I will honor you in the future Give you retirement If you have an accident someday I will also wear mourning clothes for you The children I raised for 18 years all said the same thing. I have no other choice. If the wife's identification is true Then let's get the child back. now My husband wants to divorce me My son doesn't recognize me. But it's okay I have a disabled son. Although I can't provide for my old age But at least I can still be your companion Oh, that's right. Aunt Zeng If this parent-child report is opened I'm not your child. Then you come today Isn't it just a waste of time? You come today Don't you just want to get Shuheng back? Why don't you open it? ah What are you afraid of? Why panic? When Fang Wenming gave birth to a child We replaced it ourselves. There's no way he could know the truth. Otherwise he wouldn't have waited until today. Why are you panicking about me? We lived for 18 years Isn't it just to wait for this moment today? Fang Li, stop scaring me. I advise you to keep your word Order the report in person Certificate: Huan is my biological son Just give my child back to me Never get entangled Never get entangled 18 years I waited for 18 years Next, I will slowly appreciate How many times can you do the circus? What is the result Say so No, it won't be like this. Hahahaha What is the result of the paternity test? Zeng Qian and Fang Shuhao have no parent-child relationship How could this happen? Didn't you come here with a solemn oath to suppress your son? How could this happen? Zhang Wei, you are a doctor. Come and have a look Is there something wrong with this paternity report? Hahahahahaha Zhang Wei, you are a doctor. Look at it quickly. Look at it quickly. Is this paternity report wrong? What's going on So Miss Zeng's son is not Fang Shuheng Then why did he come to Japan for no reason? You're not jealous of other people's children, are you? The paternity test report will not be on his But I guessed the truth from the beginning Paternity test of hanging bag Is there a possibility of baby paternity test? The child was never swapped from the beginning. It's impossible I personally swapped Wang Shuheng with Zhang Xiaogou Absolutely impossible He actually replaced the child himself What he wants to do What a vicious woman. You swapped the children, right? But I changed the child back. You think Zhang Xiaogou is my child? Beat and scold him Little did you know that this is your own fucking child. Ha ha ha ha Your mother is watching You personally Your own child lost his leg. Surprised? Is it surprising? Ahahahahaha no no impossible impossible impossible You knew it from the beginning, right? You have such a vicious heart. How could you watch your puppy disappear? Head of Group What did you say? Cut it off yourself Zhang Xiaobei may be you so So I still got it wrong. I'm still your child Zeng Qian Now you are satisfied You want to take revenge on Fang Li So abuse me Little did they know Other people's children are good-looking A bright future But what about your children? He is a cripple. Ha ha ha ha That's not the case. It's really not like that I don't believe it. I don't believe it. Don't the traitors know? Lu He, do you also know the truth? I see They already knew it Gou Yun is acting in front of me, right? How cruel of you to give birth to such a vicious son I am cruel or you are cruel, you know it clearly The child born by Zeng Qian is your child Is the child I gave birth to not a child? Ask yourself first What's in my room? I'm sorry you have to live in the place you summoned You're harming my child. I have no idea what you're talking about have no idea I made everyone laugh today. But please bear witness with me. I want to divorce my husband 20 years ago My husband and I fell in love at first sight Fall in love Got married soon But he has nothing I funded his studies. I also found a job for him. But I never thought My marriage It's a scam Zhang Wei and Zeng Qian and Wu Meigou colluded Replace my child Transfer my property These are the proof of his cheating. It's horrible 20 years of town life He is the one who always wants to kill himself. Miss Fang is so pitiful. Miss Fang, don't let them go. That's enough. Fang Ming, you bitch Why did you harm my child? The reason why I do this It's all because of you My husband married you I have endured 20 years of vacant housing And you I know I gave the wrong child. Why didn't you tell me Did the child become a disabled person? A few vicious women You should die Hello, you are putting the blame on others. He married my mother just for our family property Ask yourself What you wear And your house Which one is not spending our family's money? Now I am an adult I will personally collect back each and every one of these accounts. What to do Zhang Wei The child is also physically disabled. We have nothing left. Qianqian is fine We have money I will carry bricks for the puppy The best one, isn't it? He is not called Xiao Gao now. His name is Zhang Peng money Where did you get the money? Zhang Wei, you are dreaming I have transferred all your property. I don't want to live with you anymore Then divorce Leave the House Hahaha Leave the House Zhang Wei, ah Zhang Wei Now that I know you replaced my child Didn't I have any defenses all these years? What do you mean? Hello, are you Mr. Zhang Wei? The property transferred under your name is displayed as 0 Can you make an account? What Got a call Your account I've already cleared it. There's not a penny in it. I waited for 18 years. I knew your purpose from the beginning. I'm just waiting today I'm going to let you reap what you sow. Disgraced Split Zhang Wei, congratulations. Strategizing 18 years and nothing Oh no Still got it Got a disabled son With a lover without income Hahaha Zhang Wei later You can only live a poor life I'm sorry. You are the one who is really kicked out Fan Lian's wife Wife I was wrong. I was wrong. I was wrong Can you forgive me For the sake of our relationship as husband and wife for so many years. Can you give me a chance? Shuheng can't live without his father He can't live without a complete family. I beg you Honey, can you give me a chance? All the mistakes are my fault. But I beg you You just need to give me a little money Help Peng Peng treat his legs He is only 18 years old If he had no legs How will he live in the future? I beg you I beg you Help him. Get lost I will never forgive you rest assured Your hard days Just the beginning Let's go We received a report letter There are obviously better treatments But you hesitated Perform myopia surgery on patients Go settle your wages. You are not qualified to be a doctor. Dean Can you give me another chance? Dean You don't have any chance If it weren't for your wife's sake I won't recruit you to work in our hospital. I have exposed everything you have done. Headmaster No hospital will save you. team leader How's your husband? Fang Li sued soul This is the verdict Send me out of the house You bitch What should we do now? We all lost our jobs. The puppy's medical expenses are a bottomless pit. How are you going to live in the future? Yes Why don't we use the voice of the little ghost? Selling a pot of vegetables in the live broadcast room Maybe you can earn a lot of rewards. We can also bring goods during live broadcast This way you can earn two bucks. I'm going to prepare some three-no products We sell inferior goods as good ones Sell at a bargain price But my husband The puppy exposed me before What if the people in the live broadcast room recognize me? That's the mother of the older child. Don't talk about taking money. Don't talk about curing the disease. I'm fine, just dress a little rougher. Pretending to be beheaded Mother of child therapy No one recognized it Can I can make the puppy's hair a little messy Then I will heal those wounds. We'll see for sure. Can take back a partner's things What's the meaning You've already done this to me. Still want to use me as a tool to make money Get out of here! son Son, listen to me. My mother is not working now. I only have a few hundred dollars in my pocket. If you want to pay This is the fastest way to Do you still want treatment? Just do what your mother says. Otherwise we can only take you back to your hometown in the countryside. There may not be any good doctors by then. Think about it yourself Son, look at me. Mom, please, please. As long as mom makes money Don't worry I will definitely extend your VIP ward for several months. Do you understand? Oh my god Do these two people look familiar to you? Dear family members in the live broadcast room My son had an accident Suffering lifelong disability My husband and I both come from rural areas. We have no ability We want to treat our son. We really can't afford the medical expenses. Seeing my son have no money Being kicked out of the hospital I beg the family members in the live broadcast room Please help us. I won't kowtow to you anymore. Hahahaha that's so pitiful Damn, I can't watch this. Give you a rocket I'm just a student Not that much money I'll give you some flowers. Family Let me show you the scratches my son got from the accident. Look Earn medical expenses Hahahahaha Family members, please take a look. I am useless as a mother. Aren't these Zhang Xiaogou and Aunt Zeng? Try it out Crying is worthless Want to win the kindness of netizens There is not a single word of truth in this family's mouth The host looks familiar Why does it feel like the one reported in the news? Man with child What about beating children? Don't wrongly accuse me. Your son's exposed scar It doesn't look like a burn. It's like a burn How could it be a burn? What about beating children? Please don't accuse me without any evidence. This kind of miserable person If I beat my son every day Why is he willing to live stream with me? Right, son? This mother is so pitiful. Why are you still accusing others? Do you have empathy? Just stop looking for trouble. Okay, okay, family members. Family members, please stop talking about him. Maybe he simply thinks I look like them. Family Today I bring you a good news. There is a very kind merchant What happened after he got to know our news? Sent us a few boxes of products I'm in the live broadcast room Specially sell it to everyone at a low price Look at this product. It's imported from abroad. Let me try it on your face. My son is shy. My son has nothing. Just Just to let uncles and aunts see the effect of applying it on the face Why did your son use this skin care product? Your face is so red. Could it be that I'm allergic to opening this composite box? How is that possible? How is that possible? This is because the hospital is too hot. This isn't hot. Look, your son is already in primary school. Family, this is because of my son He came from the countryside since he was a child. Our family is poor Bad conditions I haven't used any good skin care products. He just didn't absorb it for a while But I promise These are all test reports. Ten times the compensation for fake products No fake, no compensation My family, we are all from the village. They are all honest people How could it be fake? This is the test report Please believe us. Everyone must rest assured to buy it Isn't this the three-no-product of the black workshop? Do you like it? They make these dirty money by relying on people's sympathy. No fear of retribution On the right side of the cabinet in my son's study Take the evidence of Zeng Qian's affair with your father There is also evidence that Zeng Qian abused Zhang Xiaogou We are going to post it online Good family members Our next boss is coming! This one, this sweet potato flour Very clean ingredients There's only sweet potatoes in it. Very very delicious My son likes this the most. Eat it Very appetizing and sour My son didn't have lunch. Just walk over My son gave one to his uncles and aunts. Ouch, my baby is shy again What's wrong with giving one to the uncles and aunts? bring it on I don't eat My child has never eaten anything good. Want to leave all the delicious food for his mother My son is so sensible. My real son Come and try it soon Come on, uncle will take you to eat one Don't feed it to the kids. Mmm, this taste Um How about it Is it delicious, son? tasty Really delicious Let's go to the next one. Our next product is this shampoo What about this shampoo? It can be said to be the ceiling among shampoo Let's say After using this shampoo, it will emit dense Very comfortable Have someone lock the toilet Wrong live broadcast room 100,000 people wait a moment This shampoo. It contains Chinese medicinal ingredients. It can make your scalp Very earthy How are you? You can't speak when you open your mouth I told you I can't eat spicy food You don't dare to eat it yourself, but you want me to eat it What nonsense are you talking about? What do you mean by not daring to eat? What's wrong with eating a few bites of such a good thing? It's a three-no product at all Is there sweet potato in the ingredients list? Don't you know it in your heart? It is like this Hey son No, not like that. Small Flower I see you really love your son. But if you My son has become a waste I can't provide for your retirement Even if it drags you down for the rest of your life Your motherly love ends here Post evidence online They use everyone's sympathy to make dirty money Now it's time to taste the backlash. Finished Someone posted evidence of our cheating online And the video of you beating the puppy Now the whole internet is scolding us Also, the things we sell are revealed to be three-no products The people who bought our products had problems with them. Now they are coming to settle accounts with us All the money in the live broadcast room has been frozen Who did this stupidly? Now someone takes it out and escapes Run away! hurry up I am sick Pay back the money Zhou Jian and Zhang Wei, those two liars Let's find them one by one I don't believe I can't find him. Close your hands Let's go! ah Let's go ah from the girl ah So that's how it is In my previous life, I killed my mother who truly loved me. Ah, Commander Cao Hey, don't worry about them. Go, go, go no Keep walking ah Let me use the cell phone light good Hello, Police Department? I want to report Someone is selling fake goods live I have evidence Who is it? Mom, I'm Zhang Peng I remembered everything from my past life. Mommy Mommy I was wrong, mom. I shouldn't have worked with that couple to harm you. But don't worry I've made them pay. I sent them all to the police station. They will never come out in this life. Hearing the news Are you happy? Don't call me mom I'm not your mother Mom, I really know I was wrong. Mom, I'm a beast I am a white-eyed wolf I won't die well Mom, please forgive me I really am going In my previous life, I worked hard to raise you But you pushed me off the rooftop and I died tragically. Now you come to ask for my forgiveness What qualifications do you have to go? Get out of here I don't want to see you again Mom, I know. Mom, can you please forgive me? You believe my uncle Let me go Mr. Zhang, what are you doing? mom If I were in my previous life I didn't listen to that couple. Will I be like Fang Shuheng now? Take good care of you sorry I'm really sorry You don't deserve to say sorry Because you don't deserve to be forgiven You go sorry Mom is fine don't worry Mom will make your favorite braised pork ribs for you today How about it good Remember to eat fish I didn't wash it. I'll eat it after I wash it.