- [instruments tuning] - [indistinct chatter] - MAN: Should I - TOM: Well, let's see - [buzzing] - TOM: Bugs! Let's do the I need more noise factor. - [guitar plays] - TOM: Y'all ready? We got tape rolling? - [guitar plays] - TOM: Is that - - TOM: One, two, three. - [&quot;Cabin Down Below&quot; plays] Come on go with me, babe Come on go with me, girl Baby, let's go To the cabin down below Well, I got a radio Put it on soft and low Baby, let's go To the cabin down below - TOM: In this this day in particular, I feel much more It's soul music. I think that's what I am. I think I'm a soul singer, your soul in a way. - Hey - TOM: That's what's going on I feel very prolific right now. I feel more like me. - - [instruments tuning] - [indistinct chatter] - TOM: This has become a real, this--this solo album, and I'm And I really enjoy being - - TOM: A way of avoiding the Heartbreakers was to just and say this is a solo record. Because you don't want to stay all the time. I mean, it's been almost And if I only made records with time, I'd never meet anyone, I'd - - TOM: But I really I'd been in a band my And I wanted the freedom. I really wanted to be free But I think it was time to just another place to go, and the - - I was really lucky because I very early in life. And I didn't never I didn't have any choice. I just did it, you know? And if I had really known how doing, I might have been I was happy to do it. And, uh, you know, if you're to do that, you're pretty lucky. I feel very fortunate - - RICK: Tom was I called up the person who was &quot;If there's ever an I would love that to happen.&quot; And I was told that Tom was exclusively produced and there was no chance that I And it's like, &quot;Okay, thank you It was like a--a real cold - TOM: I wanted to do I mean, I love And--but I thought that I So Mike Campbell suggested Rick. He said, &quot;I think you'll like And I just simply called him up. - Da, da, da, - We could also we can do another just so we have - TOM: I love the ending. You know, with Rick And that's really why I It's not because of He has no musical skill. He plays no instrument really. He's learning the guitar. He just loves music. He's not a corporate man. - - RICK: What I have You know, I can come in and say like, and I don't but just being kind of true to steer it in a direction that Should I play it to you? - 'Cause you should - TOM: I found Rick and I think he made a great And I feel, in a way--I don't that he's kind of guided me back feel very comfortable. - You follow your feelings You follow your dreams You might find the forest There in the trees - TOM: What is great about You know, he's young. It's the first time we've worked than we were. We're not really good at taking We've never had an A&amp;R guy, who really told us what to do. - [guitar plays] - RICK: Let's try We'll go from a bridge - Bridge into a down verse. - - TOM: There's really no Songs is what it's about. - I could do I gotta bury my Over that hill Gotta get up in the Over that hill again - RICK: I was never really a I liked--I liked more aggressive punk rock and harder things. He was a little And then, um, &quot;Full - - RICK: I remember I bought it or fourth single. And I listened to it, driving in my car. I had moved to Los Angeles and I would drive uh--to that album - - MAN: Check one two. - GEORGE: He loved We used to sing along to no matter where--you know we're &quot;You're so bad, You know, we'd mime the acoustic - MAN: Check, - GEORGE: You know, I was company called Def American at And, um, Tom and I, for whatever, he took a liking. I think he tolerated me, And Tom was a hero, an idol. &quot;Damn The Torpedoes,&quot; for me, really just changed my life. - 'Cause it don't make Everybody's had to You see, you don't Don't have to live Now baby, you don't Don't have to live - RICK: I knew he really which he--which he was, how many great songs he has. Like one after--it's like, how songs from one person? You don't put it together - - ADRIA: I think after &quot;Into The Great Wide Open&quot; and he had, like, totally There was nothing more that And there he was still very young with songs and material. And I think my dad at that time Eddie Vedder and Kurt Cobain &quot;That's who I've always-- of everything that's me.&quot; - - RICK: And that's another about the times. It's like Tom was able to manage of music that happened, but being of the moment as well. - I'm going down to See my little darlin' - [crowd cheering] - GEORGE: You know what It is such a fascinating story. - I have to start out talking? You gotta tell me the story and got your deal. How your whole career is based - [phone ringing] - It is, um... I'll just let the phone finish. - BOTH: [laughing] - There he is now. He's changed his mind. - TOM: George is a producer and he was around a lot, you And he did play though nobody can remember what. But he'd pick up something and he got to be sort - [laughing] What - [plays flute] - [laughing] - RICK: What I remember of our Mike's house and just had about music. He had liked the album he mentioned that. And we listened for &quot;Good to be King,&quot; I think it may have been the he had written turned out to be - It's good to be king - RICK: As he he would call me and we would And then I started his house in the Valley. And he had a little music room cassette recorder, and he would acoustic versions of - Yeah I'll be king When dogs get wings - [indistinct chatter] - TOM: I think Rick, he was in his evaluation of what But I never really did hire And we'd have another And then I'd write some and he'd come over to my house of the songs and what he thought It went on, and on, for about a year and a half. - - MIKE: Hey, Bugs. I'm so happy to see you. - We're back at - Yeah. Got some guitars here - MIKE: What do we got? You know, on the we used some of these guitars. - BUGS: Yeah, - This one is a Martin, was called &quot;Don't Fade on Me,&quot; - [guitar plays] - A little This room is the Heartbreakers' we were a band of brothers. This is like our home-- music--musical home. We spent a lot of time in here. We've done a lot of rehearsing, a lot of laughing, and living I'm sitting here. There's a table where the band and have our meals. And I'd be sitting there waiting around this corner. As I look up, I can almost - - MIKE: Tom has this thing--and people, really good writers and seen anybody that could do that He could just pull things - BENMONT: Tom was I had always appreciated it, and to be in this band. But you almost take it for in with a great song. But &quot;Wildflowers&quot; - You belong among You belong somewhere Far away from your You belong somewhere - TOM: Songwriting is When you finish one, I think compared to all the are--a lot of them none of them are quite as Sometimes it's really The best ones--they're not the best ones are the ones that seem to come kinda quick - - [indistinct chatter] - [guitar plays] - Run away, Run away, let your You deserve the You belong in that You belong among You belong somewhere You belong with You belong somewhere - Here's the bridge. - - TOM: &quot;Wildflowers,&quot; it's you love, you know? Or people you wish You wish--people you care about, you know, how you wish them And that It's one of the only times that is I really just stepped up and I put the mic on and straight from the top to the end and all the music...in one go. - [guitar plays] - TOM: And then I stopped And I really was I kept playing it again &quot;Well, what do we work on? What would I change?&quot; And then I thought, &quot;I'm I'm just going to leave it - MAN: [laughs] - Rick's bored now, - MAN: Uh-oh. - RICK: If you think of if you don't analyze it, I think of it as a It's Tom playing And that's what that song is. When in reality, maybe over the course of that song. And those little none of them draw And if you're not listening, But it's reinforced with these that keep it very interesting And without knowing it, makes over and over again. - Run away, go Run away, let your You deserve the You belong in that You belong among You belong somewhere Far away from your You belong somewhere - RICK: People have asked &quot;Wildflowers&quot; from And I always say I don't &quot;Wildflowers,&quot; I wasn't So, uh, Mike, how would you say different from making - Well, the producer's I mean, we were and we had done some which was a different approach completely different. And with you, we wanted to get organic tracks and - TOM: One, two, three, four. - [guitar plays] - TOM: We gotta do something - [indistinct chatter] - TOM: It sounds acoustic - - MAN: 'Cause - TOM: Alright, here we go. - RICK: I've always believed records before &quot;Wildflowers&quot; amazingly positive effect on because he was so dialed in on concise songwriting. And there was no, &quot;Well, the There was none of that. It was very... pop structure songwriting, and of made it the natural version - I look at it as Jeff-- they are beautiful They are records. - And my participation was because Jeff has an idea, he's going to play it, But this is almost like taking setting it free by going, we're going to see what It's very different, It's very focused on but there's also that's really, really cool. - TOM: It feels good. I think - Harry Green was We met in Spanish class Helped me out of He stopped a redneck Stopped a redneck Harry Green was Played on a football team Them good ol' boys said He's not what He's not what he would seem Harry Green Was alright by me Harry Green Was alright by me - ADRIA: I think the at the time that was about a lot of people trying &quot;No, just stay in this pen and And he was always kicking that &quot;I'm just going to hang out with Whatever I give you, you'll be You know, my dad was constantly and that's like a very There was never a And so it was always like him to the man, basically. But I think when they that sent my dad in a - Tempers flare and You close one door You hear the music and you're You got to get up Again You got to get up and You got to get up and - BUG: He was never So he really wanted to and when that opportunity he jumped at it. - TOM: We like to record because they taste good. - [laughs] - RICK: Very nice. - - TOM: We knew we had and a very successful one, It just felt like time in life. I really just went to work for and could kind of trust their - Hey, girl, What's the matter with you? - I remember being at in the alleyway with you. - And you said you were going And you said, &quot;Who's I said, &quot;Howie.&quot; And you said, &quot;No, I don't want And I named you I think we tried them They may have wound up on And that's what I remembered. That it started like that and something different and use I don't even remember if you - RICK: That was from Tom wanted it to be--because he not a Heartbreaker's album. - RICK: He said, &quot;If Howie &quot;a Heartbreaker's album and &quot;I want it to be--I don't I want it to be more like a - And what's interesting but it also became because 'til the very end, he &quot;'Wildflowers' was the - RICK: Wow. Tom knew that he wanted And because it was a solo album, like it was And I think he felt like it was But for the solo albums, It was just more It wasn't a band offering. It was a Tom Petty offering. - Everything changed, [humming] Let me get the chorus [humming] Everything changed, then it It's hard to find a friend It's hard - That riff is-- - - TOM: &quot;To Find a Friend&quot; it's but I think subconsciously it with my life, you know, because I was-- I was becoming disenchanted with my - And the days went by Like paper in the wind Everything changed And then changed again It's hard to find a friend Hard to find a friend - TOM: A lot of chords. - - BEN: I think I got it. - MIKE: You got it, we don't. - [humming] - MAN: Hope not. - [humming] - BEN: Who's solo? [humming] - [piano plays] - TOM: I think I can do it. Maybe. - [humming] - BEN: How's it start? - But there's a long For the ending. There's like duu-ah. - ADRIA: You know, my mother that was crazy big. And she was encouraging him to go But there were things on this oh, okay, a paper in You're preparing us for the have to go through to get - In the middle of his life Left his wife He ran off to be bad Boy it was sad - TOM: The marriage I think that had an influence I don't think I was trying to or make it about that. I was just trying to write I wasn't really thinking But when I hear it, I it was working in the - And the days went by Like paper in the wind Everything changed And then changed again It's hard to find a friend It's hard - ADRIA: There are things that being in a time of change. He had sort of this in the music at that point. There's not any other album I so strongly reflected what his at the So in that way, I think - And it changed their lives It changed their plans Slowly they grew apart Boy would have - BENMONT: He found a way to to be a much more And it's some kind of He had hit some landmark or some in his songwriting where he had to a different emotional place or a different way - I remember you so clearly The first one And I return to Too far from the shore - ADRIA: At the time that written, he was definitely going And I think that that was an that was opening. I think that that feeling of that he was going through at a lot of different And he did them slowly, and they were painful for him. - Don't fade Don't fade on me - TOM: I'm not obligated especially in public. It's a tough thing, but nobody And I do appreciate that people interview me or to want to I am flattered. But it is very hard to sit down yourself constantly. I just want to be a - So don't make And don't make Don't make me out an outlaw You said there - ADRIA: His whole life was change and he was But I did know that this record I'm divorcing your mother.&quot; Like I could tell from just the But I was really proud of him what he thought He was ready to clean house. I think he was And I don't think until after he had written it. - [playing &quot;Louie Louie&quot;] - BUGS: We were off the road, and Mike had And that's how the started really informally, by and playing every day. And Stan Lynch--I don't know, but it seemed to me like the &quot;Wildflowers&quot; stuff, it it wasn't really something that he could really get behind. - - Grass is growing It's time to move on, - TOM: When we were what became &quot;Wildflowers,&quot; I some of the songs down with And it wasn't really that great. And Stan said to Mike later that He thought the material was too and didn't think it was what we I think that--that hurt me. - It's time to move What lies ahead, I But under my feet, It's time to move on, - STAN: It's a horrible thing someone shows you a song that off and it's good, you See, this is a proven I go yeah, he's good. Now what do I do? You know, nobody comes up with &quot;Oh yeah, page 14, man. You know you go like, &quot;Oh yeah. Okay, I gotta cough up something and usually they hate it. They hate my shirt. They usually hate everything. So it's, um, it's fun, you know? There's your challenge. - You know, with bands, there time and it got to I think Stan felt like he was to play a certain way or maybe We were just in a quagmire of like a marriage, - - TOM: He was a very good and he worked really hard. But he had a real You know, he could be really and then be the biggest - Come up in New Orleans Some take to religion, Sometimes we make money, There's thirteen days - TOM: I had been working on reminded that I had to do two for the &quot;Greatest Hits&quot; album. Very nice. Nice track, man! - - RICK: We took a break in the two songs to MCA for Tom to for a greatest hits album. Tom said, &quot;Let's go &quot;Let's set up an entirely &quot;interfere with what's &quot;because what we're doing now and the greatest hits stuff is - --everything they can do, You know, it's politics. - RICK: But I felt like Tom's and more like this And we knew that the purpose of for a greatest hits album, and to our day job of making which was the real--the real - TOM: Just remember to put or the bridge will fall down. - - You can't have a bridge that's what I say. So I called and we set aside some time. And then I stopped and I wrote them a few songs. And we just--and we &quot;Mary Jane's Last Dance&quot; and a in a pretty quick - [&quot;Mary Jane's Move down She blew the boys away, was I was introduced, and we She said I dig you, baby, On, keep moving on Last dance with Mary Jane One more time to I feel something creeping in And I'm tired of this town - [harmonica plays] - BENMONT: We recorded Which was a huge hit And that's the last thing A couple months later, Tom &quot;I can't do it anymore. I can't do it anymore, I have to I had to say, &quot;You have to do - You can't have a football - - I'm out here You boys got too much on Just that damn music - - RICK: The first mission who the band was gonna be. I remember we Amongst the drummers trying out - Oh honey, honey It's $200 an hour - STEVE: I was living in New and there was an answering which used to call up and book-- And they called me up &quot;Can you come out to I said, &quot;Yes, I can do that.&quot; I said, &quot;Who is it for?&quot; And they said &quot;Oh, - TOM: We had assembled And drummers were kind of coming He would bring in a drummer, through the song once, - - STEVE: As I arrived, Kenny out, which was still not unusual get hired to play a or the producer thinks that I of songs, or split an album with And I walked in and there was And I said &quot;Ah!&quot; - Hey! - Say, man, is that the drummer? - Say, man, what - You call that a drummer? - No! That's a rhythm technician. Yeah! - - Oh yeah! Hey! - When Steve Ferrone and Mike, and Tom looking &quot;This guy.&quot; And Steve had such a cheerful - RICK: Yeah. - And he was new. but I did bring - That's right, you did. And it was a great idea to because it changed everything. Because Steve and Stan play and therefore, it didn't It didn't sound like but the vibe was really good. - TOM: And he played the track through without hearing it, - Are we ready? - We're ready. Let's do this. - Steve Ferrone came all So good to be with - - STEVE: &quot;You Don't Know it was--there was something it wasn't your regular Tom And Rick--Rick understood it. Rick really had of what Tom was looking for, - RICK: I would say the fact background made me pay the rhythms in a way that maybe - Well, let me Let's roll another joint And turn the radio loud I'm too alone to be proud And you don't You don't know how it feels To be me - MIKE: And there was me and Tom, like, &quot;I don't know I wonder if we have a hit.&quot; And then somebody said, &quot;Well, like a hit on the radio?&quot; And somebody said, &quot;That Steve Tom went home with that idea And it was just--that drum beat it, and we've never really but it did okay, you know? - BENMONT: Ferrone's very key of how to make it different. I could see the Heartbreakers but it wouldn't have It'd sound great, but it would - You don't know You don't know how it feels To be me - TOM: And I said, &quot;Now that's He played instinctually. He played perfect the And I liked him. - [drums playing] - TOM: &quot;Wildflowers&quot; is really that you'd say, &quot;I went off Because--especially with Stan All the rest of them were which kind of happened Like Mike was going to be And then, &quot;Who am I I want to sing with Howie.&quot; - - [unintelligible lyrics] - - HOWIE: Tom and I I've never had one You know, a lot of times working creative end of things, you can I'll get pretty pissed at But, no, we get along real good. - TOM: He's just a great His voice sounds very much like I think he's a very And I really appreciate him because it's hard to find people who are so pure of spirit. - - One...two. - - Here comes that feeling - Only a broken heart. We did that guitars first, not to a click, but to Steve just - When we used to use the loops, I think, would be beating time with the newspaper. - And we'd have a And that's a whole That's a whole different thing. - RICK: &quot;Only Broken Hearts&quot; on that album. - It's only A broken heart I know the place where You keep your secrets Out of The sunshine Down in a valley But I'm not afraid Anymore It's only A broken heart What would I give To start all over again To clean up my Mistakes - It's beautiful. - I think that's one of the is that it's organic. All the tracks are We didn't use drum machines or And you can tell. - Yeah. - TOM: A lot of chords, though! - - GEORGE: You could You could hear the wood of the or whatever it was. The drums were very--everything You know, it was very earthy - What I thought we'd do now is a while. - [audience cheering] - 'Cause I have so many songs I I have tonight. So we've got a long way to go! - RICK: I think Tom's been making records but they're layered guitars. And if you have 6 or 12 guitars it stops sounding like a guy and more just like guitar. What we're trying to get at now guitar as a bed and more as a a person with string sounds personality of a guy playing the the sound of a guitar. - California's Hope it don't Sometimes you got It ain't like anywhere else It ain't like - [harmonica plays] - ADRIA: I love the super simplicity of that song, because California's where It's where he left an It's where he started his own It's where he had wild success. And him and my mom were to be successful here And I think he had a lot of resident here, like he felt very and yet, just the idea &quot;Sometimes you got - California's Hope it don't Sometimes you got It ain't like anywhere else No, it ain't like - GEORGE: I think that obviously was to heal of the work for him. Tom and I, we'd never Like, &quot;What do you mean here?&quot; The therapy was making--doing and that was how you - Sundown, red skies Nobody's been around Sundown, blue eyes I kinda like California's I pray to God that Sometimes you got It ain't like anywhere else It ain't like No, it ain't like - [harmonica plays] - - [audience cheering] - - RICK: There's been a lot of We're spreading the recording which is really giving the If you're making the kind moment in time, the more spread the more interesting they sound And we've already recorded about that most artists would just &quot;Well, the album is Pick the best 12 and put them But we're going to probably about another from, or then again, who knows, a double album, which would - Be sure to tune in next week that have failed. - GEORGE: Why double It's like, do we know we're incredible thing that was No, you were just because it was - - GEORGE: Bugs is I'd say Bugs is It's funny, you might ask Tom a question and you'd And then Bugs would walk away. He'd correct because he knew-- you know, better than anyone. And um...he would He would--even when they went everything flowed through So everything he touched-- - So when they had enough songs a double album, the way we kept got this chart and they listed all the songs here. And then up at the top there is be done, like starting with not, if there are words, if all the different instruments And when it was ready to mix, The final was... The George Drakoulias - GEORGE: Which meant like, You know, who knows? but some kind of crazy sound or something stupid to do. And then you had And then the more songs the bigger this chart got. That would be the historical to, to know where you So it's like, all right, We've done the guitars the other We got to do something Let's do--let's try It was the owner's manual. - The essence of the Tom wrote an astounding - Absolutely. - Too many to fit - Yeah. But I do remember our time in the studio And I remember it took--it but I loved what was happening. And sometimes we and it would just be but it was the right one. - BENMONT: It was the right one. - It was a vibe of, what I'm going to go My friend Rick is going to be &quot;I think it's perfect. We need to rewrite that And I was like, Okay, man, let's do it.&quot; I was really happy, I think, - It was fun. that was this record with Rick and and Ben as a...contributor. - A layabout. But the thing that Rick had, miss this about him--was whoever the producer was, we would show up I don't know--I wrote It may not be as good but we're going to sit here, better than anything Next day, this new song, we're thing we ever did. And Tom was really like that. - Every song had to be the and whatever we could - - That's right. - - Come on, yeah. - She give me her monkey hand And a Rambler sedan I'm the king of Pomona Her juju beads are so nice She kissed my I'm the king of Milwaukee And I've got God have mercy - BENMONT: Now, we &quot;We're making a minimalist antithesis of everything We weren't doing We were making the And we were doing which was trying really - - [audience cheering] - TOM: All of us would be getting better. That for me is an ongoing quest, thought of myself as So--[laughs]-- I constantly keep - - BENMONT: If you have a song the music has a mood. Music has an absolute mood. And so you dial in. Now, I remember my seeing my hands on the piano. I remember recording the sounds I don't really have a the actual take, and If you black out, stone then you're inside the music. And that's--to me, that's one of That's one of my favorite - I'm so tired Sure as night Most things I worry about Never happen anyway Oooo oooo ooo I keep crawling back to you Oooo oooo ooo I keep crawling back to you - TOM: Yeah, I was really that's--that's me--that's me [laughs] That's me. Worry so much about--and then, almost everything, that you were worried - STEVE: That line stuck out reason, and I found myself in different things and that line And when Tom passed, I decided Yeah. I think it migrated from I think that was the And it didn't really fit, but it &quot;Crawling Back To You.&quot; - Oooo oooo ooo I keep crawling back to you - I start out songs sometimes, a big transition by the time Like, take this one. - Well, I won't back down I won't back down You could spread me But I won't back down See that one kind of started out - [laughs] - RICK: There was always a and you could hear a really And then all of a sudden, a jokey lyric, but maybe a snide which was more like what he was He--he had a great - - Huh? - 'Bout what? - Well, I think it's a damn to amuse themselves. Keeps 'em off the street and And the only question I have You got a good thing going here, do you really need the - MIKE: His sense of humor--I from--first of all, he was And he told me once, &quot;I &quot;I love words. &quot;I love to play with words. &quot;I like to mix them up, as a tool as you And I know that he had-- that he could pull from at well-read and he watched and he probably picked up And he just seemed to be able to anytime he wanted to. - And a lot of times, goofing around, the He'd just come up playing sometimes because he'd that was just so cool and that we couldn't even play. - My old man's a sailor What do you He wears a sailor's collar He wears a sailor's hat He wears a He wears a sailor's shoes And every Sunday morning, - That's all for My dad told me that, I had an amazing memory for and fairy tales. It was only in retrospect that people that are supposedly I always was just trying to--I writing rock and roll records too seriously. - Well, time's been Since we both got here C'mon and slide Let me whisper in your ear Well, I got a radio Turn it on soft and low Baby, let's go To the cabin down below Baby, let's go To the cabin down below Baby, let's go To the cabin down below - BENMONT: It's fun to And the playfulness the sheer rock and roll the craft in &quot;You Wreck Me,&quot; &quot;I'll be the boy just all that just The wistfulness, the humor, the sadness, the--the loss, and just everything which is also pretty damn funny. - I was in love - [audience cheers] - She'd see things She broadened Then I got more selective I was in love with - I mean, just the first line, you can't lose after a line like You know, &quot;I was in love with Okay, where are we Everybody knows, everybody can what's happening next. Why? What is she doing? What are you gonna do - I was in love with We were married for Her memory still lingers 'Cause I burned I was in love with a - ADRIA: The thing about my dad It was like, &quot;Okay, Sit here and listen really loud And my first impression of &quot;this is just so much incredible &quot;We're dancing in all of your &quot;We're dancing in all of these &quot;And you've got it This is unf---ing believable.&quot; - I was in love with a I was afraid somebody We never used to fight But the phone rang I was in love with a Sure as hell She got popped - [audience cheering] - MIKE: I remember being a double album. What are we going to do? - MIKE: And I think mostly you to one album's worth of songs. that Tom went along with the I was shocked. - I was--well, not shocked, things happen. But it was hard--because we making a double album. We had all this stuff, &quot;it won't fit on one record. We'll make a double album.&quot; And the record company said, And then I But it was hard to And I didn't have a whole I think you and Tom maybe - I think it was really more Tom. - I would contribute, - On all the records, it was on sequencing. He struggled with it, and he - [indistinct chatter] - I'm trying make a film here, You come in here and you curse - - RICK: George has - TOM: He works blue. I tell ya. - RICK: It's cheating really. - TOM: Well, George, it's It's good in the short term. - GEORGE: Career burnout. - - TOM: It was two CDs when it was all done and I thought, &quot;It's very long,&quot; But Rick To buy it would've been the two CDs, so let's just take off ten so, you know, that was That probably took figuring out what goes And there was a song called with, um--with Ringo And one of my favorite singers of the Beach Boys. And we did--had Carl just lay for us, and it's a great piece um--sort of off-the-wall piece long, so--and very slow. So we can only have so many slow - We've overdue for Long time, nothing new We're overdue for I'm so hung up On her now I'm so strung out On her now - RICK: Ringo played and he hit the drums And this big sound It was an incredible He played different And it sounded different, and it and it swung in a different way. - - ADRIA: I think that he just this record to be around the and the finest artists that he that I can say I remember lots of excitement and lots &quot;God, it just feels so good to in this environment.&quot; When you look at the footage - - [indistinct chatter] - - [mumbling lyrics] - - [indistinct chatter] - TOM: But I really I was much closer to this album I think. I--I got very close to it to finish it, really. - Tonight we Tonight we sail Rescue me, should I go down If I stay too deep Oh, yeah You wreck me, baby You break me in two But you move me, honey Yes, you do - TOM: Mike Campbell came up reminded me of records So what I tried to do was really record from the '70s. [laughs] Which I think works. Lyrically, the idea behind that the moment where you went back - Oooh Yeah You wreck me, baby You break me in two But you move me, honey Yes, you do - TOM: And it wrecked me. And I just thought it Like, it's a very rock I don't know what it is. [laughs] It's one - MICHAEL: Guys? Can everybody and just listen to the track? Is everybody here? Everybody? - [indistinct chatter] - RICK: Do you want me to play What do you want them - They should hear - [indistinct chatter] - MICHAEL: Certain - - RICK: There's something about a little bit of a the work reflects a - - It wasn't always conscious, He told me because he's not really sure So it has this like He very much wanted He thought it was really the &quot;Wildflowers&quot; album And he knew that the second was an important statement. - You follow your feelings You follow your dreams You follow the leader Into the trees - TOM: You wanna drop - [indistinct chatter] - TOM: You know these headphones really loud? Sorry, I can't hear you. I had no control over I didn't edit myself, and I I just let it come out, you So, no, there is another batch I guess. But you know, I thought, &quot;We thing,&quot; and &quot;Wake Up Time&quot; - STEVE: &quot;Wake Up Time&quot; is beautiful song, I thought. And--and the way that at the piano and just played And he asked me just to tap just to keep him in time. But there's a breathing that the song breathes. - TOM: One two - You follow your feelings You follow your dreams You follow the leader Into the trees - MIKE: It's always This is a song, whoever's here this, let's make this song. Live--don't get in the And so &quot;Wildflowers&quot; was Make the songs work, bring out and have a lot of fun while We all enjoyed There was never any or it was all just almost like, &quot;I guess we have a double album, &quot;we have to stop now, you know? What we're going to do now?&quot; We could have - TOM: And I thought it very on a hopeful note. You know, some of this subject downright dark. [laughs] And I'm sure that I've dark periods, but it's always some--something redeeming That's what carries me through, - ADRIA: He's a unicorn. He's a one-of-a-kind human being that came here to bring joy. And it's like, you know, that - You spend your Running 'round in a trance You hang out forever And still miss the dance - BENMONT: But losing Tom, it You know, I think it happens When you lose them, you You go back and take a look. And we've been doing a lot of since Tom passed away. - - MIKE: It was emotionally hard songs of your friend, It was emotional. And other times, &quot;Oh, thank God we did that. You know, experiences on this record. - - STEVE: I think every member is happy that Tom's wishes have and all we wanted He wanted this record out, and So he's got what he wanted. He usually did get what [laughs] He had a [laughs] - Rise And shine If he gets lucky A boy finds a girl To help him to shoulder The pain in this world And if you follow You follow your dreams You might find the forest - TOM: I'm very I thought it was one of the And I always liked that line what is it? &quot;It's going to be alright, And that was the idea behind everybody's been knocked but it's--you've got to keep and that you'll - You're just a poor boy A long way from home You're just a poor boy A long way from home And it's wake-up time It's time to open And rise And shine 'Cause it's wake-up time It's time to open And rise And shine - [audience cheering] - Thank you! - [audience cheering] - You belong You belong in a Sail away, kill You belong somewhere Run away, find you a lover Go away somewhere I have seen no other Who compares with you You belong among You belong in a You belong with your You belong somewhere Do-do-do, do-do-do [humming] Run away, go find a lover Run away, let your You deserve the You belong in that You belong among You belong somewhere Far away from your You belong somewhere You belong somewhere