GEORGE WANG: When folded, is like the Pixel 9 Pro, with the same thickness. And it's significantly lighter So it's like a phone. And then when you open it, altogether-- the eight-inch tablet with the that you can fit in your pocket. So you get best of both worlds. SPEAKER: Welcome to podcast, where we meet the products you love. Here's your host, Rachid Finge. RACHID FINGE: Today, George Wang, the Product Manager Fold. What does it take foldable phone even thinner SPEAKER: This is the RACHID FINGE: George, it's great So last time we spoke, it was for the very, very first time. So now it's the It's less than a What changed? How would you say Pixel 9 Pro to its first generation? GEORGE WANG: Great question. So we went back to multiple times to re-imagine And we took a And so let's start When folded, the Pixel 9 Pro with the same display size And it's significantly lighter So it's like a phone. And then when you open it, altogether-- the eight-inch tablet, with that you can kind of So you get best of both worlds. And then when you add in all our users will love just that you can do with this phone, features and the that we'll get into today. RACHID FINGE: So maybe we first, because we People were calling it, going to come out How's the Pixel 9 Pro Fold? How did that-- sorry [LAUGHTER] GEORGE WANG: I love the joke [LAUGHS] --do it all the time you want. So we put so much We've really re-imagined And so when we step back we're bringing here, from the and hinge, where the focus was and thinness, the the eight-inch super-actual in between-- because we've really that go in to make And then when you include that we talked about, that Pixel 9 Pro Fold would be RACHID FINGE: Foldables haven't I think there are is that even something Because they're just not sure So what would you are maybe not even Who is it for? And what will they get from it? GEORGE WANG: Yeah, so to ourselves a lot, and how And we really do think is made for so many would love it if they So like I said, that people, interestingly, with their phone. But a lot of them are short. I want to change the alarm. I want to send a quick text And those are And so we don't want to what you do day in and day out. So you get the But when you unfold it, that's And we see that. People love large displays. They love getting immersed. They love being productive. They love being entertained, And so you get the really, there, in such that and do the things that you RACHID FINGE: One thing is, if you compare the Pixel 9 Fold, so there are changes. How many of those changes very early, maybe even Fold came out? And how much of it is as GEORGE WANG: Great question. So hardware timelines And so we always have a We also do internal testing when call our &quot;dog fooders,&quot; And so we have early that need to be improved, and don't make the cut. Either the technology is there doesn't meet our quality bar. And so those don't We always carry those onwards. And so a lot of that is known. But when we hear something through a previous launch, and try to do the best we RACHID FINGE: So on the it shares a lot of things that we launched at the Made For example, you when it comes to the Tensor chip if I'm not mistaken. How hard was it to and then be on the same GEORGE WANG: It took, from our great team. But our focus was to ensure that and ensured all the features actually need that Tensor G4. And then additionally, that you need for are different from a hinge, a secondary all the things in between-- were really difficult. like we nailed it here and for our users. RACHID FINGE: You and the display, of course, that are the main differences So if we look at the hinge-- and last year, we talked It's something I know you're How did the hinge change? And why did it need a change GEORGE WANG: It's a And the drivers were no pun intended. It is specifically and improved durability. We wanted to make sure that And then also, we really It's about 1 and 1/2 millimeters which was already super thin. And to do that really to drive thinness And then like I to re-engineer everything So it was a complete design RACHID FINGE: It is indeed How hard is it to Were you sometimes, you were working GEORGE WANG: It's Lots of conversations with the like, why do we have to do this? Can we do this? Also a lot of pushing pushing on the limits here. But we heard loud And we knew that this that they wanted best of both They wanted a phone that but also wanted a foldable And to do that is really the thickness and and give a form factor So really, really and caused us to how we lay out, how we design components, on how we do things here. So just a great RACHID FINGE: You which came down to the previous generation. So is that maybe making quite a bit lighter? Or are you just looking for to drop the weight? GEORGE WANG: Yeah, so we The first thing that we what are the low-hanging fruits? And then we went after those. But then to get that we did here, in have to go line and see where the opportunities analysis. Does that make sense? Does it impact any other areas? And the other way was looking at How can we utilize new that both improve durability RACHID FINGE: OK, so we We talked about the weight. We talked about the hinge. Now, the elephant in the room Could you tell us a changed compared to last year? GEORGE WANG: Yeah, I could talk about The foldable display Like I said, it's an amazing brighter than the with colors that are extremely We really optimize it such that you can do so many productivity, multitasking, do on the original Pixel Fold, And so I don't only on the foldable display. But we've also upgraded because it's no slouch either. It's a comfortable 6.3 inch is like any other phone. And it really has high and color. But to your other question Well, we've updated the aspect to really improve on the So the big foldable been optimized to experience across the board. And we've worked with to do some amazing things. One that I've super and you'll see me on Sunday is NFL Sunday Ticket on where you can multi can watch four game streams keep tabs of the doing in a chat group with things like that. So just a lot of opportunity. I'm really excited to see what RACHID FINGE: Amazing. I think another change, is that the device GEORGE WANG: Yeah, so that we can bring smoothness And you and I talked about We spent huge amounts of time what we call the &quot;torque And then the additional area here was having sufficient pop such that it went and it was effortless giving you that signal in that tablet So a lot of engineering effort because they're actually And so we built We've looked at many to see where we RACHID FINGE: I it open all the time is without even using the device. GEORGE WANG: Well, it's went through been known for this I'll get a new device And the first thing I'll do to my face, just to look at and see how it feels, and And if you don't know it looks really awkward. But you'll understand if we have a conversation. RACHID FINGE: We can't have a without talking about cameras. So how did the camera in the foldable phone? GEORGE WANG: Just like we spent so much time bringing the best pixel camera Pro Fold. And we're so excited that once foldable camera. And we've really by this new, ultra-thin, system. And not only is it but it's paired with this like Add Me that you'll hear and Zoom Enhance and Panorama. Just amazing. But also, pro-level features boosts are made possible. And then the ones that the unique foldable features we talked about a lot last or the Made You Look a lot of great feedback. RACHID FINGE: We were would you want the foldable? And I think if you'd show many they'd probably want a foldable. But for people who could you describe the and what it's for? GEORGE WANG: Yeah, absolutely. It all started with how can I get my child so I can just take this one shot And to solve that And we really put this So with Made You you can now put an animated to attract and hold the child's attention. This worked like And it's not only amazing sound effects And so that actually I find, even more than I found that Made You Look works And so-- funny story-- two days ago-- my wife and I'm trying to And I have many devices because And I had a previous And so my child wouldn't look. And so I'm like, oh, I [LAUGHS] And so I ran across the and like magic, and got that perfect shot. RACHID FINGE: Amazing. And those animated they appear on the front have the device folded is then next to the rear camera, GEORGE WANG: That's right. So you have the device unfolded. On the outside, they with the animated And then you'll have the preview And so you get the, once I keep on saying that. But it truly is. You get to use this device RACHID FINGE: It's an And I'm wondering, how hard system just as good as in while you have the constraints in many ways, needs to be even GEORGE WANG: It And I keep on saying that. So that's the short answer. But the long answer is really, to do the assessments you can try to be creative, to but not only camera technology, of the actual device. So there's a lot of architects, as well as to try to find this all things come together. And so with this year, we focus on ultra wide to get That's a really tough But the team was Or we upgraded the front cameras 4K, 60, stunning videos and displays. And that took an immense effort these nearly 5-millimeter RACHID FINGE: I'm the key thing you learned after and people in the wild used it? What was the key didn't consider before, once you saw people use it? GEORGE WANG: There's so many. I'm just trying to pick the one. Maybe I can pick two. RACHID FINGE: For sure. For sure. Yes. GEORGE WANG: We multitask And multitasking than what the connotations So when you hear I'm going to be productive. I'm going to pound a spreadsheet at the same But if you look at it, you I'll give you a great example. I'm watching a movie or a And I'm like, I And so I'd have And I'll go on Google. And I'll try to search Or better yet, I'll and I'll do the same have to do two things at once. But now, you can actually watch the movie, and try to and where you've seen them. So just simple things want to keep a conversation So we saw, actually, usage way more than we thought. And so that's one that we really and how we could optimize for. The second is, people I know that's super obvious. But the thing is, is that focusing on this that it gets super thin and And we focused on to the Pixel quality bar. But then we found in completely different ways Tabletop camera, that we discussed last year, Rear-camera selfie was So there were all that people were just new ideas on new features Great example of that RACHID FINGE: Absolutely. And then so, Made You an example for the following well, the multitasking. It means that not only the on this, you need I suppose, with the to make sure that that vision comes to life in GEORGE WANG: Yes, that's right. There's a great partnership obviously, looking at how but also just thinking about that could be more helpful. I'll give you a great example. In the future, we're app pairs, received app pairs. We often find that people to do side by side, together. A great one is and then potentially And so you can actually such that you have quick access. You don't have to And that will be coming So we are looking at how And there's great partnership to more useful for our fan base. RACHID FINGE: George, to ask our guests, what is should try once they get a in this case? So what is the one should try once they have it? GEORGE WANG: Yeah, so that I've found myself to get more fun done And so here's my I've been able to watch you can hear that I've said in Picture-in-Picture, mode And so the way that I'll give you an example. I'll be watching a via Picture-in-Picture. And then I'll have And then I'll be playing Wordle. RACHID FINGE: Wow. GEORGE WANG: Real And then the killer pro tip-- I shouldn't be sharing this, is to turn on live captions so as well. RACHID FINGE: That's a lot of things And it will all go smoothly. GEORGE WANG: It does, yeah. And so I'm not but obviously, just of all the most important aside from my family. RACHID FINGE: That is you can do, potentially at George, thank you so much by Google podcast. For people who want to check please go to the Google store. GEORGE WANG: Thanks, Rachid. I appreciate it. SPEAKER: Thank you for listening Don't miss out on new episodes. Subscribe now, wherever to be the first to listen.