Jakob Wredstrom podcast. Today we have a guest that's Welcome Mike. Mike Pelczynski Excited to be here. Jakob Wredstrom We met at a conference around a year ago and talk about artists and royalties and it sort in my career. And today we're gonna talk about fandom because And before we go into that, we need to set Mike, I'm obviously honored for having you Who are you and what do you do? Mike Pelczynski Most people can't pronounce my last name, the industry for a little bit over 20 years. We'll probably go into that a little more licensing, business development, royalties, and music tech. Over that 20 years, yeah. Jakob Wredstrom it's been quite interesting. And just to set the scene, I just teased a We're gonna talk about fandom today, Mike. And if you can give me 30 seconds just to music industry mean to you? Mike Pelczynski Mike Pelczynski fandom. I think some people even call it the new format. I think it's we interact with music today, which is mostly And we'll go into that and what I was trying But I think fandom is just inherent with human It's something that, you know, we're obsessive or in love with music, you're a fan of something within the musical realm of creativity, or let alone making it. But yeah, fandom, I think, has a definition that's also the complexity of trying to make Yeah. Jakob Wredstrom Because it's definitely the talk of town. And if you read any music business, journalism But as entrepreneurs, it can sort of been Is this a new buzzword that we're all using it? So I'm very curious to follow your thoughts But Mike, walk me through your career a bit, Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom you've accomplished a lot of interesting stuff. But how did you get into music and how did Mike Pelczynski I'd say I came from a family of musicians, of why I actually care. And I tried to rebel against my family and I didn't want to be a musician. like any kid, you just rebel against your But then in the end, I have the inherent bug And I went to schooling, I went to school and things of that nature. But then by the time I got out of school, right out of school. And that actually was, I went straight to Music Group. I had the luck and opportunity to work with Nash at the time, who were leading new media And at the time it was literally... them at the trenches of ringtones and that is something new we don't understand it yet we don't know how long ringtones didn't last it was a really interesting moment for me Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski terms of innovation to see this happen. And those two people, I really give a call they worked incredibly well and also kind for music. And then I took a huge curve after that. I decided to then go into royalties, licensing where the bedrock was of everything that you So then the next, I ended up getting a, an That was a temp position and I worked there under the Warner umbrella, Atlantic Records, and forth across rights admin and royalties of it before I skipped over to the digital ago, I believe, to be the head of global economics And then eventually... was being brought into the licensing discussions, the point that I sat at the tables and then then strategy as a whole across the business, because it almost has a couple of businesses So for me, that was, it was an incredible Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski charts, marketing, economics, the creator of that business, UGC, And then as I was probably towards, I think I started to execute on some visions where the entirety bedrock of how you get paid in And the real basis of doing that was to build today, which I look forward to diving into when I brought this to some of the leadership And most importantly, when I brought this Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski and being like, what does this have to do And it was a long path to actually make people what we'll dive into, but what you asked at What are fans? And quite frankly, today, our fandom is in doing streaming. So that was a whole nother effort for about model with a really small team of, I think Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski the independence. And then I was able to co-lead the negotiations adopted the model. And then since then I've, I've left, I've with AI clients, creator tools, licensing tools. And then currently, which I'm probably coming Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski called VoiceSwap. position as a chief strategy and impact officer. So I'll be dual role looking at the whole but on the impact side be looking after policy as we develop the commercial aspects of it, know, aspects of just the entire creator. Well, potential, you know, wrongdoing by doing as well yeah so exclusive for you yeah Mm. Jakob Wredstrom Well, I appreciate it. I appreciate it. This is great for the podcast. There's so much to unpack of what you just Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom behind what you did at SoundCloud. What was the thought process behind what you Mike Pelczynski Mike Pelczynski I had when I first started having the idea platform under a user-centric model, which on how each individual listens. So you're 10 euro or quid or dollars and mine. only go to what we listen to as opposed to standard where your money, my money, and everyone And then that's just dispersed by volume of So scale wins in that ladder. In the former, as you can imagine, without to align a business and the way that every And that's when you're no longer diluting. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski of ProRatio. Because then, if you and I are very niche scale, and that market or that genre or that Our fandom means barely anything in a pro-rata If all of a sudden an ecosystem or platform listenership, now you've just totally fragmented So my first three questions. as I was familiarizing myself with all the from the economic side at SoundCloud, I started were incredibly complex. I think the most complex I've ever seen. But because of that, they had avenues. They have UGC, where other platforms don't, but it did give the opportunity because what own content, was a rights holder. That's not the case on other DSPs. It, you have to go through a third party. You have to go through an aggregator or a So I saw the opening and I think that was I could get around the big problem statement at the time trying to figure out how to launch. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski But the only way they were approaching it I have to convince all the players, all the calculating the foundation in order to do So my first question to myself was, how in that I can architect a model? that gives me the agility to do it with a others on the old paradigm if they choose And that's when I started thinking, okay, And that's the architecture where I was saying, majors, independence, DIY, you know, the direct own rights on pro rata. And then I build with the team, the entire for everyone I just mentioned on my right And then we have both worlds in parallel in And even if we never launch, this is a great the theory and also curb fraud. So we could go into the fraud aspect, but that was a way to convince and the other leaders that I was working with and we can get value out of this, even if So that was one baby step to get everyone this. I get the value and at least it's not going And we lost all that cost opportunity and Second question, which I think was even the a sound clouder DNA of audience, does it serve the value or Meaning, if all of a sudden we're calculating that shows up to Soundcloud, that customer, fans within that larger audience, Are they the type that would really give that And that was the big question that we couldn't And then the third was one that I'll talk build this into something even bigger than And that was one that I didn't expect to get And that was one that I think to cut this royalties or the user centric model building, think it was that we tested. And then the other part was then bringing built on top of reshaping the economics. And I think like you just said at the top a trend word, a hype word, you know, fan, What does all this mean? Mike Pelczynski years ago based on this whole new model. And the interesting and simple way to articulate I have artist A also all of his content or same, plays, behaviors are all the same, except If that artist on Pro Rata... fan user centric model, that is an immediate happening. I don't have to articulate anything. I don't have to dive into crazy metrics of I already know there's something fraudulent. If I see the inverse of that, that someone and all of a sudden they're making multiples side of it, the user-centric side. That's a huge signal to behavioral fandom It just was there, but it maybe was on a smaller there's, you know, that particular, you know, directly connected to how they calculate for So that in itself was incredibly promising. And then once we launched that whole... hybrid model that there was a research paper Page that was supposed to come out at the this month that talks about the hybrid model, Will did a great job at trying to articulate And that's essentially where we started it. That's where we went to a point, we launched own rights. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski There was a media paper covering that, if specs and the outcomes. And then there was the bigger hall. Then it was, what do you bring to the major After you've established this bedrock, you've And now this is an area that I loosely termed Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski the team that had two worlds living together. And I had 130,000 artists say, yes, move my Great. And then everyone that stayed, you know, the Pro Rata based on marking share because they're but I'm moving their license and I'm paying So now all of a sudden, my ideation was, now Let's share with those 130 artists, 130,000 see in SoundCloud. They can see who listened to them the most of the platform. And myself and one of my colleagues that worked Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski said, you have to share all this information but who listens by listener share. So like all of a sudden, I am the market because to is you, your body of work. Now, if I can communicate that as SoundCloud stat in that paper with Will, for little Uzi Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski when he released a record made up 72% of his And that means that 6.5%, so much of their was going to Uzi Vert. Those are the people that, if Uzi's team had people and say, here's a concert that's showing Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski you. Adopt a wallet if Web3 is a priority for the Like things of that nature where you start SoundCloud, like what we said at the top, The DNA for SoundCloud was that type of user liking, they're reposting, all this stuff. So that was the definition that by the time Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski was simply, if you engaged in this model and potential of directly connecting with all If you don't take the model, you don't have And as I mentioned, we've moved. So that's the commercial FOMO is that there's Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski is going to launch that me and that gentleman And any other partner that starts to adopt So what was really fascinating just to kind were just saying, well, can I have that tool be on the old economic paradigm? And it's an interesting question. It's just... Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski which is fascinating because why would anyone Like, I would want uniformity between the getting paid. But again, I think the one part of discourse is that that's what works for SoundCloud, If I took that entire architecture and applied Probably not because the audiences, the DNA, is very different. So, and again, I think that's the key thing Fandom on a platform of SoundCloud, different, right, are going to be different. So when, when the market and the industry fandom, my experience was building it in one Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski So when I've been working with clients to them understand, you're gonna have to frame or you're in with your artists or with your So it's fascinating to see that this has finally Not gonna lie, there was a couple of laughs, Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski some of my catchphrases out there now that this, but this is a good sign. It's a good sign because it means someone's And hopefully whoever succeeds at this may or if it's a platform side or both, or even just a community. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski It'll inspire others to take whatever is their do, they have to have some visionary to kind organic. And I think that part was the other thing the fans tool to be able to communicate with The one thing that was always up to be how Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski even the creator, the creator, or the listener, do they do this and use this in a way it doesn't or another tool that they don't understand? So there's so much product potential of things There's so much business and commercial aspect of that commercial FOMO to what you're doing. Yeah, and quite frankly, some of it is, it's But I think in this particular case, the science and people's attention to say, this is the When everyone's asking, what's the new format It's, it's not a new technology, separative It's looking at streaming and saying there actually even looked at it by turning it over Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski it took a while, but I mean, here we are. And it's really interesting to see and platforms and how they pay. And if I had to be completely honest, one to pursue this, not even as an executive at and leader in the space, I really hope that they would put pressure on other platforms And I never imagined, I mean, I imagine, but would be so honest in their economic models this, so I'm going to cut this out of my model, you an uplift if you give me this, or you our platform. So they're really divulging the complete honesty which then creates the complexity to that. Fenn on a different platform means a different And that kind of fractionalization even amongst Maybe I don't need to be everywhere as a creator. Maybe I only need to be on A, B, and C, and But yeah, that is a whole kind of landscape talking about that. Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski also fandom in relation to where and what Jakob Wredstrom That's amazing. One of the things that I try to do as a music too much while there's a lot of hype because, What source can you trust? And, you know, having this conversation, I've been exposed to before, so I'm very thankful Such an amazing story. I'm gonna take some sort of some questions listeners that are listening to this podcast. When I consult early stage businesses, which I work with is assumptions I would love to touch base about that and What are you experiencing right now? Mike Pelczynski Yeah. Jakob Wredstrom are making about fandom that might be incorrect. Mike Pelczynski trying to define fandom, I would call it one And I think that's the difference between fandom. And what I mean by that is you can look at music. And if I gave you all my information to study and how I listen on my two DSPs of choice, things and if I buy merch, if I don't. But what's really interesting is most of the It's quantitative measurement, not qualitative. And I think that's the part that is the challenge at me listening to 300 plays a month and you see my 300 plays is going to as an artist. I must be a fan of that artist That would You're counting my behavior as opposed to Why am I listening to the artists for that Do I do it over X amount of periods? Is that something that would have was influenced I've moved on. And I think that's the thing that I feel with qualitative nature is such an emotionally make a business decision and also make things And also saying something, you know, really that's also why music has been dumbed down. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski It's been dumbed down in terms of, some would mean in terms of even just music, for example, The reason length of music has gotten shorter It would reward you better to have a two and and having a twenty three minute song. or composition or classical composition. So like the format used to always expand music This was one of the first times where it started how you made money. So again, I think it's really interesting of counting and data and it not even being one-dimensional because... It's so much more complicated than that. And I think that was one of the challenges looking at this and trying to articulate fandom. Luckily that platform had other signals that on other platforms to be able to say, this in terms of association and behavior and things you would think that they're not a fan of time they had, and that's where they put it, Not voluminous, but it does have a signal. So I just say never fully trust the signal of being able to even get down to what you then pull a hundred audience research candidates. And then test it that way, right? Like you need to have that context, that quality And, and we had an audience research team org and that was one of the ways that we, just that one dimensional data, you know, This is what it is. You won't know until you talk to the people. Yeah. Jakob Wredstrom There's so much gold in this podcast. Well, I feel blessed that I get to share this Okay, I have some more questions with the The work you did with SoundCloud was monetizing into using centrum model. There's a lot of nuance to it that you use of that relationship. Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom now pursuing new platforms, new technologies, revenue sources. What's your, what's your analytics of what's What, what seems reasonable? What seems unreasonable? Mike Pelczynski news and hearing to former colleagues and I'd say focus, is I haven't heard the term Because I think anyone that's going to find scale yet. They're trying to mine. and find where is there even a source of oil here. That actually has value and has that stickiness I think with Lisa Yang's music in the air of 20%. were considered super fans and how many more industry. It's a good headline to bring attention to creating something from what was already there. So I see less as I think the term that you those other aspects where people are trying that is streaming and other things and just I see this more as an adjacent way of doing two things completely have to be coexistive, streaming or whatever it is, to inform the But I feel like a proper way that from what approaching it. The ones that I would say would probably be treat it in a way that they're not looking They're not looking for immediacy. They're looking at it as you're simply looking exists and super serving those people and it, it again, I think is really touchy because context of. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski another app and I had to do something and has to be so seamless that I'm okay to take If an artist told me to do that, that I'm But then would I do that just for one artist? So I think it's really... Culturally, the ecosystem, the culture of And then the other aspect too is just, I think I think it'd be very different because I think on this. But now artists being so incredibly vocal how they're getting paid, policies, governments. All the stuff that's happening in the UK, Like, even the general listener of music has Do they actually generally care? Most likely not. They have their service and they have their But I think, again, what we're talking about maybe the collective of audiences that are For them, it should matter and they probably Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski now is already different than a year ago. And I think that's where these potential prospects even further educate them to understand why If I spend my time on that app or that other return as a fan. And I think that was the other aspect. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski value for the creator to have connectivity identifying them, then what is the reward And in the initial moment, I mean, I'll be was while demoing that fan's tool with an Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski click on them, you see their profiles and the person. And they're like, what do you mean? And this one rapper, Dot Cromwell, he just, and he's like, wait, you're telling me this this person? And it was in the dollars from just one person. And he clicked on and as we're talking, he all this. By the end of the call, that person, that it was him, was asking that if it was really And there was already a connection, right? But, and this was back in May, just before And it was one of those highlight moments There's the connectivity between this artist Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski way, right? The only, and that was the only thing that knew that this person was valuable economically What happens after that? Is there a novelty stage? Probably, right? They have an exchange a couple of times and to keep having that relationship. So. I think that was one answer I couldn't, that answer since I left. But it's one of those ones that I felt like Does the novelty, or is it even a novelty in a small capacity, maybe a small group or And then you go back to just listening to So it's, I think it's a constant evolving And Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski I think, in this one. Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom I'm trying to interpret what you said a few And you mentioned, you know, are you introducing You know, that might be difficult. A new thing is what you entered directly saying impact on this space, it should either be of make new ways of doing this the same way or create supplementing businesses to existing Mike Pelczynski you know, someone trying way of it is today or how it similarly did it at SoundCloud. There's a company called Volkana. It's a streaming platform that's going to That's heavily focused on the social aspects. So think MySpace kind of format with music And... The way that they're approaching it though they're going to only go through the independent independent labels, DIY artists that go through So they're entering the market in a time that know, the major players in the market, but They're going to come in there and they're for their business commercially because they're that they're doing is they're leaning into So for them, success are those pieces and And I think to your that question, right? They're entering the same arena, but they're where there's others, and I'll even just I in the press over this past week is building And I think that's almost someone literally thing on the fringes to hopefully to be able opportunity there. So I, it's interesting to see that there's trying to build and live on the outside of of money is being made. And quite frankly, hopefully they I mean, hopefully they both succeed. Um, and I think that's the thing that's really to even a more macro perspective is there Most of, I've started to talk about consolidation consolidation. I agree depending on what we're talking about, And I feel like streaming. Mike Pelczynski and platforms are feeling in what they're offering, that they have to, they have to differentiate, and there's new And then at the same time, where do we consolidate, We should be consolidating on the administrative services side. But the access to each other, the fan and That should be something that the market should May it be in that forum, like you posed a And I think there's going to be customers know, listen or engagement flow and not stray And there's other people that love the deep their community. So it's all of this sounds so non-realistic Conceptually, I really do believe that someone's You know, if it kind of maybe went in the of talking about it and debating, just building. And I think that's the other part that maybe is the one thing that is frustrating, if I'm of debate. Insurmountable amount of debate. And that's why, like speaking to yourself Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski like this is talking to each other, which they figure it out and they know what they're they need that help, right? To be able to navigate, especially in music, that we're just talking about. But this feels like 2023 to me felt a lot and potential. But now this year it's. You have to build, you have to build that Like AI, great. We all proved this is insanely amazing and you know, everything, everything. But now everyone has to hunker down and build you have to package it. And I think that's, that's the thing. Like AI is what everyone's talking about and Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski and I still believe they're paired together. No matter what you do in AI, let's take that doing AI likeness, all of it's creating output It's still gonna go back to the platform, about streaming and payouts and royalties how do I mine this differently? Because there's fans in here somewhere, but To figure out what that is. So all of that is still so that I still think it's a falsehood not to realize that's all connected. Even if you're on some frontier and you're you're still gonna come back to either bedrock So it's, yeah. Warner. interesting play and they're connected to just touching on, right? They have partnerships and content and rosters we get more action than debate this year. Jakob Wredstrom I love this. And yeah, founders are the ones that are building Of course, there's founders internally in And the music industry does tend to be a discussion I was at a conference. I'm not going to name my name, but like a Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom with a lot of cool people in the room for And it was just like discussing about what And the conclusion was after two days and Like, in a way. And for me, that was sort of like, wow, okay. What am I getting myself into? But obviously that's a part of any industry, Mike Pelczynski Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom of reading being the doers and of course listening change. And I've talked to you a few episodes about I love music and I'm gonna stay here the rest but I also feel depressed sometimes about you know, how the industry, not the industry or the sort of, you know, how difficult it great without actually also making a livelihood. Um, and for me, the, the concept of fandom, you want to call it, gives me a lot of hope. Mike Pelczynski Jakob Wredstrom my family is gonna be supported by the income just like okay. Wow, maybe there's an opportunity for Artists this is based on the artists and the song chance for having a livelihood that actually for me that's just amazing Mike Pelczynski Mike Pelczynski He works at Audio Mac, but he has a fantastic called Can Music Can't Get Higher? Music can't get higher? Can't get, I forget, but sorry Chris. But it is, I read it all the time. And he asked at one point, do you think, the music business would be better off if And it was one of those questions obviously into what you just said, right? There was and is and was and is and was and were obsessed with music, musicians themselves, Like the founder of Atlantic Records, Omit Artung, He was, he was obsessed with music. He was, he ended up becoming a producer, right? He lived and breathed it. So anything he did had that ethos. And I think to what you just said, right, Like yourself, I'm, I have no intention of Um, family makeup, I think, and breathe and So it's, it's just, it's here. It's here to stay and wanting to make it a And I think there is this interesting unspoken There's so many companies, so many players, avenues of being able to build and work in into those positions of action and influence those people that have that I Don't know if of themselves that they know what they're that's something to be hopeful about Mike Pelczynski and thinking and sharing that sentiment is finally we're dealing with all guards of this Some are trying to get to ahead of it in form and to be, you know, the band aid of whatever And some are just really trying to just exist used by musicians, creators, whoever fans. And I think the music tech side of this is apart. And I think in a good way, um, like I, just really attracted me to it is it's new real And this is a good example of something that because of AI likeness technology, all of of IP and potential passive revenue. And I'll just dive into this really quickly there's two ways of looking at fans. There's... Jakob Wredstrom Mm. Mike Pelczynski fan. And those that are inspired tend to be the And then the aspirational tend to be both to be like the artist or create similarly To me, AI voice likeness is more the aspirational Like say I love artist A and B and... I have an opportunity to create and maybe in relation to them, have confidence singing, But the beauty of it is companies like Voice The artist is getting paid. Actually, I don't know how many others do influence and conversion of the vocal. Before, there was no IP for the human voice to recording or live performance. And then obviously the copyrights associated But this is literally just the voice, it's things that make the human voice. Now, just to convert my voice to someone else's, into mine. if people want to use that, that becomes its And I think to your kind of hopeful view of And I think we're all afraid of it because the current world we live in. But I think we could jump into that pretty other that even if it gets abused in some As long as, still again, there's players, that are trying to navigate this amongst the of people's rights being protected to whatever of creativity at the same time. That's my faith. I'm not a religious person. My only religion is music. This tech aspect of it. Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski time that I get excited because you see, my So like, for me, this is something, talking tech, she only saw it as legacy. And that was really fascinating to me, right? Again, New Wave, you know, attributing IP, artists, you now have another dimension of Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski And there's legacy. There's the aspect of people aging out voices or passing away or whatever natures of things, right? People who are producers, needing the need it to their artists that they work in the creatively and say, this is what you would And them going, Oh shit, I actually now get what you were Like that is exciting. The sandbox, the playground, being able to Maybe outside of today's world, but it's scary be, and probably why you and I are in music But it is one of those aspects that Jakob Wredstrom Mike Pelczynski right? Like there is still the need to know where that you need to protect in order to preserve know? And yeah, I share it with you. And I think fandom is one of those, to take it back to fandom and it's really ultimately someone who figures I mean, quite frankly, someone maybe even you know, the, I think Mark Mulligan and others you know, the fan to fan communities. Um, that was one thing that I was interested that ecosystem for them to let alone the community of the artists, you know, being at the helm of that, that's a company, uh, Fave, right? and others like that, that they're already So there's so many ways, but yeah, there's do you go, and where do you and I get off and actually go and what do we do? We only have so much time, right? So yeah. Jakob Wredstrom Jakob Wredstrom That is what we need to do and this is such After like the small hours of talking, I feel and that's of course the whole purpose of Mike, well thank you for announcing your new gold and wisdom that's really difficult to And I hope the entrepreneurs and music industry and actually go and apply it in real world. Thank you, Mike. Thank you for your time. Mike Pelczynski No, thank you, Jacob. I appreciate you. Thank you, man. Jakob Wredstrom