How can you get by if you are so powerful ? Let's go . Now rush out. Second brother, something is wrong. What's wrong ? You see, Ba Dao, he is here to protect the emperor. Why is he waiting for us there? It seems that he is driving us to the palace. Don't worry about it. Anyway, just kill Gaoliang. Yes, this disease is too ungrateful. Just kill them all and don't take their lives . Come on , let's go and die together . Yeah, senior brother, please get out of the way and let me collect him. We should settle old scores. No need to settle old scores. You will always suffer losses. Good senior brother, I will leave this person to you. Ah, ah , ah, ah, senior brother, I will save you. Come on come . on , let you know how powerful my Shaolin iron broom is . Kill him . Don't kill him . Let him go. Kill them. Kill them . Kill them. Kill them. Kill them. Why don't you go up? Kill them. Why don't you? Go up, kill him with a violent ax and return to the mountain They still know how to kill . Kill them and eat their own country. Why don't you kill ? Why don't you kill? Why don't you kill? Kill you. Kill you. Kill them . Kill them. Brothers , don't treat us as human beings. The monk didn't take our lives. He did. Kill us if you want to kill us Baaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah by Hui Shi . Didn't he go into the palace to kill the lamb? Let's go and find him. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Shaolin disciple Wang Yehe congratulates you for a long time. Master Master Master Master Master Abbot It seems that we are in trouble It's time for the drama to end, right? Didn't the show just start, Prince ? Why is it coming to an end? I think the good show is still to come, so why not continue reading ? Monk, today, we must lower the rankings . Who is the best in the world? You three senior brothers , don't blame us for bullying the small ones. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Yeah, ah , ah, ah, brother, I'm sorry for you, wait for me, ah, put down the butcher knife and become a Buddha on the spot , brother, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, stupid, um, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, Minister Tang , Luo Han Fist White Tiger Claws, Iron Head Kung Fu, Vajra Hand Master, haaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaafish , oh, my lord , the monkey king. They are useless things. Come on , let me win the king of Qi. On the bow, the Lord's army from the underworld has captured Yecheng, and is rushing towards the palace in a panic. Why are you setting up a formation? Hey, Shaolin Golden Bell Cover. You are joking. Why don't you surrender? Put down your weapons , or I will kill him. Amitabha , my Buddha, the lamb of mercy is dead. Let my father go. Hey hey hey , I brought you into the palace just to use your hands to kill the lamb. Now killing him is just what I want . Hahahaha. Put down the sword. Who is coming so boldly? I am Yang Jian . Yecheng has been captured by us. The palace is also surrounded by us. If you want to survive, put down your weapons . Abbot , you and I have to die together. Hey, stop it. Amitabha , my Buddha, compassionate monk, have you seen it? Your master doesn't care about you. He can't control it . He doesn't have the ability. Hahaha. Are you thirsty? Do you want to come? Order a drink, hahaha, come on, come on, I'll give you some wine, you better be wise and go quickly, don't miss my business. Oh, beauty, why are you so stupid? The emperor is so old that he can't walk. You have something to do with him? What do you mean? It's better to have no brothers with him than me. If the girl insists on having her own way, I won't be polite . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Haha , girl, what's wrong with you? You can't let so many people accompany you to death. Get out of the way. I'm here to save more people. If you don't get out of the way , I'll take action. Damn it, girl. If you don't leave, I'm afraid we'll all be dead. What are you going to do after being killed by Sun Ba ? Hey, old monk, what are you going to do? You stop, Master Hui Gong and Hui Nu, you have suffered. Master, please hold on a little longer. I am already thinking of a way. Master, come and drink some water, old monk. Why can't you give him water ? Why not ? He is my apprentice. If you are in trouble one day, I will treat you like this . Oh , girls, run, beauties, beauties , go , go, go , go, go , go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Come here ah ah ah ah ah ah ah , oh ah , what did you do , what's the pain and hurt your feet . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . Come on, you should return to the secular world, just return to the secular world These beauties can be relied upon. I see you are really shameless. Take them out and I'll go see that girl. Come on, follow me this way. Hahahaha, you bastard, let me go . Let me go . Oh girl, run quickly ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ! Run back, come back, hahaha Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha , How What to do? Run for your life. Run for your life . Run for your life . Run for your life. Hurry up . Where to run? What to do ? Where to run ? Don't run back. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Ah, let me see which of you dares to run , huh? Ah, who's running? This is what will happen. Take them back. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go , go , hey , hey , hey, hey, hey, here's another one for me to take back. You don't have to arrest me. I'll go back with you. I'll do it myself. Hahaha. Oh, I really want to enter the palace. Dreaming about being a concubine? Hahaha, come on, come on, let me see, you are so beautiful. If you want to enter the palace to see the emperor, you must reward me first. What do you want to do? I want to see what is dedicated to the emperor. Do you dare? Hahaha, if there's anything I don't dare to do, you can take it yourself. Ah ha ha ha ha ha ha ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah one one one one one one one one one one one one one smeared It's time to die , um, um , Sun Ba, you bully can't Come on, old monk, I'll let you die one by one, master, master , master. Well, Hui Gong, hurry up and bring the white-clothed Bodhisattva to report . You guys, hurry up and carry him back. Master Huiyuan, they have piled a lot of firewood in front of their house to burn the third junior brother to death . what are they There is a corpse placed next to the third junior brother. Are you back? Master, that is not the body of the second junior brother . It seems to be the body on the head of the young officer who made trouble at our door yesterday. Young monk, you are the first one to cry. Master, benefactor, wait a minute. What are you doing out here? Why should I save my disciple's life? My brother has been killed by your disciple. Old monk, please go back to the temple and wait for death. I think the benefactor may have some misunderstandings. It won't be too late to take action after the matter is clarified. Last night I saw it with my own eyes I saw that little monk running into my military camp to cause trouble. Okay, okay, I told you , the donor, I can be detained here. Please refrain from killing . Okay , then come over, master. Master, you can't go. Don't worry, master, don't come over . Don't believe it. They ask for benefactors Keep your word , of course I keep your word. Please tell your disciple if you have anything to say. Master, disciple , I'm hurting you . Hui Nu, good master, please let go, master , master. I will leave on my own, Master Huidong . This is your fate with the master. What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you guys ? What happened in Shaolin Temple? What 's the matter, the two of you are the fate of me, thank you for haha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha , ah ah ah ah ah, ah, ah , ah ah ah ah, ah, the master in the temple , hey Hey, hey, haha, okay, disciples, don't fall in love After the fight, hurry up and evacuate to the temple. Hurry up, hurry up, evacuate inside the temple. Like my subordinates who are defeated and seeking death. Come on, come on, ah ah, brothers, retreat quickly , close the door, close the door, and knock the door open for me. Today I want to go to the Shaolin Temple. Why don't you fight back when it becomes a cemetery ? After they defeat them, how will they attract more officers and soldiers and even alert the court? They are also more likely to be falsely accused of being Shaolin Temple monks. They are rebellious and treasonous. People with ulterior motives will take the opportunity to send troops. In this way, our Shaolin Temple will be destroyed. The monks in Shaolin Temple cannot escape the disaster . Even ordinary people will suffer from the disaster . Amitabha's mission to save all sentient beings is to reduce the suffering of the people and cherish life. Master, they will come in. Yes, we must persist now , we must insist on guarding and not attacking until later. Returning from Luoyang Come on, come on , come on , hey, hey, hey, brother Mei, what are they? Those officers and soldiers, hurry up and open the door . Go back and wait. Don't run around. Hold the door open and let me wait and wait to die. Oh, why did I come here with him in a daze ? Hey , hey, hey, let's go, go, go, go, go, hey, hey, hey, do you have a backdoor here ? Why am I asking for a life ? I'm not a monk. I can't accompany you to death. Coward, this is the safest place . Pull me down. Although my life is worthless , I don't want to die yet. I haven't found a wife yet. I'm waiting. Look, sooner or later I can find a way out. Hey, go inside for me, junior brother . Hey, hey. Hey , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , everyone inside, listen. If I break in, none of you will come out alive. Master, if we wait like this, maybe we won't be able to wait until the fourth brother moves back from Luoyang to rescue our temple. It will break the membership. Everyone will stay here. If anyone disobeys the teacher's words, According to the rules of the ceremony, Master, be obedient. This is Master's meeting . Before the second gate is conquered, you should not disturb me. I have to recite sutras for Master. If anyone breaks the rules , I will give you two 100,000. Yes, Master , hey, rush in for me . Come back here. We can't just sit and wait for death. The master will take care of it. Damn it, they have already rushed in. Quickly close the door on the second floor. Quickly close the door and kill the smart ones. Rush out. No one can go out . Third brother, listen to the master. Hey, monk, why have you all turned into cowards ? Come out with the smart ones . Second Senior Brother, Second Senior Brother, the second door is about to be knocked open. Brothers, defend the Shaolin Temple. Brother who was driving the driver Master Master came back and drove back to the eighth, a monk who rushed in outside and sent him to take him down . He rushed in and he was carrying an important letter to save our Shaolin Temple. Yeah , yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, master, I'll go out to pick him up. You brothers, go together. You guys have to take care of each other and learn from each other 's strengths. As long as you can find a way to get close to Hui Ran, get the letter and hand it into the master's hands. Everything. It's all easy, master, I'll go too , ah ah ah ah ah ah Ah haha ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Ah, I am the fifth child . Ah, if you stab someone in the back, you are not considered a hero. You have the guts to be alone with me. You are looking for death for picking on a little brat . Take it , ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah, little bastard , now I will turn you into a mutton kebab . Shaolin kung fu is all about fists and legs. It's useless. Let's take their things back and warm them by the fire. Stop them for me. Hey hey hey hey hey hey. Oh, oh, oh, oh , master , master, master, abbot, you finally came out and hit my knife edge . How big is the boundary between life and death? No, this is a letter to you . It is a letter to me . Well, you can open it and read it. If I don't read it, then It's your courage. Sun Ba will return quickly after receiving the letter . I will be safe in the future. Pai Gaoqi closed the door . What's going on ? Why is there no movement? They will definitely show up . You are sure they came in just to save that monk. As long as they are in this courtyard, they will definitely show up. Fly over quickly. What are you going to do? Your death has come. Come with us. Let's go back. I always feel that the odds are stacked against me. Don't talk nonsense. What time is it now? It's less than two. It's better . I'm going in. Do you remember what I said? Oh, don't worry, I remember it clearly. Even if I forget my name, I won't tell you what I told you. I forgot about that. It's so weird. Why are all these Shaolin monks such masters? Listen, in another quarter of an hour , throw this monk into the fire and turn him into a burning sweet potato. Turn into a burning monk. Good, good, good. Monk , you and I, Sun Ba, are going against each other. I didn't expect the result today. You still don't accept it, right ? Sun Ba lets you get it before you say hum, ho, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, what kind of boxing do I usually teach you to practice ? Mantis Boxing. Aim at this target and give it to me . Yeah , ah, ah, ah, hey , hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Yeah, hey, hey, hey, hey, uncle, let's play the long game to catch the big fish , yeah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ha , ah Ha hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah I know you get up at midnight do you know why do you know why it is because the emperor is coming and the emperor is going to bed. Of course the emperor is not coming now because of you. The beauties chosen for the emperor are you going to be Those you bring into the palace may become the emperor's favorite. Once the emperor takes notice, you will become his concubine. If the emperor suddenly arrives in the middle of the night , you will have to bathe, change clothes, and serve the emperor. At that time, your whole family will ascend to heaven with glory and wealth, so you must strictly train the etiquette in the palace. in order to Come to please the emperor ah ah ah ah ah ah ah he is a monk from Shaolin Temple ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah hey ah hit me you two brothers can't run away today ah ah ah ah throw him to me Go into the fire, ah, the second senior brother finally appears and kills ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Yeah, hey , hey, hey, hey, so and so, come down, come down. Oh , I'm a Shaolin monk. Who dares to come? Chase, chase, chase. Stop , stop , stop . Don't run. Stop, don't run. Stop, stop, stop . Hey , stop , stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop . Oh, oh, oh , oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh , stop , where can I run? He can't run, chase, chase , stop , don't run over there, hurry up, chase, stop, hurry up, hurry up, hey, I can't beat others, and I can't beat you, bah, let's go , let's see if my sister-in-law is walking away , hey, let's go, hey, hey. Hey, do n't wipe it. Hey, don't put it in. Don't put it in. Don't put it in. Don't put it in. Is n't that right? This guy's hair is so long that he doesn't look like a monk . I'm not a monk . Why are you arresting me? Do you know martial arts? No, no. How can I know martial arts? I'm a beggar . Only monks from the Shaolin Temple know martial arts. You how do you know me They arrested the Shaolin monk , eh, you are not a Shaolin monk, at least join them and arrest him. Ouch, hey, arrest him. Ouch, go away , arrest him for what. Go, I am unjust . I am really unjust. I am not a Shaolin monk. I am really not a Shaolin monk. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh Yeah yeah hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ah Who should be saved and whom should be released? Ah, let the Shaolin monk leave the palace safely and don't harm anyone. Shaolin Temple monk. Why did the Shaolin Temple monk work hard in my palace? Let me see if you can hide a few times and prepare to take action . What happened? This little monk broke into the palace for some reason and beat him again and again. Kill us. We are arresting him. Aren't you a monk from Shaolin Temple? Your Majesty, I asked you to let my junior brother go. What happened to your junior brother? Junior Brother was arrested by him. I just came to look for Junior Brother. What is going on? Oh, Your Majesty, this is what happened . A few days ago, under your order, I went to the people to recruit beauties for the Emperor to enter the palace. But I didn't expect that a monk would come out halfway and snatch away the girls. I suspect that this monk is having an affair with that woman and we are arresting him. Didn't I tell you not to cause trouble to the Shaolin Temple monk? Your Majesty, what we are arresting is not the Shaolin Temple monk . You are not a Shaolin Temple monk . You are a Shaolin Temple monk. How could a Shaolin Temple monk commit adultery and violate the king's law? Let him go and hang him up. Let him go immediately. Monk , listen. Go and report. Let the old monk show his face and greet the young monk for a few days. You haven't eaten anything . You're starving. Look what delicious food I brought you, Master Ba. Come and try it. It's delicious . Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha Ha, old monk, you see your disciple is eating meat. Master, hahaha, um , stop it . Hey, um, stop and don't move. Senior brother , hahahaha. You really don't understand good people. I think he is too hungry. Feed him a piece of meat. I'm afraid. He's starving to death. Let go of my junior brother. Don't be anxious. It's useless. Look at how many people I brought and how many horses I brought. If I wave my hand, your Shaolin Temple will immediately turn into ruins. Donor, you were the one who came to surround the Shaolin Temple last time. This time you brought your soldiers to make trouble again. I don't know where in our temple I offended you. Yes, that's right. Even if I offended you somewhere, I will compensate you. Either I or I will take revenge. Who will be the enemy of last time's feud this time? I can't save you. I really don't know what I have against you. Old monk, you know in your heart whether you have any grudge or not . I'm going to destroy your Shaolin Temple this time so that you monks will die without a burial place . May I ask the benefactor why you came to this temple? Do you know me? Of course I recognize this person? Know that this is my fourth disciple, he is my defeated general. Do you want to take him back ? Of course I hope that my disciple will return to this temple as soon as possible. I can give you a way out now. Monk, kneel down and beg me. All of you, Shaolin Temple monks, put down your hands. arms kneeling Come down and beg me, maybe I'll be kind and do n't move. Otherwise , I'll kill him with one blow. Kneel down or not, will you guys return ? You're too deceitful. You have the talent to show off your real skills. If you have the talent , I just want to hear what you say. In other words , I want to see how good your Shaolin Temple's real skills are. Let me challenge you first. Hey, forget it. Abbot, these disciples of yours are all my losers . How about I challenge you today? Today I have something to ask the two masters. Please tell me. Do you two know what kind of punch this is? Of course. Of course it's Shaolin boxing It's Shaolin Boxing , but what kind of boxing technique is in Shaolin Boxing? Come on, old monk. I heard that you are a tiger hiding in the mountains and a dragon hiding in the water. I want to see you today. The donor is joking. I am so focused on praying to the Buddha and chanting sutras to cleanse my heart. How can I do this? You really have your eyes open. eyes say It's a lie that the abbot of Shaolin Temple doesn't know martial arts . Hahaha, he's just practicing some fists and kicks for fitness and body protection. Do you want to save your disciples? How about you Shaolin Temple monks fight me one by one. As long as one person defeats me, I will let him go . you If we lose, how about you all kneel down ? I'll go first, big dog. You became a monk and shaved your head, even your brain. Have you forgotten that I am the Sun Ba who killed your whole family ? It's you, brother, hurry up. If we run well , let's calculate the defeat of our subordinates together with old accounts and new accounts. Come on , oh , Monkey Handsome, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, old monk, this disciple of yours really has some skills. You figured it out , he brought it to you by himself. If I , Sun Ba, accidentally kill him, Don't blame me for not being loyal enough. Amitabha, stop talking nonsense. You can't even think of leaving today. Shaolin Temple , then don't blame me for being rude , ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , senior brother, senior brother, are you okay, big dog, you are such a fool, you want to find me Revenge is not allowed today, let alone later. You saw how your apprentice died today. Senior brother, senior brother, master, go and help the senior brother back. Senior brother, senior brother , senior brother, help the senior brother back. No, master , I want to fight with him. Member, be obedient, master, be obedient . What do you say ? Come up and fight me on death row. Why don't you just kneel down to me ? Hey, every time I practice to this point I can't practice anymore. You really haven't practiced. Have you thought about it? Whether it 's fighting or kneeling, victory or defeat is all about fighting for one breath . And this breath is all right and wrong. Why should the donor fight like this? Huh? Hum, okay , then the life of your disciple is also something external to you. Well , are you saying that my kneeling can remove all hatred? Hum, yes, I think so . If you can put down the butcher knife and become a Buddha immediately, I can kneel in front of you. Hahahahaha, kneel down, kneel down, master, master. Kneel down, kneel down for me, I won't cry even if you drive me I 'm going to chase you, Senior Brother Sunflower, I'm here to save you , Senior Brother, go quickly, let me go , let me go , cry , hehe, haha, hahahaha, little monk , where are you going? I let you run, you can't run anymore , little monk, where are you going ? Let you run, oh, oh, ah, ah, you can't run anymore , oh, oh, oh, come on, come, oh, oh, I'll let you run. Hey, little monk, come on, come on, where are you running? Hey, hey, this time I see where you are going, where are you running ? I see you going , ah, ah, ah, why am I humming inside? You are dead now, ah, ah, ah, let's go. Go, go , go, oh, oh , oh , oh , eh, eh, eh , master, master, wise man, get up quickly, you have suffered , you said Do you still dare to bully the Shaolin Temple? Little bastard, let me go. Why should I let you go? Let me let you go. You are going to do bad things again . If you lose, you have to admit defeat. Quickly order your troops to go back and stop causing trouble for our Shaolin Temple. How can I lose? Hum , you have lost to me. The benefactor's flowers bloom and wither. They have their own destiny. Disciples have so many benefits. Gong untied the rope for the donor . Master untied it . Well, I don't understand. Hui Ren went to untie the rope for the benefactor. It's the master. Hahaha , you , benefactor , if you are angry, take out this physical body of Lao Na and let Master Almighty punish me as you wish. Don't get into trouble with the disciples . Thank you, benefactor, for your magnanimity and saving me. May your life be blessed with boundless blessings . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh , get up, master Hui Gong , what are you doing ? These brothers are trying to make trouble with my master, Hui Gong. Senior brother, with great wisdom and courage, defeated the thief. You should reward him, but you don't dare to ask for it. Mr. Hui Hui, do you know your mistake ? What mistake did I make ? I think you are more skilled than that thief. No, then why did you come back? It was because of luck. If you weren't lucky, you wouldn't be standing here today. Belle would be so sad when she came to be a teacher. Do you remember the fluke ? Master's disciples will only have luck once and never forever Wrong, eh , but I still want to praise Huikong Huikong. You fought bravely and well today. Hahaha. Today you can make a wish . I can grant it to both of you. Okay , okay . You tell me. Can the first master teach you? I 'll teach you the second trick after I master one trick. Well, the second one Master, can you adjust the bed for me ? Why are senior brother's feet so smelly ? Hahahaha, your feet are the only ones that smell. Hahaha, if this isn't defeat, then what is defeat? If it weren't for you, I would have rushed in and razed the Shaolin Temple to the ground. Sun Da, I really want to kill you. I want to kill you. I want to. Killing. I want to kill someone . Come on, please open the killing valve . Why is the master addicted again ? Madam , since he killed those 500 craftsmen last time, he has been addicted to killing for ten days and a half. How about he stop killing people? Now, if he feels uncomfortable , he will go crazy and wait until he finishes killing people before he can be installed It's been half a month, you two, hurry up and change your clothes. The emperor has summoned you . The emperor has summoned you . Gao Qiu has gone crazy again. You ask so many questions. Why do you want to change clothes? Hurry up and change your clothes. The emperor's two new concubines have brought their beloved concubines to come to me. Today I am Emperor , you two are the first concubines I selected. Come on, I'm going to spend a night of dancing with you two tonight. The two of you take one step forward, one step closer to nobility, one step closer to wealth, one step closer to glory. I feel that there is something wrong with the atmosphere in Luoyang Mansion. I also feel that there is something sneaky about us. Stay here like a prisoner We are imprisoned as well, and there are guards. Our one-eyed man seems to be a killer. It's time for the two masters to turn off the lights and go to bed. Aren't you going to send us to the palace to dedicate us to the emperor? No, I will keep you by my side and enjoy it slowly. I am the emperor and you. She is my concubine. You two are the ones chosen this time. The most beautiful among the girls is also my favorite. Yes , we are both imprisoned. The King of Luoyang must be up to something. He is a friend of the master, but his palace is not as charitable as him. What did Sun's father do? There's no way he doesn't know, maybe he condoned it You bastard, let's find a way to get out. What are you doing? Oh, I had diarrhea. Isn't there poop in my bowels ? Oh, my diarrhea was so smelly. I stayed in the room for most of the day and the smell couldn't go away. Oh, oh, oh, hurry up, hurry up . I can't hold it in, hurry up. Go over there, it's good , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, the prince is among the common people. I am a compassionate person at heart. It turns out that your compassion is all fake. I am really good to the people . I am good to the people. If one day the King of Qi sends people to kill me, the people here may think of me and join me in rebelling against your lies. Compassion has ulterior motives. No, no, no, no, I am afraid of King Qi . Every day, I I'm all worried about when he will kill me. I only have one side to win people's hearts to prevent me from being bloodier than him. He knows how to kill people, and I can do it. He has his own tricks for killing people. I'm more capable than him. What he dares to do, I dare, but he doesn't. I dare to do what he did. I know very well how I can defeat him like this. I can survive. What do you want? I didn't expect that you lied to me and missed my important event. I want to kill you. You missed my important event. I want to kill you. What did I lie to you ? Because you said you wanted to enter the palace through a beauty pageant and present it to the emperor. I just tried my best to get in. It turns out you have ulterior motives . It turns out you want to kill the emperor. But we share the same hatred. I want to kill him too. Shut up. You are all in the same heap. But now you have a way to survive . If you don't kill me, I can do anything. Release all the beauties you captured. Come on. The order is okay. Go and ask Sun Ba to get everyone. Let me go , okay? Master, you have arrested the wrong person. I and that monk are really not the same group. Do you think a person like me can look like a monk? Besides, I drink wine, eat meat, and like women. Monk, they don't do that at all. Dare you, sir? I am really not a monk. Just let me go. When I came in Let him and his fourth brother wait for me outside. He may die badly if he is caught . Anyway, save him first and then talk about it. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, I like women like this best. Come, brothers, we two have a lot. Drink something, okay , I have nothing to do today anyway , cover it up, haha Ha, you're full, hey, OK , hey, come, come , hey, brother monk , brother monk, I'm here, monk , hey, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, go somewhere, hey, I know you won't leave me alone, so I'm doing meritorious deeds. Sir, where is the 4th junior brother who is with you? He was also arrested. He was locked up with me at first and then kicked out. Oh, I don't know where he went anyway. Junior brother 4 must be locked up here . They were very cruel to that monk. I'm worried that he is dead now. It's a good idea to give this knife back to me . In fact, I really want to return the knife to you and let you assassinate the emperor, but I can't let you go . Suddenly I have an idea. I can help you and let you kill the emperor. Will you help me? Of course I can help you. I really have a good one. Tell me what you think quickly. You go out first. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Take him out too. You can't hurt him. Hum, it's good if you can keep your name. If he dares to hurt him, I won't agree to whatever you think. You should protect him well and listen to this girl. Let's go. Why don't you? Untie me, you are nothing like this It doesn't look like you're negotiating with me . This prince's mansion is really grand. I used to only dare to stand outside the door and watch how dare I come in. Can you please stop saying a word? Hahahahahaha, let me go . Let me go. Bastard, let me go . Hey, let me go. Let me go. Xiao'e is that beauty. When everything is ready, I will dedicate you to the emperor . That day is his birthday . You are like a goddess descending to earth. The lamb will happily welcome you into his harem. You are so beautiful and well-trained. You are noble. His temperament attracted him You can kill him as long as you get close to him . Huh, you don't have to express your opinion first . I don't know what grudge you have against him. It must be a big grudge . The hatred is as deep in my bones as I am. How about we work together to kill the lamb and everyone gets something ? Don't you think? Just to be the emperor, I will It's because you want to be the emperor. You believe you can succeed. You will definitely succeed. You released all the women who were recruited. Let me go. Let me go. Let me go. What are you going to do? What are you doing ? Of course I, Sun Ba, have the right to see it. Oh , ah , ah, ah, ah , this person is not an easy person We have fought against him before and it is difficult to win. Besides, there are officers and soldiers everywhere here. We can't escape because they are so angry. Then we can't watch him being destroyed. You villain, if you dare to come here again, I will kill him. Hehe, you don't want it. Such a fierce horse can only be outsmarted . But blindly, you let go of me , you bastard, and what I'm doing to you is that you let me go. I 'm here and I can't save your life . I'm the only one who can save your life. Who's good? I'll save you. Hey, Xiao'e, Xiao'e. I didn't go in to save you just now. It's because I let the wind out at the door. It's also very important for me to let the air out. Let's go quickly. What should I do with Fourth Junior Brother ? They haven't been found yet. Send them both out first. Let's go look for them. Come on, come on, I'll come, I'll come. It's over. We're going to be chopped into pieces by him. Haha, chase him away. Hey , be careful not to let them find out . Okay, look. Where is he going to run and surround him ? What to do, hurry up, surround them , open the door quickly , hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha ! I don't dare to come out and do it Just go in and force them out. What did the prince say? The prince said that we should treat him politely today, but we should not use force. We should invite him over like a prince. What should we do if he doesn't come out? This is easy. Well, old monk, our prince invites you. 8 All the people carrying the sedan chair Ready to send you Go to Luyang Mansion and enjoy the glory and wealth. Come out quickly. Your Majesty, have you arranged the water treatment? Are the people ready for me? Are they all ready? Your Majesty, which one will live first ? Your Majesty, are you satisfied with these monks? I haven't yet. What does monk meat taste like? Are you vegetarian? Wang Gaoqi of Luoyang, you finally showed your true face. The current king of Qi is cruel and inhumane. King Luoyang is no less bloody than the king of Qi. You worship Buddha, what kind of Buddha do you worship? If you worship Buddha, you will not die. You pretend to be kind and your hands are bloody. I don't want to be like you. man speaks bloody I am bloody. Think about it, how can I not be bloody ? If I am not bloody, will I live in peace? I originally wanted to live in peace and be my King of Luoyang . But after the current emperor succeeded to the throne, he killed all his brothers and his nephews. His methods were far more cruel. People can do it He didn't kill me . I'm his cousin. Logically speaking, he should have killed me a long time ago. Why didn't he kill me? And I'm still his pawn in killing you and seizing the throne. Now I'm waiting for him to kill me every day. He drove me crazy. He drove me crazy. Crazy, I'm crazy, my lord, my lord, I tell you that if you don't want to die , then Let's see if the old monk will come to save you, master, master, okay, I will follow them to Luoyang. Don't act rashly at home. Master, don't say anything. I have made up my mind to finally persuade him to leave. I have only one request for you. I'm leaving. From now on, everything must be listened to by the members. It's me and you. If you don't listen to him, it means you don't listen to me. I will no longer recognize you as my apprentice, master. I will go with you. No one should go with me. I go alone . The more people there are, the more dangerous it will be . If the officers and soldiers go again, master, member . You cannot take action to provoke the Shaolin Temple , even if you see them trying to destroy the Shaolin Temple . Don't move , but if they want to arrest you, you have to run to the mountains and caves as quickly as possible. But there is one thing to remember: you can't hide in the village, you can't hide in the town, you can't hide in the homes of ordinary people. Master, Master, Master, Master, you just saw the Shaolin Temple. Don't move even when the fire is blazing into the sky. Even if you see the officers and soldiers knocking down the Shaolin Temple and taking away everything in the Shaolin Temple, don't move. You'd better cover your eyes so that he can't see anything. Cover your ears so that he can't hear anything. Master, Master, but we know martial arts. Ah, all of these are external things Only your own life is the most worth saving . Master , when will you come back? If you hear that your master is gone and dead, don't believe that your master will not die. Your master will come back to you one day. Reunite into a Shaolin Temple and hear about Shaolin again The temple is ringing with celebrations , but you must remember your promise to your master. Of course, I will try my best to prevent this from happening , but you must abide by your promise to me and do not move . Did you hear it? Did you hear it? Disciple heard it, heard it . Well now I want to walk out of this mountain alone No one is allowed to send everyone back to Beijing. Please go back to the Tang chanting members. Senior brother , what happened to the vacancy? What happened to the vacancy ? The officers and soldiers came back again. There are many more people than the previous two times. Where are they? Master, tell me. However, if the officers and soldiers come, they will go back to their homes and leave the Shaolin Temple Senior Brother's place. When will we come back? Master, when will you come back? Come back at any time and show me the baby. It's time for you to start killing. There's not a single figure in the Baye Temple . We've searched the temple and there's not a single figure. After all, they're hiding. He still ran away. Someone saw the monk. We ran to the back mountain so that I could catch up to you . This is your position. This is the position of the national master. The poor monk has long said that monks do not sit upright. See you, Your Majesty. Please rise and thank you. Your Majesty , do you know what I am asking you to come for today? After assisting the prince in conquering the throne , why should I be elected to the throne? Everyone knows Today's Gaoyang is inhumane. Only the prince of Luoyang is courteous and the people are diligent, frugal and devoted to the Buddha. He is compassionate to people and should be regarded as the emperor. Hear it. This is the cry of the people in the world. Amitabha, please lead people from here to avenge you. Come with me. It 's a good idea. Drive , drive , drive, drive . What day is it today ? What day is today? What day is it? Counting from when the master came down the mountain, what day is today? Of course it is the second day. What? Does yesterday count as a day ? Yesterday only has half a day, can it count as a day? If yesterday does not count as a day, then today It's the first day. What do you think you're doing? Don't worry about the master not letting me tell you. Wang Zha, those are the princes and generals from various places who support me. This is my second arrow. Why are you telling me so much? You are my third arrow. I cannot use your arrow indiscriminately. Tomorrow, announce to everyone that I When the Bodhisattva is alive, he will perform a Dharma ceremony for me to show that the Bodhisattva is born . Everyone in the world will believe me and submit to me. Then it will be much easier for me to win the world. You are not a Bodhisattva. With your support , I am a Bodhisattva. I cannot deceive the people. What if I really am a Bodhisattva ? Buddha is incompatible with me after I conquer the world When I become the King of Qi, I will resign and my kindness will be spread all over the world. Prince, if this continues , you will be doomed . Hurry up and turn back, otherwise you will regret it too late. I have never heard that being an emperor will regret the endless sea of suffering. Looking back , it seems that you are really uncooperative. Okay, then I will also give you a sentence: &quot; When you turn back, you will be able to go to the end of the sea of suffering and be happy&quot; Run, run , run, run , run , run, run, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive , drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive . Drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, drive, junior, junior , junior , please move back , stop, stop, everyone, please protect yourselves , hurry up, this way. Stop, stop, stop , stop and do combos . I will cry. I will cry . I will cry . I will cry. I am recruiting you to join the prince's army by your abbot's will. This is the only way out for you. Senior brother, fight with them. You can always do it. Break out a gap and don't allow anyone to listen. What I want is to listen to the master, you send someone out and let 's talk. Well, just one person is enough. Brother , I will go with you. Even if I can promise the Buddha, I won't promise you. Then I have to put an end to you. Did you commit suicide or not? Since this is the case, I hope that I will do it myself I hope to be able to meet my disciples again. This master must be an expert. I want to ask you a question. Donor, please teach me . Master, please don't turn around. I am a wicked person and I have no face to face the master because of the evil things I did in the past. Too many people have been offended and now they are looking for I want to take revenge. What should I do? Don't accept a hundred kinds of evil with a kind heart . As long as you are dedicated to kindness, your enemies will definitely let you go. Master means that my enemies will definitely let me go. Master Amitabha, please turn around and leave. It's you hahahahahahahahahahaha It seems that you want to seek revenge from me. Have you forgotten what you said? You are already a monk. How come you have read scriptures for so many years and still can't forget your past sins ? It seems that being a monk is fake. It's easy to endure. This is the old monk who is a monk. We should teach such disciples, no? Insult my master. Insult my master. I won't be polite. How can my defeated general be brave ? I brought all the official and civilian uniforms . You let the brothers put on the clothes. Without the master, we won't be able to change well . Just think about it. Think about it and ask your brothers to put them on Clothes so they can get out of this valley. If they don't wear them, they won't be able to get out today. Why are you forcing us like this? I'm not forcing you. This is what the prince wants. If it were me, I would kill you one by one. Is it true? You don't Can you change to be kind? Hahahahaha, big dog, you are a good person and I am an evil person . Can you be a good person all your life? Incompetent. Being a good person has to be tolerant. Can you tolerate it? Incompetent. Can you tolerate it no matter what happens? Incompetent is good. Then sit on this stone and recite Sutra 1 Keep thinking until dark, I will let your brother go. How about you, can you bear it? Wu Neng, no matter what happens, you can't step off this stone, can you bear it? Wu Neng, hum, please Master Huikong Huikong, please think clearly. No, hey, hey, isn't that your master? Let your master save you. You, ah, hurry up, it's safe to turn back , and you have lost your way and found your way back. I don't want your nonsense. I don't believe that I can't take over the world. Come on , cook this dirty thing for me first. Ah , ha, let's go . Xiao'e , it's your big brother and a big dog outside. Hey, hey, but Don't be too happy too early. He's a big idiot. He couldn't save you before and now. He doesn't dare to step off this rock. As long as he steps down, he will be dead. I want him to see with his own eyes how I bully you. Sun Ba, you will go to the 18th level of hell when you die. Don't say I don't believe there is hell, that's why there is hell It's also after death. I don't care , Dad. Even if I get to the underworld, I will turn into a ghost and summon you to kill you. Hehe , how much I suffered for the emperor's beauty pageant . I watched the beauties given to others one by one, first to the emperor and then to the prince. I, Sun Ba, haven't enjoyed any of it. I've fallen in love with you after I 've done it . I want to enjoy you like an emperor and a prince. Let me go. Let me go. Let me scream and scream. Let the big dog hear the scream. Brother , I'm a bully . You bully, you have to die . Let me enjoy it for once, Lord Ba. Even if I die, it won't be a loss, hahaha Haha , King of Gaoqi, Gaoqi, Luoyang, no, no , no, no, long live my Lord, my long live Lord , I, I, I, I am just a beggar who doesn't take a shower all year round . I am very dirty and dirty. Besides, I love to sweat. When I sweat, I love to fart and keep farting . Don't let me spoil your pot of goodness The soup was almost done, he said again. Isn't it important to pay attention to the color and aroma when eating? It tastes good when it has both color and aroma . I have a rough skin and tender meat that melts as soon as it is cooked. I can't even pick it up and boil it. It's really boiled. I don't want to spoil everyone's appetite. Don't be so worthless. I'm right about you . I didn't expect you to be so good at eating it at such a young age. You praised me . Don't beggars know how to eat? Then cook those big, thick wolfberries. The retribution for your madness is right in front of you. You won't be able to see my retribution. Hey, hahaha. Hahahahahahahahaha Hahahahahahahahahaha , little brother , stop it, brother , big bitch, you can't help it anymore, let go of my sister, why can't you hold it in anymore, why are you so unkind, Chang'e Yixie herself is doing good deeds , so you and your brothers won't be able to get out. I let my sister go in this valley. There are two of them. Once you go back to the rock and chant sutras, come over. Haha. Hey, the cat sister put it, hey hahahahah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah, I don't see the kung fu, I am going to kill you for your death today, ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Iron Tou Gong is so powerful. Hey , hey, look at how I use the pole , brother. Brother, you bitch, don't you want to seek revenge from me? Come on, I'll fight with you , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , you big stupid dog , ah, ah, ah, master, your apprentice has to take the first step, why don't you chant sutras for him? If you are unjust, you will die. If you do righteousness, I will do righteousness. You can't even save your own disciples. How can you save all sentient beings? In fact, you only need to Saying Bodhisattva's blessing to me means recognizing that I am a living Bodhisattva and I can bless them. Do you think it is your belief that is more important or their lives that are more important ? I want you to see how your brother died today . Xiao'e, I want to show you. Look, your brother is a big stupid dog. He is a big stupid dog . Brother, I will fight with you . Go back to the palace, go back to the palace, go back to the palace. Where is this? It's daybreak on the back mountain. Well, it's daylight. It 's the third day. Haha. On the third day, Master Youyan said that I must give the letter to Senior Brother. Senior Brother, Senior Brother, go negotiate with them. What should I do? The master said that I must hand it over to the senior brother on the third day . Idiot . Hey, ah , hey , hey , ah, ah , ah, let's go, Mr. Hui. If the eldest brother is not here , am I the most qualified to read this letter? Master didn't say for you to read it , only for the eldest brother to read it. If the eldest brother is not here , it will be a mistake. Is that right ? Let me see. The master asked us to fight out. Junior brothers, the master said to let us rush out. Junior brothers, rush out. Rush, rush , rush, hey, hey , hey , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, I'll give you one more ride , grab his hand, ah, I thought some kind of martial arts master came, but it turned out to be my subordinate, the defeated general, Zunbao , I hope you put down your butcher knife and succeed immediately. Buddha becomes Buddha hahahaha I will kill you Ren Ruma has never known what it means to become a Buddha. You are not allowed to be violent with my senior brother , otherwise I will be rude to you. Huihong, why are you here to help you? Today I will send you to the King of the West. Oh, yeah, yeah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , hum. If you are so rude, you will cry . Yeah, yeah, yeah, brother, you have to be careful, ah, eldest brother, do the splits, eldest brother, get up, ah , ah Yeah, ah, ah, I became a monk and practiced martial arts just to avenge you. But then Buddha told me that revenge can never be ended, so I gave up my desire for revenge . But now you insist on forcing me to take revenge. The more you want to kill me , the more you kill me . No Isn't it true that the nature of a Buddha is without thought ? Sudden enlightenment and enlightenment. Hum Buddha, can you help you defeat me? OK, I will help you. Today I want to avenge my dead parents . Junior brothers , you still don't know how much hatred I carry. I don't have it. I was the same before I got married . An ordinary farmer was unable to make a living with a small amount of land, so I opened a few acres of land outside the mountains. During the autumn harvest, they suddenly broke in. Stop and give us your things. You give us your things. How can we survive? How can we live after it has been taken away? Give us back our things. Give us back. Give us back . Give us back. I will fight with you . What are you doing ? Cut the grass and root it out. Don't let him escape. Brother, run, brother, run . Mom and dad , I had nowhere to go. I entrusted Yuanyou's sister to a neighbor to raise me, and I entered the Shaolin Temple. Sunba, after so many years , you still refuse to let us go. Now, you have robbed Xiao'e 's parents of their blood debt. Can I spare you? Why are you crying? I suddenly thought of me. I also have a son who has just turned one month old. If you kill me, it will be equivalent to killing our family of three. I know you are wrong. You are from the Zhu family, so show mercy and spare me. You have done many evil things, and it is never too late. Don't we have a saying called letting go? Will he become a Buddha immediately after being slaughtered ? Even if my son is lucky enough to survive, he will definitely seek revenge from you again in the future. Since he still has a one-month-old child, just let him go. Xiaoguang thought that I also lost my parents at a young age. Fortunately, I still have you . If you kill him now, our parents will not be able to regenerate. As long as he promises not to do anything else, let him go. I swear , I know there are many crimes. From now on, I won't even hurt an ant. Please spare me . Come here or I will kill him. Let me go, Senior Brother. Fourth Junior Brother, Fifth Junior Brother , Xiao'e , and I will take care of the hatred between Sun Ba and Sun Mao. Let him go. I am Senior Brother. All of you listen to me. Stand down. Sun Mao and us. I don't have to kill you, but if I want to kill you today, I will destroy you. If I don't kill you, can the people of this world let you go, brother ? Brother, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, mom, I will fight with you, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, brother , what , brother, our enemy is dead, I, we finally have our revenge , don't cry, don't cry, senior brother, this is for you, master. Master said that if he didn't reply to the letter for three days, he would be in serious trouble . Let's go down the mountain immediately to Prince Douluo Yang's Mansion. I'll go find him, Master , Master, Master , Master. Your disciples are all here. Welcome. Treat me well . I'll give you one last chance. Do you choose to help me become the emperor , or do you choose to watch them die one by one? ah Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ohhhhhhhhhhhhhh ohhhhhhhhhh ohhhhhhh oh ohhhhhhh roles , it seems that we have to deal with the ones outside first . Bring me the knife , hahaha , Mr. Hui , hey , hey, hey Hey hey hey hey hey hey what I want is for you monks to go on a killing spree hey hey hey hey hey ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah master ah master Master , eh , eh , do n't hurt his life . He approaches him and wants to kill me, fearing that the person who can kill me has not yet been born. You are no match at all. I, Buddha, are merciful to Takasaki. Please repent. Oh , drink blood, Tai Sui. Drink blood, Tai Sui. It has been a long time since I let you drink human blood. I have wronged you, drink blood. Tai Sui is one of the legends A sword that kills people without bloodshed. Disciples, please pay attention to how the sword is in your hands . Hey, hey , hey , hey, hey. Be careful, senior brother . Be careful, his sword is poisonous. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . Out of the secret here, where did you learn this bloody swordsmanship? From the day I planned to abolish my life and stand on my own feet, I have been practicing this blood-drinking Taisui. You will all die under my new swordsmanship today. Master, master, master , ah, ah, master Oh, oh, oh, oh, the sword technique is poisoned. Each of you is no match for him. What should I do? It seems that I can only defeat him with the formation of one flower and five leaves . Master, we have never practiced the formation of one flower and five leaves. The five of you are. Five leaves and your skills add up to one flower and five leaves. Hey, brothers and sisters, they are setting up formations, water moon, mirror flowers, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh , oh, oh , oh, the prince only steps forward to the lotus white stone and nods to Uncle Hua's throne, ah, ah, ah, wait, let him go, who of you dares to shoot an arrow at me, Gao Qi, by the emperor's decree, I invite you to Yecheng, please set off immediately. Today, the Holy One is waiting for you. Hahaha. Emperor , come to Yecheng. I will give up the throne to you. Hahahaha.