00.02 Bricks and mortar. Just two elements are enough to create structures that last for centuries. Anton Groll is one of the few who still masters the art of vault construction. A construction that supports itself. 00.21 - 00.31 Original sound collapse, that's easy, well, they've already thought about something earlier.&quot; Title: How to build a vaulted cellar 00.47 - 01.35 O -Ton the customer can see. So everything is drawn exactly to scale and then it's easier for me than if you just do a hand sketch first, because paper is patient. You go in and then you're on a platform and then you look down at the wine cellar. So you go down two steps and here you have the lounge area. So these are the pillars, where the vault rests, the chapter is on it, it's made of tuff. Next would come the belt arches, which are here, there and there and then there would be the vault itself. This is this area and this is the cut shape actually in the middle of the vault.&quot; 01.38 The future wine cellar: In a new building. Concrete. 25 m2, 3.25 m high. It sets the boundaries for the vault for the mason. 01.48 - 02.23 Original sound top edge of the chapter, i.e. where the vault sits, three on each side, a total of six, there are also six chapters If my masonry stops at this line, then the chapter comes and then the belt arch falls away in that direction and so the barrel that runs behind it goes away.&quot; 02.24 The stones from Anton Groll's warehouse are delivered. There are just as many how he will need it for the cellar. Everything was precisely calculated and planned beforehand. 02.37 - 02.54 Original sound: I just have to take a look &quot;There's a little bit there so that we don't have the vault tiles at the top and the ones I need at the bottom, that would be shit.&quot; 02.54 Vault tiles, belt arch, base plate. Every stone already has its place. There has to be order on the construction site of Anton Groll, whom everyone just calls Toni. 03.10 The stones are already where they belong. Now the mortar is missing. Not a finished product. Toni's employees Alois and Marinus mix it themselves from lime and sand. First you take the so-called quicklime and add water to it. A chemical reaction occurs. The slaked lime becomes hot. Up to 180 degrees. Not only that, he sucks. 03.51 Pretty dangerous. But it's worth it. 03.52 - 04.18 Original sound open to diffusion, it lasts forever as long as it's under water, so it's a wonderful material. It is also unbeatable when it comes to mortar processing. It's supple and holds water back. So when it comes to building vaults, there is nothing else." 04.34 There is no other option. Everything has to go through this hole. 04.42 Toni only builds with old, used bricks. Others reject them. But for him they have character and history. 04.55 - 05.11 Original sound another 200 years as long as it doesn't have any moisture and doesn't get any frost or salt in it, but most of it is thrown away. What a shame!" 05.14 These are the bricks for the pillars. 05.21 You cut them to the appropriate length with the wet saw. 05.29 And again and again: measure. Preparing takes time. Almost two days on the construction site. 05.42 But then we can get started. Toni mixes the mortar. sand and slaked lime. One of the oldest building materials ever. 05.58 When the lime sets, i.e. the chemical process is completed, then the so-called swamp lime is no longer dangerous. 06.43 The bottleneck to the cellar. Every bucket of mortar must also be threaded here. 06.58 - 07.31 Original sound how nice and supple it is, it also lies nicely on the trowel, so it sits nicely on the trowel, gets stuck, bang now it slips away. It smacks nicely, it's just a really good mortar.&quot; &quot;Now things are really looking up, we've got the whole construction site set up, now we're moving forward. It's nice, but the last stone is much nicer because then you're done.&quot; 07.37 The first stone is a completely ordinary Poroton brick. But beauty is not the issue here. Toni builds it as a so-called leveling stone at the height of the later floor. Later it will no longer be visible. 08.01 But then comes the first old brick. 08.22 - 08.40 Original sound because the stones are simply not completely the same. An old chipped brick, it's not standardized, there are no DIN standards, but that's actually the nice thing, because there's a certain restlessness in it.&quot; 08.47 The three of them build the pillars. Employee Gregor 08.51 Toni 08.57 And Alois. 09.01 Marinus provides supplies at the top. 09.24 It took them one day to build the six pillars. 09.33 Now they have to crown it with capitals made of tuff stone. Toni has been working as a vault builder for almost 30 years. 09.45 - 10.32 Original sound fulfilling a customer's dream and you're always reaching your limits and then breaking the limits again and that's actually quite cool. When we come somewhere and build a vault, it's always a sensation, people come, look and look like bears and so on and it's always a completely normal, beautiful craft, we're not magicians. In any case, you first need a three-dimensional imagination; you have to see, when you build an arch, where the journey is going. What's also quite interesting is that there are days when it works like clockwork and there are days when it just doesn't work. Off." 11.00 The centerpiece of the wine cellar will be a cross vault. Toni and Alois are now building the so-called belt arches. A template made of plywood gives you orientation. The narrow gaps between the arches are filled in layer by layer, only then can Toni place the first belt stone. In Toni's company they have already cut the belt stones into their typical shape. Your edge will still play a key role. 11.14 Looks like breadcrumbs, but that's how the mortar binds the dust to the stones. Then the big trowel comes on top. They call it smacking. Not just skilled hands. Vault building is also mental work. The masons have to calculate the course of the arches very precisely. 11.32 - 12.02 Original sound layers, we get the layer thickness. And then I start from the left and from the right , always the layer thickness, zig zig zig. And that's why we do it in such detail, because it's already tenths, hundredths, so that we can get up nicely.&quot; 12.03 The belt stones with their edge have to carry a heavy load. 12.08 -12.20 original sound into the middle like this. Because otherwise there is a risk of it slipping down." 12.36 Layer by layer, Toni and Alois approach the apex of the arch from both sides. 12.50 The last stone, the so-called keystone. Once it's in, the bow will hold. The bricks keep each other in check, press against each other. The construction is self-supporting. 13.09 Small brick wedges give the composite additional support. 13.19 - 13.39 Original sound you have to do it. Because you shouldn't have joints that are too thick and if the stones are a little thicker than you initially thought, then it can be a bit tight, but normally it's looking good now.&quot; 13.43 Preparations for the construction of the cross vault . The bricklayers set the teaching sheets. An auxiliary structure that is dismantled once the vault has dried and is self-supporting. The so-called crown anchors the wooden cladding in the ceiling. 14.01 It has to be stable. It will be difficult for her to bear. 14.15 Toni draws the number and thickness of the layers. They must be identical on all four sides. 2:24 p.m. - 3:21 p.m. original sound: "It's always brickwork in turns. We are always the same distance out in every corner. If we are here at number 6, then we are at number 6 everywhere and the person who places the first stone then says, I am under 6 with my 0.2 and then everyone looks to see that it is achieved. It's not about millimeters, let's say 3 millimeters, but you have to be within that range. You also build an arch in there and the arch, the elevation, you talk about elevation because when it rests there, that's right now, but you put in a small elevation. And of course it has to be the same for everyone. So you have to fit together. Everyone should actually have the same sense of proportion. 15.31 - 15.53 Original sound "This is now the footstone, the beginning of the vault. It's a bit complicated to cut, but you'll get it there eventually. Now it doesn't hold all the weight alone because it's actually always distributed across the belt arches.&quot; 15.57 Toni and Alois are bricking up the corners. 16.11 Tedious. Every brick has to be cut differently. 16.42 Toni and Alois are a well-rehearsed team and have been working together for many years. 16:57 And they have a sense of proportion. The right sense of proportion. 17.09 A cross vault is a bold construction. There are actually two vaults, so-called barrels, that penetrate each other. Where the curvatures meet, two diagonal ridges are created that cross each other. Toni and Alois are working on these ridges. 18.02 Replenishment. The chain doesn't break. 18.06 The hacking has purely aesthetic reasons. 18.10 - 18.50 Original sound then it's visible and then it shouldn't be a cut surface. That's the gearing. As you can see here, the stone runs like this, the next one runs on it again like this, you can see the former cut surface that is chopped and the other stone then runs on it like this. And so you have a bandage, bang, bang, bang. There's the cut surface, bang, bang, bang and it runs up and it looks like a zipper. That looks really good.&quot; 19.15 Toni and his employees are often on the go. Everywhere in Germany. Not everyone can build such vaults. 19.35 - 20.11 Original sound "The angle changes, it is relatively acute at the beginning and then increases upwards, almost until it is completely straight. This is a measuring tool where you set your angle and it's called a bevel and you can adjust it and adopt the angle and that's what I'm doing now. I have to lose weight again. What's also important is that the angle has to be right for all four gravestones.&quot; 20.50 Cross vaults have always been built according to the same principle. The Romans didn't do it much differently than Toni and Alois. The vault is self-supporting because the compressive load is transferred to the walls and pillars. Pure physics. And yet a miracle. 21.08 - 21.30 Original sound because it just works and that it supports itself and doesn't collapse, that's easy, well, they've already thought of something before. They were crazy dogs. We orphan boys are against that. What they build and what we build is just beautiful." 9.40 p.m. The teaching sheets can go. The craftsmen spent a week building the cross vault. It's still not finished. There is still an opening.Toni scrapes the mortar from the ridge with a plasterer's spatula. 22.15 Brushing only takes place when the mortar is already somewhat dry. A question of experience. 22.24 - 22.45 Original sound stones and then corners come in here, these are larger stones and then in the middle come zap, zap, zap, that's an embossed stone and there too and then two normal, beautiful stones.&quot; 23.11 The mortar when building the vault has a larger lime content. He's fatter. Holds better. 23.29 It's a bit tricky to carve the stones so that they fit the ridge. 23.40 - 23.56 Original sound if I didn't do that, it would be down, the corner would be in front of me and a little bit would be knocked away, now it's relatively straight and now it fits him." 24.36 Toni blocks the remaining opening. Gives more support. 24.42 - 25.01 Original sound Austria around the turn of the last century. A lot of them were installed there. That's the double-headed eagle from the Austrian coat of arms, which is what we're using to close the vault at the moment.&quot; 25.07 - 25.18 Original sound and then it will settle in there too Apply pressure so that it is really closed.&quot; 25.24 - 25.41 Original sound , so it should radiate calm, so I'm not in favor of the extremely playful here , just a little quiet. The whole joint pattern, all the stones and everything, that speaks for itself and the whole shape actually." 25.48 The last slides. The bricklayers need the bricks for the wine racks. 26.04 The shelves are also small vaults. The same principle as with the belt arches. Not just because the shelves look so beautiful, but because they are so stable. 26.20 Here too they work with stencils. Or teaching sheets, as the wallers say. 26.33 Just as precise. 26.41 Other craftsmen will later take over the woodwork and ironwork and the lighting for the wine cellar . The vault builders stick with stone and mortar. 27.08 Toni builds a small sink. Everything alright? 27.48 Six weeks underground. That's how long it took Toni and his employees to build the wine cellar. 28.00 Final finishing work 28.26 A wooden barrel from the outside. Inside a cupboard. 28.35 The vaulted cellar is truly handcrafted. 28.39 - 29.07 Original sounds and with the mortar we are at 30 tons, so very roughly now. That's quite a lot that's being installed here. You are proud that it turned out the way you imagined it. Yes, it's a feeling of happiness when you're finished." 29.07 Once upon a time there was a simple basement made of concrete. And now: A room like from another century. Maybe the vault builders can do a little magic after all.