You probably have heard about eccentric founder Sam Bankman Fried. If you didn't know, FTX was Founded in 2019 by Sam Bankman Fried. It quickly became one of the most cryptocurrency similar to Binance. And in 2022, it was alleged that FTX was and misusing their OWN customers deposits. the interesting part was that source code of FTX, and we finally Before we review the actual source it's important to know a bit been a while since it happened. Sam Bankman Fried, and from now on SBF, is our main man in the story. 2017, he started a quant trading firm Research is important for the story. Alameda Research wanted to Now its goal was to use sophisticated order to profit from the volatility An example would be organizing trades the fact that the price of Bitcoin was Alameda's capital came from a mix as high interest cryptocurrency And they were trading decent amounts, but they found that as time went actually finding a ready supply of And especially since banks were of the lack of regulation. So they were looking for other options. And in 2019, SBF had an idea. Why not build a cryptocurrency revenue to help Alameda research? And so FTX came about. It was a cryptocurrency exchange Fried as well as Gary Wang. And at its peak in July 2021, the It was the third largest cryptocurrency And in a nutshell, FTX provided sell, and trade cryptocurrencies. That is how they made the money. But like any story, they wanted more. At thiss stage, cryptocurrency and everyone wanted in. SBF wanted to make more profit. So FTX invented a token The token was called FTT. They gave customers option of trading And if the customers use these And as long as the customers use these the token can become very valuable. Binance, a competitor of FTX, even but again, this token It's similar to loyalty points It doesn't have much value elsewhere Alameda Research also had a They used FTT as a guarantee to get And you can already see things are it's like me going to a bank but don't you worry? Because I have a lot of Just look at this company, It is doing great. And the stock is really Company X is my own company. And I'm the only one controlling There is no independent party actually worth what I say it is. In November, 2022, a site called essentially exposed FTX and Alameda Now, Now Coindesk got hold of private and Coindesk basically ton of money actually tied And this was a problem because the depend on the success of FTX, The Coindesk article goes on and quotes. It's fascinating to see that the majority is actually FTX own centrally controlled once this article was released, Binance, saw the news and decided to This was obviously quite a And many customers thought, So they rushed to take but FTX actually didn't have enough So they stopped letting people Later reports also show that FTX had money with Alameda researchers money. and this is a big no no because it means that the bets without their permission. And in the process, billions own customers were lost. So naturally SBF goes on trial. and the trial is known as the United Bankman-Fried He's on for many charges, we know that for a huge crypto company the business processes will Interestingly, SBF couldn't code. He didn't know how to. So someone had to be applying these SBF didn't touch any of But at the same time, technical because that would be how FTX allegedly So enter Gary Wang. Gary was a co founder of FTX and Alameda. He was also the chief He was a coder. So it's day four of the trial and we Literally there was a code So Gary Wang, our CTO was actually And the prosecution presented GitHub The prosecution starts with They talk about how the They talk about how And I think the main purpose here is understand that there's a front end and a back end where the actual so in the actual court transcript, the prosecution asks about the back end Gary gives an explanation and says that of all the accounts and balances and withdrawals, all the trades that happen. And now the prosecution goes into detail. So currently the prosecutor accounts table in the FTX database. again, the accounts table keeps and Gary explains things like the The maker and taker fees are the fees So in essence, that's The prosecutor also asked And Gary says it refers to the size So how much that account can borrow. Now, the prosecutor asks about this And this refers to whether or not part of its line of credit. now the prosecutor focuses on called the allow negative column. When asked about it, Gary responds not the account is allowed to have a the account is allowed to transfer cause it to have a negative balance. So if the account is allowed to have actually be transferring or withdrawing like an overdraft in a bank account. In essence, it would be So now this is where the prosecutor privileges that Alameda had that Gary responds and says that Alameda had allowed it to transfer or withdraw funds. Beyond what it actually had He also said that it had a very actually allowed Alameda to put on even when it did not have the collateral can just trade how much it wants, And now the prosecutor starts to have those special privileges? So over here is where they focus it was around July, 2019. And SBF actually asked Gary Wang and at the time to add the ability for The request from SBF was driven by the from Alameda's accounts, even if those S, so Nishad Singh was the one to make so he added a new column to the accounts And this column here would indicate negative balance, which you can see here. So this was probably the original code, So to explain it, in a normal the code would look like this. When a user tries to draw money, the and if the user doesn't have enough, notification saying you can't withdraw Now in a fraudulent situation of the allow negative flag. is just one more question This means that if the allow negative account, the check for the sufficient It's skipped. So this allows the account to go into At the time, Gary Wang actually did he was informed about the changes He knows, and he doesn't Gary also confirmed that Nishad Singh code, but also set the allow negative obviously these accounts were all as well as certain sub accounts. I'd also like to say that Gary actually He added this later on. So what this addition here means negative set to true are exempt So the liquidation process is where FTX positions to prevent any further losses. so basically accounts we allow Well, they can continue to operate and is way below the required level. A normal customer account won't You can't trade if you Now Wang did also note that the initial few million dollars, But then Alameda didn't have enough collateral at the time. So Sam asked Wang to So Wang took it up to $1 billion but So SBF being the honest guy that he that they wouldn't likely hit the limit. So Wang set it to around 65 billion, And note, it's just a limit. They did not use 65 billion, but it does of money that they just didn't have. And again, this allow negative accounts, nobody else's. Gary also states that at the time Alameda was borrowing about eight That is eight billion dollars Customers had no idea The prosecution also brought allow negative flag was added. SBF posted on Twitter and completely lied. So someone on Twitter was actually asking conflict of interest arising from That FTX operates and that Sam owns. obviously, this person is worried that SBF basically responded with is just like everyone else's. So no special interest, Meanwhile, we all know on the allow negative flag to be added. The prosecution also brought just solidifies their point. Alameda was getting preferential treatment And SBF completely lied about it. But there were more lies. this time the prosecutor was asking So FTX claimed that they This insurance fund was an amount to protect bad investments and Now, FTX published the value of to make them feel better and know worry, they have money set aside. So prosecution shows Gary this and it's showing the size of the tweet is saying that they have 5. 5 million in USD, so in 25 million in FTT. So let's focus on the USD number. The prosecutor asks Gary, Gary says no. Prosecutor asks why. Gary says, for one, there is It's just a USD number. And two, the number listed here does So he means that this number that number and doesn't correspond with So now the prosecutor wants to this number that's showing up? And we get to take a look at the code. so they show part of the the number on the website. So what this code does is that in trades from the past 24 hours on FTX. It then multiplies this number and then divides it by a billion. Yeah. Yeah, it's a random number. so the prosecutor asks, Does that actual number in the insurance fund? Gary responds with, No. And again, the public does fund was completely made up. So this is a crazy revelation because the website was completely made up. It wasn't some old outdated number. It was a number that was randomly picked. And this piece of code proves it, Now, if we look at the FTT number 25 million in FTT that they claimed Well, further on in the code, we can see again, this number is not It is just a hard coded number. So if I wanted to change the number, change that hard code value in the website, it would display as 10 million. so all of the lies It was all completely fabricated. I must say, after looking things that are interesting. If you're committing fraud, Python is really easy to read. I don't really think you need to actually read Python. but the other thing is if maybe don't name your variables based But anyway, they were committing a lot out eventually, but it's interesting Shady business processes. That being said, I found I often wonder, and I don't know if you finance technology scam that happens, on the backend, Because surely there business rules to the backend And we never so I am glad we got a little Unfortunately though, it did involve thank you so much for watching. This has been on my idea board for a because I had to read court documents. Yeah. If you like my content, please I will see you on the next one.