So to me, it doesn't look like a nose and it just looks like a really, really long lips, like a duck beak. *Giggling* Duck beak! *Duck Noises* Have you guys heard of Diary of a Wimpy Kid? I have. Have you followed Greg Heffley through the years? Are you a big fan of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid novels and adventures? Not really. Well, what if i told you, that a fan has made a continuation of the novels, and is currently posting them to reddit? *lots of oh's and um's* Not not a single word in that sentence- *mic dies* Prevoked any good emotions in me. When I said reddit, my bowels immediately evacuated themselves. It is formatted in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid novel format. P:Oh no.. G:Yeah, i dont like this. Im not ready for this. D:Don't spoil yourself now. Ok? Okay, please, please I can't allow this suffering, Just- Just pull the trigger piglet and let's get on with this. G:*giggles*Oh no! And Manny looks exactly like he did when he was a baby- *wheeze* Fucking dick nose. I mean, to me, it doesn't look like a nose and it just looks like a really, really long lips, like a duck beak. *Giggling* Just like expands open really wide I don't think he has a jaws his mouth What if what if instead of like it being like a jaw he? Uses like fluids in his face to inflate and deflate his mouth so he could deflate it and hangs like a dick and balls Like the front of his face Was even that Tuesday Hospital? No, let's go Why did you read it in a voice like that Get to the hospital mouth its dad the cancers gotten worse zoo-wee mama Okay, so, can you imagine that you get this phone call about your parent? They're sick and in the hospital And the first thing you do is to sit down and draw the situation in your journal before you leave everybody stop I need to drop my turtle. He took my dream journal. I did nuts Wednesday I guess I have to come clean dad was diagnosed with lung cancer over a year ago He's like I have to come clean. You know that last drawing in my previous journal page about my dad having cancer Well, it wasn't a joke. I Definitely have cancer. I definitely have breast cancer Thirteen book Jesus how many Diaries is kid head? Fuck bro. Just talking at they're pissed like everyone else idiot Thursday you're never going to believe who just showed up at the hospital that piece of shit Manny after almost a decade This is when he decides to see dad Damn it. Roger must have told him neither of them know Manny's here yet. Many wants to go see him now So I guess I have to let him Know bold letters just fuck The only thing that my eyes were drawn to get the fuck out of here right now Manney still looks like a deformed manchild. He opens up his lip flaps dad. I'm here to see you It just sounds like two pieces of like steak slapping against each other as he speaks It's really funny seeing the words that piece of shit maybe looking at how the characters Like look at look at that evil motherfucker. You can see it. You can see the three hairs in his eyes Thursday it didn't take many long to leave after that He tried to talk to us on the way out. But Roderick took care of that. Oh shit. Look, he's jacking off his meat. Oh Don't worry abroad jackoff your meat flats real quick The face he gets his meat flats jerked off, I I could not tell you Gerber that's a really good question My name is Jeff Kinney and I'm the author of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series. I'm here today I tell you about Manny's meat flaps at Jeff what it what what do I fucking Manny's meat flap sound like Friday all right before I say what happened next there's something I need to get off my chest for a long time So here it goes he's gay Seven years earlier. Why would you flashback in your own journal? Oh Yeah, wait, why would you last back in your own journey Rowley and I were best friends We had spent pretty much every day together since middle school. We went to college together and even moved in the same neighborhood afterwards I was probably the happiest I've ever been in my life, but it only took one phone call for everything to change forever 3:00 a.m. You get like that fucking the Hamtaro scene when it's like What are you wearing? That's a fucking whore? Oh Yeah, I don't know. What the fuck that is taro Taro, I don't watch anime I Got then you put on Dougie be Takeda wow, that makes me incredibly aroused I sure hope that you're a human female and not a hamster by any chance because if so, I'd be considerably less aroused Also, I can speak English now seven years earlier so Riley got a call from this comic syndicate in Boston that Seen his work and they wanted to offer him a physician. The thing was they only had room for one more cartoonist So of Rallye wanted the job he'd have to move to Boston within two weeks Now I wasn't in a particularly good mood already because fun brain games had just denied my application So when rally gave me the news that he'd be moving to Boston in two weeks I was devastated the day before he moved I told him to meet me on the roof of our old middle school for old times sake I had something I'd been waiting a Long time to tell him that he needed to say before he was gone. I Love you. Yeah, I love you too, man. No, I'm serious. I don't know if I'm bi or what but I love Greg Heffley is the LGBTQ representation that we need in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series god damn it. It makes perfect sense Thursday it's been one week since I tried to get in contact with Raley. He still hasn't responded at this point I've only got one option left Is really fuckin tweaked out of his mind He's off the shits man. Don't look at his eyes Okay, so I think that this might just be the greatest page of this fanfic yet. I'm not gay Greg I'm not playing fortnight with you great What was the main inspiration he sent somebody commented with the post just saying Bojack horseman intro plays and The creator said that's kind of the main inspiration mixed with a bit of master of none. Who you are. You serious art. Are you Kidding me. No, it's the Year 2034 the chief. I think that over half the population Dude that would have been since if any way to start this bro, oh my god, it's the Year 2034 the cheese touch has infected over half the population. Damn Blade Runner, really? 20:49 Why is there a flair--There's a flair on the subreddit that just says &quot;You can smell my anus.&quot; OwO WHY?! There's also other fanfics on this sub called great a trip to Vietnam and Greg Kaffee and a ballistic missile Holy shit today, we'll begin the ballistic missile is real. Okay. Can you start linking these? Day one Raleigh and I were making lemonade to cool off after a day of some heavy rounds of twisted wizard Not long after dad explained to us that there's a ballistic missile Heading towards our town in an hour, and we need to evacuate me This is the climactic finale to the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series I could smell it Raleigh and I were unsure if this was actually happening. I then received a notification on my phone Dad was right Donald Trump said city I can't I can't deal with this. This is like the best shit ever, honestly I don't think these were made by different people than the original author I feel like the original author just got high on bath salts and just started churning shit out Dude, like 50 minutes left Rowley decided to tag along with us since his fat ass was too slow to run back home Anyway, we started hitting the road we found out we didn't have enough seats for rally So we taped Manny's legs to the roof of the car I don't care it works my mom then thought that giving Manny a gun would eliminate Traffic, which is a stupid idea, but she still did it a few minutes later We heard a gunshot from the top of the car Manny shot the gun and killed someone we didn't know who he killed but I haven't - Roderick heard the gunshot He started congratulating Manny and told him he's doing a good job this family. I tell you Where we shirtless? Why is he so angry? On a shooting rampage Dad said we could call all of our stuff into the bunker in about 10 minutes I'm not sure if we'll be able to get the tape off many shoes in time Thirty-two minutes left. We're getting really close to the bunker Dad said we'll have time to spare if we don't get distracted But then we heard a faint scream and a whack when we all check to see what happened Manny flew off the car Died This image just says so much So much is conveyed through this every frame of painting. It was an absolute bloodbath I wish I had the red ink to show it because Manny was pouring blood out of every severed limb like His little brother just really go His brother is dead. He's like man I really wish I had some red ink because it was a fucking bloodbath 30 minutes left after the Manny incident. We kept driving I Don't think anybody in the family seemed to care that Manny is dead It seriously we'd flex but go off I guess I mean, they taped him to the roof of the car with the gun I don't think he's Well-being was really paramount in this situation here. Twenty two minutes left. Remember when we taped Manny to the roof of our car? turns out other people did that too because Dad was Assassinated from a bullet to the head. I love the drawing of the Dead that was Exercising and a bullet wound, but also there's a continuity issue. Well Bea's wearing a shirt you can see the outline on his neck. Oh Oh Dude, you're right. I can't believe that the fucking author would overlook such a major detail here. What in the vasila? I'm also not really sure what what the mom is doing. It looks like she's showing an iPad to the dead body Check out this funny meme. I found on Instagram 18 minutes left there was a family of three getting into a car that was right next to us when we ran out of gas These dumbasses placed the shotgun on the roof of their car and thanks to that we easily off those fuckers Jesus The image of Greg Heffley about to shoot a family of three will now be burned into my eyes Did this is this is great like I'm really glad that they were accurately able to capture what it was like for the Russian royal family to be stormed by the Bolsheviks in 1919 the time stamp for this page is holy. Fuck. Hey Fuckin Rodrick the goddamn piece of shit We were loading the fucking bags into the bunker and the bitch jumped in and locked us out before we could even toss them all The drum ease the motherfucker left us to die When is Greg writing all of this? question mark question mark question mark Well, I guess this is it. I'm going to die the bombs already gone off. I can feel the heat on my face I'm not making it out of this Well, I guess there's worse way to die. At least I got my best friend and mom right next to me Manny dad I'll see you too soon I'm gonna die. So what did you guys think of? Diary of a Wimpy Kid fan fics I was impressed that such pure raw creative talent can just nestled than even the smallest communities Gerber do you have anything else left to say about these fanfics? You know what sometimes you gotta be a little mad Genius, please go go check out these fanfics yourselves. There's more content for you to discover with your friends I highly suggest reading them together. If you're a fan of diary will avoid the kid you will not regret it and After you know after you're done reading those we want to see your best attempts at writing some diary My name is Jeff Kinney, and I'm the author