June 6th 2024 is the 80th anniversary of and while I'm sure that there are going to be about this most pivotal moment of World War II and that is the importance that food played on that day, like how troops sustain themselves on meals like these powdered eggs, and bacon, toast and lemonade, so thank you to Squarespace for sponsoring this video as we make the last meal before D-Day this time on Tasting History. So I just wanted to give you a heads up that this episode is the last episode of Tasting History that will be filmed in this kitchen because tomorrow the contractor and all those people come to break everything up because I'm getting new cabinets because I need more storage, I always need more storage, but that doesn't mean that I'm not going to be having episodes while they do that for the next month or so, it's just that I won't be here I'm going to have to find some other spaces to film in so same show different kitchens and when I get back to this kitchen it will also be different. And I think it's rather fitting that for my last meal here in this kitchen I'm going to be making the last meal that many troops ate before leaving England to cross the English Channel and land on the beaches Now there were numerous countries involved in the invasion, there were troops from the UK, the US, Canada, Australia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Norway, France, Belgium, Greece, and the but regardless of nationality on that morning that they had a breakfast similar to the one that &quot;On June 6, at 0500 we dressed, and if you hadn't written home why you did then - that last minute note to home to tell whether or not you were going to make it! Then breakfast - eggs, bacon, toast, and juice. It was excellent.&quot; Now excellent is a relative term based that day the food was was not great at the moment but some people did get fresh eggs which was a real treat at the time but some people didn't get fresh eggs, they got powdered eggs and that's actually what they would have been used to, and that's what I'm going to make because it's just more interesting than just me making fresh eggs here so I'm going to be using a recipe from this which is the World War II edition of the US War Department's cookbook for the US Army and there is a recipe in here for powdered scrambled eggs. &quot;Number 749. Scrambled Eggs. Water, cold 2 and 1/2 quarts. Eggs, powdered 1 and 1/2 pounds. Salt to taste. Pepper to taste. Lard or bacon fat... 1 pound. 1. Sift eggs. Pour 1/3 of the water into a utensil suitable for Stir vigorously with whip or slit spoon until mixture is absolutely smooth. Tip utensil while stirring. 2. Add salt pepper and remaining water slowly to eggs, The recipe then goes on to have them cooked in lard from the following recipe which is recipe Number 1. Add 3 pounds of ham or bacon to basic recipe for scrambled eggs; omit lard, fry ham or bacon until crisp and brown. 2. Pour egg solution over meat and fat. Stir and cook as in basic recipe. Additional fat may be needed if ham is used.&quot; Now of course this recipe was meant to feed a small platoon so I'm going to be cutting it way back to just use a half pound So first sift a quarter pound or 115 grams of the powdered eggs into a wide bowl. Then pour in a little over 1/2 cup or 120 milliliters of cold water and whisk until the mixture is nice and smooth. Add about a 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and a 1/2 teaspoon of pepper and whisk those in. Then slowly add another cup or 23 5 milliliters of cold water just a little at a time as you whisk. Keep stirring Then it's time to fry up the bacon and while they were in the UK making this the bacon was actually coming from the US so you do so you're going to dice that up into cubes about a 1/2 inch square. Then heat a large pan over medium high heat and add the bacon in, and let it cook for 5 or 6 minutes or until all of the fat has melted out and the bacon has become a nice dark brown. Then lower the heat to medium low and then add the egg solution. The recipe says they should be slowly stirred as they thicken and that it should be removed a little before they look done as they will continue to thicken after being And with this bacon and eggs Robert Adams said that he had some toast which is easy enough to make and some juice but I'm not exactly sure what kind of juice it was and this book doesn't mention juice maybe it was just orange juice, I don't know, but there is a recipe in here for lemonade and it's it's a little different uses powdered lemon so I'm going to make that close enough and and it's more interesting than just me making juice but before I do that let's take a closer look at what else those troops ate on that June day 1944 both before, during, and after the invasion. By the end of May 1945 Southern England had become the world's largest military base with almost 2 million men ready to to participate in the invasion of Nazi occupied Europe. 54,000 of those men were dedicated to keeping the other 1.9 million fed watered, and supplied, and 4500 were dedicated entirely to cooking meals. Unfortunately the food in England at this time is what for decades to come would give the country a reputation for less than quality cuisine, as an American recalled &quot;We were issued sack lunches. These consisted of two sandwiches made of dry brown bread; one had a glob of of jelly in the middle, the other a slice of pork lunch and meat. We called them spam and jamlunches.&quot; But in the days leading up to D-Day all of that changed because the troops that were involved in that they were brought to camps on the south coast of the food was decidedly improved. &quot;We were incarcerated behind barbed wire and MPs made sure that no one entered or left camp. No soldier inside the compound was allowed to talk to anyone outside; he could suffer the possibility of getting shot. This was serious business. Brand new equipment was issued, and the new weapons had to be test fired and zeroed in on the firing range. Unlimited amounts of ammo were given to each of us for practice firing. Bayonets and combat knives were honed to a keen edge. Steak and pork chops with all the trimmings, topped off and it was all you can eat. This caused one of the Other troops recalled having access to white bread and some even got ice cream. Then they would also play movies in the tents, first run movies in the tents on the base where they would hand The issue is while everybody knew that they were getting nobody knew exactly when it was going to happen and they didn't find that out until a very early morning breakfast call. &quot;I was awakened at two o'clock in the morning from a sound sleep. The officer of the day came running shook me said 'Come on, get up, time to get up'. We're going to have breakfast in about half an hour, and then briefing. Breakfast at that time of the morning and briefing? There was something going on. So we did it. We all got up and dragged our butts out the door.&quot; This was that breakfast of eggs and bacon and there are a few accounts of disgruntled Americans being on a certain British boat that was serving kidney stew but for the most part whether you were American, British, Canadian, or otherwise it was eggs and bacon. &quot;They gave us a good breakfast of eggs, bacon, anything you wanted, yeah. Even coffee! They had taps on the wall. You just turned the tap on Well, after breakfast, we just manned our equipment and And while Sergeant Eddie Wallace of the royal artillery company was impressed with that breakfast others seemed to be pressed into eating that breakfast. Basically if you were going to France you were eating those eggs. &quot;We had a fried egg breakfast, washed down by a tot of rum (not my choice but mandatory for all those going ashore.)&quot; And honestly it probably would have been better had they not had that that breakfast as they all boarded into small boats going across choppy waters to a place that they they knew that they might die, and the air was filled with diesel fumes because &quot;Everybody threw up. They gave us paper bags to throw up in and throw over the side. We were sea sick, soakin' wet.&quot; Though this bout of seasickness does seem to be mostly among the troops who were on the small landing craft called Higgins boats, one of which I actually got to see when I recently visited the World War II Museum in New Orleans, and if you ever get down to New Orleans definitely go to that museum. It's absolutely fantastic and if you're really into World War II make sure you have two days because I only had one and it was not enough. It's a fantastic museum. Anyway it does seem that it was mostly the troops who had the seasickness because of course the Navy men they were used to it, even if they had been drinking on an empty stomach. Like the crew of the USS LCI 94 the skipper of the vessel and he had commanded the boat during Landings in North Africa, Sicily and Salerno, Italy. So he knew what was about to happen and so he made sure that his boat was well stocked with plenty of J&amp;B scotch, and he told his cook that it was his duty that day to go around to the crew &quot;and keep giving them a drink until they didn't want anymore or until we ran out; essentially we drank most of the day. Didn't have any food, but I drank all day and didn't get This was the same man who saved his crew by basically not following orders that day. See his boat LCI 94 was one of numerous LCI, landing craft lousy civilian idea that were supposed to go leave the beach and go back out into the ocean. Well when he saw where they were supposed to land he said that's not- that's not going to happen, we will never get off that beach alive because he had already seen several other boats go up and and some of the boats were completely blown up so instead he went 100 yards down the beach so he could get closer to where they weren't firing as much. The problem is, it seems like an easy thing just go 100 down yards down the beach but there were mines over there. They had only picked certain places to get rid of the mines and he couldn't get that close to the beach. They actually beached way out so when the men did get off the boat it was like up to their shoulders in water, so it was a little difficult for them to get to the beach but I think 90% ended up getting to the beach and most of his crew also survived before they were able to get out and and turn back around. But since he dropped off all of those troops in really deep water up to their shoulders they had to trudge through the water wearing these really heavy backpacks about 70 to 100 pounds of gear, part of which would have been their rations. &quot;We carried one set of K rations, a breakfast dinner and supper and three D bars.&quot; The K ration were the most common for the American troops, each meal included some sort of canned meat product like ham and eggs for breakfast, pork and cheese for dinner, and a beef and pork loaf for supper. They also included things like biscuits, water purification tablets, dried fruit bars, sugar, powdered drinks, chewing gum, toilet paper and cigarettes and they provided 2,830 calories a day. The D bars he mentioned are a type of chocolate created by Hershey and were designed to and I quote &quot;Taste a little better than a boiled potato&quot;. This was because the D ration was meant for emergencies, it was called an emergency ration so if it tasted too good the Army was worried that the men would eat those before attacking their K rations. The British soldiers actually had a special D-Day assault ration pack or the 24-hour ration (A). This included ten biscuits, two blocks of oatmeal, one block of meat and meat extract tablets, three slabs of chocolate, two with raisins, and one without boiled sweets, two packs of chewing gum, four pieces of toilet paper and all the necessary ingredients to brew up a good pot of tea. The thing is many of these rations never actually made it past the beach because they either got too soaked, or were just discarded, or or in the case of the 23,000 British and American paratroopers the rations would often end up scattered around the French countryside. A lot of their equipment actually got kind of lost when they were dropping and so the rations was kind of the least of the issue as long as you had your gun that was good but many of the paratroopers, at least the Americans, ended up only having those D ration, the emergency chocolate bar, and so after a full day of fighting they they were really needing something else to eat. This often meant trying to get food from the locals and trying to swap his chocolate for some fresh eggs but he didn't speak any French and so the farmer was probably frightened and definitely confused. &quot;So I started making noises like a chicken and I hopped around and he thought I wanted a whole chicken and tried to catch one.&quot; And since he didn't know the French word for egg he decided to like, I don't know, mime it with his hands and finally the farmer got it and he swapped And he was not the only paratrooper who got fresh eggs that day. First Lieutenant S.H. Matheson recalled that &quot;Early in the morning, a French boy in the farmhouse, about twelve years old, and his friend gathered up a cart and horses and assisted in gathering up some of our equipment bundles. I obtained a couple of eggs and scrambled them in a cup and with a piece of French bread had scrambled eggs and bread before the landing took place on the beach.&quot; Perhaps even more rewarding was when they got food from the enemy, from the Germans, who they had just beaten back and and pushed inland. Lieutenant Carl Cartledge of the 501st Parachute Infantry regiment recall driving out a number of Germans from a farmhouse killing several in the process only to find a dining room table inside that was laden with half-eaten food, everything from cold meats and cheese to fresh fruit like apples and cider which I'm guessing was a much better Feast than what they had in their ration packs. There were also others who had brought additional food from England with them which of course just added to the weight of their already heavy packs and sometimes that food didn't really make the landing so well. For example Sergeant John Ellery of the 16th Infantry Regiment had brought some apples with him and shortly But as he dug around in his musette bag &quot;I discovered that my apples had become applesauce. So I settled for a K ration and enjoyed it. I enjoyed it so much that I decided to have another. It seemed to me that I wasn't likely to outlast my supply of rations so there was no point in going hungry.&quot; By even on D-Day once the beaches were secured landing crafts began arriving that were essentially giant floating kitchens and meals were prepared for many of the men at least those who were still on or near the beaches but some of the troops had already started to head inland, especially those who had entered Normandy via the air like Lieutenant CT Cross of the British 6th Airborne Division. He had landed in Normandy via glider and later on he wrote to his parents letting him know that he was okay, and his experience in landing in Normandy and then said that he headed toward the battlefield. &quot;I shall not tell you about that, except that, apart from a bar of chocolate and half the contents of my whiskey flask I had no time to eat or drink for a very uncomfortably long while. I didn't notice it much at the time - too much else to do - but it seems incredible now. From my last meal in England to my first cup of char and hard ration in France was very nearly 48 hours! But I've been making up for it since!&quot; I had to look up what char meant and it turns out it is another word for a cup of tea. It comes from the Chinese cha which which means tea. Also while he is usually referred to as Lieutenant CT Cross his real first name is Chris so he was Lieutenant Crisscross which I think would be a cool rapper name like back in the early '90s. Anyway for most troops other than the occasional meal while on leave for the next year they could expect little more than rations, and the meals made in the field kitchens which relied on recipes from this cookbook, meals like the powdered eggs and bacon which I'm about to eat after I make my lemon-less lemonade. So this recipe calls for three ingredients: lemon juice, powder sugar, and water. Again it makes 100 servings so I'm going to cut it way, way down. So whisk together 2 tablespoons of lemon juice powder then slowly add that to a half gallon of water, stirring Then chill it so it's nice and cold when you dish up your eggs. And here we are a breakfast of eggs bacon and toast and lemonade as might have been eaten just before the D-Day landings. So I got to say I'm surprised they look and smell like eggs and bacon should smell, so let's give them a try. They don't quite taste that way though. Okay so they're not horrible but they're also not real eggs. You can definitely tell and it's less the flavor and more the texture. There's just something a little- a little off. It kind of reminds me more of like tofu than eggs, and I think what saves the flavor is that the bacon is real. I think that if if these were without any bacon I think that they would not be great, yeah probably wouldn't last very long in the military but let me try the lemonade. That's actually really good. I mean you could tell it it is not fresh lemonade. There's like an extra flavor in there. I mean it kind of tastes like Country Time lemonade but maybe more metallic though. Maybe that's the cup. So yeah, if you want want to make these this book is available online. I'll put a link in the description as well as the World War II Navy cookbook from the US but all of the recipes that I have done these included are on the Tasting History website which I've built With Squarespace makes building a website so easy for both desktop and mobile and they have lots of templates so even if you don't have any experience in building a website like me there is a place to start. It's not like you have just a blank screen, they give you a starting place which makes things a lot easier. I also love that when you make a change on the desktop And if you're using your website for business they have a wonderful suite of tools that help with bookkeeping and sales just making life a lot easier. So if you're looking to start a website go to squarespace.com for a free trial and when you're ready to launch go to squarespace.com/tastinghistory and get 10% and I will see you next week on Tasting History but not in this kitchen. This is it. This is a fond farewell. I've done over 100 episodes here. This is the last one. It'll be a few weeks before I'm and it won't look like this but stick around 'cus it's still Tasting History. So long! [Like and Subscribe please]