Did you know that men have more heart attacks before the age of 65 than women at 70? Yes, and the most alarming thing is that most do not know what to do to avoid these heart attacks, nor do they know that they can be avoided with these simple tips that I am going to give you today. Now stop for a moment and think about this. Are you sure your arteries are not clogged? Could it be that you have some subtle symptom that you are ignoring? In this video you will discover how to protect your arteries, the best and worst foods for your heart and most interestingly, a very simple test that you can do at home in just a few minutes to evaluate the health of your circulation and your arteries inside. . Furthermore, at the end I will show you a scientific discovery that promises to revolutionize the treatment of clogged arteries without the need for surgery, remedies or stents. Let's hope the pharmaceutical industry lets this come to light. Look, this happens to all of us as we age, especially after age 50. The walls of our arteries become more rigid and thick, full of calcium, which makes blood circulation difficult. This is called atherosclerosis and it occurs in the arteries of the heart, in the neck, in our brain, in our belly, in the legs, in the kidney, everywhere. We could say that this is the aging of our arteries, but what no one tells you is that long before this happens, even from adolescence, the wall of your arteries may already be inflamed and there may be a layer of fat growing in it. her, silently accelerating that obstruction. That is, many years or decades may pass before the fatty plaque shows any symptoms, and it often debuts as a stroke, an unexpected heart attack, or kidney failure when the artery is already almost completely occluded. And listen to this, a study that really shocked me, done in the United States, revealed that 78 percent of 35-year-olds who died in traffic accidents already had coronary artery obstruction , that is, plaques in the arteries of the heart. Yes, almost 80 percent of apparently healthy young people in the prime of their lives, but with clogged arteries. And the most surprising thing is that one in five blockages were greater than 50 percent of the artery. Who would have imagined that such a serious problem was developing silently at such a young age? People, this is the leading cause of death in the world. Heart attacks claim more lives than cancer and traffic accidents. I'm going to tell you the method to detect this in your home in time. But how do these plaques cause heart attacks and deaths? It is very important that you know this. Look, it is a serious mistake that many times even doctors make. Thinking that only the arteries that cover almost all or almost 100 percent of the artery are the most dangerous. This is not true. Although these obstructions are the ones that cause the most symptoms, for example, shortness of breath when walking or making any effort, chest pain when climbing stairs. Small plaques, those that seem harmless, are equally or more lethal because small plaques are the most inflamed and unstable. Stress, the fumes we breathe, the unfiltered water we drink, the junk we eat, or even a few nights of poor sleep can weaken these plaques and cause them to break easily. And when everything that was inside these plaques breaks down, calcium, inflammatory substances, fat is released into the bloodstream, causing a chain reaction, which causes the formation of a clot inside this artery that blocks it completely and this It cuts off the supply of blood and oxygen to that organ, be it the heart, brain or legs. What is the result of this? Strokes, heart attacks, circulatory problems, sudden deaths in young people. And it takes us by surprise. Surely you know someone who seemed to be healthy, full of life, without symptoms and suddenly suffered a devastating heart attack. And when we see that news we think: Did that person really not have any symptoms? How is there not something that can detect clogged arteries in time? That is what I am going to show you today. Understand this. Taking care of your arteries early is not optional, it is a necessity. How can we protect them? It all starts with something as basic as our diet. To uncover them we must avoid everything that harms us and prioritize what heals us. I'm already going to tell you about the most powerful foods to unclog arteries, but now I want to show you the best methods to detect if you have a blocked artery in your heart or anywhere in the body. On the one hand, your doctor may request a Doppler ultrasound of the arteries in your neck or carotid arteries to see if you have any obstructions at that level. This is one of the simplest methods. Or also a Doppler ultrasound of the aorta artery inside your abdomen to see if there are blocked arteries or aneurysms at that level. Or even the same study, but on your legs to see if you already have circulatory problems. But what does this have to do with your heart? The thing is that atherosclerosis is not a disease that is limited to a single organ and I want this message to reach your family. When a plaque is detected that is clogging the arteries in some part of your body, it is very likely that you will have the same problem in the other organs: heart, brain, kidney. Now there are more advanced ways than ultrasound to detect if you have obstruction, calcium accumulation in the arteries and in some cases the doctor will request it. But well, these are modern methods and can be a bit expensive. Today I want to show you a method that detects clogged arteries in your home in just a few minutes. It is a method that was used before, 50 years ago by doctors, when there were not yet these advanced technologies. Although this method is not the same as having a CT scan or cardiac catheterization, it is still very useful, effective and reliable, being able to detect 90 out of 100 cases of clogged arteries. It is called the ankle-brachial index, better known as ABI, and it is mainly used to detect circulatory problems in your legs or peripheral arterial disease in medical terms and with that evaluate the risk you have of suffering a heart attack, a stroke due to also having clogged arteries in other areas. parts. But what is this and how does it work? This test measures blood flow and compares blood pressure between your ankle and arm, which can detect plaques or hardening of the arteries in the legs. These alterations are important because they allow us to detect the risk of having clogged arteries in other parts of the body. If you do it at home, remember that this serves as an initial check and does not replace a visit to your doctor. And very important, if you had a deep vein thrombosis or have leg ulcers, avoid performing this test because it is not the most appropriate for those situations. How is it done? This is the step by step. First you lie down in a comfortable place, rest for about 10 minutes, relax. Remember that you have not drunk coffee or smoked in the last two hours and ask a family member to measure your blood pressure, preferably with a digital blood pressure monitor on your right arm, and write down the systolic or maximum blood pressure, that is, the highest number or the first one that appears on the blood pressure monitor screen. For example, if he gave you 122, write down that number. Second, relax for a few minutes. Let your body rest before measuring the pressure in your ankles for more accurate results. Third step measure the pressure in your right ankle. To do this, measure the pressure and write down only the highest number, the maximum pressure or the first one that appears on the screen. For example, if you gave 100, write that down. Fourth step, repeat the same procedure on the left ankle and also write down the maximum pressure you gave at that level. If you gave 95, write down that value. Finally, measure the pressure in your left arm and again record the maximum pressure. If you gave 120, write that down. The sixth step is to calculate the ankle-brachial index. It's very simple. To do this you have to divide the highest or maximum pressure you gave on the right ankle. Remembering that it was 100 in this example because of the higher pressure he gave between both arms. If you gave the right 122 and the left 120, use the higher value, in this case 122 for the right arm. In this example it would be dividing 100 of the right ankle by 122 of the right arm. The result of this gives 0.81. That will be the ankle arm index on the right side and then repeat the same calculation for the left ankle. How are we going to interpret the results? The normal thing is that the index is between 1 and 1.4. This generally indicates healthy circulation, but if the results are out of the norm, i.e. very low below 0.9 or very high above 1.5, it may be a sign of clogged arteries or more serious stiffness. And this can affect the heart, the brain and other organs. In these cases you should consult with your doctor as soon as possible to do more specific studies. This method is very practical, effective and reliable and has an accuracy close to 90 percent, especially for detecting more serious circulation problems. Now, what happens if you took the test at home and it came back abnormal? All is not lost. Clogged arteries are a problem that can be cured. It can be reversed. Many patients manage to reduce arterial blockage by more than 50 percent in less than a year using natural methods, lifestyle changes and in some cases when necessary medications. I am going to name you now two very simple steps to reverse clogged arteries. The first is to avoid as much as possible everything that blocks them and the second is to incorporate habits and natural remedies into your routine that reduce inflammation and reverse this obstruction. Here are the five worst products that clog your arteries and that you should avoid. The first is everything that is ultra-processed and comes in packages, especially plastic. This is toxic. This includes refrigerants, junk foods, cereal bars, powdered soups and everything that is far from homemade and natural. Second sugar in all its forms and refined flours, noodles, rice, white bread, cakes. Leave these products only for special moments if you don't want to stop eating them. Be careful with filtered fruit juices because they are pure fructose and also industrial juices full of junk. And be careful, both excessive honey and brown sugar, whole, organic, natural, whatever you want to call them, are different forms of the same poison in disguise. Number 3 bad fats. Vegetable seed oils, corn, canola, soybean, sunflower. These toxins kill more than sugar itself. Read the labels, especially of the baked or pastry products you buy, because they are full of these oils and avoid eating fried food as much as possible. Margarine is a poison and lard or fat from any animal. I do not recommend that you use them for cooking. Leave it only for special moments because it is known to clog the arteries. Fourth, processed red meats or sausages, salami, ham, mortadella, sausage. Eating these products is as harmful as smoking and not only for the heart, they cause cancer mainly of the intestine and also premature deaths. And number 5 artificial sweeteners, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, sucralose. Do not consume them, they are dangerous. If you want to sweeten your drinks, use ginger, cinnamon, monk fruit, a little stevia and, if possible, learn to feel the natural flavor of foods so you don't have to sweeten them. Let's now look at five natural remedies and foods that unclog your arteries. First, consume healthy fats every day, olive oil or extra virgin avocado oil, 2 to 3 tablespoons cold. Add it to your dishes when they are ready on the table. Coconut oil, if you ask me, is inferior to those two, but you can use it in moderate doses. It has some benefits. I recommend that it be extra virgin and no more than one tablespoon per day, but never use these oils for cooking because they burn. The seeds also have healthy fats. Chia, flaxseed, pumpkin, as well as sea fish, seafood, nuts. And if you want you can take omega 3 supplements. Just make sure they contain EPA and DHA combined. The dose is one gram twice a day. Second whole meal. Replace everything that is refined with whole wheat, rice, noodles, flour. Use unprocessed whole grains. When processing the grains, the outer layers, the shell, are removed and the nutrients and fibers are lost , leaving only the sugar. Examples are rice and oats. Always give preference to pastas and breads made with whole wheat flour. Number 3 fresh fruits and vegetables. The best ones for the heart are those that have a deep red or purple color. For example, grapes, blackberries, blueberries, tomatoes that contain lycopene, also red onion and as long as the peel is edible, take advantage of it because in general it is where there are more concentrated nutrients. For example, apple, kiwi, tomato peel, onion, even eaten with peel. If you prepare juices made with green leaves and some fruit with peel, for example apple or kiwi, do not filter them, drink it with the pulp and everything. Number 4. Water with lemon. One or two glasses a day every day. You can start from the moment you wake up. This way you increase the amount of water you drink, activate your intestine and also add vitamins, potassium and magnesium. And number 5 of food that unclogs your arteries, probiotics, that is, foods and drinks fermented with fungi and bacteria beneficial to our body. Natural yogurt , kefir, kombucha, organic apple cider vinegar with the mother, that is, unfiltered. You can take two tablespoons every day diluted with a glass of water or add it directly to your food. Those are my favorite probiotics. I told you 5, but I want to give you one more food to cleanse your arteries. All those that contain vasodilating substances, that is, they leave them more flexible and healthy to improve circulation and control blood pressure. Examples are beets with peel and all. You can consume them raw in salads or boiled and steamed for 5 minutes. The pomegranate is also spectacular. You can drink unfiltered pomegranate juice or consume its seeds directly from the fruit and vegetables such as spinach, arugula, and celery also contain vasodilating substances. As a final bonus, I'll tell you a discovery that could change everything if pharmaceutical companies let this come to light. They imagine being able to remove fatty plaques, inflammation, and calcium from the arteries without surgery, stents or medications. It seems like science fiction, but it is not. New research promises to make this a reality soon. This advance uses nanoparticles, that is, particles that are smaller than the tip of a human hair and are used to activate a natural cleaning process that we have in the body called efferocytosis. This process helps clear accumulated debris and dead cells that clog the arteries. Under normal conditions, our body is constantly trying to do this, that is, eliminate arterial plaques. But when these plaques grow too much or we consume a lot of junk, we don't let our body do this naturally. Then the nanoparticles manage to reactivate and enhance this natural cleaning mechanism, eliminating even the most dangerous plaques and giving way to the regeneration of these arteries from within. It's incredible. Many call this as if it were a natural detergent that removes plaque from the arteries. This method has already been successfully tested in animals with atherosclerosis, and is now moving forward with experiments in humans. And the best thing, so far no serious adverse effects have been detected. The nanoparticles are so precise that they only go there and eliminate what is damaging our arteries, leaving all the healthy parts intact. The potential is enormous. However, this would represent the cure for the problem. It remains to be seen if large industries allow this to reach the public en masse.