Transcriber: Ivana Krivokuca When I was a child, I remember playing outside The neighbors' kids, we would climb trees in the woods, meet new friends, and only much later did it strike me on my parents' side. Trust in the people we would meet, but also trust in me. I often wondered whether and how Then I grew up, I became and now I investigate the processes and cooperate with one another. And again I look at trust, and I noticed that trust really is I want to share insights with you, social neuroscience to back up my three That is that trust can be difficult. Trust is dynamic and most of all, Especially when we don't know people well, deciding whom to trust Nonetheless, we humans make this decision But what do we base Well, one cue we use to decide is their faces, their facial features. Let me show you two examples. Whom of these two guys Who chooses the left one? Raise your hand. Who chooses the right one? A few. Yes. Your voting nicely reflects showing that people and who doesn't look trustworthy. It's areas around the eyes, that are relevant here. But is the guy on the left No. So far, there is no concluding evidence that people with trustworthy faces What else do we use? Well, when we meet people we look for signals We tend to listen to and comply who are, for instance, dressed like this, You are all probably familiar that were carried out in the 60s. In these experiments, were invited to a laboratory, and they were asked to punish students Punishment had to be administered Of course, in reality, students but participants certainly believed so. A surprising number of people, punished these students by administering That is the critical point - they did so the one who instructed them showed these tokens of authority I think this shows that trusting others merely on the basis or whether they seem to have authority can really have devastating consequences. Also, when we meet others we tend to listen a lot Their reputation. In fact, prior information can have such a strong influence that we entirely ignore So we ignore somebody's when we already expect him or her These examples, I think, show how somebody's face looks, somebody's reputation - these signals of trustworthiness, This makes deciding because we have to put an effort who might not be and equally important, to not deprive of our trust but might not quite look like it. So, we shouldn't judge That was all about situations But even after we started an interaction, trust isn't something It is an inherently ongoing, Psychologists and behavioral economists They have used very simple paradigms in which trust is operationalized, An investment of time, effort or money. I'll show you one very simple paradigm. In this paradigm, in this task, person A and person B; They don't know each other, they are They might see each other's picture, and they enter a formalized, in which one of them, Alice, Let's say Alice has 100 euros, and she can now choose Let's say she chooses 60 euros. Now comes the critical part this amount is then tripled. So, Bella receives three times the amount Now it's Bella's turn. Bella can decide how much she wants If she chooses 90 euros, Alice has 130 euros. That means that if Alice trusts both of them end up with more Both of them benefit. Especially when we have this interaction this allows us to really look and of trust-based relationships. This has yielded For instance, in some people, trust declines quickly. Cooperation breaks down, By contrast, in other groups, stable, functioning, Everybody wins and everybody's happy. What's the difference? Well, one thing that those long-term trust-based relationships I think in most relationships where the other person does not behave For instance, and this might be because Bella didn't reciprocate This can be a misunderstanding, it can be an active breach of trust. In order for the cooperation Alice needs to do something. Alice needs to overcome and give Bella a second chance. She needs to trust in, Maybe not five times or six times, That is in fact what the groups that are mutually beneficial On the side of the other person, Bella, there might be situations &quot;Alice doesn't seem to trust me Alice doesn't invest There's also something that Bella can do. Bella can actively repair the relationship She can convince Alice to trust her again by reciprocating especially much, So, there is forgiving, there is and how do we do that? There is a cognitive skill that is and that is perspective taking We need to take put ourselves in the shoes of the other, so we need to think about what the other We can only forgive others &quot;Well, maybe there might be why the other behaved the way she did.&quot; Also, for coaxing others we need to consider, &quot;Well, yes, Not surprisingly do that brain areas that are involved in the process are also really important So, taken together, trust is not something Trust is an inherently dynamic process. Saying &quot;I trust you&quot; or &quot;Trust me&quot; it is really only the beginning. So far, it probably sounds to you as if trust is We need to overcome these that I talked about in the beginning, and we need to think about and it sounds all quite strenuous. But - and that is the last point - Trust is indispensable, and trust is not really something it's not the cherry on the pie. I think that trust is the salt If you think for a moment about these very simple interactions but also if you think and the relationships you enter, and it becomes evident without trust, cooperations, interactions, trust-based relationships A very touching example involves vampire bats. These little creatures or every second night at the latest, otherwise they starve. However, every night That would be quite tragic didn't they have specific mutual in which food is shared. If one bat doesn't catch anything, she can go to her friend That is pretty gross, This favor is later reciprocated Critical point is that without an initial incident this life-saving reciprocal could never have been established. We need trust to establish relationships. What else? Another benefit of trust to recognize signs of distrust. That sounds funny in the beginning. It seems though, and that is that people who tend and that is symbolized by the woman anything good to come people who tend to expect are also less capable of recognizing They don't recognize signs of distrust, they're less capable, less willing to coax others back into trusting them. As a consequence of that, their cooperations So, nice example As odd as it sounds, we need to trust, we need to be trustful and then to repair relationships. The final point is We genuinely enjoy being trusted. When other people place trust in us, it make us fell good about ourselves. And initial evidence shows that our brains for being trusted. That's not all. Closing the circle, if you will, our brains not only reward us but also for being trustworthy. We genuinely enjoy We don't want to breach others' trust; we want to reciprocate, The strong preferences are deeply ingrained in us. Taken together, besides being and besides being very dynamic, We need trust to establish, to maintain Trust empowers us and we can This brings me back and them letting me play outside Maybe inspired by the vampire bats, and that is quite a while ago. I think they allowed by trusting me to play out of their sight. Meeting new kids, I could learn or untrustworthy as they look, I could learn that maintaining and being forgiven. By trusting me I think they taught me That is a pretty great gift that I hope Thank you. (Applause)