Remember this? You might know this iconic ringtone, but probably The blings and ringtones and so forth. It's nostalgic to me. It all started here in the tiny country of the collapse of the Soviet Union. A group of childhood friends teamed up with two the way we communicate across borders with an app Skype came out in the early 2000 as a way for communicate mainly by voice calls over the It was basically an alternative to using your Right now, this is completely commonplace. Back then, that was not the case and Skype was This is the story of Skype and how it went from nostalgic sound of the past. CNBC explores Skype's past its present and what's was one of Microsoft's biggest acquisitions in Skype was launched in 2003 after Scandinavian Zennstrom and Janus Friis teamed up with four schoolmates Jaan Tallinn, Priit Kasesalu, Toivo Heinla. Heinla left Skype in 2008 and now runs a robot delivery business. As the Chief Technical Architect at Skype, he It took a relatively short amount of time, I think concept. We were smart engineers. We learned on the go. None of us had any telecoms background. I think that was the key thing about why it worked It didn't look like telecom. It didn't behave like one. So there were such outsiders, so they thought they could do with Skype. Jaan Tallinn was a founding engineer at Skype, and Existential Risk at the University of Cambridge. At the time we started Skype, we already had like things like Kazaa and a few other projects that Even more importantly, before that, we had games for a decade. The group used knowledge. They learned building Kazaa, a peer-to-peer file world's most downloaded Internet softwares to Skype stands for Skype peer-to-peer. The software initially used Voice Over IP receive calls over the Internet, and it caught on in its first year. The fact that Skype is going to be big became Like pretty much in the first day. One thing that we did borrowed from Kazaa was are currently connected? And then this like when we launched Skype, we online. We need to need to make the number go up. And suddenly we saw like the numbers that just withou, without any any help from our friends. It really captivated people. 10,000 people downloaded and installed our app on It was a very big number back in 2003. It immediately signaled to everybody that this is This is something that that will really catch on 100,000. It was a million. It was 10 million and so forth. It snowballed from there. In the same year the app was launched, laptop and by 2005, Skype had 59 million registered 182 million times worldwide. One thing that really helped Skype to be consumer can not possibly use alone. You have to tell somebody else that, hey, you can talk to me for free over the Internet and we So that meant that people naturally talk to each I never really experienced anything that easy to even if the quality wasn't that great before Like it was just so dead simple. Skype's early success made it attractive to In 2005, eBay bought Skype for $2.6 billion under president and CEO Meg Whitman with the idea of sellers. A lot of people after the acquisition started that, you know, why did they do this? You know, was the acquisition price too high? They completely didn't understand the complexity be for them to actually make it work with eBay. Despite skepticism, Whitman praised the What we bought was the leader in voice We think we bought a tremendous business in PayPal and eBay. And as a result, we feel like we It's true that under eBay we can say that Skype in terms of users and in terms of the number of to landlines and mobile phones. That's great. But ultimately what happened is that Meg Whitman had imagined. In 2008, John Donahoe took over as president and Skype gone. And the only question was, was there synergy with And the answer to that is no. I thought it was a ludicrous idea, and I still I mean, there's a reason why it didn't work out again. Ebay decided to sell Skype briefly exploring IPO majority of its stake to private equity firm The deal valued Skype at $2.75 billion. Ebay retained a 30% stake in the company and cash. Once eBay realized actually there isn't that many They mostly left Skype alone, which was great, like crazy. Under eBay, Skype did grow at the end of 2007, 200 million registered users with over 50 million Connected users are defined by Skype as the calendar month. By the end of 2009, Skype had nearly 500 million 105 million of those being connected. By 2010, Skype had 560 million registered users billion minutes of voice and video conversations, to investors. Google and Facebook were rumored to have interest Microsoft that announced the purchase of Skype billion, meaning Silver Lake more than tripled additional $1.4 billion on its original So I expect Skype to be an accelerant of our You know, the truth of the matter is big scenarios that's driving our financial And Skype is going to accelerate that. Under then CEO Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's plans existing products, including the Xbox, Outlook As part of the announcement, then Skype CEO Tony 1 billion daily users. But things didn't work out as planned. They failed to capitalize on Skype 100%. Steve Ballmer was the king of buying things and And today, Microsoft says it has 36 million daily What happened with Skype is the story of every company with a lot of middle management. They didn't innovate on the product for a very Tony Bates can say whatever he wants to say in blew up on his watch. In 2017, WhatsApp reached 1 billion users. By 2020, it had 2 billion. And like the early days of Skype, it uses Voice The reason WhatsApp worked was it was just simple wasn't really fussy. And Skype by then had become bloated, slow, In fact, I'll go as far as saying the Skype grow and become this big. In 2016, in response to Slack, a growing messaging announced Teams. However, when Teams launched in 2017, it became a Microsoft Teams has been successful at taking It's provided a number of additional features time. But Microsoft's Corporate VP tells a different We see it as complementary on the core So the communications, the idea of having one experience as being unique and distinct for those communities work, getting groups of people to do Skype is more point to point family, much more Microsoft is pouring a lot of engineering Teams a big destination for communication. It's not doing the same thing with Skype. For example, in 2021, Skype announced it would on one call. But in the previous year, Teams announced it And in 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic made many people's go to were apps like Zoom and A lot of users went to Zoom because it was Skype was known as well, but they were already on downslope. With the move to Teams. In response to Zoom, Microsoft added updates to increasing the number of meeting participants to It also made some changes to Skype, including But Teams still grew at a faster rate. In July 2019, Microsoft announced Teams had 13 users. By November, it was 20 million. That number soared in March 2020 during the by 12 million over a seven day period. In that same month, Skype had 40 million daily April 2020, Teams had 75 million daily users. Microsoft would not confirm how many daily users However, it told CNBC that Teams usage is at an 300 million monthly active users this quarter. So, how close are we to seeing Microsoft retire It's hard to retire a product with 40 million migration is risky. Migration could easily happen in the way They know there are a lot of options and they'll Today, Skype exists, but it's not the phenomenon 2000s. Skype is a product with an uncertain Microsoft is where consumer brands go to die, just used to be the place where all Internet services It's the same thing. 20 years later and Skype's founders have moved on, companies. Ahti Heinla is the CTO and co-founder He teamed up with another Skype founder, Janus Starship specializes in autonomous robot delivery across 50 locations around the globe. Niklas Zennstrom went on to head Atomico, a Tallinn spends most of his time discussing the I don't know what the future holds for Skype. I mean, I'm concerned about humans being wiped Skype if that happens. One thing that is guaranteed is that there will video calling will be a thing even like five I myself use Skype right now fairly little. It is. I still have it installed on my phone, but primary communication methods now are elsewhere. With apps like WhatsApp and Zoom being a clear Can Skype make a comeback? Skype had a really good run and then perhaps like too for like a bigger, bigger run. Anything is possible. Microsoft is trying to make Skype happen in a There's the Bing chat bot that has generative rage now. And you can talk to Bing in Skype. Will that make Skype explode in popularity or comeback? I don't think so. Microsoft, as a rule, cares about being I would not be surprised to learn that Skype is paying for itself, but not making a huge amount Microsoft today. Right now, not much is known about Skype's user sporadically provided data since its acquisition CNBC reached out to Microsoft for an interview he was not available. In a statement, it told CNBC more than 36 million daily. Our goal with Skype continues to be to experience to users, regardless of the platform I think the challenge for Skype, like most large social platforms, has been that despite the profits remain pretty thin. There were years when Skype was not profitable and that it was under the ownership of eBay. So has Skype fulfilled its full potential or did obsolete? Skype is not obsolete. It has 36 million daily active users. That is small when you compare it with other But we can't say that Skype is over with because people mad at us. People still insist on using people, but some do. There was a time when a place for Skype, it had and now other people have everything going for We wanted to give a lot of people, millions of millions of people, billions of people access to Internet. We absolutely accomplished that goal.