Emptiness (or sunyata in Sanskrit) is and most life-changing concepts of Buddhist emptiness as a form of nihilism, contradiction, based on shallow understanding. Buddhist philosophy has developed at least these is profound enough to change In any case, I have to warn you. The great 'when it is wrongly seen, emptiness destroys So, if you don't want to risk being you may want to click away from this video. emptiness is equally great. To grasp sunyata life constitutes full spiritual awakening. In this video, I have divided the complex This five-fold division is not part of the present sunyata in a more organized fashion. let's see how much they will deepen our you're done watching this some of your core yourself will be challenged... In a good way! with this one. I welcome you into the CHAPTER 1: NO SUBJECT The first Buddhist to use the word sunyata was he talks about emptiness like this: and of what belongs to self that The first meaning of emptiness is a self (or anything belonging to We've covered this before, so here For the Buddha, conscious experience is like performance in three parts: a musician, a In the same way, conscious experience involves Music arises is when the musician is consciousness arises when sense objects It is in these three components of experience - that the Buddha says a self cannot be found. When a pianist plays the piano, music is produced. ears, these are your sense organs for sounds. you 'hear' it. This experience of We instinctively say 'I hear the music', but automatic chain of causes and conditions. Contact between the pianist and the piano and the ears cause hearing of the music. Without music or ears, there is no hearing of music. which we can attribute a self. Nor is a The Buddha says: of a self or of anything pertaining to and] ear-contact [are] empty of a self He applies this same logic to all which he considers a sixth type of sense. Hearing, are all automatic processes that occur when the The point here is that, if you investigate it is actually entirely non-personal. There No experiencer of experience. Only an stretching infinitely back and forward in time. Noble Truths, brings us endless suffering that keeps it running? It is our clinging to what It all has to do with what our 'self' wants. correspond to anything in reality is the To live one's life in accordance with this This short summary should do for now. If you I highly recommend you watch my earlier With this basic idea of what the Buddha meant by the work of his disciples. In fact, when we get teaching that seems to contradict all we've just For now, we turn to the work of the greatest the Buddha himself. CHAPTER 2: NO OBJECT As the Buddhist tradition spread across Asia, minds of the time. These great scholars and directions and in ever deeper sophistication. century philosopher Nagarjuna. It is to If the Buddha said there is no 'you' experiencing being experienced. I'll use this video you're watching right This video is a certain phenomenon, is it not? you are watching and listening to something, So far so good. But let's try to draw the must have boundaries defined, otherwise from its environment. So let's see where this This video consists of my voice, the script good low-resolution definition. This video could not appear in your screen you're viewing it on. Or without These things are necessary parts of the This video, as an object of your experience, either. Or without the people who installed As a phenomenon you are experiencing, this video it and the eyes to see it. And these eyes and ears including your mom and dad, evolution, the causes and conditions for this video Also, the ideas, images, and music in this number of people. Shouldn't we credit these video? The historical Buddha himself is the so we must include him in the credits too. forever, but I'll stop here before you get bored. the causes and conditions that have video. What you are experiencing now looks only to our everyday, unenlightened mind. whole world and all of history have conspired for is but the form in which the entire universe is Of course, this video is not a us every seeming object or phenomenon, of conditions. There is nothing in experience An apple cannot exist apart from the the soil apart from the planet, the planet Things also cannot exist without their no high without low, no good without evil. how this same idea appeared in Ancient Greece. time when the Buddha was teaching his in their philosophies just a coincidence? the collective mind of our species, developing Anyway, Nagarjuna's point is that nothing All things are a form of dependent origination The great scholar-saint summarizes There does not exist anything Therefore there does not exist anything Here you might ask 'If every object and phenomenon world itself is empty? That nothing exists and after all, I am watching this video! Clearly, This is a good question and by the end of this to it. For now, I'll say Nagarjuna explicitly said the view that things exist is just as wrong. are two extreme views, neither of which captures To Nagarjuna, emptiness, understood properly, That's why the school of Buddhism he founded Nagarjuna did not treat sunyata as some and scholars. No, he maintained how crucial interdependence of all things is to see dependent phenomenon. An effect originating if you understand the causes and conditions for remove the suffering that springs from them. into sunyata is the essence of walking out from suffering and ignorance. only Buddhists with a new take on emptiness. famous Buddhist school known for their mastery of this school became known as the Yogacara. philosophy that we get the CHAPTER 3: NO SUBJECT &amp; OBJECT Okay, let's summarise what we've learned. there are objects of the world, and The Buddha showed us the sense of self us objects too are empty of individual essence. have no ultimate reality, we are left only This is a funny position we find ourselves no one who can have an experience - Yet experience is the one thing we can't deny. you can even question whether it is you can't deny is that something - What the Yogacarins did was inquire into the Let me demonstrate what they discovered. Now as you look at this orange, notice the experience. There is you as the subject, and there is your experience of seeing the colour. the difference between this orange and Could you experience seeing this colour if the object, you cannot experience said object. If you were not seeing this Here the natural answer is 'Yes, if I was not seeing it! Colours don't just But wait a minute. exist if you were not seeing it right now? You may answer that there is orange all around in the sunset, in... well, oranges. You know who's not convinced can immediately Google But that's the point. past. Anyone can Google and see orange images. I will see orange hasn't disappeared. of its existence. Our experience is the After all, can you imagine a colour No, because the moment you imagine it, you see it! as simple slight-of-hand philosophy. But the meditative experience, combined with their we call 'objects of experience' are really Orange and seeing orange are like the full meaning without the other. One cannot The Yogacarins reached the same conclusion about Think about it. Would you be seeing this orange closed and only I was looking at the orange, all agree your experience cannot occur if, well, you have to see it. This is natural enough. Right now (look at the orange), do you If you did, then your seeing this orange another. But then you would be experiencing by nobody. This is obviously absurd. we can draw the line between you as an as an experiencing subject and your experience This is like the case of the egg and the chicken. each other and cannot exist apart. findings led the Yogacarins. this orange and your seeing it. There is also no This would mean that you, this orange, and your the same thing observed from different angles. they meant that the division of experience Subject and object are like Heads and Tails Tails are only conventional terms. In reality, coin itself is real and contains in itself on it are artificial labels produced This indivisible wholeness of Heads, Tails, and In the Yogacara view, all To the unenlightened mind, reality feels like a But an awakened mind sees the unity of all Reality is the experience of itself. Reality which is being experienced - by itself. head around this, don't worry. It's not Remember, Yogacara philosophy is rooted in insight ultimate reality cannot be conceptualized. It be spoken or written down, or represented like what this video is hopefully doing. reality is through direct experience. But do experience ultimate reality, you are no experience ultimate reality not as something already are - which you always have been. Heads and Tails. It declares, like the 'The eye through which I see God is the same eye are one eye, one seeing, one knowing, one love.' their most famous claim is that the world we saw all objects, phenomena, and experiences by the psyche. No wonder some call this We will leave this profound discussion for at my earlier video where I compare the Jungian fascinating subject. But let's move on as we CHAPTER 4: BUDDHA NATURE We've learned a bunch of Sanskrit words we've met the Madhyamaka school of the Now for the 4th meaning of emptiness I will and this is a bit of a mouthful. Let me explain what this word We can divide tathagatagarbha into two parts The first part, Tathagata, is a fascinating different meanings, each of which have been mean 'one who has thus come', 'one who has You don't have to remember these. But know that himself. Whatever the deep meaning of the word is, The second part of Tathagata-garbha 'womb', 'embryo', and 'core'. means 'Buddha-womb'. Most often, Now why are we discussing this in Well, because the tathagatagarbha is one ideas which evolved out of sunyata. experience are empty of an independent essence. this leaves our picture of reality as both And yet Nagarjuna maintained reality is there is something, even if it can't be The Yogacarins continued this line of minds understand by the term 'experience' reality. Deep insight reveals you are experience The tathagatagarbha doctrine is the next step it is also a radical break from everything Let me explain. ultimate reality can be talked about as it get this... ultimate reality possesses the but the capital 'S' Self of the Tathagata. Okay, this sounds way too out there, so let's the tathagatagarbha is rooted in direct against our own concrete experience. What is the difference between you and me? you one thing and me another? I've made this video and you're watching and you're listening. My name is Simeon and I am also located in Sofia, Bulgaria, whereas We can have differences in age, eye colour, education, and so on. beliefs, and temperaments. that make us different. Because of these we But... here comes the tathagatagarbha twist. Making this video is an experience in my is an experience in your conscious awareness. an experience in my conscious awareness. Your age, You see, all the differences we can list are Differences in what we experience, Let me explain this with a metaphor I You're probably watching this on some sort of can watch on this screen. You can watch something tragic like footage from the Turkey and guidance by Rupert Spira. You can watch porn. appear on your screen. Each of these would provide all of them, the screen will remain the same. a good screen. Watching a Nazi rally will the screen can display any content, but it Maybe you can see where this is heading. The screen on which this video is appearing is not could not appear without the screen. The whole been watching the screen, even though the screen Until now. screen on which it is appearing because I want you I want you to investigate Our age, sex, nationality, height, weight, skin one way on the screen that is my awareness But what is the difference Let's try to define some key First, your conscious awareness is luminous. In appears in it is instantaneously perceived. when it appears in front of a mirror. Could my then it wouldn't be conscious awareness. preferences. It lacks resistance and attachment. Nutella, it is fully perceived and then released. of a broken leg, it is fully perceived and then detached quality? No, because then I would life. And let me tell you - that's not the case... will or the intellect. Your will and intellect But your conscious awareness is that which It is the field in which they appear as objects. hold any thought, emotion, feeling, and experience feelings, and experiences. It is like the space of because it is itself empty of furniture. spacious nature? No, because then it would be Finally, your conscious awareness is outside time but it itself cannot be located anywhere awareness belong to time or space? No, because all times and all places, my conscious Well, it appears what we call 'your' conscious what we call 'my' conscious awareness. When not a single difference between them, we must 'entity' we here call conscious awareness. The Buddha Nature doctrine teaches that even the fully awakened, detached, and liberated Self these enlightened qualities is that our Buddha When this video reminded you that you are the screen. The screen was already there the its content, outside the dimensions of The same goes for the tathagatagarbha. will appear on one and the same screen, so too conscious awareness. Your self, my self, the self and yes, even the self of Barni, my dog... mind of the tathagatagarbha. Mahayana Tathagatagarbha Sutra, desire, anger, and stupidity there is seated ... and the Tathagata's body... [A]ll beings, of defilements, have a tathagatagarbha that with virtues no different from my own.' and it can only go so far. This video can talk actually display your screen. In the same way, ultimately, it is outside the dimensions something we can never experience? Well, This is an argument also used by the proponents why you can understand the Buddha's teaching and the Buddha is already within you. Nirvana is of us. If it was, it would be just another Nirvana is rather an ever-present reality Like a mirror covered with dust, our us. The goal of Buddhist practice then is There are many beautiful images of our Buddha is the simile of the honey. It goes like this: a cave or a tree, surrounded and protected that a person comes along who knows some bees and takes the honey, and then does as he Like the honey surrounded by bees, we all have the But if we learn the right 'techniques', reach the tathagatagarbha. this got to do with emptiness? tathagatagarbha is the natural completion of of the Dharma and a heresy. Without getting too much into it, I should say emptiness to be some sort of Ultimate reality. empty; it only means something relative to Some criticise the tathagatagarbha doctrine as a Others point to the clear contradiction between no-self teaching. To them, the tathagatagarbha from other traditions like as Hinduism. tathagatagarbha, like the one I quoted, the historical Buddha. This does not mean they I wouldn't bet on them being records of In their defence, the proponents of the Tathagata is an entirely different kind of self is impersonal and is in no way identical To use the screen metaphor again, the Buddha screen or that the screen can be found within tells us the screen exists and that The Jungians among you might detect here appears as a complex. We will return to this Another argument for the tathagatagarbha is then why would the Buddha waste 45 years of living in an empty world? Yes, the Buddha said full of suffering, and without a self. opposite of samsara, should have the opposite lacking suffering, and possessing a self. fully liberated Tathagata. a capital 'S' Self or no-self? I invite you to approach it with curiosity and know all of us, at different stops on our path, The Buddha himself, when asked if Then he was asked if the self doesn't exist. In the end, I return to what Niels Bohr another truth'. Such is the paradox of CHAPTER 5: NO VIEWS We've seen how sunyata, the doctrine of of 1) ourselves, 2) the objects of our and 4) the ultimate nature of reality. which points in an entirely different direction. dangerous of them all. But like everything we've free our minds from ignorance and suffering. This teaching was first given by the historical by the Mahayana philosophers, Nagarjuna the emptiness of views is not a Buddhist anti-Buddhist teaching. In fact, it is not Let me explain. two kinds of truth: 1) conventional truth and 2) It is 1) conventional truth that made this video. It is 1) conventional Of course, we have seen that things are much more no you, and no video. This is 2) Pay attention here, the Buddhists did not say it a kind of truth. For example, if I say my name this is both ultimately and conventionally untrue. conventional truth. After all, we are the level of the ultimate or we can't do it most kids to feed, and taxes to pay. You So, conventional truth is important. It is what are parables, symbols, and myths if not ways to something beyond it - something ultimate? Without depending on the conventional truth Without understanding the meaning of the ultimate, Now, everything we've covered so far in this all ultimate truth. But the emptiness of views is either. But it is also not untruth. We can either You see, the emptiness of views all kinds of truth are ultimately untrue. like those delivered by the Buddha, are of reality into ideas. Translations can themselves... but they are never the original. theory, all teachings, all opinions - in short, expressed in Sanskrit, sign language, the world come in the form of language. of the world and compresses it ends up being a low-resolution map of reality. mistake the map with the terrain it is mapping. complete, our theories are always a pale reality. You could say this is a special case of lack a svabhava, an independent essence, so too The idea of wisdom is inseparable from the inseparable from the notion of defilement. division of reality into ideas small enough very words of the Buddha, spoken during his Ultimately untrue. surprising is that this is a mainstream Mahayana Large Perfection of Wisdom Sutra), we read: ignorance... no suffering and no knowledge and no abandoning of the cause, no cessation and no path and no development of the path...' you will recognize this passage refers a passage from a major Mahayana text! this telling us we shouldn't bother learning the else in life, is meaningless? Did the disciples Well... I told you the emptiness of views one should be very careful with how one this anti-truth can be used as medicine. doctrine, is aimed at freeing us from suffering. much of our suffering in life comes from In our ignorance, we jump to conclusions far unearned self-assurance and we build a sense of we need to continue learning and growing. Rigid face life as it is rather than as we imagine it to which are the wellsprings of true wisdom. us another danger of growing attached to views. war... All these can result from the simple fact The emptiness of views is a safety measure. It is the Buddha first among them, to take the too seriously. To take all teachings, theories, not as seriously as we take life. is simply too linear, too dualistic Perhaps this same idea drove the '[W]hereof one cannot speak, In later Buddhist tradition there is the A reasonable person will know the moon is one will think the finger is the moon. It does not tell us there is no truth in life. with the finger pointing at it. Not to Like the Yogacarin sunyata, the emptiness communicated. To reach ultimate truth, one has ultimate truth is the most private of things. his disciples with the following words: own refuge, having no other; let the Dharma be I believe the Buddha was not telling his disciples What we all already are. The seeker of truth walks teachers, disciples... but in the end, he encounters But truth requires space. It fills you only to half-truths. Even the idea that there is surrendered if indeed you wish to be filled CONCLUSION I hope you feel your patience was worth it. I hope and beautiful the Buddhist teaching of sunyata is. in which sunyata is relevant today First and foremost, by now you've seen the interconnectedness of things. It is not a anything exists on its own. Nagarjuna writes: Philosopher, / Who taught us relativity...' are a web of interdependence. Any division civilization and nature, self and world... of reality. A deeper perspective on the necessity of all objects and phenomena. is the ultimate form of environmentalism. and action echoes out into the world and bears that we are part of the whole and action is a fruit of the world we live in. 'Time is in us and we are in time. In this sense, emptiness is the exact opposite how great our responsibility is and how our fabric out of which the world is woven. To see the interconnectedness of things within soul. It is to reconnect with all you would yourself. It is to see that what is high within light is born in the womb of your darkness. is nowhere divided, but everywhere whole. when he wrote that: heaven unless its roots reach down to hell'. same thing as identity. To see the interdependence ignorance and wisdom - is not to think they are Ying and yang are interdependent because their difference that they are the same, and It is in the conflict of opposites that the world is created. You can ask Last, but not least, the Tathagatagarbha, is the one true base of love and compassion. another to be as real as you? In the Gospel '[I]n everything, do to others what you He adds to this. He says something that could '[W]hatever you did for one of the least of these Truly I tell you, whatever you did not do for one I believe Christ did not mean we have to imagine imagine that how we treat others we treat also of reality. The fact that you, me, Chirst, same timeless, unlimited, inconceivable the world conceal this 'thing'. Thus, it concrete individuals we believe ourselves to be. of ultimate truth, even this confusion of the the limited, wisdom with ignorance, the self with the pure, direct experience of ultimate truth. all phenomena bear the mark of Emptiness; no Birth no Death, no Defilement no Purity, It goes without saying this video is only has been developed in unbelievable depth for I have included some additional study Follow these if you wish to lean more. hope it brought you something of value. If it did, PayPal, or becoming a member here on YouTube. please do share this video with people who would I thank you for spending your time here And remember - 'what you seek is seeking you'.