- Dirty Harry was Director fourth collaboration and the film both men It was with Dirty Harry that Eastwood would of Cowboy Pictures and as America's number one action star. Remarkably, Wayne was still Dirty Harry would make Siegel, Hollywood's premier and its most expert practitioner Along with the French Connection, Dirty Harry would facilitate to cop films that took both onscreen and television, - A Quinn Martin production, imitated action film of the as being the first real official genre of serial killer movies. It was also Siegel's most masterpiece Invasion of the Body Snatchers with Body Snatchers, the to have his cake and eat it too. On one hand it can be read as a subtextual attack on reading, but on the other hand, the film also plays into the Red Nightmare paranoia of the fifties. - You're next. - The pod people Society that these hysterical reacting against. In many of Siegel's stories and studio executives, he referred to them as pod to Elvis's obedience to Colonel But in the seventies, cop of a much different political bent. Dirty Harry tells the story of the quintessential to its logical extreme Eastwood's. Harry Callahan is the Francisco Police Force. In a different era, he'd be except in the era and location San Francisco in the early seventies. In Callahan's opinion, the book has been rewritten Society is screaming police brutality. The public is siding with the crooks and the gutless police and the courts are cowed into compliance with an increasingly that favors lawbreakers Now this point of view would not be shared by some kid sitting in for carrying a bag of weed, but The genius of the film is it takes that transgressive character and pits him up against of San Francisco's real This fictionalized version mastermind as well as being batshit crazy. - Oh no, you lift that hand once more and I won't let you know who the girl is. Do we understand each other? Huh? Do we understand each other? - And in the process, the after a serial killer thriller. Most cops in seventies action rings or mafia Mr. Biggs. But from the after Serial killers is the police. Cruising, 10 Silence of the Lambs. Seven and every other David of Siegel's Dirty Harry. As in most seminal films, In the case of Dirty Harry, the most obvious example with George Peppard playing a bent on bringing down Overacting - Boy, around all my life, - The soon to be Warner Brothers at Universal, where Harry to Paul Newman. Probably sometime soon after Harper Newman turned it down, Universal sold the script and RM Fink to Warner to be made with Frank and directed by Irv Kirschner. Then Sinatra sprained his wrist seriously limiting his ability Warner offered it to Eastwood that he could bring Don Siegel over from Universal to direct. Siegel came on and cinematographer, Bruce Surtees but also more importantly, his go-to screenwriter Dean Riesner. It was Riesner's Rewrite that turned the script into and love because it was Reasoners rewrite that turned the killer from for the Zodiac killer. Later Jon Milius would do one of the more famous dialogue When he added the I know did he fire six shots or only five? Speech? The Skill Siegel demonstrates In a filmography studded with diamonds, Dirty Harry is unquestionably It belongs on a list of other of the seventies like Jaws, Carrie and The Exorcist, - The Power of Christ compels That in retrospect seemed Siegel's technique along blend together in complete harmony. The director's handling of the film's hero and villain, his career constant affinity for location photography, to shock audiences with brutality and also thrill with crowd The Siegel humor that punctuates what is in essence a grizzly thriller. It's the humor and to delivering Harry's quips. That went a long way in getting the audience on Harry's side, - I shoot the bastard. That's my policy. - It also included Siegel's for labored symbolism such as the broken peace sign belt buckle that Scorpio sports around his trousers. But what made Dirty Harry a cinematic flirtation with as a fascist moral position. It was the way Siegel so for its intended audience. Frustrated older Americans who by 1971 when they looked read their daily newspapers and watched the evening news, didn't recognize their country anymore. One of the most memorable that time was the one that sold Dennis Hopper's - The story of a man who and couldn't find it anywhere. Easy riders - A great line, but it wasn't true. If you responded to or Fonda's Captain America, rather than the ugly rednecks to seek out representation. It was all over music, On the other hand, the generation that fought World War II in the forties and bought homes in the suburbs who went looking for their America and couldn't find it anywhere. - To you, the great silent majority - What Richard Nixon were frightened. Frightened of an America and a society they couldn't understand. Youth culture had taken over pop culture. If you were under 35, but if you were older, maybe not many people back horror, hippies, militant killer cults that brainwash and rise up and kill their parents. Young men, the sons of veterans or fleeing to Canada, your children calling your policeman pigs. Violent street crime. The emergence of the serial free love, the nudity, violence, and profanity of the films - B Yep. Fucking head is coming right - Off. Woodstock Altamont, Stonewall, it was a mosaic that scared This was the audience that - These goddamn nigga loving hippies. They even fucked up the music - To frustrated Americans. Harry Callahan represented a solution to the shocking violence that they were suddenly - Fuck the courts. That's what I think Goddamn much time worrying - Killers. Eastwood's rogue Cop in Dirty Harry and Charles Bronson's vigilante. Paul Kersey and Death Wish stood side of the cultural divide hippie loving barefoot and Richard Roundtree, black private dick who's a John Shaft stood on the other. Hey, - Where the hell you going shaft - To get laid? Where the hell you going? - There's been a lot of or not Harry Callahan or Dirty Harry is a racist film or both. - Why do they call you Dirty Harry? - Well, that's one thing about our Harry doesn't play any favorites. - In Charles Higham's the author interviewed both Eastwood and Siegel on the set of Dirty Harry Siegel described Eastwood's of a bitch who blames and the Hispanics in the film. Harry may be politically incorrect, but he's not a racist son of a bitch. - Shit negro. That's all you had to say. - While Dirty Harry isn't a racist film or quite the fascist film, it's critics at the time aggressively reactionary, and it promotes a reactionary view. Sometimes as subtext - You black son of a bitch. - Because the audience, the film sought to excite held a view of around them that was Dirty Harry gave voice to their fears, told them they were and gave them a 44 caliber This element would disappear because while this element with its audience, it's also what put the film in the - The Eastwood is back and and Magnum Force. - It's this reactionary element to Dirty Harry Magnum but tried to reverse the Harry uncovering a black of killer motorcycle that the courts can't seems to be a rather rare Hollywood occurrence. The counterpoint argument Let's downplay everything that really struck a nerve and Harry himself preach - You know when police executioners, where's it - Let's see the money man. movie audiences wanted Magnum Force to be. - He begins where all - Choose a much better as Magnum Force was an The Death Squad with Robert and Claude Aikens, the cornucopia of Callahan clones that came out after Siegel's success do things his own way. Rule book be damned no of Eastwood's creation - Because as long as we have and the killer doesn't, we're gonna lose, - But these other films bent that type of real world nerve. I got - Results. You're not dirty, - Hairy. The object of ire of these generic movie bad guys like Alan Garfield and Allen Garfield in Busting, and Vittorio Gasman in Sharky's Machine. The one significant exception to this rule is Charles Thompson's movie 10 to Midnight, which like Dirty Harry serial killer at its center. Gene Davis' Killer is a surrogate for nursing student murderer Richard Speck and the intensely violent and sickening restaging of those murders is pretty strong stuff, but normally the formula or alien off - X-tro bearing powers of - And the characterization of the dirty, hairy dude is the same. His quip sounds similar. - Somehow I get the feeling - Up, his harassed screaming boss looks, sounds and dresses the same. - No, you can't say nothing. - And the hammy bad actors who play the villainous creeps like the Enforcer and Sudden from the crap actors in usually starring ex Matuszak or Brian Bosworth. - You gotta say for yourself this time you gotta clean up on all four. - Jesus. Man, that was bad. - Where the others aimed for generalities. Siegel's film was specific Nowhere is this point what has become one of the film's most remembered set pieces. The famous scene where Callahan progress with his big ass to chew a hot dog. What makes that scene of three black men to If the robbers had been the scene wouldn't have Harry would just be a cop who came across a bank If the robbers had been white, they would've been viewed more or less as professional criminal. Since we've had professional banks since we've had banks. Nothing in the scene of societal change, but let's or ethnic groups for size. Could the bank robbers be Asian? Well, yes, of course they could be. I - Think it was an Asian gang or - Something, but unless the Chinatown, it would seem odd. The viewer would notice it and think to themselves, In fact, they'd expect it to - It's the Teddy Wong Gang, Harry, a Chinese street gang started Now they broke out and are - Same thing if they were Hispanic. Yeah, you could explain to the audience how the Latin kings have started Francisco, but it would require - In Chinatown. - The reason it would play odd is because the nightly news or Asian bank robbery crews, but then neither is bank robbery a crime associated with black Americans. - I think he's got a point - That is, except for one subsection, black America who robbed banks to buy weapons - And we gonna say to the stick 'em up, motherfucker. This is a hold up. We come for what's ours - And just one look at the and you can tell they got Panther section of the Warner For many older white Americans, angry black militants scared family, the Zodiac killer and The hippies disgusted them because the hippies were their children and they were disgusted Hippies burning the of the Vietnam War made - Like hippies and I - But black militants The anger, the rhetoric, the for pictures with automatic weapons - And there is absolutely no today should be carrying a loaded - Weapon, their hatred of the police, the dismissal of white America. Yeah, - I'm the white devil. - White folks can never where they can't be forgiven Yet there was Harry Not only was he not scared as he approached a for a Black Panther, he to stop chewing his hot dog. He shoots down three black men during the robbery He doesn't even seek cover and even faces one down with with smart mouthed cracker Do you feel lucky? Well do At least replacing the word boy. These qualities give Siegel's and a faintly disturbing to superhero Harry, which is what he would become Siegel's Harry Callahan is both a troubled and troubling character. While that makes him the director's self mocking the director has always with lead characters you're drawn to despite onscreen evidence of their troubling nature and deeds. Lead protagonist, he makes but ultimately you root - Is anything you might need. I'm the guy to see. If I don't have it, I can get it for you, - Beat it. - Which goes to prove It takes a magnificent filmmaker to thoroughly corrupt an audience, but - The audience is stupid Eli Wallach and Robert Keith's by far more involving from the TV series. Same with Lee Marvin and Clu Gulager's, and the killers who than John Cassavetes' milk toast, race car driving Johnny North. In Stranger on the Run. You may feel sorry for Henry - Out for a morning - She was dead when I got - But it's the story of Michael Vinny McKay that grips you, whichever side you take in manipulative, conniving, wounded soldier or the murdering, conspiring, vindictive. Ladies, you are tainted even when Siegel bends over as loathsome like he does with Rip torn in the director's How can you not be on or nothing takedown of the blackjack table where we actually supposed to and sure enough, once rip he takes any viewer's interest with him. The New York Times, Pauline Kael and Roger Ebert all labeled - What that the film is somewhat if not outright irresponsible in what they claim is its While Ebert claimed the film he attributed it to the times and not moral bankruptcy While Eastwood would be irked of this came as a surprise to Siegel in Peter Bogdanovich He recalls seeing an industry and Siegel worrying that all his liberal friends would disown him. But Don as an old genre His job was to thrill audiences and if he could do that by criminal justice system or Fair enough. If pressed for a defense, I'm sure old Don would and point at the grosses. But in Siegel's, Dirty Harry, of the filmmaking was so evident that it was impossible Harshest critics to deny Kael It would be stupid to deny that Dirty Harry is a and it certainly turns an audience on. Then in a later piece wrote, One gets from highly developed technique. Certain action sequences make because they're so cleverly done. Even if as in the case you are disgusted by the picture. Even Siegel's friend Sam opinion as Pauline. I love Dirty Harry even A terrible piece of trash that Don Siegel really what it was saying, but the day I saw it, the audience was cheering. The point of the film's It was dirty. Harry's embrace not its quality that was in question, but this so-called fascist element to the film was overstated by the critics of the daily newspapers 50 years later, Siegel's film stands as a towering achievement The audiences that have thrilled to the movie these last reactionary, nor have they had to embrace a fascist moral because frankly, it's the that strikes one as reactionary. Does anything in the movie that Harry does depict outright fascism? No. When he fires on the black scene, they were running and jumping into a speeding and pump action shotguns in there. Even all of his efforts towards as excessive today. He keeps him under surveillance They know he's Scorpio. He's the fucking guy. Kael's strongest jab at the on the ridiculous Joseph Summer scene where they know Scorpio's and they refuse to let Callahan - What I'm saying is that man had rights. Well, I'm all broken up - This scene is guilty of as dumbfounding absurd, but it's the scene itself that The only sequence that truly qualifies as fascist is when to find the whereabouts of the Really? Would Billy Jack do any less? - I just, go beserk. - One of the big reasons Dirty Harry fails to outrage anymore is Siegel's that the critics chose to ignore, but the public got right away. As much as Dirty Harry is a against a modern day It is also a plea for The serial killer phenom to be exact, and one of the reasons dirty, hairy age as well is when it comes to catching and stopping Scorpio, what the what society ended up doing in At the same time, our familiarity that this film officially of the techniques of the - 1, 2, 3, oh, but how are you yelling - For it would appear that Callahan and his rookie partner investigators on the case of a madman who's - Whatcha talking about you can't help but ask yourself, Where's the FBI? Where's Will Graham? Where's the BAU Without these employ against this type of crime? Nothing Harry does, seems unjustified, - Enhanced and forward framed by frame. - Since 1971. We've become so adjusted to a world that includes serial killers in it. We can have a television that presented for 323 episodes, a new deranged serial killer But back in 1971, both Andy and his characters methods were from a new to movies villain. There had never been a movie before, or a performance - I've changed my mind. I just wanted you to know that - It's why after Dirty Harry but Robinson's was nipped in the bud until 15 years later shows up in Hellraiser. - Jesus wept. - I am here to testify as unfair and unjust as it may have been. Whenever Andy showed up in a Andy Robinson scared viewers. In a way, no movie monster ever had or ever would again, we would as we were when we first witnessed and 40 years of movie. Serial Killers haven't performance one iota. It's the single best performance ever. In a Don Siegel picture, he - He said, what sitting in the cinema at age nine feeling the exact same thing. The adults around me were that Scorpio could be so sick and depraved in Pauline Kael's She never refers to the nor does she write one word Instead, she refers to the of sarcastic boogeyman the many sided evil one - Interesting. I didn't know that. - What's the point? for the audience to be on Harry's side, the filmmakers needed of such evil dimensions that anything Harry does seems justified Well despite the Boston the Manson family, and of course Zodiac, we may once have looked with disbelief, but we don't anymore. We know exactly how sick - Have you ever gotten a death threat? - Yes. People have described to cut me up and what they're - Yes, Ms. Kael was right They did create a super evil dragon for Harry's 44 caliber Siegfried to slay what she was wrong about character as just a - Right? Paulen Kael. Yeah. She's never said a good but you like her dirty old broad, but she's probably the most 'cause she cares about film and those that are involved in it. - In Dirty Harry Siegel, Riesner and especially Robinson, gave what would replace the monsters of old in the collective during its initial engagement, of Dirty Harry entered the cinema with an innocent view, an innocence. We would soon lose.