We gonna open. Ramen is free on the house More and more people from overseas say they came here after watching youtube. Thank you very much. I mean, it's a business, but what I want to do... A system that gives back to the people who are involved in the stall. All I think about is creating that. Follow me! Let's go. I'm posting Instagram. I try to post whenever I open the store. We gonna open. Yeah, it's delicious. Excuse me, can I have a beer? Sure. Take a picture of my back with it. Give me your allowance. You're not a lady. I'm a lady, give me an allowance Yeah, it's a stir fry. It's smoked. Assorted smoked fish. Quail eggs, duck. Abe's sausage, bacon Last cheese. Here is today's smoked platter. Super good! I'm making dumplings for the second time now and I overcooked them once. I'm making it again because I burned it. Look, I burnt it. Regular customers eat the burnt ones. They ate deliciously. It's still good! The staff enjoyed it afterwards. We never waste food! Thank you so much. It's been a while A food cart is, of course, a restaurant, a business. What I want to do is to activate more community among regular customers, locals and visitors. All I think about is creating the system that gives back to the people who are involved in the stall. I'm cooking with passion. I grill with a passion as hot as the charcoal. It's absolutely hot. It's absolutely hot. Is it good? Okay, then, to the camera. You need to say &quot;Please subscribe to our channel.&quot; Cheers. It's strong. So much stronger than before. Green onion Celery? Green onion! Negi! It's not because we grew up in different environments. Thank you for the food Thank you very much Take care. Thank you very much. Charcoal-roasted beef Sorry, beef tongue is sold out. Chicken skin. Chicken skin one? No, two Japanese sake, okay? Ramen is free on the house. Bye bye. My shop closes for the day at 2:00 a.m. Thank you very much for today. It's 2 a.m. right now. We open at 7 p.m, and we've been stocking up since 11a.m. I think I work about 12 hours a day. It takes about two and a half hours to clean up the stalls. I'm going to clean that up now. You know, there's nothing here during the day. I'll bring all the dishes and stuff to the office. We're going to drop the coals first. Charcoal, we turn off the charcoal. First, you know, we have to turn off the coals. Because it's going to be hot. If you pour it into a food truck while it's still hot, it's going to burn, right? It's going to catch fire. It going to be a flaming, flaming food stall Okay, I'm going to go to the bathroom for a minute, yes. Do you need anything? Nothing? Okay This is for you. Okay. I usually go to bed between 6:30 and 7:00 a.m. I usually wake up at 11 a.m. Crazy all the time, crazy all the time. I'm crazy all the time. Well, but, you know, I'm not trying to be cool, but when I'm cleaning up, I'm reflecting on the day. I think that it would have been even better if we had let that customer sit in that seat and guided them to it. Review of the day. I'm a sensitive person. I'm the type of person who thinks a lot. So I think about it a lot. I don't really feel like I am working for money. I think it would be better to think about how to make customers enjoy or be happy, and then make money as a result. This way of thinking suits me. Stalls are basically government controlled, you know. In Nakasu and Tenjin, you know, there's running water. There's running water, you know, water comes out. But in this area, well, there's only two stores. No water, so I don't wash my dishes here, I take them home And that's why we have to bring more dishes than the others. We can't wash them while we're open, you know, they're so heavy. I'm carrying heavy things, heavy, heavy things More and more people from overseas say they came here after watching youtube. Thank you. But, you know, it's not a big store. It's nice when people come to see us, isn't it? I am grateful. And you know what I'm doing while prep. I watch and shadow this children's English Youtube while preparing to open the store. It's like listening and shadowing. While preparing, I'm saying like &quot;This is a pen.&quot; That's a lot of condiments. Yakitori sauce, seaweed, bubu arare Dried garlic and dried bonito flakes Sea salt, and this is sea salt. Honey, and this is combined miso I don't use scientific seasonings, basically. Because we don't use scientific seasonings. So we have one stall, but we use rock salt and sun-dried salt and algae salt It's like there are three kinds of salt alone. When you cook, you have to wipe off the grease and grime. You don't want bugs to come in, right? Good I'm renting electricity to operate my food stall, here. I have a proper contract, I'm not stealing electricity I'm sorry, sir. I have long hair. I hate to go to get hair cut. I'll take the first one with the food cart. Follow me! Let's go! I'm going home, I'm going home I'm going home. Next turn. It's me, it's the stall, it's the stall, it's the people I met at the stall. By meeting through that place. I would be most happy if I could make people feel that they had a good time, or that they had a good time. I hope people feel that. You know, people think they can only be complete in a relationship. It's all about what kind of people you meet and what kind of people you interact with. I think that's what determines your life. I'm going to take another shot. How many kilos? I don't know, maybe 150 kg or something like that. I don't think it's up to 200 I'll go. Here is my office. Abe's stocking place. Secret base I'll back to office. It' so hot! Too Hot! I'm going to take a break. We're not done working yet. It's 4:28 a.m. right now. Yeah, we're just about done with all of that. We're done, thanks for today. It's 5:10, a little earlier than usual. I go to the supermarket, eat breakfast and dinner, and go to bed. and get up at 11:00 a.m. I'm done for the day, thank you for your hard work! Thanks.