Hey, Thoughty2 here. Once upon a time, in a land far, far away (well, standy-uppy creatures called homo sapiens. hundreds of thousands of years, chasing but homo sapiens was a little bit different. Erectus was cocky, then Homo sapiens was Technologically innovative, highly adaptable, structures, when homo sapiens decided to the species was taking steps that would change these dauntless drifters discovered every nook to Australia's arid expanses; from America's During that time they - or should I say explored the solar system, harnessed the power that progress has come at a price - today, we're which has us wondering whether it's If you think messing up a planet and then lift and running away, then you'd be right, but we need to figure out where the hell we're going. The smart money says Mars. And I say 'smart has lots of money, and Mars seems to be human beings really travel to, and Mars is a particularly appealing option for human it's one of the closest planets to Earth at an It alvso has similar length days to about 44% of the sunlight, at least you Mars is also rich in useful elements like which puts the 'red' in Red Planet. Important get there, reducing the amount of expensive excess Finally, and most importantly, Mars lies zone - the area around the sun in which planet's surface. Water once flowed that plenty quality H20 can still be found in we could create a life-giving ocean between 5 Unfortunately, the good news ends really fucking bad. With surface air pressure of a kebab shop on a Tuesday morning. Liquid water if you dared to step outside without The measly Martian atmosphere isn't just thin, it's also 95% carbon dioxide, which ironically, a major reason we might Earth's thick atmosphere and strong magnetic radiation. Mars has no magnetic field, and without dangerous place indeed, with levels of ionising That's enough to dramatically increase cause acute radiation sickness or even death. Mars is also home to some pretty extreme 250 mph, can last for days or weeks, and They would pose a serious threat to equipment, But wait, there's more! Martian gravity is only long-term effect that would have on the significant time in space have suffered from Even in a protective suit, living on Mars might And Mars is cold - I mean, really cold. Think Just in case you're the hangry type, I should so we won't be able to safely Lastly, let's talk about social logistics. Christmas with the in-laws. Confined spaces and anxiety, and a range of homicidal thoughts. OK, so the basic summary here is that Mars hates can we do about it? Well, if there's one thing I of a small insular state, it's that there's Elon musk seems to agree, because he wants to make nukes. But there is some method to the madness of The dream scenario when it comes to migrating using tech to make it habitable. First, we'd need to warm things up a bit, Musk plans to aim his atomic arsenal the large quantities of water and carbon dioxide could theoretically create a runaway greenhouse Unfortunately, this bold plan has some big it's actually quite tricky for private individuals 2018 study concluded that nuking Mars, while kinda and debris blocking out what meagre sunlight the Another idea would be to melt but with a mirror. The idea would be to stick concentrating sunlight on the southern but it too has drawbacks - to focus the mirror would need to be 250 kilometres Obviously, we wouldn't be able to launch aluminium build this monstrous mirror in orbit. Considering 94 metres across, is our largest manmade space So, directly melting Mars' ice caps seems tough - some lessons from our own planet's past. In the as CFCs, were banned worldwide because they were are also incredibly effective greenhouse gases we're terrified of them, but up on Mars CFCs materials to produce them in Martian rocks, and option of crashing thousands of spaceships loaded pack Mars' atmosphere with enough CFCs, and sufficiently warming the planet to release either further, while simultaneously OK, so Mars is now warm enough for flips flops that your blood won't boil every time you beefed-up atmosphere means extra protection from boost even further by generating an artificial have come up with several ways we might do that ring around Mars' equator or installing a Great though the new Martian atmosphere problem that it would be almost entirely lacking NASA's perseverance rover has already successfully the surface using a device called MOXIE, might not be possible. Another option would to slowly increase O2 levels. It might sound right here on earth about 2.5 billion years and ammonia-rich atmosphere into the tasty As surface conditions slowly improve, we to convert even more CO2 into O2. First, we'll has already grown healthy plants in simulated But merely upping the oxygen levels wouldn't an element that is inconveniently scarce we'd have to import nitrogen on a massive scale. nitrogen-rich asteroids and just... crash them venturing to Saturn's largest moon, Titan, which shipping several trillion tons of liquified be a cakewalk - but if we're honest, that's Terraforming Mars is certainly possible, it's difficult that NASA scientist Chris McKay But we don't necessarily have to terraform Mars to approach and simply build artificial habitats on Sure, it's a tall order, but it seems Elon Musk - yeah him again - fully functioning 'Mars city' with That guy really needs a hobby. The minor drawback at roughly 10 trillion dollars - that's around 10% So, could humans really migrate to Mars? The we actually will before we blow ourselves a giant asteroid or supervolcano, lose the or accidentally starve to death while hanging out your guess is as good as mine. Thanks for watching.