(upbeat music) - All right, guys, you So, if you're here for a Tax Tuesday, you're in the right spot. My name is Toby Mathis, and Hey, Jeff. - Hey, Toby. - So, we're in the middle of tax season. Tomorrow is a major deadline for what, S corps and partnerships? - [Jeff] Yes. - [Toby] So, have you lost your mind yet? - Yes. - All right, so Jeff is being. (laughs) Jeff is being very kind. Is there no screen-share? - Oh, it's screen-sharing now. But you look at the CPA and I tell you what, I've through the tax-- You look good. You're alive right now, Shoot, like in tax season, I thought you guys were Hey, man, I do like the beard better. Just saying. - So, does my girlfriend, man. She carries a little more weight. - (laughs) I don't know. I don't know who you were I don't know. Anyways, so Elliot's on with us. (laughs) We don't have a lot of tax people today, just because they're So, it's Elliot, Dana, Troy, and I think that's it. So, you're gonna have some Just know that, usually, Today, we're about half so many people that are I don't wanna take them away from that. Today should be fun, today... Well, I mean, Tax Tuesdays are always fun. So, I'm sure that. Let's see, &quot;You should Sherry, I am just about two And I should be in We like the water. There's Disney or water, Disney, water. Water. I love Disney, but anyway. Tampa is where we live now. Shoot, I should have come All right, Tax Tuesday rules. Ask questions. Live via the Q and a feature in Zoom. So, don't use chat for everything live. If you have questions, you could send them in to So, here's the deal. If you do not get a 'cause we're jamming through 'em. We always get hundreds. And so hopefully our guys But if you can't, by all means email it. If you need a detailed &quot;Hey, my tax situation is this.&quot; And you're looking for advice Like, &quot;Can I write off a house if you're being very specific to you, then we need you to be at a client so we can give you an We can make sure that we This is fast, fun, and educational. We wanna give back and help educate. But if you just have a question like, &quot;Hey, what's the deal with this?&quot; Or &quot;Hey, am I able to write this off?&quot; Or, hey, by all means, just ask away. And if I ask you guys a question like, &quot;Hey, where are you sitting right now?&quot; There's a good question, Hey, where are you sitting You can just put it in chat. You don't have to do the question answer. Go right into chat, and by So, that was a question. Austin, Parkland, Florida, Hey, Scott. Hobbs, Newport, Rhode Island, Honolulu, Richmond, Florida, Fremont, California, Sunnyvale, California, Anacortes, Pembroke Pines, Houston, Almeda, Dallas, Lake City, Roanoke. Now I'm getting blown away. See, whoops, Southern Oregon coast. Clearwater? I'm in Clearwater, John C. I'm hanging out here. Trying my best to get a tan. Dana Point. DC traffic, boom, you win. Baltimore County, got some houses there. Delaware, Minnesota. Minnesota. Virginia, we got people Jeff, we always, whenever like I'm just getting pelted now. You guys are coming through too fast. I don't even know how many people are on, but it's usually lots, hundreds of people. We have 10,000 people And then a lot of you guys listen to them. A lot of you guys watch it so. Now, you're making it. You're making my chat screen go nuts. It starts to blur. All right, so let's jump on, Oops. See if I can make it go. All right, so we have lots I'm gonna try to read them. I have to apologize 'cause off of a screen I'm not But here's the questions How to set up a home office That's a great question by the way 'cause there's about three or four things that are being triggered there. What should I do now of starting an LLC in California? It's a three letter word and starts with an R and ends with an N. Is it advisable to have your We'll talk about that What are the requirements out of state properties that such as airplane tickets, car rental, hotel, meals, et cetera. What are the minimum as a tax deduction, not Great questions thus far. Oops, see if I can move this. Ooh, there we go. What's the best way to when I already own 100% of the LLC used to get the property under contract? How can I become anonymous I started my own LLC and one year later I'm interested shield and getting my name off the record. Is that possible? I have worked hard to with the existing entity and In 2021, we sold my and will owe a substantial Is there any possible through real estate When do I switch from to wholesaling as a corporation? How do I get credit approvals So, I'm assuming you're Is it more advantageous from to make charitable contributions directly from our corporation and then make the donation Can I do a 1031 exchange when that I've never lived in or rented out? Is there any way to other than renting it out? I don't wanna keep the house. Who handles the paperwork The lawyer, the realtor, my tax advisor? How far in advance do I have to plan to undertake an exchange? And by the way, those are separate people. They happen to be like So, I took these ones actually in order off of a second section. So, I just thought that was interesting. You know, the 1031 exchange out of every 200, and they So, I felt compelled to take them. A Florida LLC with members and three of my children on a residential flip in March. Way to go. My wife does not have taxable income. Would the profit be protected from tax if it was paid out in full to my wife? Good question. What is more beneficial to claim? Or is it... What is more beneficial, to What are the requirements So, lots of good questions. And we'll start right out with how to set up a home office What say you, Jeff? - I say my brain's tired, so Hey, generally it's gonna If it's a corporation or a S corporation, you wanna set it up as for that entity, where for the expenses of using You've heard us talk about home office, where it's that portion of for the business. If it's an LLC that's taxed as you're gonna have to It's slightly different. You're gonna claim depreciation on it. Whereas with the reimbursement, you can be reimbursed for depreciation, but you're not actually And it does matter in the long run. Partnership, I believe they I mean, what's your view on partnerships that wanna do an administrative office? - You can't be an employee So, you're a partner. So, no administrative office. It would be a home office. And the reason this is important, guys, is what Jeff's talking to file the special home office form that you have to recapture, the depreciation. It sucks. It's like $5 a square foot of the room, that's the safe haven. Or you can do a percentage The rules are so much easier to you if you are an administrative office and your employer is reimbursing you. This is really important. To be an employer, it needs for tax purposes. So, when you see an LLC up there, LLCs do not exist to the IRS, They do not have an LLC tax form. For an LLC, you tell the corporation, here's how I'm gonna treat It could be either ignore the thing. It's a partnership, it's That's really it. And it starts with a C Corp. Then you have to file an So, really what we're talking it's disregarded or C Corp. If it's two people, it's and then once you go to the C Corp, then you could make an S election. So, the S and the C Corp tax And it's not even called a home office. It's called an administrative office. And what it does is it A, deduct any mileage that or when you're going out on business. So, normally if you you can't write it off. When you have an administrative So, for example, a real estate normally you wouldn't be over to that office. But if you have an administrative and an office where you go meet clients and things like that, So, then you're able to And then, like Jeff said, you get to reimburse somebody depreciation on your house It's actually really good, and you don't have to report it anywhere. So, when you're getting a just pretend your employer said, &quot;Hey, Jeff, pick up a pizza in here. &quot;When you're coming in, Jeff picks up 100 bucks worth of pizzas. And I throw him $100 cash. He doesn't have to report that anywhere. Me, as the employer, I have That's it, so that's what we love. We love accountable plans where you're reimbursing an employee to the employee, and it's And so, you get the best of both worlds, including when you're for the home, you can or you could use the room writing off a percentage how many rooms it has. So, what I see is that of all your expenses, including your real estate and all those things you could reimburse. And it ends up being really, Does that make sense, Jeff? - [Jeff] Yep. - All right, did I say anything goofy? - No. You know, the only other is you wanna document if from your corporation or S corp. You just wanna document with that reimbursement. - Yeah. When we do it, especially under 280A, we have a methodology, Our guys, Jeff's team's You'll have a methodology. When you do a reimbursement, it's based on your actual expenses. So, you add up things like, Great, I'm gonna add that up. Hey, do I have utilities? Yeah, I'm gonna add all that up. Do I have real estate taxes? Yep, do I have real estate insurance or do I have homeowner's insurance? Yep, I add everything up. Did I pay mortgage interest? Yep. Real estate taxes. Yep. And I add 'em all up, and let's say you had a three bedroom home, you're probably gonna get one fifth. So, you're gonna get 20%. You can reimburse 20% and it works out great. We love that. All right, so great Right out the gate, Jeff, you're on fire. You're already like you're So, let me throw you a curve ball. What should I do now after I made the mistake of - When I saw this one, my first thought was why was it a mistake? I'm assuming that you're transacting some type of business in California. So, if it was mistaken, it shouldn't have been in California. About the only thing you Or can you, how. Now, you're gonna know more What about moving that Is that possible? - Yeah, so depending on where they call it a conversion. You can convert it to a new jurisdiction. A lot of them the way they convert is you file a new entity in the new state and then you dissolve the old state. Because remember that there's always, there's three things. I always call it the trilogy. There's the state. There's third parties They wanna see your And then you have the Feds. The Feds are separate from So, like your Federal But the state, you just moved. Kind of like your social security number doesn't switch if you move So, if you were in California saying it's a mistake 'cause Jeff's absolutely right. Like, let's say that I and I put it in California LLC. You may be feeling bummed, but that's not the wrong way to do it. That's the right way to do If you use a Wyoming statutory trust, you might be able to But even with the Wyoming statutory trust, we're gonna have an LLC owning it. We're being the beneficiary, and that's gonna be taxable in California. So, it's not necessarily California just charges If you set up an LLC in that does interstate in other states and doesn't all right, now we may wanna be talking about whether we wanna use a And don't worry, it's something that we Worst case scenario is you file a final return with California. You're gonna get hit with the 800 bucks. And set up the correct entity But like Jeff said, there's quite often. Like we convert, we can And then you're doing the same thing. You're still paying your but you're filing it as a final return. Anything else on that one? - [Jeff] No. - That's an interesting question. And one that, you know, California is just extremely The sad part is they're We used to think they were. Hey, if you like learning about entities, you wanna learn more. So, trusts, LLCs, corporations, the appropriate way to set them up. How to use a smoke screen. How to do everything from equity stripping to using land trust and living trust. We get into some of the you know, probably not a 10,000 foot view, but we probably get down We're not gonna dive into the minutia, but we're gonna show you and how to use 'em. Glenn does an excellent job. He handles most of the heavy lifting. I come in to do tax and legacy planning. On September 18th between nine and five, which is really nine to four. We always give ourselves a It is absolutely free, absolutely free. So, for you guys, we love you come on in, you're gonna learn all sorts of fun stuff from tax reduction to liability reduction, how to actually own out of a public record. You're gonna see some of the questions in here today talk about that. One of the best things you could do to never get sued is So, we like that. Business structuring, how to how they work, how they, how it doesn't work, I love the 200, 300-year plan. And it changes our methodology And it's not that expensive. It's actually cheaper than the or doing a will. Retirement strategies. We do get into some of and how to use them and maximize them, and also touch base on the in some cases, we have clients into retirement plan. And many people don't And then asset protection. Asset protection is about protecting it from creditors, You creating liability and from that too. So, for example, I've unfortunately, but you know, somebody who's running they have their business, One of those kids get into a car accident, depending on how severe, We've seen deaths and things like that. You wanna make sure that you have a good layer of protection. And we go over the different layers, everything from insurance to take things away without you So, sometimes they can take in a company, but we wanna take over the management or control it. And what that does is it forks settlement. So, you know, we kind of look There's a lot that we go over, and it's absolutely free for y'all. So, it's aba.link/TAP, It's this coming up Saturday, A lot of fun, you won't be bored. And trust me, you're gonna that you didn't already know. Clint does an excellent Together we do a great job. And it's a lot of fun. All right, back into the questions. Is it advisable to have the I put the &quot;in&quot; in there In LLC, what do you say, Jeff? I know this isn't your bailiwick. - I can see either a or in being correct. Although that wasn't your I prefer not to do this, I might be wrong about this, but I think it causes some issues, perhaps not with the 121 gain exclusion, but I think there's also Is that correct? - You have some homestead, yeah. In some states like Texas, because if you put it in the LLC, you could destroy an unlimited homestead. So, I don't like using LLCs in first off, but I also do you have any equity exposed? So, like in Nevada, it's 575, I believe is what we're at sitting at now. So, if you have a house what are you worried about? Some people say, &quot;well, I wanna put it in there &quot;of it away to my kid.&quot; Stop that, don't do that, right? Don't gift a capital asset is you get a step up in So, like you're giving Plus you may wanna sell it at some point. The 121 exclusion, which is the 200,000 and $500,000 capital gain exclusion when you sell a home that you've lived in two out of five years, As long as that LLC is a disregarded LLC, it doesn't hurt it. Also land trusts. And I'll tell you our personal view. Land trusts don't affect My personal view is that out of your buck if you and just make it some goofy name. And if you really want or use an LLC that's doing and it'll keep your name So, for example, I can My name's nowhere on it. I could call it, you know, Blue Dog, LLC. And I could set up a trust on my home, the 123 Main Street Trust My name's nowhere on it, And it's been fairly well-protected, but for tax purposes that whole It doesn't hurt my 121 exclusion, does not hurt my homestead. So, I tend to like those. The other thing is, make If you are doing Airbnb, make sure you talk to your insurance agent and that you are getting You have to for the short-term stuff, otherwise they will not cover. And then also make sure you Umbrella coverage, a good policy is gonna cost you around 300 bucks a What it means is it's not gonna protect you from all lawyers, but it's gonna give you have to pay for to defend And that's almost more important. Because what gets most is the slow drain on and the drain on your nerves. 'Cause you start waking up at So, you gotta make sure of protection in place. And nowhere is that more is coming after your house. I have seen an individual lose their home after years and years and because their homestead exclusion sucked. Like in California you guys' She had nothing. She had two, she had a lawyer, a full-time lawyer and an accountant, and nobody saw the issue. And she had one liability and they took over 15 And boom, she was done. So, somebody says is the aba.link the tax and asset protection.? That is a virtual event, guys. We're not gonna be doing that one live. But it will be all day. Anyway, do you have anything else? I just Hobarted that. - Now, I was just wondering how you feel about the QPRTs, the - Yeah, the qualified where you just own the right to occupy? I'm, I'm... It's very rare that I would recommend it. Let's just put it that way. You can always replace the home. Like, so like, hey, I'm It doesn't give me any I could swap it out like, hey. I could buy another residence But I always think it's There's very few situations You know, what if you? Things happen and you might or you may wanna use that asset. And depending on who at severe limitations to access those funds. Just in case something unexpected occurs. I like control. - Mm-hmm. - And I don't like giving So, what else do we got? Oh, what are the reasons? This is one that's all for you. What are the requirements out of state properties Such as airplane ticket, car What are the minimum as a tax deduction and What say you, Jeff? - The primary thing is we have to make this business travel, and to do so there is the requirement that at least half the time spent traveling, say you go for a week to in another state, at least half that time. So, if you're gone for six days, at least three of those days And a business day is considered at least four hours of So, if you meet those requirements, you're gonna be able to as business travel. So, what you don't wanna do in Orlando for one day, and then spend the next and Epcot and all. Because then, at that point, none of it becomes business travel. - Yeah, so Jeff, you put It's documenting the purpose of the trip and it just has to be primarily for business versus vacation. And how do you make it primarily? You have to be 50% and So, four hours in one day, if you're meeting on a daily basis, spending it on your properties, you're working around your properties. You're talking to vendors If you're a real estate investor, you're looking at other properties. Like you're doing things with your business. So, you know. That's not horrifically difficult to do because you could literally have breakfast with somebody for about half of that, that you're working with. You know, hey, I'm gonna and I'm gonna talk to my real estate agent and I'm gonna do this So, it's not horrible. But the way the IRS does this, they have a couple of little tricky rules. If like, they can say, hey, if I'm in the North American region, if I fly to meet with at my place, let's say that I had, I have the ability to hire or I could hire Jeff across country. Let's say I lived in Washington The IRS, can't say, &quot;Hey, you have to use So, I could fly out to And that's no different And then I can write off my As long as the reason I went So, the way that they dictate that is more than 50% has to be So, if a day is four hours, plus I had my travel day there and back, I have three days already, so I could spend an extra day there. I could spend an extra But what we like to see is when you're using the rules in your favor for not just the travel expense, but that you're gonna as possible, and you're of pleasure with business. And the way you do that So, let's say that I fly on a Thursday. I meet with Jeff on a Friday. I should meet with Jeff on Monday, and then I What that gives me is Monday and, excuse me, Thursday, all those business days. But also it gives me the 'cause it's on a weekend, I If it's a holiday, you get You just have to bookend it. So, if you're willing to do it, spend a little bit of it's gonna be a huge benefit to you 'cause, again, if I wanted to then I just have to go for Thursday, Friday, or Friday, at least, and then have another meeting on Monday. And that will allow me to But better yet, that gives six business days right out the gate. I have Thursday for flying, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, I get those as business days, and then Tuesday as another fly day. So, I have six days. So, I could literally and still write off the plane tickets. I would have to split the hotel though 'cause the hotel would only Those other days, the meals So, didn't mean to get too deep on that. The other thing is meals doing it at a restaurant. That was under the that was passed at the end of last year. So, make sure that you're Next one, oh. We don't really need to do the Q and A 'cause these guys are knocking through. Let me just see how bad it is right now. You guys always ask a million questions and I'm scrolling through Holy cashmoley. Unless the chat, no wonder, Did they even answer a question? No, I'm just teasing, Answer, oh yeah, they're still learning. They got 14 questions in the queue. You guys are keeping up. So, Dana and Elliot, you guys get a star. And Troy, you guys get a big star. Anybody else that I see on there? Troy, Elliot, Dana, you And Patty is there, okay, I see that. Perfect, you guys keep it up. Jeff, what's the best way when I already own 100% of the LLC to get the property under contract? - This one actually because I felt I was a but what I kind of put together was it sounds like maybe and want to partner with to gap fund them or something And if that's the case, to the joint venture, which is gonna be taxed as a partnership. And then whatever the other contributes will also be their share. So, I would just put that entire LLC inside this partnership, - What if you just wanted to Hey, I got the property we're gonna do 50-50 on this. You're gonna, you know, you're I put a property on, let's just say I put a I put 50,000 down. I got a $200,000 property, and we're gonna spend - Yeah, you could admit another member. You will have to file What you were talking about earlier, Toby, that lets you designate how Then you're simply telling the IRS that, hey, I was a single member LLC, but now I wanna be taxed as a partnership because there's two of us. - Mm-hmm. - But yeah, you can certainly do that. - Yeah, and if you do Make sure that you are You bring your property for somebody else, you is protected under that property, and that you're not relying because the LLC agreement's &quot;Hey, we got to pay things Da, da, da, da, da, like you don't wanna. 'Cause you what you're essentially doing is giving them half. So, just make sure that you have a lien against that property if The other thing we see is the opposite where somebody will fix up a house and the LLC was still on that, the outside individual's name, and they go sell it and they So, yes, technically that's incorrect. They should not be doing that. They're violating the but you still have to sue So, if I'm the person who has and we're gonna close and everybody's putting I'm not too worried about it. But if you put a bunch hey, we're gonna close in the of and they didn't put any money in, you are liening that individually get paid back whatever if you ever sell that property, and that way you can be protected. It's just the only way - And I often tell the person to make sure they secure their loan or the money they contribute. But I had never really the person contributing the property. - Mm-hmm, I'm always worried blow up where somebody says, &quot;Hey, I'm gonna do this, And then you get the property. They say, &quot;Hey, I'm I mean, I've seen this so many times. Then you go out there and all they've done is steal all your materials, and the place is a dung heap. And then they disappear. And so, now you're left with the property. Bring somebody else in And then, right before it sells, here comes the partner that absconded with all the materials, &quot;Hey, I'm 50% and you owe me.&quot; And you just wanna go nuts, right? You just wanna attack that person. But that's, you know, you gotta make sure that you're protecting yourself. The way partnerships work is and Jeff puts, I put in 50,000 we have capital accounts. So, in theory, when that partnership, let's say it makes 200,000, it would pay Jeff back whatever he put in. Let's say it was 25. If I put in 50, it gives me back my 50, and then it splits the rest. So, you gotta make sure that you're never in a situation where you're I've seen that so many times. I've seen it where partners they get behind and they And then they'll go and Or a third partner will come in saying, &quot;Hey, I'll bring in some money.&quot; And they're all expecting it's gonna be distributed out pro rata. Well, you were the one that put the money in the first place, and you're thinking, &quot;Hey, wait a second, I need And they're like, no, we're and this person. It gets really ugly quick. So, make sure that you have so you don't get burned. Is the promise for 30? This is, I don't know what that is. People are asking funny questions. Enough people have gotten burned that, we're having some fun in the chat. How can I become anonymous I started my own LLC One year later, I'm interested in enhancing the corporate shield and getting my name off the I have worked hard to with the existing entity - I don't have an answer for this one. - So, I do. If you have business credit, most business credit is gonna that is not anonymous. It's gonna be transparent And that's because the bank and not just you pretend, hey, I work for this company. They almost always wanna do a check. Otherwise, they are loaning but they're really loaning to you, and they're putting the And it's really a personal And it's a personal reporting. When you get true corporate credit, there's no personal reporting. It's not on your credit report anymore. If you have a, and this You can have an obligation and you can be a guarantor Versus I could do a loan and it is reporting. So, it's always, you with the party that you're dealing with, what do they report to. In the personal realm, that do personal credit report to FICO and TransUnion and Equifax. On the business side, flip that around. Only about 5% of the companies report to Dun &amp; Bradstreet or Equifax Direct or TransUnion business. So, it's important to know those things as best you can going in. But once you start building it's great, but it does So, that kind of flies in the face of the idea of having anonymity. What I would suggest is that to hold your capital or because yes, they could but they can only get So, if you distribute it out to yourself, let's say it's an S corp or take your profits out on a on a regular basis, and put 'em aside. Put 'em into an entity that That way, if there's unwanted attention that comes your way and they you're able to keep your rather than having $1 million account sitting in that business. There's nothing worse after a business and that exceeds what that business have, but it's such a huge oh, I'm worried about a I'm still gonna tell you and put it aside, if there's any business So, if it's frivolous cases, especially. But you know, most attorneys are like, freeze, don't do anything. They've made this big allegation. If there's teeth to it, then you can't, it's called a fraudulent conveyance. So, I'd much rather before that ever occurs, Once you're on notice, you have to be very, very, very careful. Anything else, Jeff? I know you didn't wanna - No, that was right on, exactly - Perfect, we love it. All right, you guys. (laughs) There's a written promise for 35% profit a part of a JV contract. No. (laughs) It sounds like one term of something that should be in a contract. But if I have a 35% profit. You know what, I've seen a lot of those participating loan agreements. &quot;Hey, I don't wanna do anything. &quot;I just wanna loan you money. &quot;And I want a chunk of the profit back.&quot; You could do that, and that's called a... Basically it's a regular loan for interest plus a conditional rider where So, the rider is a contingency interest. So, let's say that I And I say you're gonna give me 4%. But then I have a contingent if the profit, and you know, we look at the total profit, and if 35% of that is greater than 4%. So, 35% of the profit is greater than 4%, you pay me the extra, and that. Or you could do the 4% plus the 35. Like, you have infinite And that's where you have side money and they're really smart. That's a lot of the places they go. They just, they don't wanna get involved. They just wanna know that they have a loan that's getting a set They wanna have security on it, so they wanna secure the real estate or whatever the assets are. And then they wanna know that they at least get a part of it. And so, when you come at 'em and say, &quot;how about a 35% cut?&quot; You know, if it's one of my clients, they're probably saying, &quot;how about I loan you the money?&quot; And personal guarantee, and we're gonna secure the house with it. And it's a really low interest rate. But if you knock it out of the... If what you're saying is right, yeah, you're giving me a 35% cut. So like, yes, that is one way to do it. And I love that, it's called a One of my favorite things on the planet. All right. In 2021, we sold my Congratulation. And will owe substantial capital gains. Is there any possible any possible way to avoid these taxes through real estate investing or? Question mark. - There is, and I'm gonna You sold your husband's business. So, I'm assuming he's So, there is the possibility qualify for real estate profession. Now, the only problem with this is we're in mid-September for you to make your hours to become a real estate professional. - You'd have to buy a lot - [Jeff] What's that? - You'd have to buy a lot of property. - You'd have to buy a lot of property. You'd have to do cost segregations to get the bank write off, which is why it's as a real estate professional. - Well, so, Jeff, with what you're really saying is, hey, I can take a huge on real estate and write it off against my individual income and and offset some of that capital gain. - Correct. - [Toby] That's probably a - I would imagine, if for more than a year. So, yes, that would be And that's kind of the is this long-term capital gain Most definitely being than your ordinary rate so. - Capped at 20% plus or 3.8% for net investment income tax, plus your state capital gains rate. - Right. - But depending on where you're at, you could be looking at 23.8%. One fact I would wanna know, and I don't know if these but why not do an installment sale? Why didn't you secure it with something and then get it over a couple of years? So that you can lessen the tax bill. You know, maybe there's &quot;Hey, Biden's gonna raise &quot;so get it all now,&quot; you The other side is there's something called a qualified opportunity zone. And in a qualified opportunity zone, you have 180 days from the sale which could be January 1st. Technically it'd be the Where you have to put, you or any portion of it into and defer the tax until Would be taxable on December 31st, 2025, and would be payable in 2026. So, if you want to give you could invest it in something else. If you need the money, you but if you don't need the money, then you may wanna look at a And you really do, you have or I believe this one 'cause it's the sale of a dental practice, assuming that those assets, I believe that you should till 180 days from January 1st. And if that's the case But you need to have And then you have to put it and you have to buy which is great, but that's If it's already closed, And you know, so sometimes I'm looking at deferred sales trust, which Sometimes we're looking at where you carry back some of the note, and you're getting paid over So, you're spreading it Or you just do-- I'm sorry, one thing I of a professional practice is there's usually contingencies that are paid based on how much revenue is collected through the years. So, this may be already So, if you sold it for half a million, but you're not getting you're gonna have an installment sale. You're not gonna pay the tax - Mm-hmm. Now, it always depends on A lot of times they say I but you're keeping the practice. And so Tom in here says, &quot;Hey, why not? &quot;Why doesn't the dentist max You usually have to have but also you have to So, it doesn't mean that you you know, and say, &quot;Hey, are we gonna continue Maybe you're doing consulting. You really wanna be careful. When you do a purchase and almost always there's a non-compete, and a, what do they call it? An agreement where you provide services. So, you could have an agreement. Those would be ordinary income, but they also get treated as, they can be treated as, But if they run through your company, then you could fund retirement plans. But now you have no employees, right? So, now we could just and benefit ourselves. So, especially if this you could build something like that. Let me see if there's anything else here. - You know, Toby, I actually had a client who did this exact same thing. They sold their practice. They were paid over several years. They did do the DB choice. They were still doing work on the side. - Jamming it in there as - [Jeff] Yup. - So, you know, so the thing to run away from like, oh, we Maybe we do. (laughs) Depends on how old you are, whether you're keeping the business. 'Cause quite often with the business, you're selling the assets. You know, what they want is your practice. They want your intellectual property. They want your goodwill. Goodwill is taxed as - No, sale goodwill is - So, capital gains, it's 15 It's something goofy. So... - And like they want your client list, your patient list, and that - Mm-hmm. - But they also usually want is typically not worth much without you continuing to practice. - And so the IRS is really good about recognizing that and saying I want that to be ordinary So, they'll come through It doesn't matter what's They're not bound by that. They can say what's the reality. The reality is I need Jeff. And so Jeff has a consulting agreement. He has a non-compete with me, And he has all these things. The reason that I have Jeff here is so that his clients won't run off. So anyway, there's so many When you sell a business, you always wanna have a really, really good tax I like to tell my horror stories, He called me up on a Friday about a $6 million deal. And he goes, &quot;Hey, Toby, &quot;We're about to sign things. &quot;And I said, hey, I want &quot;I've known you&quot; because for a long time, and he says, &quot;Hey, Toby, will you come in here &quot;and meet with these lawyers?&quot; I had a team from New York and a team from California on a conference call. Team from New York knew and was about to eat his lunch. He thought he could deduct the So I just, first thing I said &quot;Hey, so-and-so,&quot; I'm not I said, hey, this is, you realize you can't And he goes, &quot;What, no, I'm like, no, you can't write it off. And the lawyers are like, well, we didn't obtain a We said we're not experts. And all of a sudden all hell broke loose. Because there was an assumption made that he's gonna get a And so he was using that of what to pay for this thing. And you know, we managed to it was just the LA firm got tossed just because they didn't There was probably 10 things like that. And we ended up bringing in somebody else, ended up spending my whole weekend babysitting the thing But it was pretty interesting. Oh, somebody says amortization. Troy. Oh, deduct. I said, depreciate, it's amortized, yeah. - Yeah, one of the first as soon as somebody says I say what did you sell? And how did you go about it? That's really something what exactly you're selling the value of each piece And both you and the seller have to agree on this. And the problem is is the tax treatment - And they're not bound by it though. - Yeah, but. at your agreement and go psst. This is the reality of this. 'Cause people play games, 'Cause there's usually one side that has a huge tax appetite, is probably just trying to - A good example of that I don't mind it being called goodwill because that's capital Well, for the buyer, because they have to Stock sales are great for the buyer, not so great for the seller. Or they're great for the seller, - Somebody says here, is there... Hold on for a quick second. There's no 1031s for That went away 2017. Could the purchase payments be and then the dentist max out the DB? Yeah, it's up to you. You probably don't want the purchase. You want ordinary income. So, you want the non-compete and the consulting salary. 'Cause they usually keep them to bring the clients over. But yeah, you could have that be 300,000. If the DB plan would You guys get to negotiate that. And then sell the personal You got a little problem I think they're meaning business property. So, the personal business, If that's the case, let If I'm selling that, that still... I've depreciated it all. If it has any useful life, right, that's all ordinary income, Trying to think here. - If it's beyond its useful life, I believe it's capital gain treatment. - Mm-hmm. So, you could do that, You're already getting the If it still has useful life. So like, hey, I had a bunch of furniture, and I wrote it off in year one, and then I sold it in year two. I'm having to recapture as personal, as ordinary income, When you have longer property, things with longer useful lives, that could even be a bigger trouble. Let's see. Next one. Sorry, did you have you wanna go over? - No, sir. - When do I switch from wholesaling under my name to wholesaling - I prefer sooner than - Yeah, go back in time. (laughs) Do not wholesale in your own name. 'Cause when you get sued Just figure it's gonna cost and they know it. And if you're having any success, they're just licking their chops at you. So, please do not wholesale And unless you really don't have anything, you don't expect you're for the next 10 years. Otherwise just wholesale taxed as a corporation, Just don't do it in your own name, please. 'Cause you'll be really hitting some home runs and starts making things like, &quot;Hey, you misrepresented to And you completely saved their katush. You took over, fixed a And somebody sees that and they just get jealous. You just wanna be able Sorry, Jeff, was there anything - [Jeff] Nope. - This is fun. Hey, follow us on social media. We got a whole bunch of them. Instagram, Facebook, My favorite is the YouTube channel. I always talk about that. We're probably gonna on YouTube live and then so that we can get more and more people some better information. Yes, we are, if we were a we want you to have We want you to have long hair that grows really, really and we wanna... So, if we can help you make money, we hope that you'll allow Which means doing tax circus, all right. How do I then get credit approvals under the business entity? - You kind of already answered this Toby. 'Cause it was exact thing I thought of. You're gonna need personal guarantees to get business credit. If you want a loan for yeah, they're gonna give it to you if everything looks right to them, but they're also gonna want - Let me say this. If your halfway listening right now, listen up because this is If you understand the you're gonna realize they're always looking for. Cash, collateral or credibility. So, they either wanna see sitting in your account. You have a history, that's great. You know, but cash works. Like if I have 50 grand, line of credit if I put that into a CD. And I can secure it for a while with my performance that they're released. I used to do that, I've Where I just threw some money in. Instead of funding the entity I funded the entity with cash line of credit so that the And then they release the It takes about two years. Collateral is anything. I could use my house as collateral. I could use a car as collateral. I could use anything as collateral. And the business, they'll and allow that to take place And then there's credibility, which is they wanna see two-year history and they wanna see a Paydex score or the Experian direct score, and they're gonna give Like the Paydex score is way different than a personal credit score. Paydex is zero to 100, and it shows how on time you pay things. So, it's best just to ask be looking for and then going in and making sure that you Now just like a teenager, teenager comes up, again, and So, you have a 18 year old that says, &quot;Hey, Dad, I want you Again, the lenders are gonna look at cash, collateral or credibility. They're gonna pull the credit score. They're gonna see there's They haven't been around long So, they go to the next, is there any cash to secure it with? And then they go, do And then they're gonna &quot;Hey, you don't meet any of the criteria. &quot;Do you know anybody who does?&quot; So, then Dad shows up and They co-sign on the loan. It's still in the teenager's name, but you're a guarantor on it. And that's exactly what If it's a new business, it's or it has no history. So, I'd say two years of credit history. They're almost definitely gonna ask for the credibility of one of the principals. Once you get used to that, it's really easy to build business credit. Like, I could go get an that doesn't report to my personal name. I don't think any of 'em So, all my business, like, I got tons of business credit cards. Not a big credit fan. Like personally, I don't but I don't mind it with the business. It's just, you know, they used And then eventually they weaned us off. Like the American Express, they don't have a personal They just look at our - Now, do you. - Do you see. Do you see that with the, our Does it get easier as you do each gate? So, when you're talking about the the build, or the buy, rehab, those two strategies, the refi part, you don't want that all on So you, personally, you before you're banned from doing any more, but usually you're going to about four, and then you're doing portfolio lenders. So, there's people that that you're improving And the money is not always the cheapest. It might be five and a half percent as opposed to three and a half percent. But when you're doing commercial and getting it out of your personal name, it doesn't affect your personal credit. That's worth it. And especially if you When you go to about 100 properties, it's like you're in that secondary world where they're probably of three and a half, 4 million bucks. And they're gonna want 60%, you know 60% debt versus 40% equity. And they're gonna be looking in some cases. And you know, and the then eventually they're gonna be like, &quot;Hey, we don't need you So, like a lot of my It's a dual entity where they'll do a loan to the entity holding the real estate. And it's secured by the that owns the real estate 'cause they don't wanna They just wanna take the And that's usually a portfolio loan. You know, at least 5 million and above. And those, they're not We have great people. If you're part of our funding community, you probably already dealt but we have a bunch of really good lenders that we work with. And a lot of them are Like they're going, they want portfolios. All right, that was enough of that. Is it more advantageous from to make charitable contributions directly from our corporation or to pay ourselves and then make the donation What say you, Jeff? - This is really a depends question. And we haven't said that in a while. And the reason it depends is for a corporation, a cash to 25% of that corporation's net income. In 2022, it has the of that corporation's net income. Whereas, this year, the I believe, for 2022. - 100% cash to charity. Now... So, you have that to look at. Can you take advantage of the corporation. But you also have to look at can you take advantage Are you able to itemize? Are you in a lower tax bracket Corporation's in the 21%. You may only be in, say, So, generally I would say it's but that is definitely not You really have to look where it's gonna come out best. - Yeah, we kind of have from a tax standpoint a C Corp, can give up to 25% but it's capped at 21%. So, you're getting 21% on, let's say you have Well, you're gonna get, you're gonna save one Whatever that is, I should add that up. That's 11,500. One half of that, so I don't even know. I can't do math on the spot, all right? There's not a huge amount of benefit. Whereas if you gave that, say, it was $25,000 in Jeff's account. He's at 37%, plus state, So, he'd be, it's better off if it's Jeff making the contribution. But to keep this, Jeff has to pay tax. So, if it's sitting, there's $100,000 sitting in a C Corp, and you're gonna keep it there, you may as well go $25,000 to charity. Like, hey, I don't care. It's the corporation writing it off. And you're benefiting a Maybe it's your own 501 But if I pay Jeff $100,000, Jeff is now paying tax on that 100,000. If Jeff gives 25,000, It would have been much to give it out of the corp. But if it's an S-corp, S-corporation, if it makes they don't consider the S corp making the charitable donation. They're considering that the shareholders made the charitable donation at their level on their So, if I gave $25,000 out of and I'm 50% owner, the way great, you made 100 grand, and then you made a $12,500 for each partner. So, you're gonna get 50,000 So, it's gonna lower you to 37,500, is really what your net for each partner. So, it's kind of weird. Same thing with a partnership. Same thing if it's a sole proprietorship. There's no difference between you and it. If it's a partnership, the partnership didn't as far as the IRS is concerned. The individual partners did. Did I say that right? - Yeah, and the answer to this question, it's not a this or that. It could be this and that. You may max out your then pay out the rest who then makes another contribution in his own personal name. - Yep. What you don't do is give and then pay out a whole bunch of money and ruin your profits so You get to carry it forward but still that sucks. Usually you're, like me I think it's better for you nine times out of 10 because it's gonna get you And I don't wanna have a that I couldn't write off. And a $10,000 deduction, that came out of a corporation that I can't write off, right? I would have been better off like, hey, it probably to give 20,000. Then I would have gotten to, at least had some bit to write off. Assuming I defeated - One other thing I usually in that case, especially is coming into play, is they Say I normally contribute Go ahead and do that bigger Let the church or whatever the charity is know that you're doing that. And they may not be seen as but that allows you to out of the buck of that contribution. - Yeah, get chunky with your donations. Give three years in one year. Like instead of doing once a year, like what Jeff just Why not make a five-year bequeathment? Now, if you're worried about that, but you want to still get the deduction, you could do a donor advised fund so long as it allows Some do, some don't. So, you could always put a big donation into the donor-advised fund &quot;Hey, I need the deduction this year.&quot; Let's see. Oops, hey, Tax and Asset Protection Live. Who would have thunk it? September 18th, come on I know I mentioned this earlier, so I'm not gonna belabor And you're gonna learn a lot land trusts, living trusts, 401ks, C Corps, S Corp, series LLCs. Which states let you do When's an appropriate time. Why don't we statutory trust? We get into all of it. It's like, if you're in California, you don't wanna pay we could show you how to defeat that. Register, aba.link/TAP. And, yeah, it is a virtual event, so you're gonna see Clint until four o'clock. Can I do a 1031 exchange when that I never lived in nor rented out? Is there any way to other than renting it out? I don't wanna keep the house. - Before 2018, you could have The new rules say a rental But when you dig down into it's a property that's So, if you've never lived in I don't think you're gonna on this property. - Yeah. There's one exception that was post, if I remember right, the facts were that some They intended to have Their child ended up So, they would never go near the house. The mom said, sell it, get it outta here. 'Cause it was such an And they tried to rent it, They tried and tried and tried. They had some people look at it, but the market was just too soft. It was in a really nice area that was more of a vacation area. And it was a, I think it was a new built. So they just, nobody would what they needed to get on that side. And then they put it for sale. And so, they could not rent it And they sold it, and they to treat it as an investment property because they listed it They made a good faith effort to rent it. And so it was in service. That's the only time I've ever seen that. And so I would say, technically, there's not a requirement, like if you don't wanna have And then, even if it's renting or somebody else, somebody that you know that's gonna be gentle on it, that's still fine just rent it I think the safe harbor as long as you make it into you'll be fine. But you must have like, how did you get a bunch I never lived in it or but it's gone up in value a whole bunch, and now I just wanna sell it. (laughs) Well, there's another tax-free It's called doing a cash out refi. And keeping the house and just using that equity to borrow from. Anyway. Let's see, how are we doing on time? Am I over already? Oh, I am. Sorry. - [Toby] The last one. - I keep asking you questions. - Who handles the paperwork So the lawyer, the How far in advance do I have to plan to undertake an exchange? - It's actually the candlestick maker. No, I'm just kidding. - I thought the exact same thing. You know how weird that is? - So, it's actually. Think of this as a normal sale, but you have somebody representing you called the qualified intermediary. So, you're still gonna have dealing with that You're still gonna have the realtor and all those other people. But the purpose of the is to keep you out of trouble When you sell your property, They hold the funds until And then they represent you put that money back in for you. So, there will be some the qualified intermediary. A lot of it's gonna be that the title company does. You should find a, if you're you need to do that before up for sale. You need to talk to 'em what the plans are. They're gonna help you like 45 days to identify 180 days to actually replace And shop around a little. I haven't heard of many bad QIs, but. You do you wanna get the best deal. They're not necessarily that expensive. I seen 'em $500. What have you seen? - I've seen all over I like Shawna, I have a... Shawna Ronrail up in Idaho. She's not everywhere, but she's just a really great And like, you know, we have some clients that and C corps and some bizarre things, just because they don't want any money. It's some really high net worth folks. And she's able to handle So, whereas most 1031 exchange I care more about not than necessarily the price. So, I always look at their expertise. It's kind of that value thing. I'm like, I just want so I can sleep at night - Yeah, And the more you get into some of the 1031 off shoots, like replacing with and things like that, I think it gets more and more that good QI in place before - Yeah, your QI is your best friend. You can do reverse exchanges. Like, sometimes when they're already doing the math. They're like, man, I just don't You can acquire a property If you have the credit As long as you don't take as long as the QI is You don't actually have to, You could buy the replacement property and then exchange the old You could do that or you can already have identified your properties and coordinate the closing you're not sweating bullets, you know, hoping that you can find And then lastly, somebody I believe, I'm not gonna say the name, but you can park it in in a TIC, in certain larger organizations. So, like if you're selling a I've seen that done more than once. But I remember going through where the attorneys but they were parking with other high net where they knew that they that into something else in a portfolio. And then there's Delaware statutory trust that you could park it in as well. Like there's. If you have a good QI, they issues that would normally - You mentioned reverse 1031s. And the reason I like those, I've seen a couple 1031s blown recently because they couldn't find - Yeah, or they drag their feet. I've seen that, where they'll actually find a way to slow down, to stop it. Like, we're getting to the last few days, and then they start 'Cause they know that you're and you're gonna have to pay tax. And so, hey, you're Let's say you're in You're gonna get slapped hard. You're gonna be over 30% Qualified opportunity zones enable you to avoid some of that but you're still gonna be Like, in the next few So, they'll all of a sudden start like, hey, we need this and this and this. And they'll start asking just 'cause they're unscrupulous, and they know they got you over a barrel. So, you don't wanna do that. - Is there any reason to let the seller know you're in a 1031 exchange? - I would advise against it. Sometimes the agents do 'cause they're like, If you're finding replacement properties with a good person in a good organization, it won't hurt you to say because what you're trying to do is find replacement properties meet a certain criteria and And there's nothing wrong. Like, we work with Alpine a lot. &quot;Hey, I need to put $1 Great. And what if I wanna sell &quot;Go ahead, we'll buy 'em back from you &quot;or we'll bring another investor in.&quot; Perfect. So, they already know And so, they're gonna spread out that. And then they may be looking and saying, hey, rather than rush, I know I have 45 days to identify, They're wholesaling all day long. They just, what about this what about this one? And they can make a list, up to 200% of the value of your sale. So, you could do it. What else? Oh, Alpine school. I get mad at Aaron just like anybody else. I get mad at Clint sometimes. He's been my partner for 27 years. No, Alpine is actually We work with them on the infinity side. What I look at is results. All I care about is are cash flow properties, And if the answer is If the answer's no, then until I like them. And, yeah, they said he does, Aaron's a good dude. Like, the more I get to know him, the more I appreciate where Because at the end of the At least not for me. And somebody says, He is a very smart guy. We introduced him to We said, &quot;Hey, Don, you We're always looking for And they really do that. He's not here at this Don? All right, I think that's it. Let me see, are there any other? - [Jeff] There's one more. - Oh, there's one more? No, I think that's it. Was there another one? - I thought there was. - Let me see. I'm gonna look and see if I missed one. No, I got it. What was the one I - About the income coming in a partnership and wanting to allocate it to - Oh, there was that one, and then there was the dependent versus. - Yes. - Let me see if I screwed Oh, maybe I did, sometimes I screw up. So, we're gonna go back up to the top. Oh, that's the one I missed. So, we'll go, a Florida LLC with members consisting of my wife made a profit of 65,000. My wife does not have any taxable income. Would the profit be protected from tax if it was paid out in full to my wife? What say you, Jeff? - So, first off, I'm gonna determines how income is It can be adjusted and you to the agreement, changing the allocation. But the one thing I kind of noted is, say if you're 40% owner there's really no advantage of allocating that income to her. - If they're filing a joint - They're filing a joint return. And if you're thinking filing separate return, - Yeah, so they're adding up but your three children? If they made money on this, like they're materially participating, and they're not passive. If it's passive, chances back to you anyway. If they're actually doing my goodness, let them pay tax on it. 'Cause they have a standard What is it, $12,550 this year? - That's where I was just gonna go. I would prefer my children for some risk. Because they're gonna have of $10,000 each, or and they're not gonna - Zero. They might have a little if they worked hard on it. So like, if this is a flip, usually if I'm doing a I'm gonna make it an S corp. And then I would pay everybody. You're gonna have a little but they're not gonna pay any Any of the money that comes out to 'em, they probably won't pay and they could fund a Roth. Each one of those kids could end up being, like I remember doing the numbers. If you give somebody 50 they're gonna be probably over 700 grand. I think it was at 10,000, at I've seen the numbers, it's So, you just set up their whole, a great retirement for those But when I see wife's not making anything, well, it's your wife, are you married? If you're married, are you filing jointly? 'Cause what she makes would What is more beneficial, to What are the requirements - One typically has nothing You're always gonna claim any dependent that you're providing more than half the support. The only interplay between these two would be if you're providing so much, you're employing them and that they're able to support themselves. So, it's not an either, or question. You can employ your dependents I'm thinking primarily for children, but there's also other dependents, students this would work for. - And you have a massive tax If they're under, what, it's 3,600, it's a $3,600 a year. 2000 a year if it's 17 to six. So, if they're your beneficiary, great, but also then you can pay them. (laughs) And it's the same rule, it's $12,550 that they can make tax-free. So, do both. - Because the tax credit isn't dependent on anything other than your income. Like, you got to make sure but it's a tax credit. The tax credits are worth It's not a deduction. It's a tax credit, like So, it's like taking your - And when we talk about and their support, we're feeding them, everything on these children or that they use. - Or dependent, like a brother, sister that you're taking care of, or mother if you're providing and they make below 16 grand, then you get to claim it as a dependent. - Yeah, I think it's I wanna say it's under $4,000. - I think it, yes, it's something goofy. Yeah, I think you're right. - What are the terms for They actually have to be doing that your employing them in. You can't just say, oh, even though this child So, yeah. - All right. Let's get these guys gone Here I was thinking like, ah, I hope we could fill up the hour, which has never happened. We've never not like, that's the sad part. I don't think we've ever finished early. And then somebody says, &quot;Never.&quot; Sherry, you're hurting me right here. Subscribe to Anderson We're always putting We're gonna end up doing 'cause we wanna just that we can help. We don't care whether they give us their email address anymore. The way I look at it make life easy for yourself. Go to our podcast, You can take a look at all the stuff that we put up out there. We put the Tax Tuesdays So I know a lot of you guys listen to it. Because you're weird No, because you're gonna hear a question that's relevant to you. And then our replays are always in your Platinum Portal If you're not platinum and just reach out to us and Unlimited Q &amp; A with our attorneys. Unlimited written Q &amp; is 35 bucks a month. There's a signup fee that oftentimes is included in packages that we do. So, come to the Tax &amp; AP. We always do something special for those. But you'll realize it's just a peppercorn. 35 bucks a month is cheap. Talk to a lawyer, have and things like that, so Thank you, Elliot, Dana and Like we were keeping up with all the Qs. Like they blew 'em all out of the water. So, in the middle of tax season, the fact that they still the ability to answer, unless frown, maybe an emoji or two. Unless all their answers were emojis, I'm gonna say these guys 'Cause I was watching them typing away. You guys can't see. We don't have sharing with There's always somebody who solicits. &quot;Hey, I got a great business opportunity.&quot; We don't want that going So, I can see these guys And there's Troy. Smiley face, frown. Yep, so as long as they're and they're answering things But otherwise, thank you for Jeff, thank you for being a rock star and joining us the day And appreciate Troy, Elliott, and Ander who does the tech. So, thank you guys. Until next Tax Tuesday, Good luck. (upbeat music)