Peter Levine, welcome to the show. Thank you. I want to hear a lot about your personal story, Can you just give me, description of what that is? Sure. Sure. sure. When I first started on my path in the mid early 70s, I had the disadvantage, no, no, which would 14 years in the future would be brain disease that could at best be managed their negative. thoughts? So I didn't know that was supposed to be the And so I had a very, very different experience So for example, injured, somebody has fallen off a bicycle, And then you go out and you look closer and So you go. to call 911, but your guts are still even And so what happens, what might happen is not saying this is traumatic, but just as bed and all of a sudden you see images of And again, your guts twist up. Now, if that becomes... becomes chronic, the threat, there's danger, there's injury, But it's something that comes from the body. I think of this sometimes as a part of us that is very cognizant. that is not just the mind, but it's really And two years ago, last Lifetime Achievement Award from the psychotherapy And they had a picture in the magazine at you know, those puzzles that have a gazillion part was missing, and the caption was the So I think there's now more of a recognition the body is and how our bodies respond to and danger. even though there is no real threat or danger. So that's really how I began my work. - Let me see if I can state some of that back that something difficult happens to us, maybe happens to us, and then we store that experience involuntarily. And if we don't pay attention to how the body damage. Exactly. It can linger and linger and linger. And we can even start experiencing physical goes on in a chronic way. So, it's like... like, we sometimes think but it's very much somatic. It's very much something that registers in we can shift that. I could, if you want, do a little example the webinar. Sure. Sure. So there's a nerve that goes from the back all of the organs below the diaphragm, but it also goes to the heart and to the lungs. And this nerve is the largest nerve in the 80 % of that nerve is actually sensory. It's tasty. information from our guts and bringing it So if our guts are twisted, we're going to You know, and Darwin, he knew about this nerve and he So pneumo, And he also realized that it was responsible, this, And I couldn't even add something that's more observation. So if we can change the signal from the viscera, then start to recede. So here's the example, if you want with me. So I take an easy full breath, and on the the belly as though it's coming from the belly, And let the sound and the breath go all the to come in filling belly and chest and then So I'll demonstrate here &quot;voo&quot; and I'll let the way out. And then wait for the breath to come in, filling And once more. So do you want to do that with me or any of watching? Yeah. Let me just jump in with a question. question. I can imagine there are some people who are Yes, is, does it really do something? Does it work? Does it actually do what you want it to do So it is weird, but if you think about it think about it physiologically, there are if you think about it physiologically, there the in the guts Sometimes call the enteric network of neurons in the whole gastrointestinal these different Receptors that are signaling happening and how to be able to change that? So So again, the idea is very simple, and have been used literally for thousands of and they probably wouldn't stick around if So again, just one of the things in somatic their curiosity to invoke their curiosity. And so if you, your listeners, you are wanting I'll just lead you through the exercise. And if it doesn't feel right or it feels too to do or it might be even a little bit frightening so just let it go and just listen and watch it. So are you game? I am game. I just want to sum you up before we dive in What you're saying is, sure, this may feel lots of things including exercise, meditation, Yep. And yet, if you want to treat the difficult the demons that are living in various aspects here's an evidence -based way to do it. Who cares whether it feels weird? Exactly. And we've done a fair amount of research now And the last one was published in the Journal which is the gold standard for trauma reasons. So it's not without validation. But again, the inner validation to me is what's All right. Having said all of that, let's get weird. Yeah. Let's get weird together. So Dan and your viewers, easy full breath make this sound voodoo. vu, vibrating it in your belly. So you're now getting this feeling, instead or whatever comes up, So easy full breath, vu, we'll let the breath And the vu is on the out, so I do it even. easy full breath in and then I start the full come in on its own Filling belly and chest Okay? Let the breath come in, notice then any sensations, come up, or thoughts. Actually, I developed this exercise specifically. specifically working with people who had panic But just curious what you were noticing when Yes, and as you know, I'm a panic attack connoisseur. I suffer myself. I felt immediately like warmth roll over my and down into my guts. Exactly. Exactly. In other words, you were opening to these sensations. That's the idea because sometimes you can but not always because sometimes again, where and trauma. I mean, partly what I write about. in the autobiography is that it takes time. Because when I started teaching this work, or two sessions. And sometimes it does, but sometimes it takes especially when we have a lot of early childhood And then I, and then, but it's also possible but sometimes it's more not just a miracle, That's one of the reasons I enjoyed your book, cure. This is going to take care of everything,&quot; continue. work. - Just to say a little bit more about my experience - Please. - I experienced after two breaths, in my torso, notwithstanding the fact that -consciousness and fear that my audience was That makes two of us Right again, I mean like in some way, ways Just the phenomenological change, which the physiology of the nervous system and and regulating our basic sense of goodness, and perceptual experiences. There's been a lot of work now or a lot of sometimes can be valued. But I think sometimes also one has to be cautious And that people have to be prepared for it And the body is the way to prepare, follow it up. So it's not just the person is just taking whatever happens, it happens. But you have to be cautious. But unfortunately, that can be problematic. And actually, in the book, I talk about this this and its use. And especially when we can come to the body So anyhow, again, and having those feelings of warmth. Now, I can explain that in terms of a different My very, very dear friend and colleague, Stephen be a good person to have on. And we've been very close. close friends for like since 1975, 1976. And he talks about three systems, the sympathetic the shutdown system, where the vagus nerve And then also what he calls a social engagement And that should be the one. that you should be our default as primates So in other words, when we are not in fight our natural impulse is to connect with others, to share a meal, to share a movie. And again, others. So it's not about brute force anymore, but And cooperation comes from being open in our I'm very intrigued. And I do want to come back later to psychedelics. But let me just stay with the basics of SE, You just showed us one brief. and sounding technique. I would imagine that within somatic experiencing, Oh yes, many, many other, many other. You know, often people present with physical and and bracing in the body against being certain emotions, particularly sadness, grief. But if we bring our attention to our bracing, that they're feeling pain in their shoulders. And so I oh, it's very interesting. As soon as I said those words, - You're right. - It's very interesting. But again, the idea is what's underneath the And it's usually a bracing pattern, bracing against emotions. But so for example, are you willing to beam round as a guinea pig? I am putty in your hands. Okay. So, I can see, again, there's a fair amount Yes. So, I want you to explore what might happen even a little bit. What kind of movement might, there you go. And then, just letting the shoulders let go. go. Next time, do this, here I'll demonstrate. So instead of going like this, I just raise it go. And then rest there for a moment. And then again, just let the tension increase, and let them go. It's incredible. It's the same like on rush, again, over the warmth from that very simple move. Exactly. So, which it really, people ask, well, what's For me, the goal is feeling more alive, feeling feeling more present in the ear. here and now. And again, this is energy that got locked And once we connect to that energy and release we feel a lot of this vitality. So if you're willing to take one more step, you're willing to take one more step, you're willing to take one more step, I'm willing to take one more step, I'm going to to take one more step, I'm going to give you one more step, I'm going to give you a sentence step, I'm willing to take one more step, You say the mean anything or make mean something completely I'm alive I'm alive and again just notice stories into my in my head south of the neckline Okay, let's add one more thing. I'm alive and I'm real. I'm alive and I'm real. Yeah. And again, it just kind of noticed dropping into your body. So yeah, so yeah, to me the goal of successful person feels more settled in themselves and Carlion called the true self or the deep self, any trauma and will be there forever. We just need to connect with it. And we need to connect with it. do that, or one of the ways of doing that through the trauma. I've done no small amount of talk therapy but I've not had any therapist ever direct That seems like the key difference, between somatic experiencing and traditional Yes. Yeah, yeah. And somatic experiencing, one of the things works from the bottom up, to our feelings, but also to our emotions, And the idea in somatic experience. is to work from the sensations, but also connect. So it's not that talk therapy is bad or anything, And it's limited to the degree that we're our bodies. You know, a therapy per se, but really what it is, is do better. So somebody who's even a talk therapist, and came from them, from being talk therapists. And then getting some of these tools to also ability to work also with the mind. So, but just talk therapy alone without reference in any case can take a long, long time to Again, I'm not saying that just doing something and amplifies the shifts that we're all looking You may have explained this already, but would What is, in what way does somatic experiencing you know, working with your body and the sensations Yeah, well, in a way you could say trauma of dissociation from our bodies, or our body's Thank you very much. And those pieces are thrown asunder. So how can we bring those pieces together So again, if we can reference, you know, for So how can we bring those people are very And if I start working with them, they don't have any reference to the body. But then they, we're talking, having a conversation some excitement with the person. And I'll say, wow, it seemed like when you morning, &quot;it seemed like something happened &quot;Are you aware of anything that's going on So again, you just gently kind of lead the I was asked to see this young man who was And he lived up in the Bay Area, know, once a year. So when he first came down, he had his computer would email me and then I would respond with So it was in pop. impossible for him to actually be with another Well, the second year, Then the third year, he opened his computer And then the fourth year, young lady. lady, and then they got married. And now every Christmas, New Year, is they child. That was, I think, his four or five -year And so it was about meeting him where he was, was where his comfort level is. And then gradually bringing people or him to some reference to the body when something So is that relatively clear? - I mean, I love that story. I guess I still don't quite understand the bodily sensations will help you move trauma How exactly does that work? But remember, trauma is what's locked in the Again, that example, we go out and we see If it's severe enough, our bodies stay yucked and saying, &quot;This is bad.&quot; bad.&quot; And then the brain says, in the body. So I think really the key is because it's It's only by connecting to the body that we body. There's another thing that I think is maybe coming out lately about interception, and And in a number of these research studies, even, but just their heartbeat, that it greatly and their physical health, one small thing. So I think this is a field now, which is beginning And you could say that this interception is is in healing the wounds of trauma and betrayal. - Yeah, so just to state that back to you, like breathing and vocalizing or mental healing, or or anywhere in the body That's being held. Yes, you're getting us in touch with where move through exactly. You said it better than I've been saying it the evolutionarily wired? fight flight freeze respite that we have and Yes, that's right. Well, again, our response to threat or danger the fight or flight that mobilizes us for But then when we're feeling overwhelmed or such fear of the COVID, but it's not not something could flee from. So the one thing that they can do is shut And this is my theory, and I've worked with this is a proven fact, have had this post COVID, long COVID, and And then when we're gradually able to move, then some of the chronic fatigue becomes less, So again, if we're in fight or flight, If we're overwhelmed and we're shut down with of shutdown. cuts us off from connection. Well, connection to ourselves, our bodies, Because when you're either expecting danger, especially if you're in a state of shutdown. You just want to get through the day, but a person, where it's become stuck and then move out And then sometimes say an acknowledgement, it's like an affirmation where you said, &quot;I'm I'm alive and I'm real. I'm alive and I'm present.&quot; Because, again, that's a recognition of the connect with our bodies. bodies, that we feel more present, we feel more ascented. And there's no greater reward. There really is no greater reward. At least, that's how I see it. If I'm listening to this and I'm intrigued, at least not immediately to a somatic experiencing What are some things that we could, what are into our lives immediately? And maybe you've already listed them and demonstrated to you anyway. - I mean, many people meditate that's become But what if you, instead of meditating, on is, about if you meditate also on your body. You know, I was invited to Thich Nhat Hanh And one of the things that I really had sympathica is that most of his meditation, especially was what they called walking meditation. So when you're walking, you naturally connect And then they would do those kind of meditations, in groups of 12 or 15. underneath the plum tree, and they would share system, what they were experiencing, what how they were relating to their bodies. So again, just if you're doing meditation, how your body moves in space and time. and and that alone that re -inhabiting of could that help us move through our ancient line is it will enrich our lives and why not have major trauma or not. I mean, truly there are not many people that I mean, the word for trauma in Greek is wound is trauma or dream. So, find ways to enrich our lives, just do. to stimulate our dream talk, our dream world, alright, I suggest to people that they write And because often dreams are taking us in But taking dreams, and when I have a dream, look at pieces of the dream, parts of the the dream to what I'm experiencing in my body. So using the dream as a way to come into the body, maybe could even be called the dream So again, there are so many things that are by body awareness, by interceptive awareness, this. And as I said, the one example of just the of their heartbeat. I mean, without feeling their pulse, but just difference in their wellbeing, just doing So it's something that maybe I'm being repetitious, our lives. And it is, I believe, the royal root in working a person become aware of their heartbeat, wellbeing. trauma that's been on the body. Actually one of the people who wrote the endorsements he said, of somatic therapies who has been a beacon and dealing with the physical impact.&quot; imprints of traumatic stress. And he wrote a book called &quot;The Body Keeps And again, I think what we're seeing is, again, about this to audiences back in the '60s and I really received, well, basically a hostility. How could I say something so... so outlandish? And it was probably dangerous to have people But that's not that way anymore. I think really at this point, it's not no It really, you know, ways. of connecting to our experience, I think maybe not completely in the mainstream, but What has, I imagine, somatic experiencing Could you give us a sense of what the research Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, there are different kinds of research. The research that I mentioned initially, which I think, was in Israel, actually, where there And it would just really look at the metrics So there are different scales that you can And the And just doing, I think it was like, dramatically dropped the level of trauma. And this lasted for, I think, follow up at So that's what you wanna do. This is called basically an outcome study. We've done some physiological studies of what when people are in different states. We've done a little bit of that. We've done research on applying it to different for example, for marriage and family work aid, because children are always going to especially once they're two years old. They can get into all kinds of trouble. You know, they're out on their skateboards can get scared. This may be swallowing marbles and then being So if the parents are able to be there with by the child's side, to put your hand down. on the back, on their back. And then the kinds of reactions that you were that's what the children often describe. So it's, again, like I said, somatic experience but it's about how to multiply the effectiveness kinds of therapies, including cognitive therapies. So it sounds like you're saying the more we own wounds, our own body, let it move through, larger world. Yes. Yes. And that would be my deepest hope. that when we heal from ourselves, to us. But I think ultimately we can also begin to in the world. And my God, if the world has never ever needed now. I was doing a training many years ago. It must have been at least 20 years ago in At that time, come and And so somebody asked me the question, is? Can you still work with it? And I said, yes, you just need to have some It could be pain. It could be some haunting, but that's all And so this man volunteered, And he was actually one of the pioneers of therapy for Holocaust survivors. So he said that he had been having back pains So it's interesting that he mentioned specifically his unconscious, pre -conscious knows something, years ago. So when I start working with him after a while, would become ice cold, then they would become then he would be able to take full easy breaths, come and go. And finally, at the end, you could just see had been discharged. discharged. And especially because, and the reason we and his battalion was ambushed and the only, backwards into a ditch on his back. And so the horror and terror got locked into physical pain. So... So, you know, I could see people were deeply So I asked if anybody wanted to share something noticing in their own experience in their And this one woman stood up after a while, And she said, Chaim, when you came up to work Levine, I was proud of you. that something bad would happen to you, that your people have traumatized my people, have my people. But something happened when I started to shield feeling in your body and I realized time, our bodies, we'll never find peace with each And I don't want to make this sound like a thing to cultivate, it's probably because there's some trauma active reactivated or activated so how to to our Families to our children our families our countries I mean my god right now, healing itself As you may know this show 10 go and learn how to put into practice all As I like to think about it, it's like in app is the lab where you can go and pound your neurons. The app is also called 10 % Happier. It's available wherever you are. you get your apps. Go ahead and download it today. You described earlier that trauma is in when and it makes sense we're trying to escape Many people who are carrying trauma with them notion of reoccupying the body with good reason. So, what do you say to folks like that who &quot;Oh, that sounds horrifying.&quot; Yeah. When people first connect with their bodies, But if the person is guided, I was guided due to it for myself or my own for that moment. But if you're guided, this contraction will contraction and then another expansion. Oh, here I have one of my toys, I forgot. So, we start to connect with the traumatic so we start feeling contraction in our bodies. But then when we're guided, we feel an expansion, expansion, and another contraction, and another So in somatic experiencing, we never take It's not like an exposure therapy, because but I call this titration. We just touch into those sensations and move pendulation like the movement of a pendulum so yes, who knows what they're doing is able to take connection and greater expansion. You mentioned your childhood traumas and you of Trauma. Yeah. Particularly, you tell a pretty horrifying for example, own childhood. Are you comfortable discussing that here? I won't say I'm 100 % comfortable, but yes, But I want to preface this. In somatic experience, like I just said, we So when I was having these symptoms, which rape to keep my family from testifying against I was like, &quot;Oh, I don't think I'm going to And I was like, &quot;Oh, I don't think I'm going So our whole family, our life was threatened. But obviously I don't want, or the therapist, into that. But I came to this following memory. When I was four or five years old, my parents middle of the night. or early in the morning, and they laid a train in an oval into the room and then back into, under the bed. And then the train was going around the tracks. So when I awoke, I was just thrilled. And when I worked with, thrilled? I could feel that in my body. I felt excited. I felt it turned on. And I jumped out of bed and I ran to the transformer the the horn go to toot. And that memory let me know that I was cared for and loved, even if it was only for a relatively And one of the things that is characteristic smallest amount of love in their childhood, good therapy, they will be okay. And then, then my guide took me gradually how I was able to heal that. And I think when I decided to write the book, It was really as a personal excavation. And, but, friend of mine said, &quot;Peter, I think you really help other people with their own traumas, and particularly, you know, with telling their But it was too personal. It was too raw. and I was really afraid to And she, she's, she really encouraged me and So we were talking about dreams. I had the following dream. I'm standing by an open field and in my hand, So obviously it's some kind of a manuscript. But I don't know what to do with it in the Then I look to the left, I look to the right, this wind comes from behind me and takes the land where they may. And that then said, and let it land where it may. Parts of it I think are inspiring, parts of will be valuable to people who have their of trauma because I use my story as a way not just talking theoretically, but about Chiron in Greek mythology, and now we think that as therapists, it's behoven to us to Because if we don't do our own healing, we're give to people who are coming to us for their So, again, I think this is part of an important my life and important part, not the whole of trauma, a healing journey. So anyhow, there were many, many different some were amazing, some were almost incredible but enriching, enriching for me. And I think this is important part of my life - Just to recap a little bit, when you were your dad ended up being called as a witness intimidate the family to convince your father and as part of that, of that, you were violently That's right. And a park which had previously been a refuge I would love to go there after I'd come home I would drink my milk and peppers, farms, and go through the bushes down to a running And I would run and I'd feel like I was in the power in my legs, the strength in my legs go to the rape itself. So again, I was going down to the bushes, something these Marlon Brando hats and I had to run to run and I had to run and I had to run and run and I had to run and I had to run and run and run and I had to run and I had to run and was wrong and the hair on my back was standing And again, they wanted my parents to know them to not testify. But I didn't, 'Cause it's often what happens when people They have tremendous amount of shame. I was shamed to tell my parents about it. I hid it hidden from them. I actually kept it hidden from myself. And until I was able to follow these symptoms but they were there haunting me. Haunting me and then waiting for me to. to make this uncovering. Also, it was not just this event, sent over there a lawyer, and so we, my brothers but it was never talked about. And finally, when it became talked about, talked about. It was just left in the back. And so that was an additional thing because to us. What I say in an unspoken voice, one of my or not just what happens to us. but rather what we hold inside in the absence And so my parents couldn't be that for me of how they would survive, and at a time we because my father's business, But again, all of these things can be healed. And the trauma itself, I'm mostly healed in But the other things, the milieu takes more about this as being healed. the hard work miracle to really feel supported And one of the things when people wrote their touched by those endorsements that I felt And in a way, their support was coming to have as a child. So So, and when I talk about that, how deeply they supported me and how important take that last part in healing. - Well, the somatic experiencing sessions trauma, what was that like? Well, my guide knew not to expose me to this all And also to go back and forth between, remember cared about, of being loved, of shifting back images. So not just the trauma images, but shifting That's an important aspect. You know, there are also other parts of this I don't know if we have time. I maybe I can briefly make When I was developing doctoral dissertation, is going to, what would four was going to sound even more woo -woo. I would go to my favorite restaurant, of the Beggars Banquet, and I would go to they knew me. They invited me in. I usually started my meal with a bowl of warm crunchy on the outside, soft and white moist And I would have something that I was writing At one moment, I saw a shadow coming to the And I looked up and it was an image of Albert And of course I knew that it was an image did he call it, imaging that's very real, that's idetic. And that that image is very important in our that imaginary image. So of course, at one part, I knew this was, I knew I was imagining it. But at the same time, it seemed almost real. And I was eight, and I would ask the professional, about my questions, kind of the Socratic method. And this went on for a good period of almost And, oh, act of imagination, that's what you So again, the rational part of me knew that but that I could gain much from it. And so I could say went along with it. And it was something that I felt deeply moved So again, I figured this is something that There was no reality to this. except some 30 years ago, 35 years ago. I was visiting my parents who live in New day at museums and I walked into the apartment sofa and I noticed in the bookshelf there So, So that provoked me to mention to my parents, Einstein, And my mother said, &quot;Those weren't imaginary.&quot; And I said, &quot;What?&quot; She said, pregnant, eight months pregnant with you, in New Jersey. And a wind squall came and tipped the canoe And we couldn't ride the canoe and we were And again, it would have been the end of my of course, before it started. And but then a small sailboat came along and sailboat and they rescued my parents. One was a older man and the other one was as Albert Einstein and his stepdaughter. And so my mother reasoned that because he that somehow we would stay connected. I know this sounds totally weird. And sometimes it only racially when I have I would be afraid of people thinking I was But I'm not afraid of that anymore. I think I've earned in getting this workout It's... it's out. Other people are sharing that burden. It's off my shoulders. And the question, have I done enough, say yes, absolutely I've done enough 'cause these 60 people who are teaching semantic But the question is, am I enough? I think that is a work in progress. And that was really what I was trying to ascertain Was am I enough? And what does that mean? And what does it mean to me? And what does it mean to others who are around Who care about me and who I care about them? I find it fascinating that so many... men have these metaphysical and mystical suspicions really, that they're afraid to talk about it can no longer destroy them. - Yeah, Dan, Thank you for sharing that, for saying that. I appreciate that. - I would imagine you're not alone. - No, no, I don't think so. And again, if that really inspires other people You know, just imagining things or just imagining ghosts &quot;Tell me about it.&quot; that imagination, So yeah, and I think, I mean, Einstein and how the images informed the development of how important it was for him. You know, he said something like, you know, play. play compared to studying children's play. And I think he really, really, really appreciates is and how he gifted me with this gift of So I would say, don't let anybody tell you See where they take you. And that way, I would say, don't let anybody And that way, I would say, don't let anybody was, again, with my book, I made to follow I started with a quote from a Jewish quote. Why did that go? What is truer than truth? Answer the story. And I really hope that all of you will tell If it's only for yourself. to do that, and if it's to write about it I wish you well. May you stand tall and walk in beauty. - Let me ask a practical question. This loops back to something you said a while You talked about this memory of your parents when you were four or five. Is that a practical question? that the rest of us could adopt that to re connection, support as a way to fortify us Yes, they're always there if we are willing to them, really. really. I truly believe that we all have these moments of being cared for, of being excited. Yeah, I think that's part of the human condition. I mean, we may have had a lot of bad stuff do, as so did I. But I am convinced that even before trauma, of being loved. And that will be there after we die. It will always be there. It will be with us. And if we believe that there is, there are images, I think you'll find they show up, it? What's that saying? Well, anyhow, if you build it, they will come. So if you believe that that's a possibility, also writing down your dreams and exploring showing you to what's going on in your body, greater aliveness, greater here and now presence. You said something about how those moments love, connection will be there after we die. But how do we know, how do you or how does we die? You got me on that one and actually the last And it's really about starting to to face there are many more years behind me than in And so I don't know what will happen. And I guess the question I ask myself is, Yes, can I trust that when it happens, this I apologize for this here. This is the part of me here. When I had that experiences, And this is who I want to return to. It's he who I want to accompany me when I Well, you were a cute baby. Thank you. Thank you. So how would that, how would that like full joy version of Peter, how would that version you imagine practically? You know, you're going to get me thinking You know, somebody, I think the Stan Kellerman that when we've lived our life fully, we're And I must say, I'm not there yet. And I think I have a lot more living to do. And again, I think that's one of the things To really look at where my next in live will Yeah, yeah. And, you know, I think death is a great mystery, that we do not know. I don't know what it will be like, what will And part of me is scared, but part of me is in my life. life that bring me greater joy You know, there's tecum alum Which means to leave the world hope in mice in one small way that I have and I think that also will support a more So basically, I don't know what it's gonna I get hints. My dreams sometimes take me along that pathway. But I continue to ask myself this question, Will I feel loved? Will I feel accompanied? accompanied?&quot; And I hope so, but I don't know for sure. I don't think any of us knows for sure, into our lives, I think then we'll be more as we change our form, into a place yet unknown in this mystery of - Well said. It's a beautiful place to leave it. Let me ask you, Peter, before I let you go, end of interviews. The first is, was there something you were - You know, know, it was a very full discussion. I found myself animated, I found myself emotionally I feel that I'm taking some of this, And I hope I'll actually have the wherewithal podcast when it's played. But I can't think of anything more than I life that are yet unfinished. And I hope that I'm moving to finishing those - I hope so too. And I will take many aspects of this interview And so let me just finish with this question, of the name of your new book, the names of us to know about? - Okay, of Trauma, A Healing Journey, by Peter A. I also wrote, my first book was Waking the which I created for you. which I wrote in 1992, but didn't get published Healing Trauma.&quot; And then my main book for clinicians, voice, in an unspoken voice, how the body, Really, much of the time. of our conversation this time. And then I wrote another book on memory, because really understand the difference between normal And so I wrote a book titled &quot;Trauma and Memory, Past.&quot; So I gave it a try. that gives me another good feeling that I from and maybe to remember me by. Yeah, to remember me by. And you can go to the website, Trauma Healing, There's also a link to traumahealing .org. And if people want to find therapists in their like 44 different countries, you can get that website. I'm glad you mentioned that. We will put links to everything that Peter on the go, you can just come back to the show Meanwhile, Peter A. Levine, thank you very Gladly. And thank you, Dan. Dan.