- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [mellow music] I'm Andrew Huberman and I'm and Ophthalmology at Today we're talking all about habits. In particular, we're going to discuss the and the biology of how we break habits. I think we can all appreciate Habits organize our behavior into more or less reflexive actions so we don't have to think too much about performing the various allow us to brush our teeth or which side of bed we And then of course, habits We can be in the habit of exercising at a particular time of day. We can be in the habit We can be in the habit of But of course, there are many habits or that perhaps even and long term health goals And even some habits that can really undermine So today we're going to talk and breaking, meaning There's a lot of information You'll find this in the popular sphere. There are books, there are and so forth. However, lesser known is that of habit formation and habit breaking. And there's a whole field to understanding habit And within those scientific literatures, I think there are some real gems that, at least to my knowledge, we haven't paid too much attention to in the popular sphere. So today, we're going to talk about the and habit breaking. I'm going to boil these down that anyone can use. My reasoning for doing it's the end of 2021. Many people are thinking They're thinking about leaving and previous. And acquiring some new behaviors, taking on some new challenges, and trying to bring new But regardless of when the programs that I'll outline are grounded in the neuroscience and biology of habit formation. And they map very well to what the psychologists have described, in terms of habit formation and breaking. So today you're going to you're also going to come and I'm certain that regardless or goals, there'll be Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Athletic Greens. Athletic greens is in all-in-one vitamin, mineral, probiotic drink. I started taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started and the reason I still that because of the I know that I'm covering for vitamins, minerals, and probiotics. There is a wealth of knowledge that the so-called for our brain health, for our hormone health, so the probiotics, vitamins, and minerals really support that system. And many of the other things it contains generally support our health, in terms of neural the spinal cord, et cetera. Basically, Athletic Greens nothing I don't, and by I always feel better and I know that I'm covering all my bases. If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim a special offer. They'll give you five free travel packs that make it very easy while you're on the road, in the car, or on the plane, et cetera. Plus, a year's supply of vitamin D3, K2. Again, go to athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim this special offer plus a year's supply of vitamin D3 and K2. Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that impact your immediate can only be analyzed from And nowadays, with the you can also get insight for your genetic type. Now, a major issue with and DNA tests out there is you get a lot of information back, but you don't know what to InsideTracker makes that very easy. They have a personalized platform where you get your numbers and it points to specific in terms of behavioral protocols, meaning things you perhaps nutritional protocols, things that you perhaps should and various things that you might consider for more elaborate, directed approaches to adjusting the numbers in Another feature of InsideTracker, is that it has what's This test allows you to see and compare that to Of course, your biological age is the and that's the one that's really important to your immediate and long-term health. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman to get 25% off any of That's insidetracker.com/huberman Today's episode is also Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that I truly believe I've been sleeping on a Helix mattress for about a year now and it's the best sleep I've ever had. One thing that makes Helix is that they are tailored You can go to their it only takes about two minutes, and it will match your body to a particular mattress. So, it will ask you questions such as, &quot;Do you sleep on your side, &quot;Do you tend to run hot Maybe you don't know. You answer those questions to the mattress that's right for you. For me, that turned out to be I wanted a mattress that Anyway, I matched to the Dusk. I've been sleeping on a Dusk Mattress, as I mentioned before. It's been the best experience for me. My sleep is so improved. So if you're interested go to helixsleep.com/huberman, take their two-minute sleep quiz, and they'll match you to a And you'll get up to $200 and two free pillows. Again, go to helixsleep.com/huberman, take their quiz, match to the and if you decide to purchase it, you'll get up to $200 and two free pillows. They have a ten-year warrantee and if you want to try for 100 nights risk-free. They'll even pick the mattress up for you if you don't love it, but I'm pretty confident that you will. Again, helixsleep.com/huberman is where you'll find the Let's talk about habits. And anytime we're talking about habits, that means our nervous Now, many people think that but pure reflexes are things You know, something comes towards your eye and you don't want it to get Or if you happen to or get too close to you'll reflexively move away. Those aren't habits. Those are what we call Habits are things that our but not always consciously. Sometimes we develop habits until they become a problem or maybe they serve us well. Who knows? But the fact of the matter is that habits are a big part of who we are. What we do habitually makes up In fact, it's estimated that up to 70% of our of habitual behavior. So, you can imagine that meaning cells and hormones and that are going to support So if habits are largely, learned, consciously or unconsciously, we have to ask ourselves, what is learning? Well, learning is neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity is simply the process by which our nervous system changes in response to experience. We have to ask, what changes? Well, what changes are the Neurons are just nerve cells. They communicate with one and by sending chemical that inspire the next to either electrically active or not. But at the end of the day, neuroplasticity is about new pathways by which certain and other ones are less likely to occur. So, we've got habits. We have that habits are learned, we have that learning and that neuroplasticity involves changes in the connections between Okay, so that describes of neuroscience and biology, but as many of you are well aware, there are popular books about habits and there's a whole psychological and those two areas point to some very interesting aspects of habits that I think are worth mentioning. First of all is this notion versus identity-based habits. Immediate goal-based habits that are designed to bring as you do them, so each and every time you do them. So for instance, it might be that you want to you know, 60 minutes of or perhaps 3-4 times per week, I've talked before on the that the scientific literature and the health literature really points to the incredibly positive effects of getting 150 minutes to of what's called zone II cardio. Zone II cardio is basically that gets you moving, and breathing, but not so hard that you and so that kind of puts of just being just able that's a little bit strained, but if you were to exercise you know, run a little you wouldn't be able to There's a lot of literature as a healthy practice. So maybe you're somebody that wants to get more of zone II That would be an if your goal is to get that cardio, maybe 4 times a week. Every time you do it you and you say, &quot;Okay, I did That is different than where there's a larger, where you're trying to &quot;a fit person&quot;. Or you're somebody who or something of that sort. It's where you start to attach about yourself or what it where there's both the Complete the exercise, or whatever it is, check off that box. But that you're linking it Now, why am I making this distinction? I mean, first of all, I'm not the one to first Others have made the versus immediate But the reason I'm that pretty soon in our discussion today we are going to talk about dopamine, a molecule that's associated that we make in our brain, and how different schedules predict where we will And in particular, whether or not we will be able or not. Now, this is absolutely for the following reason. Another thing that you'll hear is that it takes 21 days to form a habit. Some people say 18, some people say 21, some people say 30 days, So which one is it? Does it depend on the habit Or does it depend on the person that's trying to form the habit? Well, it turns out that there's excellent There's a study published in 2010, first author Lally, L A L L Y. This study found that, for the same habit to be formed, it can take anywhere from 18 days to as many as 254 days to form that habit. The reason I bring this up, &quot;Is it true that it takes &quot;Is it true that your nervous &quot;when you're doing something repeatedly?&quot; And the answer is, as I mentioned before, it's highly variable. What I didn't tell you actually, is what specific habit in that Lally study. And it's interesting that was a health-related behavior. That's pretty relevant on the podcast. Which was taking walks after dinner. There's actually a really nice literature showing that walks after a meal can speed glucose clearance can be beneficial for but cardiovascular health, et cetera. So a walk after dinner seems Well, in order to form that habit, it took some people 18 days How did they know when Well, they were doing and they also reported not having to spend that much mental effort in of taking a walk after dinner. So, for those of you listening, some of you might be thinking, &quot;I can't believe that it would &quot;to get into that habit.&quot; As I said, people are highly variable and if you can't form one habit easily, it doesn't mean that you can't The mystery of why certain people can form certain habits Probably has something to what's called limbic friction. Now, limbic friction is not a in the formal neurobiological literature or even some of the It's, frankly, a term that I coined to encompass a number of different pieces of the psychology and Limbic friction is a short-hand way that I use to describe in order to overcome one of One state is one of anxiousness, where you're really anxious and therefore you can't and therefore you can't engage or thought pattern that you would like. The other state is one in or lazy or not motivated. Both of those states, feeling too alert and too calm, if you will, relate to the function of the so-called autonomic nervous system, a set of neurons and hormones and body that act as sort of a see-saw. You're either alert or calm. You're either asleep or stressed. Those two states are not You've probably heard of &quot;wired and tired&quot; but that's really once for a long time, to the What does the autonomic with any of this? Well, limbic friction is a phrase that can be used to how much activation energy you need in order to engage in So, using this Lally study as an example, some people would eat &quot;Oh, that's right, I've been &quot;of taking a walk after dinner.&quot; &quot;So, let's get up and go.&quot; Other people will feel like, &quot;I just don't want to do it today.&quot; They're going to feel and that limbic friction from one of two sources. It could be because they or it could be because they're too anxious and distracted in order to do it. So, this is a key distinction. A lot of habit formation has to do with being in the right state of mind and being able to control So as we march forward, what you're going to or this term, limbic friction, is going to be a useful metric or a way for you to touch in with yourself and address whether or not you are likely to be able to form a certain habit easily or whether or not it's going And I'm going to teach you a way to measure your degree of limbic friction. That is, how much activation in order for you to execute a new habit. And I'm going to teach you how to measure your limbic friction and activation energy for how likely it is that you're going to be that you don't want to have. The other key concept for us to address that's really mainly found in the books and articles out there about habits, is this notions of what Linchpin habits are certain habits that make a lot of other Now, the sorts of linchpin habits that I'm referring to are that you enjoy doing. I'll just give you an I happen to like exercise. Not all forms of exercise, but I happen to like resistance training and I happen to like running. So I'm personally in the habit of getting cardiovascular Maybe 30-60 minutes per session. And I'm in the habit of or 4 times per week, typically also for about 45 Now, I enjoy those, and for reasons that I'll I enjoy those activities because of the neurochemistry and the various types that are associates with But I really place those of what I call linchpin habits. Why? Because those to execute because I enjoy them. But they also make a lot of Things like being alert for work, things like making sure that I get good sleep the night before, things like hydration, things like making sure that are better for me than that maybe I would more if I weren't doing that training. So certain habits act as linchpins, meaning that they shift They can control and in this case you or me, will perform other habits that we have less of an affinity for. So again, there's three concepts that We've got identity-based We've got the concept that take different periods of time to adopt, depending on the person and the habit. And that there are these, Certain habits that make other And those linchpin habits always, always, always are So our goal throughout this which habits are easy for you to perform, which ones are hard for you to perform, and which habits you want to break. If you want to grab a pen Or if you want to dictate you can. But right now, actually, if you just want to think you can always go back later, I'll be sure to spell that you can chart out a map towards forming particular habits and breaking particular habits later on. What I'd like us to do at this point is to take that concepts of limbic friction and for you to ask yourself what habits you perform on a daily basis, and these could be things as basic as brushing your teeth before breakfast, or brushing your teeth after breakfast. It could be, for instance, or you get it at a particular time of day, or even that you take a We are very habitual and we tend to do things in the same way, unless That's just the way that we are wired. So now I'd like you to shift to thinking about a and that's habit strength. Now, you all have different habits. You probably brush your teeth you probably exercise at you probably go to the refrigerator We are incredibly habitual organisms. Unless we intervene in our habits, they tend to carry out the once they've formed. So you can do this exercise now, you don't have to write this but you certainly are welcome. We're going to evaluate That's not a concept that I created. Habit strength is something that you will find in the Habit strength is measured The first, is how So, context dependence is, if you go from one do you tend to do the same thing, in the same way, at the same time of day? So, for instance, brushing your teeth firs Maybe some of you do maybe some of you do that later, maybe some of you, like me, But when I travel, I tend or less the same time of day as I do when I'm at home. So it's context independent. So it's a very strong habit, right? There are certain behaviors, like perhaps what you eat, or, you know, perhaps how you dress, that are context independent, that you might perform and another way in another context. The other aspect of habit strength is how much limbic friction is required to perform that habit on a regular basis. This is extremely important because if you are in the and consolidating those habits, then it's probably going to to execute those habits. What do I mean by that? Well, let's say you set out to get, let's say 45 minutes of zone 5 or maybe even 7 days a week. Well, if at first you're highly motivated, limbic friction might be pretty low. Limbic friction is how much top-down, meaning from your fore-brain the part of you brain that how much limbic friction, meaning conscious over-ride in order to engage in So, if you're feeling particularly tired and you don't want to get out of bed, and you don't want to go out then there's a high It takes, some people but motivation is a whereas limbic friction involves and you can think of it in a You can think of that so it's going to take more limbic friction in order to get into action. Right? You're going to have to excuse me. Whereas if you're very, very alert, there's less limbic friction because you're moving toward something that's action oriented. However, the inverse is also true. Let's say that you are or you're in the early to meditate regularly. That's a pretty quiescent so if you're somebody and you're very anxious and and you have to deal there's a lot of limbic in order to get into that calm state. So these two aspects, context dependence, whether or not you're like to do the thing regardless of where you are. Right? On travel, at home, on vacation, with people around, not And how much limbic friction is required to execute that habit, will tell you whether or or just shallowly embedded The goal of any habit that we want to form is to get into what's called automaticity. Automaticity is fancy language for the neural circuits can and that's the ultimate place to be. All right, if you have all these goals and things that you want to you'd love for them to be habitual because it takes less less limbic friction, in order to execute those. And so much of what's out there, again in the popular in books that you'll find and on Amazon, and in the airports, are about how to get from that mode of high to automaticity. And they offer a number of different ways, I think many of which are useful, trying to get you to organize into different bins, like and trying to persuade you that structuring habits at or in a particular way are and indeed, I think they So what I'd like to do is to of how the nervous system learns and engages in plasticity, and apply that to habit formation, habit maintenance, and if so desired, how to break particular habits. I'd like to give you a particular tool that's gleaned from the I should mention that I learned about this from an excellent review article that's available online. It's called Psychology of Habit. The authors are Wendy this is published in Annual The Annual Reviews series is There are annual reviews of neuroscience, annual reviews of psychology, annual reviews of nutrition For those of you that are interested in that are grounded in hundreds of quality, peer-reviewed studies, the Annual Review series Certainly among the best, if not the best. And they also tend to be quite So this review, Psychology and Ruenger, is excellent. And here I'm more or less so I want to be clear that They're talking about the various ways that habits form in the nervous system and they mention, with small changes occur in the associated with procedural memory. So I just want to talk for a second about what procedural memory is. In the neuroscience of memory, we distinguish between and procedural memory. Episodic memory is a recall that happened, whereas procedural memory is holding in mind the that need to happen in order for a particular So think of it like a or for the sake of exercise, it's like sets and reps, or a particular course that or the number of laps you're going to swim and how you're going to perform it. It's very clear that for anyone getting into the mindset of for overcoming that barrier How do you do that? Well, a simple visualization exercise, or it doesn't even have You know, often times we you think about sitting in a you know, trying really Doesn't need to be anything like that. It can simply be, if you are to just think about the very that's required to execute that habit. And I'll use a trivial example, but this could be applied to anything. Let's say I want to get into or someone else in my household, a cup of espresso every morning, I would actually think Walk into the kitchen, turn draw the espresso. Walking through each of those and it turns out just that can shift people towards of performing that habit regularly, not just the first time, but as they continue out into the days and weeks that follow. So that's remarkable to me and the literature is really robust. Just one mental exercise what are the sequence of steps required in order to perform this can shift the likelihood of from unlikely or moderately likely, to very likely over time. And that's because it that involves our and other areas of our that engage in procedural memory. It shifts the brain towards It's more of a neural circuit But a mindset/neural circuit set of doing things in a particular sequence, which allows that limbic and increases the likelihood that we're going to perform that thing. Simple tool but very powerful too, according to the psychology literature. And actually, the cellular that underlie that sort stepping through phenomenon are known. In this article I mentioned, they talk about so Donald Hebb was a psychologist in Canada and birthed this field more than 50 years and in neuroscience and psychology Hebbian learning is when meaning when they fire together, they tend to strengthen their connections with one another. And it has a number of different cellular and molecular features that we don't have to go into in detail, but for those of you that want to know, I know some of you are hungry for a little bit more neuroscience, this involves things like NMDA receptors and methyl-D-aspartate receptors. NMDA receptors are for everyone to understand. So I'll just tell you a These are receptors that and normally they don't contribute much to the activity of those neurons. Those neurons are perfectly without activation of this NMDA receptor. But when a neuron gets a strong stimulus, that NMDA receptor triggers that recruit to the surface of the In other words, it makes to input in the future such that it doesn't In other words, it takes a neuron that is very unlikely to fire and makes it more likely to fire. So this procedural stepping through of the steps of the recipe or the series of actions in sitting down to study or generating exercise, whatever is the habit that When you're doing that exercise, it's not as if your nervous system thinks you're actually Your nervous system isn't stupid. It's actually a lot smarter than that. It knows the difference between but when you do that, it sets in motion the same neurons that are going to be required for the execution of that habit. And so when you actually show it's as if the dominoes fall more easily. It's a lower threshold, as we say, in order to get the habit to perform. So, Hebbian learning, NMDA receptors, all that nuts and bolts stuff. Really the guts of the But for those of you that just want to be more habitual about certain things, be able to perform certain that you would like in your life, simply take the time, and just sit down, close and just step through the procedure of what it's going to take in The psychology literature, as I mentioned, and also the neuroscience literature, strongly supports the fact that it is going to make it far easier for you to adopt and maintain that habit. And if you are somebody who and you don't understand and you're frustrated with yourself, and you're trying to figure out how you can get back into that habit, well by all means, lean right back into that habit, but if you're having trouble doing that, also just use the in order to shift your nervous system towards a higher likelihood that you will return to that habit just the same way I described for trying to initiate a new habit. So now I'd like to discuss a second, and what I think is perhaps for being able to acquire This tool is rooted in what and I do think it is important about how those neural circuits work. For those of you that are saying, &quot;Just tell me what to do.&quot; I have to say, as I always say, understanding a little bit or will help solidify these concepts for you and will help ensure that the tools that I offer are going to make sense and that they're going to make sense in differing contexts and for different types of habits that you're tying to learn. So, rather than just tell you what to do, I'm going to tell you how and then in doing that, you should be able to under any conditions. The tool that I'm referring to is something called task-bracketing and the neural circuits are basically the neural circuits that are going to allow you or break any habit that We have in our brain a that fall under the umbrella The basal ganglia are meaning doing certain things, and action suppression, In the experimental realm, these are referred to as go, meaning do, or no go, don't do, certain things. And some of us fall more into the category of we find it very easy but harder to not do other things. Some people have a lot that are very robust, and they have a lot of but they have a harder And some people have a but I've never met one of those people. So again, drawing from, from this beautiful review in Annual Review of Psychology, excuse me, by Wood and Ruenger, task-bracketing involves a within the basal ganglia, so I'm going to describe this a sensory-motor loop. Sensory means just input taste, et cetera. And then the motor systems, the systems of the brain and taking that information So it turns out that there's called the dorsolateral striatum, we can use the acronym DLS. Again, dorsolateral striatum. Dorso means up. Lateral means to the side. So dorsolateral. And striatum is a subdivision And it's very important for the establishment of behaviors that are associated with a habit, but not necessarily the habit itself. And beautiful studies in that record the activity in find that the dorsolateral meaning it becomes active at the beginning of a particular habit, and at the very end and Hence the phrase task-bracketing. It brackets the habit. Now, other sets of neurons during the actual execution of the habit, but what the literature on tells us is that we have that are devoted to framing the events that happened just before and as we initiate a habit, and just after and as In other words, it acts for the habit execution, but not the execution of the habit per se. This is very important because task-bracketing or not a habit will be whether or not it will be strong and likely to occur even if we didn't get good even if we're feeling distracted, even if we're not feeling like or if we are, you know, by other events. If the neural circuits are deeply embedded in us, meaning they are very robust well then it's likely for that zone II cardio no matter what, that we're going to brush I'm fact, brushing our teeth because, for most people, even if you got a terrible night's sleep, even If everything in chances are, unless you're very depressed, if you're going to leave to work, or even if you're not, that you're going to still of brushing your teeth in the morning. I would hope so, actually. But you are probably less likely to perform particular habits that are not what you deem as necessary. But if you think about it, brushing your teeth, exercise, maybe engaging socially you are the one that places on which ones are essential, and which ones are negotiable. So task-bracketing sets a neural imprint, a kind of a finger print in your brain, of this thing has to happen so much so that it's reflexive. And as we'll talk about in a moment, there's a way that you can so that regardless of what there's a much higher probability that you're going to do that thing. And when I say learn, meaning let's say you're that for you is really challenging. Maybe it's that you're going on a book project that or you're going to work on mathematics, or you're going to do any sort of thing that for you there's a While it is important to think that would be required in order that procedural memory we talked about before, that will help, there's a way also that you towards this task-bracketing process, so that your nervous system is shifted or oriented towards the So this is sort of like warming When the dorsolateral striatum is engaged, your body and you brain are and that you get to consciously insert which habit you want to perform. So in order to leverage of task-bracketing, in order to increase the likelihood that you're going to I have to break it to you that one thing that you've about habit formation is not true. And what I'm referring to is this idea that if you're very specific to perform a particular habit, that you're more likely And while that is true in the short term, it is not true in the long term. And the reason for that is to generate particular kinds of behavior based not on time, but on our state. Meaning what level of in our brain and body. How much focus we happen to have, how fatigued we are, how energized we are. So while schedules are important, it's not the particular time of day per se that's going to allow and form that habit, and Rather, it's the state that your brain and body are in that's So now I'm going to offer you a tool. It's actually an entire program by which you can insert at particular phases of the day, not times of day, but phases of the day, because it turns out that are associated with particular chemicals and neural and in doing so it will that you will be able to and activities over a long period of time. And whether or not that who ordinarily would take to one of those 18 days to habit people in that earlier study I But I am certain that will on allowing you to engage in and to consolidate those So the program I am about to describe, I formulated for you based on and the psychology literature of learning, and this concepts of task-bracketing. It involves the 24 hour days The first is phase one, which is 0 to 8 hours after Okay, you can put a plus for yourself. The second phase is the after you wake up. And the third phase is 16 So we've taken the 24 hour cycle, we've carved it up into three phases, phase one, phase two, and phase three. Now, everything I'm describing, or at least the way I'm is based on what I would diurnal schedule. You've heard of nocturnal? Well, we are diurnal. Most of us are asleep at night I do realize that a number or they have newborns or other reasons why they have to be up in and sleeping during the day. If that's the case, please listen to the and shift work because specifically for that population. But most people go to sleep plus or minus two hours, and wake up some time around 7:00 AM, plus or minus two hours. So today, I'm going to and a wake up time of 7:00 but you could adopt it easily Phase one, which again, is has a particular neurochemical signature. Regardless of what you do, the neuromodulators norepinephrine as well as epinephrine, so that's noradrenaline and adrenaline, as well as the neuromodulator dopamine tend to be elevated during after waking. There are a number of reasons that also cortisol is higher it's a healthy level of body temperature is increased, et cetera. And there's several things that perhaps we should all be doing, I've talked about many of that in addition to those chemicals, further support an And I'll just list those off. I've done many podcasts on each of these if you'd like to access those in the menu of podcasts on YouTube, Apple, Spotify, et cetera. They involve, for instance, viewing sunlight or if you can't access sunlight, within the first 30 minutes of waking. Physical exercise of some kind in this phase of the day, ideally pretty early in that phase, but, you know, if it has to be at the 7 that's fine too. Cold exposure in the form or outside with minimal clothing, appropriate yet minimal clothing. Caffeine ingestion. Fasting, for instance, also will lend itself to and dopamine, et cetera. If you are going to consume foods, foods that are rich in which is a precursor for dopamine. You can look up foods And for those of you that are and like to use those routes, things like alpha GPC or or L-tyrosine, if that's in keeping with Of course, consult your doctor if you're going to rely What's this all about? Well, the already elevated norepinephrine and dopamine, the sunlight, exercise, cold exposure, caffeine, all of those place the in which you are better able, or I would say, more easily able, to engage in activities that have a high degree limbic friction and where you need to Right? We've heard that the conquer the hardest things and that's been discussed in and in the habit formation literature merely from the perspective of get it out of the way so you can feel good about having done it. But what I'm referring What I'm referring to is that after rising, after for 0 to 8 hours, right, your whole system is And we know that when you're and because of the neurochemicals that are naturally released that you will be more likely that stands in the way of So, as you list out or think that you'd like to adopt in for which you know of limbic friction, they are the hardest for you to engage in, they require the most activation energy, and put those in this 0 This will greatly of those new habits. I'm certain of that. And in addition to that, by doing them in this not necessarily the same time, I mean, if you want to be very habitual, and you want to do, or the sunlight viewing or you want to do, you want to drink your caffeine always at the exact but by placing them in this broader window of 0 to 8 hours after waking, what you're doing is you're You're making it such will predict when you are going to lean in against limbic friction in order to perform And this is very different than saying, &quot;I'm always going to run&quot; or, &quot;I'm always going to study from That's great, and if you But the literature indicates who are very rigid about because of context dependence, to not necessarily stick Some people do, but So think about the hardest habits to form and the habits that you most want to form that are hardest for you and I highly suggest within this phase one of Now of course, some of sunlight viewing, exercise, cold exposure, caffeine, fasting, those might be the but here I realize, or that many people, including myself, are doing some or all and many people, including myself, are trying to adopt new habits that don't fall into the category of just trying to set your overall state. Again, norepinephrine, dopamine, and all these neural systems will be greatly elevated in However, the other things I mentioned, sunlight exposure, caffeine, fasting, if that's for you, or if you're eating during that phase, eating things that contain some or elevated levels of tyrosine, maybe supplementing alpha All of those things further and therefore the state of mind that's going to be ideal for and overriding that limbic friction so that you can regularly What we're really talking about here is leveraging neural systems in order to help you make it more likely that you're going to be able to engage and maintain a particular habit. So what I'm referring to as for acquiring certain habits, but there are other phases of the day, and those turn out to be useful for acquiring other types of habits. Phase two, as I mentioned, is about, again these aren't specifics, but about 9 to 14 or During this phase of the day, because of the circadian the amount of dopamine and norepinephrine that's circulating in our brain and bloodstream tends and levels of cortisol That's the ideal circumstance. In fact, you don't really want elevated That's actually a signature of depression and anxiety and a number of So, 9 to 14 hours after waking dopamine and norepinephrine and cortisol just naturally. And a different neuromodulator, serotonin, is starting to rise. Serotonin is definitely in this second half of the day and tends to lend itself to a Now of course, I do realize that some people and do find that they really come alive and awake in the afternoon, but most people don't Most people feel more even anxious early in the day, and then, as the afternoon progresses, they tend to be a bit more a bit more calm. There's certain things that we all can and should do during this that lend themselves to a state of mind and a state of body that for the generation and consolidation of certain types of habits. What are those things? First of all, as the day goes on, you should try if you can to start tapering the amount Now, this doesn't mean putting yourself into dim light at 3 o'clock That's certainly not the case. Simply that you want to of really bright light unless it's sunlight. Talked about this before on the podcast, but if you haven't heard, viewing the sun as it's at so it's headed toward the horizon, you don't necessarily although that can be nice. But getting some sun light in your eyes in the second half of the for a number of brain systems so you can get some you can certainly have but you want to start dimming those lights and bringing them actually because the neurons in your eye that view the upper visual field they actually trigger in the brain and body. And in the second half of the day, even if you're humming or 4 or 5 or even 7 PM, you are probably headed toward so things like limiting if you can, things like NSDR, non-sleep deep rest, another thing that I've If you haven't heard about this before, non-sleep deep rest is an umbrella term for things like a very powerful science supported tool for teaching you how to relax, things like self-hypnosis which might sound a little but actually is a clinically based tool for which there's a lot If you're interested in that there's a great free R E V E R I E .com. There's a app for both Apple and Android. This is an app that was and researchers at Stanford You can do these short as they're called. They can teach you how to relax yourself, there's even one for focus, Again, all very strongly supported by quality peer-reviewed literature. So things like Reverie, meditation, things like heat and sauna, Those are terrific things of the day, they tend to support this serotonergic, or high serotonin like state and lend themselves to For those that are interested there's always ashwagandha, which reduces cortisol, again peaks in cortisol and evening are associated anxiety, and so forth. Ashwagandha has a pretty potent I personally don't use it very often and I caution people about using it for longer than two-week periods of time without taking some breaks. You can look up more about There's a lot of traffic literature with links to studies there. But basically this phase two of the day is one in which you're you are working, you you're cooking dinner probably, paying attention to a number of things, but you should really be trying to taper off your stress level. So how do you leverage for habit formation? Well, given what we know about the neurochemistry given what we know about task formation and its reliance on certain the second half of the to take on habits and things that require very little So these might be things that as kind of mellower activities. It might be journaling, it might be that you or I should say, but there's a particular type of music that is hard for you or that you're working on a or you're trying to learn a language. Something that's a little bit challenging, but doesn't require a ton of energy in order to override that limbic friction. The second half of the day is Less resistance, as we might say. But of course, resistance and the reason for doing those things in the second part of the as I've called it, part of the day is because your ability to override resistance in this second phase of the day. Some of you might say, &quot;Whoa wait,&quot; &quot;I like to exercise in the &quot;That's actually when I &quot;That's when I feel warmer&quot; &quot;I'm not a morning exerciser.&quot; That's absolutely fine, but what I'm referring of new behaviors and placing those consistently in order to engage these that I talked about before. One of the hallmark features of those basal ganglia circuits for go and no-go is that they are associated with certain neurochemicals, acetylcholine, and other neurochemicals. And by placing particular habits at particular phases of the day, those neurochemical states with the leaning in and and as I mentioned, ending And in doing so they shift toward being able to predict that certain things are going to happen at particular times a day, that you're going to be leaning very hard against limbic friction early and that you're going to be doing things that require less conscious in phase two. And in doing so, set up so that the individual or that you're trying to learn have a much greater and consolidated, meaning that pretty soon that they will just naturally become reflexive. And as with phase one, many that support this, what I'm or more relaxed state in phase two, things like seeing but not a lot of bright light things like NSDR, things like heat and sauna, hot baths et cetera, ashwagandha, again all of those things that you're trying to adopt, right? In that case, do those if They are quite beneficial not just related to execution in phase two of the day, but also for improving quality of sleep and consolidating any learning that you might have I've talked about that before, but just briefly, as a relevant aside, neuroplasticity involves setting it in motion, but the actual rewiring of the brain and the reconfiguration of neurons that will allow that that actually occurs like an NSDR and like deep sleep. And I should just mention, for those of you that can only exercise or prefer to exercise in 9 to 14 hours or 15 hours after waking, that's absolutely fine. However, because of and in particular deep for not just neuroplasticity, but recovery of muscle and other tissues that are taxed during physical exercise, if you do train in phase two, I highly recommend, highly recommend that you start doing some within an hour or two, because that will allow so that you can get into to talk about, which is phase three. Phase three of the 24-hour schedule runs from about 16 to 24 hours after waking. During that period of time, there are few things that are going to support state of body that are going to occur, that are going that you've triggered during to actually take place. Those things are very low to no light, meaning keeping your environment very dark or very, very dim. I don't think it's that's complete blackness. I think that's a little bit overkill, but for most people keeping the room dark and keeping the room temperature for getting and staying in deep sleep. The body has to drop in order to get into so low light, low temperature environment, you can always pile on blankets of course if you don't want to be cold at night, you want to be warm enough, but you want your environment to be cold. Typically people aren't eating although one thing that can that you're at least well-fed enough when you head into this third that you're not awake A lot of people recommend putting a gap between your final bite of food and when you got to sleep at night. Some people say that other people say 2 hours, if you're me, I generally within 2 hours or 90 but it's not a big meal, and I fall asleep and stay You have to experiment for yourself. I've talked about supplements that can support sleep in things like magnesium threonate, or magnesium bisglycinate, things like theonine, apigenin. If you'd like to read more about those, we actually have a newsletter that I'll just quickly refer you to this is the Huberman Lab you can sign up for it by it's very easy to find, but even if you don't sign up, you can go to the toolkit and that tool kit is not just supplements, that tool kit is a number both behavioral and supplement-based and nutrition-based, et cetera, that can allow you to get in to sleep and to stay asleep more readily. It's totally zero cost, you can find that again So things like low light, low temperature, the supplements I mentioned, adjusting your eating obviously not drinking caffeine or too close to bed, that's going to be critical. In fact, ideally you in phase two of the day, so that you could get into in which habit formation and What if you wake up? The way I've cast phase three is that you're supposed to you're not supposed to wake up at all, you're supposed to be in low light and your brain is rewiring and those habits are getting Well, if you're like me, you probably get up once Maybe go use the restroom. Perfectly normal, perfectly normal, but a lot of people have Very important if you get up to use a minimum of light in order to navigate your surroundings, just as much as you need because light inhibits hormone melatonin, can make it very hard if you inhibit melatonin. The effects of light inhibiting melatonin are actually very potent. It happens very, very quickly, so try and keep the lights low. And you have trouble falling back asleep, that's when you might like a Reverie app, they have a sleep script there that can hopefully help Or something like NSDR, you can find NSDR scripts on YouTube. These are zero cost. You can look up one that I particularly like is NSDR Madefor. It's a company I'm associated with, but the NSDR is completely zero cost, and there are other things, like Yoga Nidra, which you can Again, all of these these do's and don'ts around phase three, themselves might be habits that you're trying to create for yourself. But again, phase three is that whatever limbic to override in phase one and trigger some new habit, right? Forcing yourself to write or forcing yourself to study or forcing yourself to exercise during that high limbic friction state. And then whatever things which are habits that hopefully have moved along the continuum of newly-formed versus all the way to reflexive, or things that take less limbic Phase three is when all into the nervous system through those Hebbian mechanisms, like NMDA receptors, et cetera, that I talked about before. Again, neuroplasticity is and neuroplasticity and the happens in these states of deep sleep. So if you're not obeying this phase three, if you're not giving phase and you're and you're not like caffeine and bright light you're simply not going to that you've been working so and phase two of the day. Again, these are things that I've talked about previous and elsewhere, but really And the whole reason for placing particular types of behaviors at particular phases of the for that task-bracketing. Again, task-bracketing and the circuits of the basal ganglia indicate that it's not that are engaged by the task itself, but the neural circuits and after that task execution. That's what gets consolidated. So when you do things that under particular conditions what you're doing is you're giving the brain a very that during sleep it can start if you will. It can really program it so that within a short period of time, hopefully within 18 or maybe even 6 days or who knows? Maybe even fewer days, you'll find that executing very straightforward for you and that you won't have to or override so much limbic friction. Some of you are probably asking, okay, if I perform a particular and then I do other and I eventually get to the point where I'm engaging in those habits in a pretty effortless way, do I keep them in the And the good news is, the And in fact, moving that particular habit can actually be beneficial to you because actually moving to the other is that context independence that we really are seeking. By being able to do the same regardless of time of day or circumstances that's how we know that we've achieved a that's how we know that into certain components that just allow us to do it what seems like reflexively. Although earlier I pointed out that these aren't reflexes The reason for that is the hippocampus, that many with learning and memory, is not actually where memories are stored. The hippocampus is where it's where procedures, like procedural memory of how you're going to execute a particular sequence, where that's maintained. So like if we use the recipe model, that's where the recipe is maintained until you know how to cook that dish and then the procedural into a different set of neural circuits, which are the neural where we have maps of sensory experience, maps of all kinds experiences, including motor maps of So we use one part of the but then that information, in the form of the electrical is passed off to a different brain area. Now, the neurons themselves don't move from the hippocampus to the cortex, that doesn't happen. What happens is the signals, the sequence of electrical firing, much like a script for a movie or the notes on a sheet of paper for a particular musical piece is transferred off to So, that whole process of really leaning into and then it becoming easier, and then eventually that or less reflexive involves a migration of the information in the brain. And once it's migrated out to a different location in the brain, at that point it's achieved It doesn't have to be your caffeine and your lunch. It doesn't have to occur immediately after your afternoon NSDR, but before your four or something of that sort. So all this is to say that once something has become reflexive, you should play with it a If you want to keep it in But if you one day decide you're going to exercise in the afternoon, the next day you decide you're going to exercise in the morning, and that's the habit that that's terrific. If you're able to do that, that means that it's truly achieved It means that you have And as I mentioned earlier, much earlier at the the strength of a habit is dictated by how much limbic friction, that was one, and how much context dependence there is. So when it doesn't take to get into the execution of that habit and you can do it in any context, well, then you have formed a habit. We really can't have a discussion habits or otherwise, unless we talk about Reward prediction error is associated with the molecule dopamine, although I should say there in our brain and body that are also related to But reward prediction error or I should say, a lens whether or not we should reward ourselves for performing a given habit. And this is a much larger discussion that actually relates and self-regulation. You know, should we reward Should we reward What should we reward? How much should we reward ourselves? When should we withdraw reward? Should we use punishment? These kinds of things. This is a vast literature. We don't have time to but the notion of reward that it can predict most if not all forms of learning, And you can deploy or of reward prediction error if you would like to reinforce or accelerate the formation So, reward prediction if you expect a reward a particular behavior that was associated with generating that reward is more likely to occur again. That's pretty straight forward. However, the amount of reward, in the form of this molecule dopamine, that you will experience is even greater if a reward arrives So let me repeat that again. If I think that something's let's say I lean into a habit, I manage to override my limbic friction, and I'm doing my 45 minutes with no phone and no internet and I'm getting toward the end, and I'm anticipating how this is great, I did it, I'm feeling really, really good. I finish, I definitely will I'll make my own dopamine reward, that's where it comes from. Remember, this is all internal. However, I will also if unexpectedly something And typically if something unexpected but positive happens, the amount of dopamine reward that we get is actually much greater than in any other conditions. However, it's hard to surprise yourself about a behavior that you're So that becomes a bit of a tricky one. Reward prediction error also says that if we expect a reward that the pattern of dopamine release will follow a particular contour and that contour is very important. Here's how it goes. Let's say that I'm writing and I'm about 30 or 45 minutes in, I'm thinking, &quot;Ah, this is great.&quot; &quot;I'm actually, I managed to do this&quot; &quot;I'm succeeding in &quot;that I need to in order &quot;I'm overriding limbic friction.&quot; Just that series of thoughts will start to generate the dopamine release However, if at the 15 and I pick up the phone or I break my own protocol, I and I go on and check social media or I do something that what's going to happen is that my level of dopamine to drop below the baseline, meaning below the level of dopamine I had before I even started the So what this is, is this or not rewards are going to come. When we think a reward is going to come, it starts to actually arrive earlier in the form of dopamine release. This is the feeling that we experience as You tell a kid, &quot;Hey, we're going to go &quot;We're going to go get ice cream.&quot; They haven't had the ice cream yet, they're not at the amusement park, but they're excited, the Okay? They get to the amusement park or they get the ice cream, they will also have some dopamine release associated with that. But most of it, believe it or not, came in the form of the anticipation. And dopamine has some qualities that make the actual ice cream and the actual amusement park than it would be had that Now of course, the other way You tell them, &quot;Listen, we're going to the Or &quot;We're going to go see the person&quot; &quot;that you absolutely despise.&quot; And then you drive them that's the big release of dopamine. But reward prediction error also says that if you tell the kid, or yourself, &quot;Okay, we're headed to &quot;We're going to get some ice cream.&quot; They're really, really excited. And then you get there and it's closed, or they're not letting any more people in, well then the dopamine level before you told them that I've given a number of different examples that hopefully make this clear. Reward prediction error of effort and all aspects of learning. Why? Because when dopamine and body, the neural circuits There's a state change. Our over level, excuse me, but also the sorts of sensory events that we're paying attention to changes when there's a lot of Now you can leverage Think back to task bracketing. Think back to limbic friction. If you are considering or if you are trying to break a habit, something we haven't but we will in a moment, it's very useful to think not just about of what you're going to do, but also think about and follow that particular habit, and the execution, or at least the effort to execute that habit. What you're doing is you're around a bin of time, or a set of events, for which dopamine can be associated. What does this look like Well again, I'll just try and use very but this could carry over to anything. Let's say I were somebody who that 30 to 60 minutes of zone II cardiovascular This is actually an issue for me. I much prefer to do resistance exercise than cardiovascular exercise, although once I do it, I that I've done it. What I should do is positively and the offset of that session. Right? So thinking about leaning into the effort, going out and doing that and I should think about So, not just thinking about how great I'm going to feel after, but also thinking about at the beginning, and then trying to reward for the entire experience. In other words, start in addition to rewarding the Now some of you might be saying, &quot;Well, wait this is all self-talk.&quot; &quot;This is just positive self-talk.&quot; But it's not positive self-talk, &quot;I feel so great about doing something&quot; &quot;that I actually hate.&quot; You can't lie to yourself, or you're welcome to lie to yourself, but the neuroscience literature, the literature of growth mindset, all the literature basically of mindset speaks to the fact that you know you're lying, and you actually set up the So, you have to be brutally that, for instance, &quot;I don't like initiating &quot;but I do like the fact that I've done it&quot; &quot;after I've done it.&quot; So what you are doing is you are applying reward prediction error to the entire sequence of things that's involved in getting getting through the habit execution, and getting out of the habit of execution. How do you do this? Well, I take us back to our procedural memory we talked about earlier. When I talked about it in that context, I talked about walking through that's required to perform So in the case of the zone &quot;Okay up and put on my shoes,&quot; &quot;then I'm going to head out the door,&quot; &quot;then I'm going to drive up the road.&quot; There is a particular if I'm going to run, I happen to like running, or that I tend to do it. Going through that, heading That's great, but even better would be to broaden the time bin and start to positively into the habit, so even The fact that you are in this case, phase one of the day and that afterwards I'm going to feel a particular set elevated mood, et cetera. I like being hungry and quickly so I like being hungry so there's a whole set of things that link up with one another. So I'm not just thinking as this isolated little set of events, or this little time bin, but rather, I'm drawing a and starting to positively with that larger envelope. And for those of you that are thinking, &quot;Well, this is just a You know, you're kind of like, &quot;This is sort of like lying to yourself.&quot; It's not because you're not that some of this is unpleasant. What you're doing is you're taking this what I'm calling this and you're associating it that comes later, which for me would be the that I've completed this. Right? Because for me that's So reward prediction error is beautiful, not just because it's a and reward, or a math of anticipation and disappointment, it's beautiful because you can stretch out or make more narrow the time bins in which reward prediction error works. Reward prediction error is the way in which people navigate Right? I mean, you go, sure, final exam to final exam, et cetera. But ultimately, there's and it's all basically And of course, I understand not the destination, but let's face it, for a lot of us goals and habits are about achieving In the case of zone II cardio, for me it's about trying to as long as I can with vitality, that is. And it's also the fact I get to eat the foods that I like. I tend to be able to eat more, which I happen to really enjoy eating, so much so that I'd like So basically what you're trying to do is not restrict your that you're trying to form, but rather, to grab ahold of the timing before and after that particular habit and start to positively in your brain with that entire time bin. This is a very useful in order to form habits. And I should say that it's not something that comes naturally to most people. In fact, even as I describe it, you might find it's still but what I encourage you to do, if you are finding it to would be to pick the habit write down or think about very concretely what is the sequence of steps involved in the execution of that habit, and then write down or think about what is the sequence of events that need to precede that habit, maybe the immediate 10 as well as the immediate and/or feelings that will and then call the whole The whole thing a effort to And in doing that, and with the idea that you're going to complete that entire sequence, you will engage reward prediction error in the proper way that the dopamine surge can lend itself towards motivation. Because ultimately, dopamine it's about feeling motivated. This is something that I've talked about but dopamine, contrary to popular belief, is not a reward molecule, so much as it is a molecule And the natural consequence of doing the exercise I just described, of writing things out that precede, are involved in the immediate and follow the habit, will allow you to experience and thereby an increase in likelihood that you're going to engage in that entire sequence of events. And the reason for that is and the reason for that is adrenaline, is actually Biochemically, it comes from dopamine. So, dopamine is powerful and you can access more dopamine around even habits that by taking this broader time envelope and task-bracketing that or habit execution. Way back at the beginning of the episode, In promised you that I that are geared towards habit formation. And I promised that I would give you ways in which you could gauge whether or not certain habits had what I call high limbic And we talked about a In researching this episode, I found a tremendous for habit formation. It's really amazing how much is out there. There, one says 60 days to this, or 21 days to that, or 18 days to this. I mean, it's just rampant in the and in the self-help literature. I want to spell out a particular system that I think could be very useful to most if not all people that's rooted in the rooted in the psychology and that is entirely phase two, phase three type program that I talked about earlier, but encompasses a bit and really arrives at a kind for how to build in habits and then to test whether have really stuck and whether or not they're And so this, at least for a 21 day system. I picked 21 days because or most typical system for as it relates to the This 21 day system, actually, is one that someone I know very well uses and has used for a very long time. They actually, their kids use it as well. And it has a certain elegance to it and I think as I describe it that elegance will begin to reveal itself. So basically what this to perform 6 new habits per day across the course of 21 days. Why 6 and why 21? Well, we'll talk about that in a moment. But the idea is, you write down 6 things that you would like to What phase of the day Well, that will depend on what they are and how they relate to phase two, phase three, but for now, 21 days, 6 things per day. However, the expectation is that to 5 of those each day. Okay? So built into this is a but it's not failure, because it turns out that this approach to forming habits is based not so much on the specific habits that you're trying to form, but the habit of performing habits. Right? It's the habit of doing a So, you set out to perform 6. Now, another reason for not that some activities probably shouldn't be performed each day. For instance, in my case, or even run every day, I'm of the sort, or my biology is of the sort So I wouldn't want to do but I might want to do it 4 So by having 6 things in that list, you could shuffle out on particular days of the week, and simply do 4 or 5 other activities. So 21 days, you list out 4 to 5 things. So it might be zone II sunlight viewing, writing it could be learning a Again this is going to vary depending on your particular goal and the habits that But no more than six and the expectation is that you're not going to If you miss a day, meaning you there is no punishment. And in fact it's important and do what, in the literature, is called a habit slip compensation, which is just fancy psychological language for if you screw up and you you don't do 8 the next This actually brings me from graduate school. I remember when I started graduate school feeling very excited, but by the amount of things that I had to do because I had to both do at the time graduate students stipends, and still now unfortunately, so it was financially stressful. There were a number of things happening and I remember a neurologist, he was a really fantastic his name was Bob Knight, I remember he, I went to &quot;What is the process by which someone&quot; &quot;actually navigates graduate And he said, &quot;Listen, you &quot;or engage in a routine in any way&quot; &quot;that you can't keep up consistently&quot; &quot;for at least five and I thought, &quot;Oh, that's pretty good.&quot; And he said, &quot;Every 4 or 5 years&quot; &quot;you might have to update that,&quot; &quot;but you need to decide what &quot;what you can do every day &quot;or 5 days a week.&quot; And that was very very useful to me and it fits well with this that if you happen to screw in whatever habits you're trying to learn for whatever reason, that the next day, you just get right back on on However, there's a really from the neuroscience literature and from the psychology that says that chunking this 21 days into 2 day bins can be very, very useful. While it is true that the unit of the day that our cells use is a there does seem to be something powerful about engaging in particular habits, in a particular sequence, and then resetting, so thinking, &quot;Okay I can do this for a day&quot; &quot;and if I can do it for a day,&quot; &quot;I can probably do it for 2 days.&quot; And then resetting. So every So you're kind of chunking 21 days into a series of 2 day bins, to perform 4 to 5 new habits and then completing that 21 days. Now, everything I've described with 6 things that you're and only performing 4 to 5 and There's nothing neuroscientifically except for the fact that broken up into two day chunks. After 21 days, you stop engaging in this 21-day deliberate tight schedule, and you You ask yourself how many that I was deliberately trying to learn in the previous 21 days are into my schedule? How many of them am I naturally doing? In other words, every and start adding new habits. You simply try and maintain the ones that you built in that first 21 days. And this I think is extremely important because in all the habit sure, there was a lot and neuroscience data, around here's how you form a habit, here's how you break a habit. There was even some or not a habit had really whether or not it was a But there wasn't a lot of information, at least by my search, of what to do once you've formed a habit, and how to evaluate whether or not that habit is likely to So here's the idea, you that you would like to learn, or that you would like these habits, you only expect that you're going to you do that for 21 days. Again, if you miss a day, you just hop right back on the next day. However, you should think within this 21 day period as 2 days. You can try and nail 4 to 5 If you happen to get all 6, great, but that's not necessarily required. So you can do it for 2 then reset 2 days, and you're not trying to you're not going to throw in 6 more habits that you want to learn, how well, how deeply, you to be able to perform those 6 habits of the previous 21 days. And this is extremely useful, I believe, because it will allow you to asses whether or not you can indeed make room, if you even have room, I Many people are trying to into their nervous system, of learning all those behaviors. What you may find, is that you kept up 2 of throughout the 21 days. And perhaps there was one of and that there were 3 you didn't manage to execute. You may also be one of these that sets out to do 6 new and performs every single one of them. Terrific. More power to you. In that case, for the following 21 or not you can continue to every day for 21 days, would you want to add more habits in. So you could repeat this 21 days of new habit, 21 days as to whether or not You could do that forever, if you wanted. But the idea is that this isn't something that you're doing all year long. It's that you're perhaps or regardless of when you set out to make that 21 in which the habits get wired in and then the following month, and maybe even the following are really the kind of of how well you've embedded And if indeed you want to or you find that certain to embed in your nervous you want to then bring But it's only once you've as reflexive, that you would move forward. And I think this sort of system, while it could have been replaced with many other different systems. Again, there's nothing But this particular system the lack of compensation for missed days, the fact that it's a fairly for 21 days, but then you test yourself, a kind of competition test Those features and the missing of particular habits and not doing all 6 is kind I think makes it a very reasonable one. It's very adaptable to the real world. And I think it's one that, phase two, phase three type system that we talked about earlier, you collapse these two which hopefully will be easy, based on the descriptions I've and I think there's a that the habits that you try and form will achieve this context dependence and that it will take to try and perform them. Thus far, we've almost how to form habits. But what about breaking habits? Certainly many people out there that they feel don't serve them well. One of the challenges that many habits occur very, very quickly and so there isn't an until the habit has already been initiated and in some cases completed. Well, there are a couple of tools that neuroscience and psychology tell us can be very beneficial. Some of those things and relate to what I call Meaning things that set the overall tone in your body and brain, such to engage in a particular habit or that would raise both of your situation and So things like stress reduction. Things like getting good sleep. Things like quality nutrition. Things like having positive routines arranged throughout your day. All of those, of course, will support you in trying to break particular habits. And while that can be very useful, it's admittedly very generic advice. It doesn't point to any In order to identify a specific protocol that one could apply in we have to look at the mirror image of the sort of neuroplasticity that we talked about at the At the beginning of the episode, we talked about a form of neuroplasticity called long term potentiation, involving the NMDA receptor. Just to refresh your memory a little bit, it says that if a set of neurons it's likely that those with themselves more easily because of changes in things the recruitment of additional It's essentially a cellular for how something goes from unlearned, to learned, to reflexive. Now, in order to break synapses, or to break apart neural connections that are serving a habit that we need to engage the process And long term depression has nothing to do with a state of mental depression So I really want to be clear that when I say depression in this context it has nothing to do with it has nothing to do with mood. It's simply called long term depression because just as long if neuron A triggers and it does so very robustly then neuron A will not or as frequently, in in the future because Right? The threshold for There's a much higher probability that they will be activated together at low levels of intensity. That's essentially what Long term depression says and neuron B is not active then the connection between over time, even if they started Okay? So, I'm going to repeat that because this is a pretty detailed whereby if neuron A, but at a different time what we call, temporal window, meaning outside a particular time window, then through long term depression, the connection between neuron And just as a point of interest, the NMDA receptor is also although there are other as well. So how do you take two neurons that underlie a habit out of synchrony? How do you get them to This is pretty interesting and molecular biology, but it's especially interesting. They way that one would do this you have a habit of picking up Okay? That's a reflexive habit I think that most people have experienced. And we often hear the idea that, oh, the phone is so filled and incredible things that But if you noticed what's most people, including find ourselves just looking at our phone, or find ourselves in a particular app without actually having engaged in the conscious set of steps of, &quot;Oh I'm really curious&quot; &quot;what's going on in this particular app.&quot; &quot;I'm really curious&quot; &quot;what's going on in this And you just kind of &quot;find for those of you listening, You just sort of find yourself of picking up your phone or has become fully reflexive. You see this a lot at meals where multiple people are there and no one's looking at their phone and then all of a sudden and you'll notice that other people just It's this kind observation induced reflex. And I would wager that most of the immediate steps involved. So the literature says to break these sorts or reflexive behaviors. Most of those approaches of reward for not performing the activity or some sort of punishment I've heard of some basic things like they'll even put like a and every time they complain, or every time they do some behavior, like pick up their phone, they'll give themselves And yeah, the rationale to create a somatic, a very of something that makes it very real and harder to overlook. Other people will just do a This sort of, &quot;What gets kind of mindset, where if you take away the judgment, I realize, but this is if you search the literature. Even on PubMed, peer-reviewed articles, that every time you engage in a behavior, you just measure the fact you just mark it down. At the end of the day, people and say, &quot;Oh my goodness!&quot; &quot;I can't believe that I Or, &quot;I did it 46 times.&quot; And in fact, a lot of will start to give you that you've been on the app for an hour, would you like to leave? Most people just click right I think very few people &quot;It's been an hour and &quot;I absolutely shouldn't It's just far to easy to just Well, the literature on habit formation and habit reduction, breaking There's a beautiful meta-analysis, which involves looking at a number of different studies all together, comparing the statistical looking in different conditions what sorts of habits were The first author on this I'll certainly put a link to this. It's Heather Fritz and it's &quot;Intervention to modify And it is indeed a very the Journal of Occupation It's published in 2020. A couple of things I and then I'll get into the specific tool for breaking habits. Perhaps the most interesting from this review was the finding that notifications to or to not engage in habits actually were not very They were effective in when people started using as were little sticky notes, like, &quot;Don't go into the refrigerator&quot; &quot;between the hours of Or just visual reminders, physical reminders or electronic reminders were effective in the immediate term, but in the long term, or not people would effectively stick to habits they were trying to stick to, or break habits that they So sadly, that doesn't And perhaps they just need to come up with more robust reminders. I don't know, mild electric shock or something like that only sort of kidding but what we do know from both human and animal studies is that things like monetary penalties, right? Having to pay out every time you engage in a particular behavior. Those are pretty effective The problems is when people for habit use, for instance, you can imagine a situation where you say, &quot;I'm not going to pick up my phone&quot; &quot;for the 4 hours in the &quot;so I can get, you know, real Unless someone's monitoring to monitor themselves completely enough that they punish themselves that they break the behavior. In other words, the in order to break the habit, which just speaks to how once they become reflexive. They're just very, very hard to override. So it turns out that the key to generating long term is actually to take the period immediately following meaning, let's say you tell yourself you're not going to pick up your phone, you're not going to bite your nails, you're not going to reflexively walk to the refrigerator at a but you find yourself doing it anyway, and what actually has to happen is bringing conscious awareness to the period immediately afterwards, which I think most people recognize, they realize &quot;Ugh I just did And in that moment, capture not that led to the bad habit execution, but actually to take advantage of the fact that the neurons that were responsible for generating that bad habit and to actually engage immediately afterward. Now, this is really interesting because I would have thought that you have to engage that truly replaces the That you would have to be able to identify your state of mind or the sequence of events but rather, the stage or the period immediately is a unique opportunity to what we would call adaptive behavior, but that could be any with the bad behavior, so Let's say you find yourself, you're trying to do focused you're disappointed in yourself you could of course just put it down, and re-engage in the work behavior, but if you were good at that, then you probably wouldn't have And so, what turns out is to go engage in some Now, this has two major effects. The first one is you start to link in time the to this other good behavior. And in doing so, you start to other neurons, that can start to somewhat dismantle sequence of firing associated with the bad behavior. In other words, you start to that starts with a bad habit, and then ends with a good habit. And that seems to create so that then recognizing when you're heading toward to bad habit becomes more apparent to you. So again, I want to make Let's say that the behavior is reflexively You do that, you think, &quot;Ugh, Here's what I'm going to do, you would set that down and then you would engage in that you've deemed positive. And here, it's very for me to give an example that will necessarily but perhaps you're working on hydration, so maybe you go have a glass of water. Maybe you're trying to do Maybe you're trying to enhance so you go and you spend 5 minutes doing a particular type You literally exit whatever you were doing and perform that other new positive habit in the immediate period right after that, even for a short period of time. It's a little bit counterintuitive, but what this does it and a temporal mismatch between which before is what we would and the engineers out there will know what I'm talking about. But in a closed loop, so one behavior, one set of neural leads to another, and then just kind of sets It can be kind of a self By changing the number of it disrupts the closed it creates what we call an open loop, and in an open loop, you are So, as I mentioned before, this you might think, &quot;Why would I want to reward &quot;with a good habit.&quot; &quot;I don't want to reward But really what you're to change the nature that are firing so that for that bad habit. A different way to put it would be, imagine that the bad habit that you play, or a chord notes, or a sequence of notes and it comes very easily. You can play it every single time. But, let's say, as you're trying to learn you're just constantly inserting that at the inappropriate time. That was, you know, I think for a bad habit because it You just find yourself doing it. Rather than trying to prevent the next time you do or sequence that you're trying to learn. What this does then is it of the sequence of neurons through to the end of this So, this is the way in which when I say dismantle, that if neuron A fires, Because, as you're of very reflexively those neurons are firing together without you consciously being aware of it. It's almost impossible for without a number of other features, like severe punishment, severe Rather, tacking on some like if neuron A, neuron B &quot;Okay well, if neuron B fires,&quot; &quot;I'm going to start inserting Right? That's the, C, D, E, that you're going to insert. And in doing so, you create a that then is very easy to dismantle. And so, when people have it removes the need to have of one's own behavior which is very, very difficult to achieve. Rather, what they find is in re-mapping of neural circuits in ways that are very, Right? Because you can always identify when you've done the and then tack on to that that's positive. Now, the nature of that You don't want it to be something that's very hard to execute. You want it to be and fairly easy to execute, so that you're not struggling all the time to insert this on top whatever that bad behavior But again, this is rooted in the biology it maps very well to the that I was able to glean that really shows that rather than just get reminders, rather than try and instill punishment, rather than setting up reward that perhaps the simplest to tack on additional make sure those behaviors or behaviors that are adaptive for you, and in doing so, you will soon find that the initiation of the bad habit takes on a whole new form or that you're not even And of course, I want to acknowledge that breaking bad habits is really hard. We had an episode all about addiction with Dr. Anna Lembke from She's a colleague of mine who runs the Dual-Diagnosis And in that episode, we for drugs, alcohol, people have addictions to certain types of behaviors, that in the case of addiction, there has to be a tremendous for them to be able to So, for those of you that are thinking about bad habit breaking in the context of definitely check out that episode. Addiction does employ around habit making and but of course, because the consequences of certain habits in there's other sets of protocols and there's a kind of a that's very important. It also relates to the and you can find all with Dr. Anna Lembke. So today we've covered and the psychology of habit formation and habit breaking. We talked about why certain why certain habits are and eliminate, and how we can determine which habits are going to and which habits are going to be harder for us to access and break. We talked a lot about this and we talked about context dependence. And we talked about a as it relates to neural circuits and the formation of new and strengthening and weakening We also discussed two programs. Programs designed specifically for you on the basis of the and the literature on the and habit breaking. Just to briefly recap, one program involves into three phases, phase and to try and tackle specific habits at particular phases of the 24 hour cycle. The second program of engaging approximately although the expectation, is that you're not going And an assessment in the following 21 days as to whether or not you have or not. And there were a number of other features that I mentioned that were related to those two general programs. Phase one, phase two, phase and how those could be meshed together. So, I'm guessing some of you about those programs but hopefully they were clear This is a good opportunity that the Huberman Lab Podcast has something called the that is sent out For the next newsletter, I will release a on-paper and how they mesh together and habit breaking, and if you can go to hubermanlab.com, you can sign up for the newsletter. First of all, it's zero cost. Second of all, we have but I can tell you right now, we don't share your email with any vendors or with any other sources. Those emails stay internal to us. And if you'd like to see what the sort of flavor the previous newsletters, for instance, one on tools for sleep, or tools for neuroplasticity, and outside the classroom as well, for teachers and for those are also posted there so you can access any of My hope is that today you've learned both the biological mechanisms and the practical tools to establish habits that, for you, you deem adaptive, healthy, and that are going to And that you can start to that you find to be for you and for your goals. If you're learning from please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific way to support us. In addition, on YouTube you can leave us You can also leave us that you'd like us to host And please also subscribe and/or Spotify. On Apple, you can leave And now Spotify has a feature by which you can also Please also check out at the beginning of this podcast episode. That's perhaps the best In addition, we have a Patreon. It's patreon.com/andrewhuberman, and there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. During today's podcast and in many previous episodes I mentioned supplements. While supplements aren't many people derive tremendous Supplements for sleep, supplements for various other things related to mental and physical One key issue any time about supplements, you have to be sure that the supplements you are taking are of the very highest quality. And for that reason, we've because Thorne has the with respect to the quality of and the precision of the that they include in their supplements. If you'd like to see the and get 20% off any of those supplements, you can go to Thorne, in addition to being able 20% if you navigate deeper through that web portal, you can also get 20% off that Thorne makes. If you're not already and Twitter, please feel free to do so. There, I teach neuroscience in short format. Some of that material overlaps with what you hear on the podcast, some of it is unique and different from what's on the podcast. And once again, I want to thank you for of exploring the neuroscience and the psychology of habit I hope it supports you in your goals. And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [mellow music]