Hi everybody, Tyler here. On episode 5 of about Sidney Lumet's 1975 masterpiece, Dog taken 10 minutes, 4 hours later, the bank it was the hottest thing on live T.V. 12 hours true." There is so much to say about this This video is interactive-- you will see when it is time to watch the side videos or videos at any time. They will pause this video to click these buttons, no worries, the video will go public one week after this video is Dog Day Afternoon is based on an article in about the true events of the attempted robbery 1972 and the eventual hostage stand off with and Salvatore Naturale were played in the John Wojtowicz's name was changed Sonny paid enough money for the movie rights--he profits. Wojtowicz was married to his Aron) in a public ceremony in 1971 and the he could pay for Eden's gender reassignment the money he earned from the movie rights The film opens with shots that depict a regular of these shots were staged and Lumet just the shots. He wanted to make it so that when that the movie has started because it just It should be noted that these opening shots happens to be the only song in the film. The first revealed his sexual attraction to men after Dog Day Afternoon's release, which of the film deals with homosexuality. Even are about a man missing a woman he loves, relationship with his wife, but his longing as a woman trapped in a man's body. Sidney Lumet: "The picture was edited by editors that we've had in movies and she us, which was silent, of course, when I shot to give us a sound for it, so of course, when to it then from hearing it in the cutting and decided to motivate it by simply making radio of our leading characters (whom we are and it was Elton John on their car radio that Al Pacino, fresh off his lead role in The this time. He had worked with Lumet a few passed on the role of Sonny even though he known for working his actors really hard and Part II and perhaps do some theater. However, Pacino: "So I read it and it became so clear scripts. You keep getting scripts all the quality, that intensity, that writing and piece. And I just put the script down and At this time, it was very rare for such a Lumet: "And no major star that I know of for disguises, so he grew a mustache and it Al is one of the few actors I know who is without any self consciousness with a genuinely to me and he said, 'the mustache has got And we did." The cast was mostly made up of actors that his close friend John Cazale. Pacino asked of Sal. In the script Sal was described as in an intense boyish way." Frank Pierson: "And I described him in the when I look at Cazale, he is the furthest Lumet thought that Pacino was crazy for suggesting part. But he let Cazale read. Sidney Lumet: "John came in and when John you. 'Al's out of his mind.' This guy for this part. And I hadn't seen him in that time and then he read and my heart broke." Sidney Lumet: "Since the relationship between Al to be there while I was casting for that for it. He wasn't at all what the real guy looking and I read, oh, I don't know how John Cazale, he's a magnificent actor' And he came in and he read for the part. I him and said, 'it's yours.' And as you'll between these two guys was phenomenal and Sal: "No! You made me a promise. Didn't So what can we learn? First, rehearse. For Dog Day Afternoon, Lumet held rehearsals the film required too many people (the robbers, such a long time. Lumet was very meticulous in his rehearsals--he rehearsal process. Lance Henriksen: "We did something that out every location on a ballroom floor and there and sat through the whole movie to know was like giving you not only respect but a is no small part. It's collective.'" So everyone, no matter the size of the role, would know exactly what their blocking was everyone would be on the same page during efficiently. Production is extremely expensive, can in pre-production when it is only costing some refreshments? The extensive planning also helped with logistics long night shoot on a fairly residential street. Sidney Lumet: "We were there for a long during which you are disturbing people enormously. and on their roofs and you're making noise didn't suddenly arrive and wake somebody we put a lamp out here?' Everything had people precisely when we would be there and how much we would disturb them and so on. It couldn't have gone more smoothly. Everything was fully mapped out so that Lumet rather than spending a bunch of time testing With such a thorough plan, much less could does. Lumet was notorious for his efficiency. Bob Rogow (Sound Man): "Really working on thing--that you really can't rest with Sidney Lumet: "Fellas! Now fellas, you've The guns have already gone down. That's We go again!" Sidney Lumet: "I'm afraid short shooting motor gets going and we're just getting Sidney Lumet: "Guns are down people, pay Carmine Foresta (actor): "He's real fast He's right there: one, two, three. He sets to be with a guy that knows his stuff." And because of this efficiency, they used Lumet said that the great thing about rehearsal and isolation of the cast. It allows the cast allows them to explore and develop their characters number two... Two: Keep it natural. Of course, this depends on the movie you're Nearly all of the actors had a background actors, this was their first film. One of the main objectives of the rehearsal the hostages over the course of the film. Pacino, Cazale, and the actors playing the Almost all of the actors already knew Pacino, even easier. Penny Allen who played the chief home at a young age to become an actor. Pacino was well into his early twenties. Dede Allen (editor): "It was an interesting all worked together in a theater or something, Sidney rehearses a lot and so the bank building and they were just a group that worked so Pacino was already familiar with many of the but perhaps none more so than John Cazale. together in Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather Al Pacino: "But really, what gave us the these two people as not knowing each other, then being thrown into a situation so intense. under this kind of pressure and that was a John because he has a way of getting involved he asks so many questions and he was just This gave their relationship a very natural tell this story as realistically as possible. real people so that the audience could better these smaller parts was to cast the actors Sidney Lumet: "The interesting thing when thing is that you do not cast them colorful vignettes going on having nothing to do with so I'd have them read anything, didn't were to themselves. How they used themselves. the cast, 'I'm not interested in the real who did that--I don't know them.' I said, got other names, it's you. You won't have clothes. You get two dollars a day more for whatever speech you normally have.' That of the subject matter didn't become an obstacle This is a good principle to have when casting should have to 'act' as little as possible. multi-dimensional characters and by adding to their character. It's interesting to think about how much them. For example, Lumet originally wanted Manager, which likely would have been a substantial Lance Henriksen originally auditioned to play And a fun fact: The other FBI agent was played But the naturalism didn't stop with casting, Sidney Lumet: "One of the most interesting one of the actors, I forgot who, said, 'well, about using ourselves in these parts-' They our own words?' And I said, 'let's take improvise everything. Let's not use the in my life. I'm not a great believer in were so rich right away that I brought my were moving and we recorded the improvisations. and we'd compose the script out of the improvisations. a fairly new script of the dialogue." There were also several lines that were improvised line: Leon: "You know, they walk around, they've They're a bunch of crazy people there." When Sal says: Sonny: "Is there any special country you Sal: "Wyoming." Sidney Lumet: "I had to go like so I didn't yet, so heartbreaking and that came from Cazale." And also the famous Attica line Al Pacino: "Well the genesis of it is simply that I should call out Attica and I picked interesting' and I just tried it out and it was all happening." Sonny: "He wants to kill me so bad he can Attica!" In the scene where Sonny talks to his mother, the actress playing the mother was told by if it didn't make sense. What results is Two people talking about different things For the scene directly after Sonny shoots confrontation between Sonny and Sergeant Moretti Sidney Lumet: "I thought it would be very his bearings at this point because by now, sure of his control of the crowd. And so, Charlie Durning, 'the minute he comes out is. Blast him. Put him on the defensive." one on Al, and one on the two of them just it threw Al and the results are just a magnificent Moretti: "What the fuck is the matter with Sonny: "What?" Moretti: "What are you firing that shot Sonny: "What were they doing back there!?" Moretti: "We've got 250 cops here for Sonny: "Fuck you! What were they doing beck Lumet left imperfections in the film, but For example, the first take they did of Sonny of the gun got caught on the box's string get the string detached. This not only adds for the amateur nature of Sonny as a bank problems they will face during the robbery. In the same vein, Lumet often included Charles scenes. Moretti: "You tell my that you have nothing now what the fuck's going on in there!?" Sonny: "You wanted a hostage. I brought Moretti: "A tactical force! They like to they climbing through windows!" Sonny: "Without your orders, right? Without Moretti: "No! Yes! Without my orders, yes!" Much of this was due to the improvisations, of the performance and Moretti's temperament. Number three: Developing a multi-dimensional As much as Dog Day Afternoon is a story about a story about Sonny as a person. Over the backstory, what kind of person he is, his story becomes less about the situation and situation. When the screenwriter, Frank Pierson, was John Wojtowicz refused to talk to him while he felt he wasn't paid enough. So, when of Sonny, he talked to several people who core. He got a lot of contradictory accounts Frank Pierson: "Well basically he would take care of you. I'll make you happy.' story of the bank. Now I knew how I could like that would be. All the elements now were I handed him the screenplay and he said, 'what's guy who imagines he's a magician who can gain their love and support and so on, but instead anger, rage, and rejection.' He I'd better read it.'" We can see this drive the film--he is trying he's trying to make sure he and Sal get Sal with the hostages, but he is also trying situation comes in the threats to these things--they hurt a hostage, Leon may be used to manipulate But how do you make someone who is not an Sidney Lumet: "So we're talking about nutcase. And yet, how totally understandable Everybody responds to him just the way we get to care for him. All of this was part I think the key lies in that very idea. It relatability is substantially heightened as Sidney Lumet: "As the day went on he kept funny way, they were starting to like him. in during the rehearsal that scene where Marsha now and he's showing her how you present he had become. But, in becoming unmenacing, It is the hostages that we, the audience, are presented as real people reacting to a with Sonny through the situation--putting the story advances in acts two and three, come out and our mindset shifts to partially gawking at an interesting character and how in an entertaining way. The hostages become Sonny and Sal. Our growing care for Sonny growing care we see and experience ourselves. Sidney Lumet: "With a character like this, do that. Everything in the performance--the weakness, the humor. God, how funny he was. just out of the natural situation." The crowd, on the other hand, is almost a one. They get on board with the thrill of ignoring the humanity behind it. The crowd he is a homosexual, which displays the main presenting this story. Chris Sarandon, who plays Leon, was also a This character had to be handled very carefully. homosexual caricature. Keep in mind that this made, there was still the very real danger and look upon Sonny and Leon in an insensitive Chris Sarandon: "After the audition was want you to come back, but the next time, Queens housewife and that was the sort of Sidney Lumet: "I think it was the first but transexuality. I was very concerned that subjects. They get nervous, they laugh in Chris Sarandon: "During the time that I of the character I, during the day, would of clogs, which sort of gave me the feeling and I let my fingernails grow and I thought, all the way.' So, I plucked my eyebrows I'll go into Manhattan and I'll go with and I'll put on a little eye makeup and the street. And I come into Manhattan--I'm and I literally go into newsstands and vegetable is the city that absorbs everything. Nothing However, Pacino's celebrity status most get taken seriously. One of the advantages to casting a star actor audience and it makes it much easier and quicker Of course, this would still all fall flat Pacino. In my opinion, this is Pacino's that he threw everything he had into the role. One of the best examples of this was the scene scene that made Lumet decide to take on the Sidney Lumet: "Almost no work went into and, as I said before, there are times when way. I knew he would be hot as a pistol because almost sense what would happen the next day on him wide and one camera in close-up and been the first the second take." What makes this scene even more interesting wrote during the standoff. And with the perception took the most care Sonny: "...whom I love more than any man comes across as honest and heartbreaking. Sidney Lumet: "The picture was long and usually, in the editing room, you tighten. had do the final tightening and Dede felt Dede said, 'Sidney, you look unhappy.' And then I knew what it was. In accelerating the 'reading of the will' seemed longer, as I had been previously and I said, 'I or seven minutes to slow the picture down will seem at a better tempo than it does now.'" Lumet wanted to get at as much realism as any of the news reports before filming because while directing the movie. Instead he wanted had created. And even though the production hinged on manufacturing strong theater influence on the performances, The cast was mainly made up of theater actors, there is a precise emphasis on blocking, you deal of time in character, and there is even of the film is Pacino almost appearing to Al Pacino: "And Sidney has a way of directing by doing so, you're in the situation and He just staged it, now all you had to do was robbery's taking place. That's how thought The most emotional scene in the film has to Leon. Lumet had Pacino do the conversation female wife back to back without a break for off the camera with black velvet so that Pacino that the scene was 14 minutes long and one So, they set up two cameras and when the first switched on the second camera filming at a Sidney Lumet: "So, what's interesting extraordinary and I thought, 'well, we've take in the can.' And for some reason--sheer camera had photographed the second half of reloaded. That's why I put up the black be disturbed by the guys working on putting stood up over the velvet and I said, 'Al, And you'll see the look that he gives me shot him because he was exhausted and I said, and we did the whole thing again. Now what and it's the second take that we used because of the performance was the exhaustion of having and we were now maybe ten o'clock at night shows in his face and that was the reason the best pieces of film acting that I've And in case you're wondering what Pacino's were going again, here it is: Just look at Pacino in this scene. You can actually applied the sweat makeup himself Sidney Lumet: "One of the great pleasures leave it to the makeup people to do it because or too fake and from 12 Angry Men I learned of glycerin and water, so that it lasts a it ever shot, looks real, doesn't run the on. Also, I can keep the continuity correct." There was also no music after the opening need to use music to explain the emotion of realism by embellishing the emotion and, with need to. Thanks for watching. I gained almost 700 new to thank you all for tuning in and for all on this channel. I'm going to try and work it doesn't take me so long to upload. Also, Wire Press Play and I will link to them in on my website: CinemaTyler.com. And if this button now because there are plenty more videos again for watching.