- Hi it's me, Tim Dodd, There's nothing more exciting a new mission to unknown worlds, or an exciting breakthrough technology. Unfortunately for every amount of cancellations making it beyond the drawing board. What's even more frustrating leave paper, have thousands hardware gets built, and then it gets put on the shelf. In this new series called a look at some space programs and concepts that were so close to complete before it got canceled. Some of these are pretty frustrating, but nevertheless, let's get started. - [Announcer] Three, two, one. (inspiring music) We have a lift off. - This video is one of two on hardware that actually it was built and then bye You get the idea. So if there's something that video, standby there's a lot more coming. (light music) First up we have a really weird story, it's the tale of a country who of engineering, building and rocket, only to cancel it Hi United Kingdom, I'm talking to you! In 1964, the UK government by the Royal Aircraft capable of putting 144 Most of the rocket's were from the Black Knight ballistic missile, who The Black Arrow was also lovingly called the lipstick rocket, It stood 13 meters tall, two meters wide and was three stages. The first stage had eight by RP-1 rocket fuel and hydrogen the second stage had two The third stage was a that was spin stabilized. The rocket launched four times, at the Woomera Prohibited And strangely, the spent boosters of land, and not splashdown, and China let their spent potentially landing near is far more remote than The first launch on June the second suborbital test was successful, the third test was a but the fourth mission on putting the Prospero satellite into orbit. In 1971, only a few months was scheduled, the program constraints and the fact that was cheaper, so they could There was also an offer for free, however that was withdrawn once the Black Arrow was canceled, whoops. There was one more Black Arrow and built, but never flown and now sits in the Science Museum, London along with a spare Prospero satellite. There's also the remains of a flown rocket on display in the William Creek I really want to go see that! So that's the story of the an orbital class launch (light music) Ah, the space shuttle. One of the most iconic Look at that thing, it's just gorgeous. Despite not quite living up to its promise of bringing down the cost of spaceflight, it sure did have some such as repairing satellites, it could satellites back down from space. As a matter of fact was so groundbreaking, the Soviet Union decided they needed a So, welcome the Buran. A more powerful, more capable version of the United States' Space Shuttle. And before we go any further, I think it's pronounced but it might be Bu-ran, I don't know. The Buran might look an awful but despite it's looks, in quite a different manner. The Soviet Union strapped the most powerful rocket ever, the And again, I have no idea if That one! Construction of the Buran and the first full scale orbiter saw the light of day in 1984. The striking resemblance to the is of course no coincidence, but it's not just some knock off. Physics pretty well dictates and the Soviet Union pretty did their homework and followed suit. But despite the looks, they still had quite the engineering They developed a fully autonomous the entire flight and They of course had to develop their own fuel cells, Then they strapped it to which was a mighty and This meant the Soviets had by making the Energia and not just the Buran. Not only that, the Buran was of some powered flight in jet engines at the aft end of the vehicle. Although it wasn't used they wanted to try to have for orbital missions, but This could have potentially when trying to land, which is completely a glider. It only had one shot at landing, is pretty much where The only orbital flight took place 30 years ago, on It went off flawlessly, boosting itself into a and then returning to Earth the Buran came back and had Ang again, it did this 100% autonomously. Once it landed, it really It only lost eight of which is quite a big contrast first Space Shuttle and had 148 of them really damaged. The Buran was supposed to but with the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold and the Buran orbiter And to add insult to the only flown Buran was wrecked completely collapsed The collapse tragically and also completely Today, there are still two in a really rusty hangar in Kazakhstan. A few adventure seekers to photograph them. There's also the OK-GLI glider prototype, which is on display at the This is kind of like the to the Space Shuttle Enterprise. And lastly, there's a that's on display at the Baikonur Again, I really want to go see this. And that's the story of of a re-usable spacecraft. (light music) Now back to the rocket that This thing was extremely impressive and definitely deserves its The Energia was a super heavy lift rocket, coming in just after and despite only have 75% the it actually could loft more It was only a two stage vehicle, like the stack of the space it operates very, very differently. The Energia began development cancelled the N-1 rocket, in another video about Since the Energia was the the Buran into space, it carried which is super weird. It even did that when it wasn't carrying the Buran into space. I think the coolest is those side-engines on the booster. Now those are four liquid to two solid rocket boosters But these side boosters have the RD-170. The RD-170 is the most rocket engine ever, it That's right, move over F-1 engine, the RD-170 is actually But there is a small giant combustion chamber had four combustion chambers Technically, the industry as the power pack, or turbo chamber, the RD-170 has So although it may look like four engines, it's actually considered a single engine. The reason they split up a single engine into four combustion chambers hadn't figured out how to solve that's a problem with So they fed a single turbo pump into four combustion chambers, brilliant! Then we have the center core that ran on liquid hydrogen and LOX. The RD-0120 is almost like to the RS-25 space shuttle main engine. Despite almost exactly matching the RD-0120 was a lot more since they were not The Energia wound up flying twice. The first mission of the at least for the Energia itself, However, it's payload, wound up de-orbiting. This is one of those funny of my Biggest Face Palms so I won't go into instead of putting itself into The Energia wound up with the Buran spacecraft as mentioned and performed literally flawlessly. The Energia also fell to being canceled as the Soviet Union fell. It's truly a shame that and capable rocket never flew again. Despite talks of it being it never seems to make it's (light music) Recognize this? Yup, that sure is pretty off of a space shuttle. So wait, what's it doing out You my friends are looking at dangerous rockets ever In 2004, President Bush announced which proposed taking on a massive rocket called the Ares V, which is sort of now the The constellation program transportation services to the to replace the soon NASA was going to address of the Space Shuttle; like crew safety, and the cost of flying cargo They sought a simple and up to the ISS, and thus The Ares 1 would loft an Orion on top of a single solid rocket booster and a liquid powered upper stage. By 2007 things were looking its system requirements since the Space Shuttle in the 1970's! Although they intended to derived hardware, a lot of of the rocket and pretty quickly, a lot of preliminary plans changed. For instance, due to the massive size of the Orion spacecraft, they would need a five instead of a four segment booster like the Space Shuttle had. Despite wanting to pull a lot of technology wound For instance, NASA was originally hydrogen and oxygen tank just like the external fuel but instead they had to like the second and third They also wanted to try to use the RS-25, for an upper it'd be more expensive a ton of heavy modifications And air startable isn't or vacuum, it's talking So they went with a but that too required to increase the thrust, they design, known as the J-2x. Okay, so put all this with a review in 2008 that wasn't so good. It was revealed that there over massive vibrations of ascent that NASA admitted the problem was a four out of five So they had to design a solution that would dampen the vibrations. They stuck an active tuned-mass absorber, otherwise known as a giant spring, inside the rocket to But that wouldn't be all the bad news the Ares 1 program would was a 2009 study by the that determined if the crew had to abort between 30 to 60 seconds after launch, they would have a 0% When a solid rocket booster is detonated, the solid propellant the parachutes of an aborted crew capsule and they would fall back to Earth. Okay, okay, but fast forward a the first NASA developed the Space Shuttle in This was the Ares 1-X, a test to test the first stage's performance and verify the controls It was a bit of a hodgepodge from an Atlas V, a four with a dummy fifth segment as orion capsule and crew escape tower. It also had the roll control system off a Peacekeeper missile. The rocket successfully and the flight lasted only six minutes from liftoff to splashdown. After two minutes of powered stage separated and the its parachutes, just like the That single launch cost and that was the only time Because of cost overruns, unforeseen engineering and and an ever inflating was canceled along with the program on February 1st, 2010. In 2011, NASA's then acting testified that the Ares 1 would have cost four plus $1.6 billion per flight. Because of this, NASA the Commercial Crew program bring the cost of launches down. But it's almost 2019 and we on any of these commercial Mostly because the Commercial Crew program has been underfunded that's gonna end up leaving the US with about an eight year gap But, we're finally almost there. That being said, I'm really considering how much money how much money it would and also how dangerous it was for humans, I think we made the right choice. This all just makes you to have a clear goal, a healthy budget and strong leadership to It makes me really thankful to accomplish, but it to know what could have been. Before leaving me comments don't you forget, there's coming out with slightly and even another one coming developed and dropped theme. So stay tuned, there's a lot more coming. But let me know in the comments you have about canceled programs, rockets or just spaceflight in general! I owe a huge thanks to my make this and all other Everyday I owe a super special in our exclusive subreddit and for helping me script and research. If you want to help contribute, monthly livestreams, and head on over to Thank you. While you're online, be sure and check out my brand new webstore. I finally have things and even these gridfin not-a-coasters. Notice they're not-a-coaster making them not very good coasters. But they are drink a drink will be able to off of any surface you put these on. While you're there also under my store, I finally on every platform you So Spotify, iTunes music, Google Play, Amazon Music, all that stuff. You can go to everydayastronaut.com/music, you can see links to My first seven song EP called Maximum Air Dynamic Give it a listen, if you're scientist or you're working around in space, going on it's good background instrumental music and thank you so much Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut. Bringing Space down to (light music)