Whenever the penguins fall over, they explode. This means you have to be very careful around your new adorable friends. Hey there, little guy, how are you doing? Oh, uh-oh, oh no. Oh yeah, this video is gonna be chaos, because today I'm breaking Minecraft with your dumb ideas, but this time the mob vote is here. I asked you on my community tab for the worst possible features we could add to the mobs, and you did not disappoint. Today, if your suggestion would make me wanna vote for the mob more, then you as the audience get one point. If it doesn't make me wanna vote for it, then, well, I don't know if I should get the Sooooo.... Randy the skeleton gets one point. Hey, hey man, calm down, calm down, man. Most points at the end of this video ow wins, and if Randy wins, then I don't know, you get like a fancy hat or something. Calm down, man. So here we go, who's first? Freakin Randy, get out of here, man. Go away, huh? If you shear a crab, it'll give you one of its claws, and it can be used as a weapon with maximum knockback, but it has a random chance of spawning tons of TNT above you. If this works, first try, I would be so happy. (laughing) Bros got no claw, I got your claw. (laughing) That's so funny. Okay, now, if I use this to hit him, (laughing) oh no, wait. Huh? Okay, I didn't think about that. Cow, pew, oh. (laughing) You know, this but I honestly don't hate it. (pew pew pew) Oh, oh, oh, oh yeah. I forgot it summons TNT every once in a while. I did the whole prompt, I promise. Where did my claws go, gosh dang. Yeah, if I just keep hitting these, though, every once in a while, TNT just sown the swans from the sky. Please give me the TNT, please give me the TNT, please. Oh my gosh, you went flying. Come on, please. All I want is to explode, please. These cows don't deserve the pain and suffering, they all deserve to explode. This is certainly an idea. Oh, out of curiosity, does it work on the ender dragon too? It kind of does. I don't know, does it? It kind of, I mean, it knocks it back, that's for sure. What about the wither? Come on, come on, come on. Not really, what about Randy. Randy, does it work on you? It doesn't work on Randy. Randy is immortal. (screaming) Randy, why? Here, Randy, take this. Pick it up, Randy, pick it up, pick it up. Come crab, Randy, quick, please, Randy. Yes, Randy is crab. Hey, look, my head. Randy, please, man, please. I have another one of my head. (laughing) Calm down, Randy, please. Would it make me vote for it more? The functionality, yes. At least the knockback functionality. The explosion functionality, no. But I'm gonna do the knockback functionality, absolutely. So you guys get a point, good job. Rip Randy. Make it so that if you look straight up with the crab claw and left click, a price of end stone falls down from the sky. Oh, here it comes. Oh, here it comes. Whoa, oh, there it goes. Oh, there it goes. (laughing) Oh my gosh, you can just see them. You can just see them falling. Oh my gosh, look at them go. Look at them go. Wow, little piece of the sky right here. What happens if I and just spam click? Oh, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah. And island, let's go. And then the best part is you can just add coral. More coral, let's go. If you don't understand why this is happening, go watch the crab video that I made. This definitely is fun, but I don't think I really would want this in a regular game. I don't know why, it just feels weird. So I think Randy gets the point on this one. Hey man, how's it going? Welcome back. Just take this, fine, fine, take it, take it. Take it, Randy. Enjoy your crab claw. Freaking Randy. When the armadillo rolls into a ball, he can roll towards the player, dealing six hearts of damage if it hits. Only six hearts of damage, huh? I'm just gonna hang out here, wait for a moment, cause he's gonna unroll eventually. Oh, oh, oh my gosh. Oh no. Please, please. This was not what I intended, but oh my gosh, it's so perfect. He definitely does a lot of damage, but he also does a lot of knockback. I also made it work when there's a bunch of them and they'll call for help. So here we go. Oh no, oh no. (laughing) What the heck? Oh my word. That was insane. What in the world? Hey guys, don't worry about, oh my gosh. I'm down here now. This is bad. Oh, how do I even get out? I'm just, I'm stuck down here. No, what? No. How am I supposed to get out? I can't get out. What do I do? Just no, no, let me out. Yes, I picked them up. Yes. Okay, that's huge. That's huge. It pacifies them if you pick them up. Yes. I have half a heart. Let's go, dude. Yeah! This is good. This is terrible, but this is good. I like the idea of the rolling. I think that's hysterical. I'd definitely vote for it if it was rolling. I think that'd be hilarious. Oh, oh no. Good feature. I would vote for it. So that means you get a point on this one. Sorry, Randy. When something he becomes furious and returns the attack, summoning the great marine fury, a divine penguin capable of obliterating anyone who dared to mistreat a penguin, also summoning a horde of warriors penguins. All right, here we go. This is the marine fury. Oh my goodness. It's still playing. Why is it still playing? I can still see it over there. Oh, there's Randy. Randy, hi. It's so magical. (screams) This is the marine fury and it's, it appears to protect the penguins. I need to run. It does so much damage. It's insane. You can defeat it. It's possible, but like it's not very likely. Oh my go-- Hey man, you just chill out, okay? If there's not a marine fury with 20 blocks, you can spawn more. Oh no. It's so amazing and epic. What do I do? (singing along) I'm gonna make sure the music stops whenever I die because my word, it was so loud. Oh my gosh. This makes it so much funnier. Wait, watch this. The music is insane and then he just. (laughing) It just completely stops the music. Oh my gosh. That is actually fantastic. Wait, watch this again. Oh no. The penguin, the father of all penguins. Oh. Oh no. Oh no. Oh, the army. Oh no, the army of penguins. Ah, oh my gosh. And now there's just a bunch of penguins. If I attack any of them. It's just more. (laughing) There's more music. Oh no. Oh no. Oh no. Look at them all. Why? No. Please, please, please. No. It's so peaceful. Oh man. Man, look at all those penguins. Wouldn't it be a shame if I went right into the middle and knocked a few of them over. Oh, the music. The music. Oh, why are there so many? What? Well, that went well. Not gonna lie, this doesn't really feel very Minecrafty. So Randy, Randy, you get the point. You get the point. ow. lose its claw at some point. &quot;What if that claw becomes a projectile &quot;to help protect it from hostile mobs &quot;or a player that attacks it? &quot;This would be a single use, &quot;kind of like how a bee can sting only once. &quot;Love the content, man.&quot; And I love that this is your second suggestion for this video. Thank you. I just spawned into this world and this is a great location. Let's see if this works. Crab. I was gonna add a few of them. And if I smack one, in theory, (laughing) oh my word. That was insane. Which one of you did it? Which one of you did it? One of them did it, but it didn't actually work, I guess. Jeez. I think that's hysterical. So insane. Okay, there's a couple issues in that the claw doesn't disappear and then they can still fire after the fact. I don't know if I can fix those things, but I'm gonna try. Oh jeez. Okay, so now this guy is missing his claw and if I attack him again, oh, he can still launch his claw, apparently. How is he still, how is he doing that? How are you doing that? Interesting. Okay, so there's more bugs. Now they just don't fire the projectile at all. They just watch. They just watch. Not at all what I intended. I didn't intend for this. This wasn't my goal. Shoot me. I dare you. Do it, I dare you. He did it, all right. Okay, so now if a crab loses its claw, it'll die in a few moments. Okay, so that's interesting too. Oh boy. Now in theory, if I shear one, it'll drop the claw and then die. Yeah, okay, so it can't live without its extra claw. But now this works. If it gets attacked, it throws its claw and then just dies. So that's unfortunate. They're not very strong, but they're incredibly strong when they throw their claw at you. Good idea. Would it make me vote for this more? Probably not. I mean, it just kind of makes them less strong. So I mean, he just no-scoped me out of the sky. Also, if I use shears and then pick it up, it's just, it's got its claw back. So there's still some bugs, but hey, it's powerful. Jeez. All right, yeah, I don't think this is a great idea. So unfortunately the point goes to Randy. Or, fortunately, depending on how you look at him, Randy, get out here. Go away, go away. Double Randy! Double Randy! All right, let's Make it so that when you use the penguins drop to make the boot go faster, it makes the boat go so fast that it travels back in time, similarly to back to the future. Okay, I'm not gonna lie. When I read your comment the first time, all I saw was the boot part. So I may have missed the second part of it where it said boat and I just made fast boots. But hold on, let me tell you what's happening here. Let me show you. None of these penguins are dropping their feathers. Why is there no feathers dropping? I think there's another bug. Whatever, the point is you're supposed to get a bunch of penguin feathers. And then if you take those and surround a pair of leather boots in a crafting table, you get the penguin boots. And if I just equip these, speed. And it's a good amount of speed. Uh, uh-oh, this is a problem. I probably could have given it some fall damage resistance, but nope, I just have two and a half hearts now. Whee! Whoa! I have half heart! Uh-oh, yeah, so maybe it's not the best. Oh, Randy, oh, Randy! This isn't enough space to really travel back in time. We need space to actually run. This super flat world should do the trick. Here we go. Gotta build up enough speed. Gotta build up enough speed before my hunger goes all the way to go back to the past. Here we go! Oh, this is, what version is this? Minecraft 1.0? Dang, we really did go to the past, oh my gosh. Oh, I can't show myself, hey guys, it's me, Steve, back with another epic Let's Play in Minecraft 1.0. Let's go into this village because nothing could possibly go wrong. There's no chest in the blacksmith. So anyways, Randy gets the point on this one. I wouldn't vote for it. Moving on! The Armadillo can become massive and turn into the Indiana Jones boulder. Wow, what a completely normal and not weird in any way jungle temple. That's so cool. Let me go see if I can steal anything from inside. Wow, how cool is that? It's completely normal in here. Wow, nothing, nothing out of the ordinary going on. Oh, wow, look at this chest that's over here. Look at this chest. Wow, look at that gold, no way. Uh oh, oh no, oh no. The boulder, oh, oh, oh man, oh man, oh man. Oh, my gold, my gold, my gold, wait. Oh no, oh no, the Indiana Jones boulder. Oh no, the boulder, there it is, whoa. (laughing) What is going on? Did it work? Did I convince you that it was just like the movie? Was it the same? I can still pick them up, yeet. (laughing) armadillo went, wow. Okay, I grabbed a bunch of them and I'm gonna just throw them all over here. I wanna see what happens when I just like run into one and smack one with all of them super large. There we go. Oh no, oh no, oh no, oh geez. Oh, I didn't even get to see it, no. (laughing) Oh no, oh no, oh no, oh geez. Oh my gosh, that's such a terrifying. (laughing) No, please. (laughing) Would I vote for this? Oh, probably not, Randy gets the point. Okay, Randy, okay, calm down, calm down, calm down. Run away, armadillo, save me, armadillo, save me. You did nothing. Okay, onto the next one. Make giant crab. Don't mind if I do. Boop. Oh. Oh no, big crab, big crab, oh big crab. Wait, I can do better. Oh yeah, oh yep, that's, oh no. It's so big that the entire game is freaking out. It doesn't know what to do. I don't know what to do, my boots aren't even working. Oh, there we go, yes, giant crab. Come here, giant crab, we'll put you in a village. Giant crab. (laughing) Compared to the buildings, this is insane. (laughing) I love seeing it from a distance. Oh hey man, how's it going over there? How you doing? That is hysterical. Look at, it's just massive. Good idea, would it be Minecrafty? Would I vote for it? Yeah, absolutely, who doesn't want giant crab in Minecraft? What happens if I just, oh, oh, did I get it? I got it, the claw, oh. Oh, where the claw, there's the claw, yeah. All right, onto the next one. If the penguin can fly, I'm gonna quit the game. So I've got some news. (laughing) This is honestly a little creepy. I don't know how to feel about this. It feels just a little off. I may or may not have skipped the flying animations and just given them the swimming animations, but don't worry about it, it's not important. What is important is that they still fall over when they're in the air. (laughing) Also, if I turn on the penguins exploding thing, it does work. You're not supposed to spawn. You're not supposed to be here. Fireworks, yay. It's just a little ominous, you know? They're just them floating like that, just a little ominous. Now that penguins float, they're a lot harder to get to in survival mode, so the explosion factor's a little bit less dangerous. Hopefully, let's see if I can get to this guy before he flies away, stay right there. Don't move, nope, nope, don't go any higher. Don't go any higher. Yes, yes, yes, I got him. And of course, naturally, these guys are all the more reason for the marine fury to spawn. Okay, I'm running, bye. With this music its even better. (laughing) (singing along) Okay. Flying penguins, would I vote for it? Probably not. I mean, it's fun and all, but like, it's a little cursed, I think. Just a little bit. So in this case, Randy gets the point, hey man, hey, come down please. You decide, why can't I hurt you? I don't get it. Oh, look at him dripped out, look at him go, look at him dripped out, no way. All right, moving on, moving on, moving on. I'm going in here, bye! Multi-shot 2000 armadillos. I'm not gonna lie, I don't even know if this is gonna work. I didn't even do proper multi-shot, I just kinda added a ton of code to spawn more projectiles. So I guess we'll see, I just need an armadillo. Armadillos, where, oh. Randy, what are you holding, Randy, get, stop it. Randy, get outta here. Freaking Randy. Oh, right, they're gigantic. (laughing) still work though. Now in theory, we should just throw this and it should just go ballistic. Here we go, oh. Oh, oh no. Okay, so it does kinda work, but obviously they don't all show up at the same time. Does that mean it deals all the damage at the same time? (screaming) Oh, oh that was horrifying. Oh gosh, I'm already getting a little laggy. So if I throw this up, and if it hits me, I need to fix their size again. There's a lot of armadillos out there now. Okay, I've made some changes and some fixes here, and so in theory, these guys should work correctly. That is in theory, and yeet. (laughing) No. (laughing) Jeez. Oh no, they're coming for me. What, what? Hey guys, how's it going? Uh oh, oh no. I'm swimming underneath them. (laughing) It's insane, it's so many. Oh, here they come, oh no, here they come. Oh no, here they come. Oh no, the lag, oh here they come. (laughing) Oh no. This is insane. That is just a lot of armadillos. Oh no. Run away. I love how quickly you can go from one armadillo to like way too many armadillos. Look at that. Oh jeez, they still attribute it to me. Why, why? This is the most deadly weapon. (laughing) All right, here's my ultimate challenge. I'm gonna defeat the Ender Dragon with nothing but one armadillo, 10 golden apples, and mostly netherite. Oh jeez, Enderman, Enderman, Enderman, Enderman. I forgot that the Enderman were gonna be such a problem. Armadillos, yes. Oh jeez, the armadillos are. (laughing) They're going for this guy, what? Throw it at the thing, yes. Hopefully they don't come for me. Okay, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good. Oh no, I missed. I just need to keep running because the Enderman are gonna kill me. Okay, come on. I hit him, I hit him. I didn't do any damage, but I hit him. Yes, I hit him for nothing again. Oh no, oh are they all coming for me now? I think they're all coming for me now. Yep, they're coming for me now. Oh, this is a problem. Oh no, I need more ammo. I need ammo. Well, if you were ever curious what it looks like to be chased by a billion different rolling armadillos, there you go. Would I vote for armadillo multi-shot? No, it didn't even help me defeat the Ender Dragon, let alone survive. So once again, Randy gets the point. Oh geez, Randy, take this, take this Randy. Take this and this and this and this and this. Oh no. Well, I think Randy might be winning this, but let's go on to the next one. Mix all the animals and abilities and make some weird creature. Okay, I don't think you're ready for this. This is the Crenguinidillo. (laughing) Jeez. I did a lot of really crazy stuff with this guy, except he has like no attacks. The animations are great. The sound but he only has one attack and it's that. They just, they just, they just, they just, but instead of making you watch me go through all the features, I'm gonna have System Z fight it. And I'm gonna confuse the heck out of him with some previous features in this video. So watch this. Hello? Nice head. Oh hey. Yeah, I'm not wearing, oh no. Oh no, please. PLEASE!! I'm gonna get him. Aw, that was easy. That was the, all right, see ya. You ready? Oh god, it's fast. It's fast. I was gonna, I was gonna run, but it's, oh, it's actually fast. It's, why is it, it kinda has like rat elements to it. Yeah, this is the Crenguinidillo. Oh, I see that, I see that. I'm just, I'm just cheesing it. You can do it. You can get him. I'm gonna cheese it. Oh gosh, I don't know. Oh, I don't like the face. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, well done. Please never again. Please never do that again. Yeah, so actually, you're gonna want these. Oh no. Go ahead and just, yeah, just, you know. Nope. You're gonna want those. Yep, there you go. Oh, what is, what, oh. Now I got him. Keep going out there. What is the explosion? Why is he exploding? I'm partially disgusted. I don't really like it that much either. I'm outta here. I know the perfect way to take care of it. Are you ready? So here's this guy. We need a couple penguins. We've met already. You wanna go ahead and just punch one of these penguins? Yeah. (dramatic music) What is happening? What is, what is this music? Why, when did I enter an anime? What is that? Oh, no, no, no, no. You know what, I refuse to lose. I refuse to lose. Oh my God. Why is he like buff? Nope. Oh, that's my last apple. That's my last apple. Oh, the music's hyping me up now. I got this. Ow. Yeah, you can do it. You can do it. You can do it. I can do it. You can do it. I'm not gonna give you the satisfaction. I believe in you. I don't, the music just cuts off instantly and it's insulting. All right, look. Hey, in Minecraft, right, make sure you do some zoom in shots. Yeah. In Minecraft, we are given a very finite amount of permission to make crazy things. And, Knarfy, it is unfortunate that I must do this, but I feel like I'm going to need to revoke your developer card. Oh, well, hmm. It's funny you should say that because I actually have a response for that. Wait. (screams) If you go ahead and just hit one of those armadillos, by the way. I don't think. You can just-- I don't think I... I have learned from my mistakes. All right, I'll, oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, I'm just gonna let it happen. Whatever happened to predictability, right? The ender dragon was just a great boss, you know? Simple, nothing to it. Creeper could do it. It was such a good, simple time. What you've made here today, I believe-- Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I didn't, yeah. (laughs) Yeah. Hey man. It's been great. I've enjoyed this. I'm not scared. That's not why I'm leaving. Definitely not. I definitely didn't pee my pants or something. (laughs) (laughs) You know what? Just for the heck of it, I'm gonna give you guys that point. But it still means Randy won, and that means it's fancy hat time. I'm not gonna lie to you guys. I might have given Randy more points than he kinda deserved because I just wanted to see the fancy hat. Ah, fancy hat boys. Look at you. You're majestic. Randy, come on, man. After all we've been through, really, you're gonna do-- Oh! (upbeat music) luv u &lt;3 Comment if u luv me bak