Hey, there!. This rock is the backbone of the formation, and it's responsible for most of what I think is more interesting: This rock is you today are still forming somewhere Sand is slowly being compressed into sandstone. formation can't form anymore in that way, it's time. I have wanted to make this video since, Michigan's Upper Peninsula, which was in But there's a reason it's taken me In 2020, I was living in Ann Arbor, and I I came across this article talking about a that I know I walked by dozens of times as a Like, for an entire summer, I rode my without ever knowing it was there. So the and was just charmed by this thing. I poop.... and hey, I wasn't at my best in I had so many questions about how something my attention, was that while banded iron this boulder had come from near Marquette, of the woods. So, this should've been one of the Here's where things went wrong. When I'm writing historically, have proven to be credible websites written by professors, exhibits at by summer 2023, I finally had an outline for longer than usual to wrap my head around, so But finally I had an outline. And then the best decisions I could have made for [Alexis] What a view. I see why people come up here. look out and never look down. I always want to If you watch the series for a bit, you have emeritus with the US Geological Survey and has Peninsula on and off since the 1960s. I have looked up a paper about Michigan's geology So, I asked Dr. Cannon if he'd be willing to And after reviewing it, his response was Here was my problem. Early on in my research, I had come across a couple of sources that are explanations for how they banded iron formations Once upon a time, Earth's atmosphere had much there was a lot of dissolved iron in the oceans. Then, microbes started doing and ultimately filled the air and water with the dissolved iron to make iron oxides. and created what would become a layer The problem was, those microbes eventually made and a bunch of them died. Oxygen levels went down, and those iron oxides stopped forming. The rock Over time, the microbe population recovered Now, parts of this explanation are pretty well Earth's atmosphere was once change with the arrival of photosynthesis. This and it did kill a bunch of microbes But when it came to banded iron formations, my I already knew about the Great Oxidation made the error of assuming that this must be after ten years of writing science videos. It's important to always check multiple credible, contradictory ones. And I missed out on something really are mysterious and not well understood. And one of the fundamental principles of geology. I'll But for now, here's what happened. made some generous corrections, Marquette the next time he was in the We're standing here on a feature known for locals and tourists to come, not to look We're looking over the city which was one of the... probably the major which is a long belt of iron-bearing rocks. But these are over old mine workings. mostly underground mines. Ishpeming is but now only the single, large Tilden Mine just From a geological standpoint, Jasper Knob locality in [the] Lake Superior ones that would argue that it is. I've personally. And I've brought hundreds of I've probably brought somewhere between - So you're part of the reason it's so - Well, many, many other people come So, the rocks we're standing on are something which is a very descriptive term. It means Which we can see in a number of places as we the banding is a layer of of silica, it's called Jasper. And then the intervening bands iron mineral is hematite, which is a nice shiny At this point, I will briefly note that Jasper iron formation. There are a couple of other and tend to be smaller deposits, but we will be talking about Superior-type banded Okay, so here's a nice rock face showing this is called jaspillite because are the Jasper beds. Iron formations the world. That's sort of the backbone of right now, virtually all of our iron ore One mined here... there are many mines in the probably the exact equivalent of this rock. It's the whole Lake Superior region was mantled by a or 1.9 billion years ago. So this was being iron formations, say, in the Gogebic range, So it was a vast sheet of material that and everything in the here pretty much, was out of ocean water and built up as various layers material for well over a century, Earth scientists and there are still lots of mysteries about And about how old do we think this We only have one data point here on the was sampled in the Tilden Mine just over the being this interlayering of iron silica, have sills that are sort of injected parallel to the dark magnesium, iron rich rocks. And it was one that someone found dateable material in billion years old. So that means that most of here before 1.89 billion. It doesn't give us And you said this was all forming in the ocean? This was all forming on the ocean bottom. One of the mysteries [is] based on the fact massive scale stopped forming about 1850 million One of the maximum is in geology is to understand in the present. But because there's nothing we can't look at that and say, &quot;Well, that's what Brief pause. This principle Dr. uniformitarianism. It's sometimes key to the past,&quot; and it's been a guiding Uniformitarianism is the idea that the and that the processes that are happening today means that you can use what's happening in the or billions of years ago. For instance, if a eruption, they could look to modern volcanoes Because according to uniformitarianism, always worked this way. The same earthquakes and how mountains form. You can use the past. And usually this is true. This is geology. But I did say usually and banded They don't seem to have formed in hundreds of a massive scale in nearly 2 billion, which aren't happening anymore. There also aren't good comparisons. And all of this has made especially because they seem to have The issues are, first of all, you in seawater, to precipitate out. You have to precipitate out. And I think one of the you think about this, is that people consider It's actually two very distinct kind of this is almost entirely silicon dioxide, SiCO2. the ocean floor was depositing silica, and floor was depositing iron. Another time was two different rock types that are just this And it means that the conditions on the ocean when you were depositing the silica layer, to the happens thousands of times over, over tens of thing about it. And I think not enough thought Some people a long time ago, speculated that maybe summer layer, winter layer. That is... would mean that the whole iron formation was and it's tens of millions of years. So that why we're having this repeated fluctuation, different -- back to A, back to B. So, Now, of course, there doesn't have to be just different types of banded iron formation the oldest banded iron formation 3.8 billion years old -- way older than the So, it's likely that there were different different places. In any case, not all banded iron Knob, even the Superior-type ones. A couple of site, maybe a 20-minute drive from Ishpeming, and Probably one of the more spectacular things here layers, which originally were horizontal, now are contorted into this very which you can see... Where can you see So, here's a nice example of this You'll see the jasper layers are bent come here... bend around. If you think on a table, if you compress it together, it what's happened to these rocks a very events that -- both of which probably There was an earlier one about 1830 million years north-south region. And about 100 million years the Marquette trough formed, as blocks sides rose up. Then, these were again And that's, that two periods complicated fold pattern that we see here. this... So, I've heard this described as, like, an one of the mysteries why exactly it stopped Well, you know... As I mentioned briefly before, one of the peculiar the scale, is that they were quite common around And then, they have been very rare since situations you might find some of them. But iron formation deposition, ended at that time. might happen. One is that there's something called with the evolution of photosynthetic atmosphere and the water. And to dissolve a lot So, if it becomes oxidized, you can't have large possible that the Earth just became too oxic. back -- hasn't been very well accepted -- that meteor impact, which was a major impact event So perhaps something related to that, is what to the nature of primitive life. So, there was the Sudbury impact event and the end of banded Regardless of what happened, one thing stands common and once formed over huge areas, And based on most research, they can't. They because that water can hold a lot of dissolved quickly reacts with it and just falls out of the no opportunity for the dissolved iron to just And therefore there are no stripes. And well, today the air and the oceans are full of still form, the &quot;banded part&quot; isn't happening and yet... they're still so relevant. 60% of global iron resources and are responsible And this is what gets me:From vehicles to on iron and the steel we make from it. Your most of that iron is coming from an extinct I really enjoyed working on this video, who support the series on Patreon and And thanks to you for being here. If you I am always thinking about new ones, and to follow along. And as always, thanks for that makes you think about the world just a