- There's something weird about this pump. The spiral is one continuous channel. The whole thing is only but by turning it and I can pump water substantially Thanks, by the way, to Ben Ainhorne for the idea for this video. I'll show you just how high a little bit later in the video. But first, how does it work? Surprisingly, this pump that is normally incredibly I'm talking about airlock, and actually this gives to correct a mistake that about water solving mazes. I noticed in that video that even though there was That was surprising to me. There's a clear path through the maze, so why doesn't it empty out? I put it down to lots of adding up, but actually which is weird, because I've never made a Thanks to many of you for pointing it out. Some of you, including Cory and by receipts, I mean diagrams. What's really preventing is airlock, actually several The path of water through so it's hard to see what's going on, which is why I built this setup. I've got a couple of taps here so that I can control of liquid in the tube. I can push water from here, and I can push air in through here. So now we have these three filled with water, and these three N-shaped Now this point is lower than this point, so surely, if I were to all the water would fall out I suppose for the water to flow through, we have to overcome this hump here. We need to be able to push this water down with sufficient pressure and then a kind of siphon effect will take care of it after that. Well look, this is the height and the height of water we so that's plenty. We also need to overcome that's shorter than the when we fill this thing to the top, and this hump, which is also shorter. So why is it then when there's a little bit of Well, each one of these and it turns out that like this column of liquid to the top here, but that liquid has to push and that liquid has to push So this column of water needs to push this water up, and what that water is which includes what that and so it all adds up. That means that if we the height of this column than this height, this height, and this height added and that's exactly the It's harder to see, but we have a number of So no wonder the whole when these three heights added together are greater than these But for this compact little it means that we can push Here's the thing, though. This video isn't going to be as simple as I was hoping it would be, and that's because this the way it's supposed to. Each one of these separate arcs of water is supposed to be acting as a plug that prevents air trapping that are filled with water. If air is bubbling through that's a failure of the pump. And if water spills from that's a failure of the pump. And in fact, when operating the pump, the water doesn't go particularly high, or at least not as high And that's weird, because these pumps definitely Look, if I hold the pump in this position, you can see the issue. This arc of water wants to So does this one. And because airlocks are They should be able to fall down and push this water up here. In other words, the pump to a much greater output height before it fails with bubbling I found one paper that said of the spiral pipes was important, and that about a centimeter but they didn't explain what the issue is with narrower channels. So I sent an email to Jonathan and brilliantly, he the working pump he has at It just so happens to be close So he's there in the background, look. I'm interested to see what's compared to mine that doesn't work. Also, Jonathan is here, and I He'll tell me what size of pipe to use. I need to try and find otherwise it's not realistic. Oh, I see it! Do you see that? (water sloshing) Now, this is interesting. So you've got the spiral there, but then the hose comes out and you've got this big pickup here. That's the end that picks up the water, and it jumps into the middle there, goes around and around and around. That's because he wants to make sure that regardless of the level of the water, you're always gonna get some pickup. You've got airlock several times in there, and just add up the pressures. And then of course, you've and that's just a power thing. The rotator' hidden inside here, 'cause you've obviously got that, but there is rotating. You need water to be able without any kind of dripping. - [Jonathan] I deem at I've got one of these that rotates a million times in a And they never emailed back. (chuckling) - And this goes around And then this goes up a tube, right? But it didn't work, and That was remarkably worse. - See, this is quite small diameter pipe. You may need to use a bigger pipe. But I think if the towards the outside like mine, with the big gap in the middle. - So the issue with it - Surface tension. - Okay. - So the water might not especially when you've got so it's actually pumping up. - You were saying if it's that's a problem as well. - Yeah, so there's a you might have a problem in spokes rather than the air - And what were you saying about like see, I'm getting air coming up here. - [Jonathan] Now that's not bad. That has to happen. So there's in between each and the air gets pumped out just like the water gets pumped out. - And that means that like here, you can get your water even higher. - Yes. - So you get a set amount and it it was just water, you could raise the - And it practically doubles that height, 'cause you've got air in there. - [Steven] The outlet pipe terminates eight meters above the Jonathan is able to create a bog habitat with this supply of water. But to have a bog garden, you need to really get the ground wet. And, you know, you could use tap water, but that's terribly wasteful, so you're using the and it ends up back in the river. - Yes, it nearly always - Yeah. - [Jonathan] So here comes. (water flowing) And then the overflow here goes so it's circulating around. Now on winter, when I was inside, I found a tiny fish. - [Host] Oh, really? - [Jonathan] And it had got from being in there all winter to grow. And I caught it in my net, - That's amazing. So I have a new Wirtz pump. This time, the tube is wider, and it doesn't spiral all which means each turn of the coil is roughly the same circumference. I forgot to explain why that's important. If the circumference of the then you end up with a problem. A scoop of water that might take up, say, a third of the circumference will fill the whole circumference In reality, that just leads between the segments, as you can see here. Rotating couple here, so that should turn. It does. Let's hope it doesn't leak. I'm also filming on the wide, so we can see how high up the water goes. Let's do a sync clap for that. I've put white gaffer tape on the back so you can see where the water is, and I'm just turning it by hand. I haven't set up any complicated thing. (tubing squeaking) (birds chirping) Okay, here we go. Come on. (birds chirping) Oh, come on. (birds chirping) Yes! The benefit of me turning it by hand, and this is totally why is at any point I can pull it out and you can see what's going on in there. Hopefully, I mean, it's hard but it looks like it's It never got any higher than that, and if I ever turned it too fast, it would all collapse back down again, which is quite interesting behavior. I wanted to see if I could use the thing to actually deliver water to a height, so I shortened that where I could hook it Come on! That is a working Wirtz Isn't that fast I can go? Oh yeah, we're cooking now. (water dripping) Come on. - [Jackie] Oh, good morning, - Yes. - Great, can I just confirm - Yep. - Ah, that's great. It's just Jackie calling - I've been fooled more than because the caller seems my home address, the car that I drive, but also they're calling maybe governmental department. So I think in this case, ah, I've forgotten to tax my vehicle, but as the conversation continues, I find out that they're like legal cover or something like that. I don't get phone calls like that anymore, because I did something that would've been impossible for me to do on my own, but was very easy with the The reason you might be spam calls, emails, mail in the post, is because of intermediary There are literally hundreds of them, and they're all collecting data about you, and selling it on to other and send you stuff in the post. It's possible to contact and tell them to stop, and they all want to be Maybe it's a web form, but if you don't like getting spam calls and you don't like your in all these different places, or you can get Incogni to do it for you. You simply sign up, give them permission and they just take care Honestly, I like the fact that they're not really You can log in and look at the dashboard and see the progress. Look, these are all the companies that no longer have my data. If you're interested in the promo on this one's really good. The first 100 people to and use promo code SCIENCE The link is also in the description, so check out Incogni today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)