According to the Center on Poverty and Social Policy nearly 50 million people, were living in poverty &quot;If America's poor founded a country,&quot; Matt &quot;That country would have a bigger population Almost one in nine Americans, including one There are more than 38 million people living necessities, and more than 108 million getting in that space,&quot; he writes, &quot;between poverty More than a million of our public school children and abandoned buildings. More than two million Americans don't have &quot;These statistics,&quot; he writes, &quot;are bad enough. But when seen through the lens of institutionalized In 2019, the median White household had a for the median Black household. &quot;And yet,&quot; as Desmond writes, &quot;spending on aid reserved for Americans who fall below person the year Ronald Reagan was elected Donald Trump's administration. That's a 237% increase.&quot; Why does poverty on this scale exist given Desmond argues that poverty in America is It is by design. &quot;The majority of Americans,&quot; he writes, &quot;benefit poor.&quot; Joining me to discuss his book, Poverty, by Sociology at Princeton University. Matt, you write about what you call a hard poverty once thought to exist only in far And this is the one in 50 Americans who receive I just want to begin there. If you can talk about the consequences of coming out of the New York Times, it's been Well, it's good to see you, Chris. Thanks for having me. For my last book on eviction, I lived in two a kind of poverty that I'd never seen before, I saw grandmas living without heat in the and praying the space heater didn't go out. It was routine to see children being evicted. If you've ever been to eviction court, you courts and being put out on the streets every And so I think that that really sharpened poverty today. Poverty is measured as an income level but, and adversities and humiliations. It's that nauseating fear of eviction. It's telling your kids they can't have seconds. It's debt collector harassment. It often is physical pain and toothache on in slum housing conditions. And that kind of tight knot of social maladies at the very bottom. Well, it's what Barbara Ehrenreich called And I think you raised that in the book, that Not just social and economic consequences, because it's constant trauma. But this is not something that I knew before Because we have this argument that we're always &quot;We got to cut the military budget,&quot; which But what you lay out is that we've increased 1980 and 2018, from $630 to $1,448 per person, And I'll let you explain why. What's happened to that money? So this is a paradox, and I'd like to spend with you. So a lot of times when people see that paradox, gone up,&quot; but poverty's been pretty persistent If you look at the supplemental poverty measure, years ago, it was about 15%. 40 years after that, it was 15%. Really stable. The supplemental poverty measure dipped down actually during the pandemic because of this But what's going on? And some people say, &quot;Well, if we're spending programs won't work,&quot; and that's just false. That's empirically false. There's a ton of research that shows that essential, they prevent millions of families So what's going on? What explains this paradox? And what explains it is that the job market failed to address the unrelenting exploitation in the housing and financial markets as well. So if you look at when the War on Poverty these were deep investments in the poorest This was making food aid permanent, expanding And those programs, 10 years later after they half, but they weren't fighting poverty alone. One in three workers at that time belonged Real wages were increasing. You had some prosperity in the labor market But as workers lost power, the job market we have to spend more to kind of stay in the And I think this is fundamental for those today because it means we don't just need We need different ones, ones that really cut Well, you also point out that the way this Clinton's destruction of the welfare system And you noted in the book not only how difficult but you had to figure that over a billion not on getting people disability, but on getting Right. I learned this when my friend Wu was going Wu and I lived together in Milwaukee and he we shared in a rooming house, and his leg And he has diabetes and that infection was amputated his leg. He was one of the hardest working guys I knew. He was a security guard. He often worked double shifts, was out all they took his leg. And so we applied for disability together And to Wu, this was a normal thing. He was like, &quot;Well, I got to hire a lawyer And so working on contingency, the lawyer And if they win, they get a chunk of the back That's what happened to my friend. Wu got about $3,600 in back pay. He used it to buy a wheelchair-accessible on fire. And his lawyer took $400. Wu never lost any sleep over that, but it every year, a billion dollars, billion with It goes to lawyers to help folks like Wu get And so part of the mystery, part of the paradox, necessarily mean a dollar in a family's hand. Well, you also write in the book how money by states in particular. Yeah. That's right. So if you look at cash welfare, Temporary is a big program. It's about $32 billion a year and it's a block saying, &quot;Okay, states. Here's the money you can decide how to spend And man, states are very creative about how Maine uses them to fund Christian summer camps. Other states use those funds to fund anti-abortion initiatives, things that don't really have and the poorest parents. And some states don't even spend the money. So last time I checked, Tennessee was sitting Hawaii was sitting on so much, they could And so you're right. Because we've kind of allocated this money the federal government anyway, kind of oversight, don't directly impact the poorest families Do you have a theory as to why? Why would you sit on $700 million that should It's a good question. I mean, it's hard to think this is by accident, Every state does this except Kentucky. Kentucky is the only state in the nation that direct assistance to needy families. But for most other states, it turns out that ends up in the pockets the poor, and it's It's hard to read that as something other callousness, and a negligence to alleviating country. I want to go to the American Enterprise Institute. They have their three steps to avoid poverty a full-time job, wait until you get married called the Success Sequence. And then one of their studies found that only poor in 2007, compared to 76% of people who I mean, you just ripped apart the data, but It's right up there with welfare queens. But explain what they're doing and what the I wish it were that simple. I truly do. I wish that all we needed to do was follow It's a little confusing because this is the &quot;Work hard, study hard, graduate from high and I think that's good parenting advice. But good parenting advice isn't necessarily And when you look in the data, you realize getting a full-time job. Yeah. If you're getting a full-time job, it is a But if you look at the data, more people followed poor. And the difference between Black Americans who did, there's big differences. Black folks are far less likely to escape those boxes. And I just also think as someone that's spends family and dear friends that are struggling adversity since birth, asking them to just it's kind of asking them to have a different And I don't think that we devalue the importance kind of say, &quot;This isn't going to cut it.&quot; And I think the international comparison for We have so much more poverty than many of And it's not because folks in Germany or South playing by the rules better than we are. There's something deeper in our system that There was an interesting point you made in this economic orthodoxy that says that raising and you kind of imploded that theory. Explain. So this has been a concern for a lot of us 40s. There was an economist named George Stigler wage because that's going to cost jobs. If you're an employer and you have to pay of them.&quot; And he wrote a paper on that and it became But if you read the paper, you realize there's It was just kind of an elegant theory and When you hear it, you say, &quot;Okay, that makes But in 1994, a couple of economists at Princeton, going on. New Jersey was going to raise its minimum &quot;All right, let's test Stigler's hypothesis. Let's see if he's right,&quot; and it turns out It turns out there was a lot of job growth, So in that case, it wasn't that New Jersey It gained them. And so since that time ... and that paper ... economists have done a lot of studies wage on employment. And the best studies have found that the effect We can't absolutely raise the minimum wage And again, if you look at Denmark, the guy twice as much as the guy that's flipping burgers into ruin. And so I also think it's important to ask wage, which is what happens when we don't? What do we cost people. We cost them life and family and health. We cost them kind of a full existence in the I think that's another question that's worth Well, you have a character. I mean, you juxtapose what happens when his his lifestyle, in terms of stress, the ability out. You go back a lot in the book to the importance And of course most people in unions are firefighters, Nearly all private sector employees, that's And I wondered if you could just address what working poor, and then also this idea that claim, are somehow more productive. So if you look in modern history and you ask, time in our country? When was CEO pay reigned in and worker pay That was in the 70s, and that was when worker were at their full strength in America. And that wasn't a perfect time by any means. I mean, we have to address the fact that many They barred Black and Latino people from their wages for the rank and file, including the in non-unionized shops, right? Because if you were working in a union shop shop, the non-unionized guys were like, &quot;Man, There's no way my workers are going to work But as workers lost power, as unions were and unions lost their traditional power base, saw this massive pay raise for the richest you saw wages starting to stagnate. So between 1945 and 1979, real wages, inflation-adjusted So you had a job. You had some room for advancement. Your pay went up every year. You had some benefits. But since 1979, real wages have only increased And for men without a college degree, their they were 50 years ago. This has to be addressed. We have to address exploitation in the labor And if we don't do that, we're going to kind to stay in the same place. And this raises a point you make in the book subsistence salary, it's not work that keeps state. And then I just wondered if you could explain Yeah. It's not my term. It's been around for a while in social science. But basically, it means there used to be a for Ford. Ford signed your paycheck and you were an But today, if you look at Apple and Google most people that work for those corporations They're independent contractors and there's There's software engineers and corporate bosses there's strong benefits, strong pay. But then there's a lot of independent contractors almost impossible sometimes. The wages often are stagnant. The benefits are not really there. And so this is a way to have a very profitable cost for all those folks that really are our And I think that when we think of the gig and TaskRabbit and DoorDash, places where But there's gig workers in universities and It's an incredibly big and growing part of And we should just be clear, a gig worker, You don't have job protection. You don't have health insurance. I was just part of the strike of adjuncts, You have people teaching full course loads One of the things I found really interesting for low wage workers, and that is how employers other jobs, for better jobs, by having them Yeah. This was really shocking to me as well. So let's say you're working at Subway Sandwiches, years and you've got a lot of skills in that set to the Jimmy Johns down the road or another The power to quit to get better jobs. A lot of companies are making these low level, sign these non-disclosure agreements and non-compete job for six months after you quit.&quot; And ostensibly, this is to protect intellectual But a lot of times, corporations are using And so, again, we can't abolish poverty in worker power across the board. Algorithms. You say they've proven to be more exacting read anything about Amazon will understand, But talk about how algorithms are used and One of the things we're seeing is how algorithms measure worker productivity by measuring the use of heat sensors and other kind of tech never resting, that's an eye that never blinks, And you might think, &quot;Well, only workers at this,&quot; but it's not true. The New York Times had a bracing reporting are under these regimes as well. And so workers have lost power, but companies definition of exploitation. You have a chapter called How We Force the explain how this works, including what you fees, check cashing stores, denial of credit, Yeah. So I've used the word exploitation a few times And to some, that's kind of a charged scary have a lot of choice, people can take advantage And we've all been in this situation, no matter We've been in a situation where we're in a But for poor families, that's kind of their And when you look at housing, for example, where to live. They're shut out of homeownership, not because want to do business with them, and they're don't have enough of the benefit to go around. And the waiting list for public housing now It's counted in decades. So they've got one choice. They rent from a private landlord, and if most of their income on housing costs. And if you look at the profit margins of landlords are working in poor neighborhoods are not Landlords and affluent neighborhoods, and The operating costs in poor neighborhoods neighborhoods, but rent is not that much lower. And so this is how the poor are paying more Where if you look at financial exploitation, $1.6 billion in check cashing fees, almost the pockets of the poor. This is $61 million in fines and fees every So when James Baldwin remarked how incredibly imagined these receipts. And I want to kind of bring this to a personal Who benefits from this? Who benefits? So if you look at the financial exploitation, but many of us do too because our free checking It turns out they're subsidized by all of the poor. Only 9% of bank customers pay 84% of overdraft They're the poor made to pay for their poverty. So this is another move that I'm trying to It's about policy, it's about movements, it's It's about many of the decisions we make every and the solution. Well, this gets to the tax breaks for the $1.8 trillion in tax breaks. That's mortgage interest deduction. That allows 13 million Americans to keep $24.7 state. And that gets to the point you were just making, benefit and profit from this system. Because if those tax breaks weren't there it would go a very long way to alleviating Yeah. I mean, many of us don't think of a tax break &quot;Taxes should hurt,&quot; Reagan famously said, But if you think about it, a tax break and same. They both cost the government money. They both put money in our pocket. They both benefit a family. And so a 15-story public housing project and subsidized, but only one looks and feels that And this really blew me away when I kind of does for us. If you add up all the tax breaks and all the tested programs like food stamps and Medicaid, in the bottom 20% of the income distribution, from the government. But the average family in the top 20%, our year from the government. That's almost a 40% difference. That's the true nature of our welfare state. We give most to families that have plenty look at a program that would reduce child a doctor, and we just ask, &quot;How could we afford which to me is a sinful question and a dishonest in the face. We could afford it if the richest among us Right. And you're very clear that the two political of tax breaks in this invisible welfare state And you have called for a campaign to abolish system. What do you propose? How do you think we can dig our way out of Right. So we need deeper investments in fighting investments is through tax fairness. A study published a few years ago found that they owed, not paid more taxes, just stopped could raise an additional $175 billion a year. That's enough to reestablish the child tax poverty almost in half in six months. $175 billion is almost enough to pull everyone So we have the resources. We could do this. And it's not just deeper resources, though, We need different programs. We need policies that cut poverty at the root. And so this is finding ways to increase worker so they don't get this best bad option when access their money and their credit. So we need to address exploitation in the And then the third move is we have to tear Many of us continue to live in incredibly We build walls around our communities made those walls. And that concentrates affluence, but it also And so we have to strive and work for more That's the third move we have to make. And this is a political project. It's a policy project, but it's a personal Poverty abolitionists strive to work for that decisions. They do things like vie and fight for a government families in America, and they're anti-segregationists And that's a personal thing that we can all up political will to really make pressure Great. That was Matt Desmond on his book, Poverty, I want to thank the Real News Network and Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara. You can find me at chrishedges.substack.com