Hey everybody. Welcome to The Process. On this episode of Ask Me Anything we're going he's got a lot of business questions I think and answers that we've got. So stick around. Let me try this again. I want you guys to listen to me- Yeah. I design sandwiches. My name is Jose Caballer hahahaha I talk about a lot of stuff. My name is Chris Do At the center of this operating system it's [Cough cough] Jose, can we just tell em what the show title I hate you dude. You are watching, The Process. Hahahaha, nice. Alright So let's give everybody a little context Talk to me. Frank: Um, so I've been given this unique with a Chinese production company clients under their belt that's looking for Chris: Mhmm Frank: ...and my partner has come to me because as their main point of sales and their wanting Chris: And what's your background? Frank: My background is, I graduated from in digital media. Chris: When did you graduate? Chris: Two years ago. So thats 2013? Alright cool. So just two years barely. Interesting. Summers almost over. Alright, so let's get right into the questions This is kinda unrehearsed so let's roll. What do you got? Frank: Uh so first questions what are some make in the creative field? Chris: Hm, common business mistakes. Ok now I gotta think back to my past here. Um, some things I got right some things I So let's start there. First is, you need to get paid upfront. A lot of designers do work and don't collect And there's a lot of people out in the work to design them a logo, build you something, That's how you know the job is real, cause creative people we get really flattered when talk to us about a commercial or some kind Frank: Right, right, right. Chris: So let's contain the excitement and So what I would do is, uhh, put together a 50% upfront. That's when you know it's real. You need to get the 50% upfront. So, get paid upfront, ok? And then about 3/4 of the way through the And when you deliver the project you can either sometimes but you can get paid the remaining Meaning in thirty days they have to pay in And that way really what you're risking is So if you do it like that you should be ok. Cause the last thing you need is to especially and now you're stuck holding the bill. And this has happened to a lot of designers Ok? So get paid upfront. Umm. If you're in a partnership, which you mentioned, not so much with the clients, is you gotta scenario. We all go in with all the hope and optimism which how are we gonna separate. If you can bring the conflict up front and can sleep at night not worrying if this is falls apart. Cause eventually partnerships do fall apart. Nothing is forever. So you have to start thinking about that. And you need to learn how to bid. So I believe you told me before that you're Somebody needs to know how to bid. And so do you know how to bid? Frank: Yeah, I'm learning the process of how That's some of the questions I have for you He's more of an EP. Creatively he doesn't really have much control. He's more about like the business and the So he's helping me kind of sell like our services Chinese clients and me because of course their um compared to here. Chris: Ok, so executive producer when you know what that means, excuse me. Stands for executive producer there are a The one type is in charge of new business, They really just go out and hustle and meet sell the services of the company. They typically do not sit down and break out That's a different kinda mentality. This person is usually very outgoing, very extrovert, and isn't always the best on details. And you need that kind of person. Cause that person's-guy or gal who's gonna The other kind of executive producer is one In some instances they're referred to as Head They do the bidding, they do the calls, they Closing the job requires very specific set to talk about. So, that's a different kind of person. So sometimes you have a person that does both, or stronger one than the other. And you have to kind of think about that. So, that leads me to the next thing about and marketing. With robust sales and big budget projects, run it the way you want. Without those sales, without that cash flow severely. Okay? The other thing I wanna talk about is, there's There's one way to make money which is to a cushion of profit. The other way to make money is to spend less And so you kind of have to think about that. Sometimes people focus all on getting higher thinking about how to spend that money. So if you get a million dollar job but you And so we get caught up in the idea that it's Conversely, you can do a $100,000 job and $50,000. Now if you ask somebody, would you rather the hundred thousand dollar job. Most people don't think about it and they It's really at the end of the day what you're Including paying yourself and your partner margin. Alright? Umm, let's see what else I got here. So we talked about bringing the conflict up I would do that with my clients as well. So often times I think we sit around and think And they have a lot of power, but they don't They have as much power as you're willing So if you're concerned about certain things asking for something that would be fairly address those upfront. And that way we can act like adults and professionals things verses dealing with it after the fact There's a really great line in here from The of that, by Blair Enns. He talks about this. He says you know a lot of times we underbid We underbid projects and later on we regret the client when they call. Are you anxious to pick up the phone? Or are you grimacing and trying to avoid that And often times it is directly related to So a client that's asking for lots of revisions service and you're feeling bad about that little. But if a client's gonna pay me a million dollars can bug me as much as you want cause I'll Cause it's worth the trouble. Usually what happens is the lower paying clients That is the tricky part. Ok? Alright so let's go. What other questions do you have? Frank: Um, so. The second one was how to effectively communicate &quot;be more specific&quot;. I thought about it from what you just was How do I negotiate like fair terms between I feel like- Chris: Yeah fine. It's your question man. Frank: Ok, so, how do you sell your company show? Chris: Ok, you're going to sell your company Believe it or not. You can have a gigantic body of work that's representing yourself well, in terms of like, I can take care of this.&quot; Then it won't matter at all. So there are a lot of people out there-think or you're a sales rep a sales agent, you don't You didn't do any of it. But what you do is you're managing the relationship get it done. You as the head of the company aren't that You know, I don't know if a lot of our clients working on the box. I opened up After Effects the other day and I haven't opened it up in a while. It's coming back to me but that's not what What I'm selling is I'm a problem solver. I'm a business designer. Come to me with your problems, I'll help to parameters of what you're trying to achieve. So that's what I'm selling. I'm selling confidence and assurance. Assurance not insurance. Assurance, I'm going to assure you that the and my confidence the client's going to make So you actually don't need any work. Believe it or not. Because later on if I walk away from this the assets to the company including the portfolio, work. Cause I'm selling who I am and what I can Not the work. Okay? So, number one mistake there is to sell the Number two mistake is sell the process. I think you should sell the people. Frank: Sell the people? Chris: Yeah, sell the people. The people are the ones who are going to make Ok? Alright what's your next question man? Frank: Um, how do you effective-efficiently Chris: How do you what? Frank: Effectively like, um so we can also was a mission statement and I was having a Chris: Writing one? Yeah, they're really hard to write. Frank: Yeah because you have to kind of like-I it and his mission statement. I was like &quot;Wow, this is really kind of broad- Chris: Pretty broad. Frank: Yeah but it's hard for me cause I know but how do we communicate that and how do the client to look at it and be like &quot;Oh I Chris: Ok. One way to look at writing your mission statement What value do you provide to your customers? What do you really do for them? It's not really about you. Okay? So I know that writing a mission statement exercises in The Core 1.7 kit it'll help break size piece. But it's really not about you. Think about the value you provide. What value do you provide to your customers? So the one way to do this is to profile your they ad agencies, are they entrepreneurs, and who's gonna need your services and what pain points do they have? Think about their job and think about their pain points you can solve and start thinking K? Frank: Um, ok. This is close to some of the budgeting stuff Chris: Sure, like money stuff? Frank: Like money stuff. It's like an awkward topic for a lot of people. How do you budget for unexpected things that So other than label costs, overhead, stuff bid for a project, ok this might be a mistake Chris: It's a mistake that is caused by you Frank: Yeah so unexpected-say you hire someone expensive but he's like one of those dudes really have any, you know. You kind of like, &quot;Ohhh, my God. This is really expensive but you didn't really And how do you budget for that and how do Chris: You talking about our last job? Frank: No. Chris: Ok, hahaha. Ok hiring uh &quot;experts&quot; that don't deliver. It's a big problem especially in effects. The effects world is fraught with challenges times the scope of the work is, well we don't And so you can easily drive your company into about how you bid. There are only a handful successful visual doing what they do today. And why is that? Because they're under bidding projects and Ok so let's first look at who you are. Let's look at your company and your infrastructure. Something I've learned is that where relatively We don't have dedicated departments or teams So larger visual effects companies they have or does lighting, like there's a lighting optimize the code for rendering. So when the models and all the lights you it under four hours a frame, which is unacceptable, code and they optimize the scene and then You don't have that. So what happens is you have people that come Either they quit or they were laid off and a technical director and all these kinds of It's not that they're not capable of doing just they need a certain infrastructure. So more specifically like houdini guys need I know I'm making a broad accusations here it's a very computationally intensive thing Lot's of processing power. So that's one thing. What I've learned is, I would be very upfront whether you're gonna be dealing with your is to be very upfront. Say ya know what, we're a team of six people, so if you have a problem I need you to fix it. Can you do that? And here's what we got. And they say yes and you're still not sure, I'm willing to try you for X number of days, it I need to be able to move on. You need to know that upfront. Are you ok with that? If you have a-you're booking with Weta, Because this is not that stable. Just be very upfront. That way people can't get mad at you cause And I think on the other side, if I was a of honesty and directness versus somebody you and I missed out on an opportunity or I That would be horrible, right? So, the thing that you also need to know is You bring somebody in you say, "You know And you stick to it and you talk to them, We're not doing it. I'm gonna give you two more days to kinda Do you feel confident about that?&quot; And, one thing that I've learned is you need I think especially for guys cause you know male dominated, there's an ego issue and a I don't wanna say I can't do something. And so if you say, &quot;Can you do it&quot; of course So you gotta give me an out. Say, "Look, I can see that we're all stressed that, &quot;you know what, this job's harder than Or whatever reason there is tell them that, you can deliver I would rather shake hands something else as opposed to us kind of burning where we can't recover from this." Be very upfront and be that transparent and Frank: And, another one talk moneywise- Chris: Talk money as much as you want. Frank: So like if an artist cost like $1,000 Chris: Don't hire them. Frank: -like example, top of the crop like How do you put like a margin on their mistakes Chris: Ok, you should not be-ok so, this cause I see now what you're saying. How do you bid a job and cover for unexpected Now when we get to bidding cause I had asked said your EP knows how to bid. So I just shelved that whole topic all together. But I'm just gonna give you a broad overview So let me tell the people how you're supposed comment below and we can do a deeper dive ok? So how do you bid? Here's how you don't bid, you calculate your uh-so let's just give me a reasonable hourly What do you think? Frank: $50. Chris: Ok $50/hr so that's, 8 hour day-let's numbers are more round ok? So you're gonna charge $500 day so you guesstimate Keeping number really round. So that's gonna be $5,000. So you submit that. So $5,000 is the number you submit to the What's the problem with that model? Well that's not a business. There's not profit and there's no room for Ok? The way you look at it as a business person have to pay someone else to do that job and Ok so there's things that we're missing in Alright let's go to the board here. Can I? Alright so, here we go. So you have an artist and they're $500 right, That's pretty typical of a person who knows It can go much higher it can go a little bit So you look at it as that times-so there's So your spreadsheet would look something like The name of the artist times the number of So this is days and this is rate and this And so then you would have a subtotal here. And what's the math on that Frank? Frank: $5,000. Chris: $5,000 ok so far so good everybody Ok so $5,000. Like I say, if you submit the bid for $5,000 Ok, so who's managing that artist? And what if that artist takes longer than Now you're paying for the job. So the first thing you're gonna need to do So you can mark it up to-what rate do you Frank: I'll say $600. Chris: Alright $750, I like that number. So you're gonna mark it up to $750, ok? Because artists always underestimate what So so far if you do it $750, the new number So if all goes well, which it never does in $2,500. You can send 10% of that to me. Everybody that's watching that if you make I'll do a PayPal thing and we're all good. Is everybody good? Ok, I don't work for free. Frank: We're good, hahaha. Chris: I got two kids to raise and they go right way. Alright, so now who manages this person? You have a producer coordinator, ok so you Ok what are they a day? Let's say $400, ok? And so they're gonna run that project for Ok so now you're gonna come out at $4,000. Ok that's a number that you didn't put in Now whether or not you hire a producer and It needs to be in there because somebody has So again, if you wind up producing the project on top of the $2,500 so so far we're up $6,500. So initially you were talking about having So by the math that would be $5,000 but the are delayed or you underestimate the job, So you cannot pay the person and you cannot the person. It doesn't make any sense. So there's two areas in which you can do this, the number of days. But I like just working on the rate. Ok because perhaps is a hard deadline and just put more days in there. Ok there is a way around that too. So the difference there just by doing this The difference being from $5,000 to $7,500. Now you're going to need to add in a producer. Cause somebody's gotta run the job. Somebody's gotta look at the assets and manage Ok so the team is one person that's fine I'll In Asia you're gonna pay a lot less than that So at 10 days that $4,000 now, ok. So, who's gonna direct this person, this artist? Oh, that would be you. So I'm gonna put in an art director. Ok an art director what do we gonna put in What dollar amount should we put in for the Frank: I mean I would say like $700 - $800. Chris: $700-$800? It can't be less than this guy. So this guy's coming in at $750 I'm gonna Now we don't need to art direct this person So you can just put in a random number there. Let's say 5, ok? So let's say 5 days and it's not that you're prorating your time across the length of the So let's say that's pretty good. Now if you need more artist help I would put So are we good yet? Should we submit the bid? $7,500 plus $4k I believe. So, right now we're at $16k. Is my math right? Uh my business majors? $16k? Ok so we're at $16k. Remember initially you were gonna come in So this is how you do a bid, ok? What else do you need in here? Are we good? Frank: Um, what about overhead? Utilities, rent, etc... Chris: Right. You can't just show that in there. Frank: Yeah so how do you- Chris: How do you put that in there? Ok well these guys they don't work on paper, attached to that machine so I'm gonna call Now I can't charge for the laptop to do the ok? And I find a reasonable rental rate. What's a rental rate for a machine? You know per- Frank: Per day? Chris: They usually do them by the week. What is it per week? What do you think? Just throw out a number. Frank: $1,000? Chris: That's too much. $1,000 a week? Let's say $500 a week. I don't even think it's that much. Cause we rent computers. So $500/week times 2 weeks, right? So now you have another $1,000 in here. So this number just keeps growing. What else do you have in there? Now I'm gonna roll in hardware and software part to the puzzle right? So let's just do a subtotal now. So now you have $17k. That's your bid now, ok? $17k. I drew that one too close to the dollar sign that, $17k there. Are we done? No because now as a business we need to make This is where we cover our overhead and our So profit is gonna be anywhere between, depending what industry you're in, can be anywhere between So you just mark that up. So let's just say because my math is not so So we'll say 20% is our markup and you just Everybody that runs a business understands wouldn't make any money. Ok? So 20% of that-so 10% of that is $1,700 So you're gonna add that together, so now That's how you do a bid and that's how you There's a lot more parts and pieces to this Cause those are things that are out of your control. Does that help you understand how to do a bid? Ok, so I'm gonna come back to here. Alright. Now, those of you that are watching and you making an extra I dunno, let's look at this The difference between your initial bid at $15,400. You can send me a check 10% of whatever that go to private school. Somebody's gotta help me out with the bills, alright? And I don't do this for free. Ok. What's next? Frank: Um so, how do I insure myself as like That first hump. Chris: The first year, first hump? What do you mean? Frank: Like the-um, I've been talking to few years are the hardest. So how do I play my cards right so I ya know Chris: Ok. So your question is, how do you prevent crashing Right so you have a cash flow issue. There's a couple things you can do. First, you can get a line of credit if you can get one. So if you have some kind of credit history Right now I think we have a $400,000 line It's necessary. It's how companies fill the gap So if you get a new contract, say it's $100k buy machines, you can usually use that and a line of credit. Because clients don't always pay you upfront. The good new is, if you've been listening But before you even get that you're pretty the team ready and get things together. So you may do a little expenditure. I would rent everything I would work on crates if you can. You don't need fancy shmancy furniture and I would go to Office Depot and buy a $79 chair Aeron chair. You don't need it right now. And the last thing that you wanna do is create So run it very lean. That's why when you go to startups, you'll companies but they're working on milkcrate Do it like you would do it in college, keep That's how you manage that. So once the job comes in don't start spending Some people thing, &quot;Ok it's a $100k job. I got $100k in my pocket I'm gonna go buy Don't do that. Do not do that. So live within your means, ok? Where you want to spend money that you don't or an artist or a designer or somebody that take a little bit of an educated guess or and you roll the dice and that's what entrepreneurship You have to take some risk. Don't be stupid about it but take some risk, k? Frank: Here's my follow up question to that. What's the benefit between I would say doing just kinda like everywhere scattering and a small space thats kind of like very manageable So what's the benefit and pros and Chris: It's a lot-ok so the question is, mortar company verses a- Where you just have a very small core team Everybody else just works remotely from all Well, the first thing is-you wanna compare one or the other? Frank: The pros and cons. Chris: Ok pros and cons and you know what Communication is gonna be much more difficult, project management because you gotta get the working with the same version of software to figure out some way to manage that. And what are some of the tools that people They might use Trello, they might use Basecamp, software that's out there that can help you do that. And they can ever use it to track time, like The benefits are, you get to work with anybody. It's a higher quality of life for those artists they need to do as long as they do the work. It would most likely pay less because you so you gotta look at in the U.S. or the U.K. relatively speaking cost of living's quite Brazil, amazing artists and animators, some it is, I shouldn't say Japan. Japan isn't gonna be cheap. Or in China, in your case and India would the local economy is cost of living with the Now generally speaking, the best artist do So they're gonna come to San Francisco, LA, Wherever the big effects shops are. That's where they'll migrate, ok? So you probably will not be getting the same So more management. Alright, I'm gonna give you one more question So what other question do you have? Frank: Um I guess, the last question would team building? I feel like you've been talking a lot about to run this thing it has to be you know digital So how do I manage the team and um you know in me and themselves to do this work cause kind of upsetting. Chris: Right, so you have multiple time zones Assuming that they're not all local to you. So, first of all getting everybody on the So let me just talk about company culture that over distance based operations like this Company culture to me is one of the most important You get it right at the beginning and you So what values are important to you as an you are an artist and now you're gonna flip game, so to speak, you're gonna go on the So now you gotta remember what was important What attracted you to a place? Now chances are when a freelancer's out there a staff position, they're looking at everything. They're looking at how much am I getting paid, do they treat me, and how do they manage their So very likely you cannot compete on price focus on the other two components. How do you treat them, how do you manage projects. So that's your competitive advantage to kind Some companies, won't mention who they are, Their company culture is less than desirable the work is so good, right? So you've been there you've done that so you company you want to have. I kind of look at it like this, people that or staff, I wanna make sure that their long supposed to just using them up and spitting them out. Because if you go at this kind of rate where I've stayed up all night I've worked all night up together, right? It takes a toll on you and you can only do So the idea is that you wanna minimize those jobs that require you to do that. Where you're staying up all night. Something's telling you it's wrong. You accepted a job going in knowing, that or complicated, and you don't have a big enough team. So that's the recipe for burning everybody I've been doing this now for almost 20 years. I'm as passionate about the work I do today Cause I learned how to manage the projects, So what else we wanna know about company culture? And if you haven't done so already, I would I could go grab it but, Delivering Happiness Definitely read that book and Tony Hsieh for the founder of Zappos and he sold his company That's not an expression. I think it was right around a billion dollars how the margins are so small, the only thing So, read that book then come back to me and we'll talk. Again, if you have questions after you read down below to buy the book. Once you guys read it you can post questions These are two books that I believe are really First is The Win Without Pitching Manifesto it up here maybe there will be a graphic that Happiness by Tony Hsieh. He sold his first company when he was in his so he know's what he's doing. Frank: From what I heard he lives at like Chris: He lives in a trailer park now. Frank: He I was looking at a video of him more than anything. That's something I really admire. Chris: So there's one thing I read about him work life, balance, to manage those two things. He's like that's not his idea right now. His idea is about work life integration. That if your life and your work can be the you're working in a pretty cool way, and that's everybody to come out and live next to him. So he's got a llama living in the desert in Frank: Is that something you- Chris: I'm striving to achieve that same kind of goal. Yeah. Frank: Yeah I mean that's most questions I have. Chris: Alright. Well guys, thanks for tuning in for another Thanks for tuning in, see you guys next time. [music]