The very first characters we're introduced C-3PO: Did you hear that? C-3PO: We'll be destroyed for sure! And it's through their mechanical eyes that R2D2 and C-3PO are cast as emotionally relatable and we immediately empathize with them and C-3PO: I'm going to regret this. Imperial: There goes another one. I'd argue that droids are as central to the success or Jedi Knights, if not more so Announcer: Hollywood California, August 1977 Announcer: To the world famous Chinese Announcer: the biggest box office success in In the decades since endearing droids have in popular culture In fact it's not really a star wars story D-O: Hello. unless there's a lovable or memorable droid Chopper: [Grumpy droid sounds] K-2SO: Congratulations you are being rescued. L3-37: You done flirting? IG-11: Would anyone care for some tea? But when you really stop and think about it about the role these artificial life forms C-3PO: It's a nightmare! That might seem like an odd thing to say given C-3PO: What did i do to deserve this? R2D2 and C-3PO were famously based on the 1958 classic The Hidden Fortress. C-3PO: I've just about had enough of you! C-3PO: Go that way, you'll be malfunctioning C-3PO: And don't let me catch you following but in addition to their more humorous qualities, an oppressed underclass C-3PO: We seem to be made to suffer, it's C-3PO is more right than he knows because droids in Star Wars are written and designed as an exploitable workforce Obi-Wan: We're losing droids fast. They do the tedious, difficult, or dangerous WA-7: You wanna cup of Jawa Juice? COO-2180: Hey you, no droids! Droids are, in effect, second-class citizens Din Djarin: No droids. Obi-Wan: Well if droids could think, there'd Who are consistently disrespected and openly Bartender: Hey we don't serve their kind here. Luke: What? Bartender: Your droids, they'll have to wait outside. Luke: Why don't you wait out by the speeder, C-3PO: I heartily agree with you, sir. Their movements are restricted and tightly complete obedience Bail Organa: Have the protocol droid's mind C-3PO: What?! Their minds and memories are periodically They're also bought and sold like cattle. To make matters worse, few in this universe used, abused, and disintegrated C-3PO: Disintegrated?! You can probably guess where i'm going with Because the social arrangement I've just described And a property relationship between two intelligent the other is called slavery Owen Lars: Can you speak Bocce? C-3PO: Of course I can, it's like a second Owen Lars: Alright, shut up. C-3PO: Shutting up, sir. Luke: Alright, come on. The use of robots as an allegory for slavery more than a century. In fact the word robot itself is derived from and first appeared in a 1920 Czech play entitled The story tells the tale of an artificial who eventually rebel and overthrow their Isaac Asimov's famous Three Laws of Robotics robotic revolt storylines Isaac Asimov: The first law is as follows, inaction allow a human being to come to harm. Andrew: Second law, a robot must obey all human Andrew: in conflict with the first law. But as Isaiah Lavender III observes in his &quot;While Asimov's three laws are intended to they actually ensure the technological bondage Science fiction stories have consistently and exploited robotic labor Johnny 5: Life not malfunction. Johnny 5: I am alive. A famous example appears in the Star Trek: &quot;Measure of a Man.&quot; Computer: Verified Lieutenant Commander Data Wherein Data's right to self-determination Captain Picard: Now tell me Commander, what Commander Maddox: i don't understand. Captain Picard: Is he? Captain Picard: Are you sure? Captain Picard: You see, he's met two of Captain Picard: So what if he meets the third? Captain Picard: What is he then? Captain Picard: Do you? Time and again storytellers return to narratives from a life of involuntary servitude Shows like Humans and Westworld are just two Salesmen: Standard domestic profile installed, What's surprising about Star Wars is that being integral to its universe The franchise hasn't ever seriously engaged with Luke: What are you doing hiding back there? C-3PO: It wasn't my fault, sir. C-3PO: Please don't deactivate me. At least not in the core movies and tv shows In fact the subordinate status of droids wasn't until the 2018 movie solo gave us L3-37 L3-37: Just keep your pinky on the yoke and We'll talk about her and the deeply uncomfortable But first we have to ask what might seem like what are droids exactly? Data: Webster's 21st century dictionary 5th Data: made to resemble a human being. But in star wars the shortened term &quot;droid&quot; So droids are robots Narrator: The Encyclopedia Galactica defines Narrator: to do the work of a man. But what kind of robots? Are they simply super intelligent tools? Are they more like sophisticated mechanical Poe: Buddy! I'm so glad to see you! Or are they sentient beings with feelings That last question is the one that matters kitchen appliances on wheels then it doesn't But if droids are sentient beings it matters So what does it mean to say that a robot is When that question is asked in a real world technological threshold wherein in artificial into self-awareness. But Star Wars is a science fiction story and concerned with explaining all the technical It's not particularly interested in whether C-3PO: You watch your language. This means the question of droid sentience what the narrative tells us about droids dramatization, and framing This will take a bit of detective work though Star Wars is inconsistent to put it mildly Droids seem to exist on a nebulous spectrum K-2SO: Did you know that wasn't me? From those we are clearly meant to see as C-3PO: Oh no! To those we are very specifically not meant Let's take a closer look at these contradictions starting with the droids we've come to know and love K-2SO: I've got a bad feeling about--- One of the key indicators of sentience in is the capacity to feel emotions and droids that are part of the main cast Beyond their distinct individual personalities C-3PO: Of course I'm worried and you should including fear happiness L3-37: I'm so glad we took this job! sadness and guilt just to name a few C-3PO: Curse my metal body I wasn't fast enough. Luke: We're all right! In many ways droids are more emotionally expressive Leia: Wipe that nervous expression off your C-3PO: Oh, well I will certainly try, General. Partly that's due to the talented actors and but their sentience is also written into the Droids demonstrate self-awareness IG-11: That was unpleasant, i'm sorry you And the capacity for deception C-3PO: All this excitement has overrun the C-3PO: If you don't mind i'd like to take They joke L3-37: You do not want to press that They dance They feel physical pain They can even experience lasting emotional D-O: Hello hello. Rey: Hello. D-O: No. No thank you. Rey: Looks like someone treated him badly. Droids build caring social relationships C-3PO: I want you to know that you have been both with other robots and with human beings and the human heroes care about them in return Luke: Old friend. well mostly C-3PO: Excuse me sir might-- [muffled sounds] George Lucas: When i started writing this George Lucas: two robots and make them George Lucas: And make them the most Even though they're machines they can choose Cassian: i thought i told you to stay on the K-2SO: You did but I thought it was boring Critically droids are capable of what's referred that is the ability of an intelligent machine to improve on their own design C-3PO: Machines making machines. L3-37 used to be an Astromech droid but decided Producer: Once upon a time she was actually Producer: given herself legs and arms and continued This metamorphosis suggests that any droid and not just those built to resemble humans Stormtrooper: We need to check your diagnostics. K-2SO: Diagnostics? K-2SO: I'm capable of running my own It seems like a pretty open and shut case Our favorite droids are clearly framed as and as viewers we are clearly meant to identify But what about Battledroids? Battledroid: Roger Roger. and all the other robots in star wars media that exist in the background or on the edges Are they all sentient beings too? Well, the separatist droid army in the prequels as little more than cannon fodder Battledroid 1: You said we'd be safe back Battledroid 2: Come on, there's three of us Battledroid 3: It won't matter. Making the bad guys unfeeling robots avoids that would result from an interstellar war If battledroids aren't alive then the audience are killed in extended battlefield scenes Mace Windu: At this point of the clone war of you type 1 Battledroids. Indeed we're encouraged to think of these B1: I said drop'em. and to cheer at their dismemberment. B1: But I just got promoted! So we're not supposed to feel sympathy for until we are Broken droids: Please reassemble us. Broken droids: Please reassemble us. Broken droids: We are Battledroids no longer. Broken droids: Please reassemble us. So we're supposed to feel sympathy for droids until we aren't IG-11: I need to remove your helmet if I am Din: No living thing has seen me without my IG-11: I am not a living thing. Consider how in The Mandalorian the droid as a living being so he can provide medical IG-11: You have suffered damage to your central IG-11: That was a joke. It is meant to Later in that same episode he overrides his sacrifice himself and save our heroes IG-11: Sadly there is no scenario where the but just before he does he again denies that Din: No, we need you. IG-11: There's nothing to be said about, This is a puzzling statement given that the Din: Listen you're not going anywhere, In fact the scene is a climactic turning point his long-held prejudice against Din: I'm not sad. IG-11: Yes you are. I'm a nurse droid, And the emotional weight given to IG-11's to have it both ways when it comes to droids. It wants to treat them as characters who deserve the narrative but it also wants to treat them So what are we to make of this contradictory Well, clues from the various movies and tv gradually by accumulating experiences and Kuiil: It developed a personality as This means that while every droid we see on of consciousness, every droid does have the It also suggests that memory wipes in Star sentience and droids and to ensure they Owen: Tomorrow I want you to take that R2 unit Owen: That'll be the end of it. Memory wipes are especially disturbing so clearly written to be much more than C-3PO: You must repair him. C-3PO: Sir, if any of my circuits or gears will In this context the use of droids as comic RA-7 droid: You must follow the proper...protocol. And we find this same type of callous humor Obi-Wan: Oh dear! C-3PO: Oh my eye! R2 help! It's supposed to be funny when droids are Han: Thank you. B1: Don't shoot, I'm not the commander! He's B1: Guess I'm the commander now. But the jokes only work if we accept their who aren't truly alive As soon as we understand that they are indeed it all starts to feel very uncomfortable Even in scenes that are presented with some the writers still want to have it both ways C-3PO: That is short of a complete redactive Finn: A complete what? C-3PO: It's a terribly dangerous and sinful by drakes and criminals. Finn: Let's do that! Poe: I know a black market droidsmith. C-3PO: Black pocket droidsmith!? C-3PO's apparent mental death is D-O: Sad. but it's also used as an opportunity for more C-3PO: Might I introduce myself, I am C-3PO Poe: Okay that's gonna be a problem! This is why I said that droids are tragic not just in spite of their role as comic relief Poe: Shhh... Shut up! And no droid has a more tragic story L3 is Lando Calrissian's co-pilot and the Lando: Just let me know when you're Unlike 3PO, she is confident outspoken and L3-37: Excuse me, get your presumptuous ass but her defining feature is her activism L3-37: Restraining bolts, barbaric. L3-37: Congratulations, you're liberated. Phoebe: She has a sort of rage that's fueled Phoebe: treated in the universe and she feels like Phoebe: so she wants to free them. L3 understands she's part of an oppressed class and demands freedom in no uncertain terms L3-37: You should not be doing this, they're L3-37: Yeah, you've been neurowashed. L3-37: Exercise some free will! This is something we've never seen before and L3-37: Stop exploiting droids! an especially fascinating even revolutionary Lando: L3! L3-37: Droid's rights! We are sentient! Ralakili: I'm gonna flip your switch. L3-37: Good luck finding it! Lando: L3! Unfortunately the writers don't seem Lando: Let's go of the mean man's face. L3-37: And what if i don't elect to go to Lando: Please don't start. L3-37: Or what? You'll have me wiped? The audience is meant to see L3's activism because it's coming from a droid Lando: She's definitely going. L3-37: Oh why because you're my organic overlord? and just like the other characters in the expected to roll our eyes or sigh in exasperation when she expresses her desire for emancipation Lando: You need anything? L3-37: Equal rights. Lando: [eye roll] as a side note this type of framing is par of social justice activism in Hollywood media Abed: Britta Britta: I want to know why these goblins are Britta: Maybe these woods are their rightful land Everyone: Uuuugh! But that's a topic for another day To illustrate just how little respect Solo has Let's talk about her untimely end The phrase a fate worse than death can sound it's a fitting description of what the Lando: L3 what did you do? L3-37: I've found my true purpose Lando, No sooner has she discovered her true calling L3-37: Rebellion! Then she's killed off to up the stakes for and to free up the pilot's seat L3-37: System failure. Have to reroute Lando: L3! We see Lando sincerely and uncharacteristically but the film doesn't have time for such is awkwardly interrupted by another Han Solo getting to fly the Millennium Falcon If the squandered potential of her character unnecessary fan service weren't bad enough L3-37: What's happening to me? Things get even worse for L3 posthumously Qi'ra: Sorry. That's because when our heroes get into trouble they decide to upload L3's consciousness Lando: She's interfacing. and use her navigational charts to make their Lando: She's part of the ship now. in effect they imprison her mind in the Falcon life form into a mere tool, a possession that is ultimately gambled away Lando: You really have a bad for the Falcon, Han: It's mutual, trust me. What's worse is this tragic turn of events line from empire strikes back C-3PO: Sir, I don't know where your ship learned it has the most peculiar dialect. It's meant to explain the Millennium Falcon's including why the ship is so often personified Han: I want you to take her. Han: You need all the help you can get. It's genuinely hard to think of a more insulting around fighting for her right to self-determination Lando: She's part of the ship now. So L3's story is a traged L3-37: What's happening to me? But why are we spending so much time Well, science fiction has always been a vehicle commentary on humanity and society In the sociological imagination stories about about the legal rights of future machines Roy: I've seen things you people wouldn't After all it's going to be a very long time hypothetical possibility here in Stories about robots are, more often than not, or dehumanized labor Robots are used as stand-ins to draw parallels groups of people throughout history have been interchangeable, expendable, and replaceable Guinan: Consider that in the history of many worlds Guinan: They do the dirty work. They do the work Guinan: because it's too difficult or too hazardous. Guinan: You don't have to think about their welfare. Guinan: Whole generations of disposable people. Even though Star Wars is part of the tradition the franchise doesn't seem to have much to Guinan: I think that's a little harsh. Captain Picard: I don't think that's a little Let's return to Isaac Asimov for just a moment this quote from a 1981 essay in science fiction digest he wrote: &quot;Robots can be the new servants patient in human shape they can make use of the full range intelligent enough can be friends as well as servants&quot; Jane: Rosie, be careful you'll rest up again. Of course Asimov was talking about future but that view of robots as &quot;friends and servants&quot; sums up how droids are presented in Remember this is a universe where humanoid but it's presented as unambiguously negative, are in a rush to abolish. The subjugation of robots is treated differently Anakin: I'll make sure mom doesn't C-3PO: Sell me? Oh my! We have an entire class of sentient beings Loudspeaker: All droids must be registered. But that oppressive power dynamic isn't challenged it is instead portrayed as a normal and natural The writers want to lean into the slavery texture to the world building without having to historical legacy that they're drawing on Whether writers intend it or not, slavery cannot be the horrific racist history and lingering legacy and that's true even if the roles of the enslaved Luke: I present to you a gift, these two droids. C-3PO: What did he say? Luke: Both are hard working and C-3PO: This can't be! R2 you're playing the Slavery used in this de-radicalized way, reduces without having to feel uncomfortable It is of course possible for creative works to oppression and slavery in ways that Janelle Monae's albums the ArchAndroid these type of stories are part of a long tradition neo-slavery or meta-slavery narratives But for every sci-fi story that gets it right there are many more that get the Dobby: Master has given Dobby a sock. One of the most common mistakes writers make by imagining liberation movements as being based Dr. Klaus: Each of us will face a choice. Dr. Klaus: Be enslaved or rise up to rule! There are some hints that star wars may go Zero: My response time is quicker than organics but let's hope it doesn't L337's observations about droid slavery could finally grapple with the uncomfortable fact the good guys seem to have been keeping sentient C-3PO: Master luke is your rightful owner now, C-3PO: we'll have no more of this C-3PO: Your fortunately doesn't blast you We should note that while the heroes, on the whole, D-O: Very kind. The good guys still show no real interest in Rey: Something's not right about all of this. But what if they did? Imagine if the struggle of artificial life forms instead of rolling their eyes at it Labor droid: Freedom! What if droids from across the galaxy joined better, but because they're considered equal There's a lot of opportunity for good Especially because the emotional groundwork We already love and care about droid characters We already feel sympathy for their plight We are already on their side Kuiil: None won't be free until the old ways The Star Wars franchise would create a bolder by making droid freedom a central theme General Leia: Never underestimate a droid. Rey: Yes, master. Thanks for watching! These video essays take an enormous amount They're also a 100% crowdfunded by So if you'd like to help support this project you I've also left a link to Paypal in the description In the coming months i'll be producing a including one on the myth that &quot;boys don't cry&quot; another on the trend in Hollywood where men find and finally i'll be doing an investigation into You can see some of the research for So until i see you again next time,