- United Launch Alliance or ULA finally launched for the very first time. This is a big deal because it's the first rocket that they actually developed from scratch and it's also likely their last modern space flame boom. So how does this new Vulcan Rocket compare to its predecessors, the which are the Atlas V And perhaps more importantly, to its biggest competitor, SpaceX's Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy? I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut. And today we're going to We're going to just do where we're going to do a deep dive straight into the meat of this topic. What are the specs of this Vulcan rocket and how does it compare to those other rockets we just listed? Let's get started. - Before we dive in, I'm sure some of you were expecting to and maybe a few other or perhaps SpaceX's But to try and keep this video I whittled this list down to the rockets that Vulcan is actually replacing and its biggest and Falcon Heavy, perhaps we can do a video like and its closest rivals. By the way, you're gonna notice expander cycle, open cycle, closed cycle, and kind of talking about a If you have any questions and watch my video called We go really deep into all Okay, let's start off by comparing the size of these rockets. The Atlas V is up to 58.3 meters tall and the core is 3.8 meters wide. The Delta IV Heavy is 72 meters tall and five meters wide per core. Vulcan is 61.2 meters tall and 5.4 meters wide while Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy are up to 70 meters tall and 3.7 meters wide per core. So Vulcan is actually the Next up, let's talk about their engines, including which cycle type they use their specific Starting with the first stages, oxygen rich closed cycle RD-180 engine that runs on kerolox or in other words, liquid The RD-180 produces 3.83 meganewtons of thrust at sea level and hits 311 seconds of and 338 in a vacuum. This engine is the primary reason for the Atlas V's demise. Since that engine is built and due to sanctions against Russia after they annexed Crimea in 2014, the engines eventually The Atlas V can also use up to five GEM 63 solid rocket boosters, which each produce 1.66 and around 245 seconds of The Delta IV heavy uses the ABL cooled RS-68A engine and liquid oxygen or hydrolox. On the core stages it produces so a combined total of for the trio of course, and they get 360 seconds of and 412 seconds in a vacuum. Vulcan has two Blue Origin built engines which run on or methalox and produce 2.45 for a combined total of 4.9 Now we don't know the of the BE-4 since they numbers, but we do expect of specific impulse at sea level and likely a little above 340 in space. Vulcan can have up to six boosters in pairs. So either 0 ,2, 4 or 6. And these are much more powerful the Atlas with 2.2 with about the same ISP of 245 seconds. Now considering the Vulcan can have up to six solid rocket boosters, of Vulcan has a total liftoff Now when you compare that to version having only 12.1 meganewtons Vulcan is substantially and the Delta IV Heavy. But how do all these numbers nine and Falcon Heavy? The Falcon 9 and Falcon cycle gas generator Merlin 1D and each produce 845 kilonewtons of 7.6 meganewtons per core. So 7.6 meganewtons for the Falcon 9 and 22.8 meganewtons for Falcon Heavy. The Merlin gets about 282 seconds of specific impulse at sea Okay, all that thrust is awesome and all, but what about the upper stage engines? The Centaur upper stage or two RL-10 variants that like all RL tens are expander cycle and run on hydrolox of thrust each but achieve up to 450 seconds of specific impulse. The Delta IV heavies or DCSS also runs on hydrolox and an RL-10 variant, which produces 110 kilonewtons and a whopping 465 seconds The upper stage of Vulcan called RL-10C's that also run on hydrolox and produce 106 and get 454 seconds of But Vulcan's upper stage which would achieve 461 We might see the upper stage prevention in the future with system, which could of weeks instead of hours. And we could also potentially with shorter tankage to The Falcons use a single which is still open cycle gas generator and produces 981 kilonewtons of thrust and 348 seconds of Okay, but now the important question, how do all these vehicles of payload capacity? The Atlas V can take between 9.8 tonnes to LEO in its most basic form up to 18.8 tonnes in its most And it can do from 4.7 for a geostationary transfer orbit. Depending again on that configuration, Delta IV heavy can take and 14.2 tonnes to And again, depending on the between 10.8 tonnes up to 27.2 and it can throw 3.5 to geostationary transfer orbit. So it's actually the most of any of the rockets But when we compare those and Falcon Heavy, it gets a can be reflown. So we'll actually quote a with ULA's rockets when and without solid rocket boosters and the different configurations. But for these SpaceX rockets with and without reusability, and this will get even more confusing because for LEO missions with to quote return to launch site since that's the cheapest option. And we'll also be using for GTO missions as well, since SpaceX has actually I mean, heck, they've even with RTLS, albeit it was but just remember they can get they do land down range on a recoverable, especially for geostationary transfer orbit missions. And for Falcon Heavy, we'll landing back on land and that's by far the most for reusability to date. We'll put this all up in the but just keep that in mind. Sorry, I know this is confusing, but we're just trying to keep it simple. Falcon 9 can lift a to low earth orbit when doing a return to launch site landing and Falcon Heavy can launch between 30 or 40 tonnes while being reused and about 64 tonnes to low But when it comes to or direct to geo and Heavy take a bit of a performance hit from engine compared to the high performance on ULA's rockets. Falcon 9 can only do about 1.8 tonnes to GTO when it's recovered back on land, but it can do about 8.5 tonnes And just for reference here, to GTO when landing down So yeah, there's a pretty big to launch site landing for GTO missions. Falcon Heavy can do roughly 15 cores and about 26.7 when expended to geostationary transfer orbit. Next, let's compare their Atlas V and Delta around 233 cubic meters. Vulcan comes in at about 310 cubic meters. Falcon 9 and Falcon of about 145 cubic meters, but Falcon Heavy is supposed to have an extended fairing to 200 cubic meters that's Lastly, we're going to Now, this is always a because these numbers are and they're, and when you do see numbers, there's like 20 pages of asterisk or something to accompany these numbers. So I'm just gonna throw out what publicly available And keep in mind there is a that these companies charge and the cost to launch these rockets. I think it's fairly safe to and ULA could charge the exact same amount for the exact same service, SpaceX could likely profit of their Falcon boosters. Atlas V starts at about 109 million, although there's very little difference between the base Atlas V and the massive 551. But we do know that each GEM and it has a much larger and and it seems like most estimates are around the $150 million mark. So it's somewhere between The Delta IV heavy costs maybe a little bit less, but that seems to be about the So it's, it's quite expensive. Vulcan is actually a little more interesting when it comes to cost. It's widely reported that Vulcan will cost around $120 million per launch, and we do have some real A Space Force contract for 11 launches for an average Now, I should add here that one Atlas V launch, and we don't know which specific variants of Vulcan were used, but it is a decent average And on that note, space Force launch deal worth $1.23 billion, of $123 million per launch. But this would be a mixture of Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy depending of those 10 missions. But it's always wise to remember that government contracts cost contracts, often due to secrecy and a lot of other This is quite a bit above for a Falcon 9, which although lately that to about $67 million. But just to make things SpaceX did launch the who is obviously a $50.3 million. So again, it kind of proves and a lot of unknowns and that these launch providers whatever they can for their services. So that being said, we'll say to cost as low as $50 million, and a standard estimate around $100 million for But again, when we actually contracts, Vulcan came but actually ended up being And again, just please remember, to seriously just assume there's and some apples to oranges comparisons. And just don't be surprised if you try to buy your own Falcon 9 flight and they can't guarantee We're just trying to for the purposes of this video, but I suspect ULA may have had to lower their prices in order to compete, whereas I'm guessing SpaceX is able to make quite a healthy profit off those Space Force launches. - Four three, we have ignition. - Okay, so to summarize here, I don't wanna spend too much of ULA, which sounds like it and Vulcan, because I mean, that'd just kind of be silly to do. However, here's some facts. There are roughly 70 launches and that's actually a lot in of them are Space Force missions and a handful of other Department of Defense missions And we know there are 38 to launch Amazon's KUIPER satellites. And six more for Dream Chaser missions. ULA knew their biggest customer and the the biggest thing energy missions for the And they basically built a for those missions and because that national contract proved it. So the big question is, is it enough? In my opinion, this is likely one of the last mass produced that will be developed and But speaking of reusability and exp, expandability, what they call &quot;SMART&quot; reuse, by detaching them from the, the booster, then inflating a hypersonic heat shield and then splashing down using of lifeboat until they can be recovered. Recovery of the full booster to the velocity of the booster travels that stage separation, since they burn through all the propellant making re-entry much more difficult. And for this particular rocket, propulsive landings are But ULA has tested a hypersonic shield from orbital velocities. This was a test version of for Vulcans BE-4 engines. However, it's hard to tell implemented on Vulcan. Despite this rocket being mostly a fairly traditional to be quite capable and However, ULA certainly isn't to lower their costs. In fact, it kind of feels like SpaceX is to match ULA's offerings. And with so many new pursuing reusability like Rocket New Glenn, or fully reusable rocket and SpaceX Starship, how long this rocket will be around. But from ULA's perspective as it replaces both the that limited supply of already 180 engines and the expensive Delta IV Heavy with just a single rocket. By focusing on reduced costs and efficiencies in production, they have developed a And despite it being relatively simple and not as ambitious as say it still took about five to actually launch, to launch it in 2019. So maybe it's a good thing ULA didn't try for something even more which might've put them on And let's say it took them, I don't know, three or four or even five years to develop It could've actually been detrimental and taken the company under. Now, for me personally, I was just excited to see That was a phenomenal first A moonshot with a payload on it for your first launch was incredible. Huge shot out there. I'm to see another methalox rocket fly. I, I love methalox. It's beautiful. The beautiful blue And I'm also just, you know, excited to see continued investment and people continuing to push It's, it's fantastic. However, I do think the Vulcan will 'cause the competition Now, in the next few years, competition to start forcing both SpaceX and, you know, ULA to start which could make Vulcan vulnerable to being just simply out-priced. But until that happens, so of an era seeing massive, relatively expensive rockets So what do you think, are I mean, what'd you think It was pretty incredible. Honestly, you, it's hard not to be excited when a rocket flies so smoothly for its first launch. But do you think it's gonna and into the 2030s, or to fly only what's contracted today? And that's going to be it. Let me know what you think or or questions in the comments below. As always, I owe a huge those people over on or YouTube members or X subscribers. There are additional perks, to get script read throughs and give your comments so you can help me catch But even if you aren't able to financially support and a, you know, subscribe button always does go a And of course, while and check out our new merch. We have things like this which by the way, the back because you know, these days the back of shirts now. But I think it's awesome. you know, little nerdy details of hidden glimpses of Raptor engines. But we also have things like Metal Model Rockets, and we have a ton of as our new pointy end We also have this which I absolutely love. And of course we have our shield mug and our heat and lots of other fun stuff. Check it out everydayastronaut.com/shop. Okay, that's gonna do it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the everyday to earth for everyday people.