If you have a phone interview coming up, then to share with you in this video. Now, the reason that you've got a phone interview you; which means, it's a nice way of saying interviewing you in person. They kind of want to try you out on the phone That way they can talk to you, they can see questions that are going to help them to quickly you in person or not and discuss the job at So, that's what a phone interview is. Sometimes they can last five minutes, sometimes go on for a full hour; it just depends on is. But usually, within five or ten minutes on for as to whether they want to meet them or So, I'm going to help you improve your phone So, let's get started. Alright, first thing is be enthusiastic. You need to be enthusiastic on the phone because gestures, and they can't see your face, your They don't even know if you're looking at So, that's the whole point of the phone interview. You have to communicate all of that enthusiasm phone to the other end. So, they can hear that you're alive and breathing of person that they want to meet. So, you want to be enthusiastic. So, would you be enthusiastic on the phone? Well, one thing is you can smile. When you smile, they can hear a smile through You might be able to hear me in this video, you can hear that I'm smiling right now. Because I'm having a good time making this video. So, smile is definitely going to help you. A great way to remember that is just to draw put a smiley face on there and look at that going to be your reminder to smile when you're Next one is change your state. Now, what the heck do I mean by change your Well, we generally have two states that were Were either in a passive state, where we're is smooth that everything is normal or in our blood is flowing, where our posture has voice fluctuations when we talk. So, a good way to get yourself in the change can very simply do this. I mean, one way is to do jumping jacks; you Another way, which is a little safer if you just sit in your chair. Just sit down, put your arms like this and down repeatedly. Do that for a couple of minutes and you're on and you might even feel a little bit dizzy, going to change your state. It's going to get your blood flowing, it's to change your voice and you're going to sound Now, another thing is to change your posture. If you look at me when I make this video, is sitting up straight. And you want your back to be sitting up straight This is going to help your voice, it's going going to come through clearer and you're going and that's the kind of person that they're So, change your posture. Now, naturally, when you change your state almost going to inherently change your posture. Another thing to do is change your voice. Now, if you can hear me in this video; I don't I don't always talk full of excitement and But I've changed my state from a passive one to you a lot better. And you might actually believe some of the because of the enthusiasm that I'm conveying Now, when you change your state and you change to change your voice. Now, when you get on the phone, I don't want to talk to really fast, but I want you to can hear you, they can feel you and they can want to meet; the kind of person that they of energy. Now, don't overdo it either. But don't show up and talk like this, Hi, the position. Say now, Hey! My name is Don and I'm really interested in I would love to hear more about it! Something I mean, who's the kind of person you would Number one or number two? Exactly. Dress professionally. Even though this was a phone interview and the Skype interview, that's another story; But for the phone interview, you're just going Still put on and put on a nice suit. That's just going to make you feel better. It's going to make you feel more professional interview. Trust me on this; it really is. Have a list of questions for them. Don't just get on the phone and listen to to hear from you too. The reason I want you to have questions is job, the culture, things that are going to is the place you want to work at or not. I can't imagine that you want to work every who does? You're there to investigate them, you want so that you can go in and work a job that doing work that's happy there and can get If one person in the agreement isn't happy, So, that's why I want you to have good questions They can be simple; don't ask detailed questions Ask things that are going to help you make there or not. Ask them about the culture; what it's like the first three months. Ask them what some of the problems facing then maybe offer some solutions if you can; I actually have a whole bunch of questions will help you determine appropriate questions Let's move on next one. When you're on the phone with them, Never Never interrupt them; let them talk. You can't see any nonverbal cues from them; So, listen to them and wait 2 to 3 seconds talking; just put a little pause in there. Now, if you're in an interview one-on-one, get cues from them to see that they're done that says they're done talking. But on the phone, it's a little bit different. So, wait for those verbal cues. When they stop talking, wait 2 to 3 seconds and you kind of just play Ping-Pong back and Don't be so eager to talk. Sometimes we have a lot of energy in us and to babble. Maybe they ask us a question about something this project and then we digress into another a whole bunch of stuff they don't even want So, avoid that. When they ask you a question, give them the If they want to hear more about you or from you for more information; simple as that. That way you can keep your responses short. Because if one person dominates the question, minutes while at a time, it's hard for the you or them, to follow their train of thought. You need short conversation bursts of maybe They talk and you talk, they talk and you That way, it makes a conversation and it's that's going on with the conversation versus You get boring, they get bored and it's hard Next one; Speak When Spoken To. When they ask you a question, give them an the same. Try not to volunteer too much information. The whole point of the phone interview is gathering of information. So, they could find out a little bit about you can see if you want to go a little bit Next one; Closing The Interview. Now, you want to have something to say at than just saying, Okay, goodbye. I mean, how would that sound? Like, Well, it was great meeting you Don Now, that doesn't work. What you want to do is you want to have something when you exit the interview. So, you want to find out if you meet their So, you can ask them; it's one question you You could say, Hey, do you think that I'd on what you've heard from me today, do you and they're either going to say Yes Now, if they say, We're not sure or to turn things around. Because right there, they're telling you that do for them. So, this is your big opportunity to say, Well, I think you misunderstood something. I can do those things and here's how I can So, it gives you another opportunity to sell Ask Them About The Next Steps. So, after the interview, after you're done meeting you. You can say, Hey, so what are the next Are you going to have in-person interviews interviews? What would be the next steps and when can ways to follow up and close your phone interview. Next one. Say Thank You. At the end of the interview, thank them for great meeting you today. I really enjoyed hearing more about your company this conversation in the future something And while you are interviewing with them, then try to recite those back at the end of that you're having, I really think that I like that. But first you have to find out what they're interview you can say, Hey, these are things I think it'd be a great asset. So, I look forward to talking to you again. Make sense? I thought so. Next one here; Have a Smooth Voice When You're Now, when you when you talk for a while, you not used to doing that. So, I encourage you to have a glass of water just water, I wouldn't do coffee or tea, just And if you're worried about your voice, you kind of numb your throat a little bit and out of your voice than you normally would. Alright, next one. Try to Avoid Saying um or aw or These are common filler words that we interject a reason we do this. When you're talking to somebody, you want of time but you're not sure what you're going ummm and that kind of holds their attention But it sounds bad. But just so you know the reason that your there to string together a longer statement it just sounds bad. So, don't stick those in. It might take a little bit of practice, you video camera. Record yourself delivering some common answers in those four words. Try to avoid them at all cost. They just sound terrible in the end. Take Notes. Get yourself pen and a paper. I have notes here. When I make these videos, because when I go my mind while I'm making these videos here. So, I'll go and I'll write them down so I you more about those later. So, I encourage you to do the same thing in Have a pen and a pad paper and write things First, you should have some notes to help Have some notes about some of the projects you want to talk about. And then while there, while you're going through if more things pop into your mind, write those in the interview. And I also encourage you to have a pen and When you're face to face, definitely always It just makes it a lot easier, makes it more that you might know but you might just forget, So, at the end of the interview, when they're us? you're like, Ummm, I'm not sure. But if you would have just wrote those down, Next one; at the end of the interview, you're you want to work for them or not. And maybe you don't, maybe you're like, Whoa, I don't want it or I have to travel whatever. Maybe there's something about it in the interview So, you have to weigh this out as to whether So, if you already have a job and you're just flush it down the toilet or if you're not this job kind of hang on to this; don't let They might be interested in you. So, you might want to continue the conversation Because for one, this will give you an opportunity I mean, like I said, maybe they were interested Go ahead, keep interviewing with them. One, this is going to give you practice. Two, its going to give you more opportunity And maybe if they get down to the point where We would really like you to do this and I'm just not sold on yet. I'm just I'm just not sold on it. They might be so in love with you that they're you. But what about if we offered you this position that you don't like? So, now they're customizing a new one for you. So, I encourage you after the phone interview, If they're still interested in you, keep listening Don't just tell them, No, I'm not interested I mean, unless you're just totally dead set But I highly recommend you stick around, just This practice is going to help you for future When you keep entertaining the process, when this is going to help boost your confidence. This is going to make you feel better about people are talking to you and they're interested And how can that not make you feel good? Do all those things and you're going to be I think that's all I got for you today. If you would like a transcript of today's down there. So, just look for that and it will take you of everything that I talked about. That's all I have for you today my friend. Thank you so much for watching this video thank you. If you found it helpful, make sure to like to my channel. If you would like more detailed insights from and grab my Top Ten Guide to Answering Questions. It kind of looks like this if you print it It's a free download. You can just grab that from my site and that get even more detailed insights for me delivered And these are things that I ordinarily share So, if you want to hear from me, go ahead I'll also put a link to that in the description Stay on your game my friend. There is no one else like you and there will This is your greatest advantage and the world Thanks again for watching and I'll see you Copyright JobInterviewTools.com, Job Interview