Transcriber: Emma Gon I did something truly amazing this morning and maybe you did as well. I drink a glass of water. OK, not the reaction I was hoping for. But it is truly amazing. It's not that obvious because if you think of it, 97 % of all water on Earth is salt water. We can't drink that. And even the 3 % fresh water I'm going to show you. Imagine that the 3 % of fresh water It's one litre of water, Now, 80 % of that, So I'm going to pour it away. (Water pouring) Keep going. There we are. That's water that is captured we can't get to that. But even this water A lot of it is captured in the jungle It's in groundwater underneath the Sahara and places where we can't get, so we can throw And this is it. This is what you have on Earth for everyone, and not only humans, And then it raises the question, is this enough? Well, that depends on where you live. They make calculations about that the amount of water that's available and they make maps And if, for example, you have and that makes sense there's no water over there. And we have Mexico lighter red, But, hey! Let's look at Western Europe. I will put a circle around it. Here! That's Belgium. If you rank countries with water stress from one to all the way at the end, We are between Mexico and Morocco. We have less water That's strange. We are Belgium, Why do we have water problems? Well, there are a couple of reasons. The first reason is we have 16 % of all the surface and a water drop that falls down, flows to sewers and it's gone. We are very bad Secondly, we are with a lot of so the water that is available And the third reason is that we are very dependent So big rivers like the river Meuse they don't have the Alps, and if the rain stops falling, Now there are problem, that means So let's look at the first one - less concrete in Belgium. We try, yeah, we try to pass laws to make us build less, but it doesn't work as well. And even so, they talk they did not talking about building So our solution won't come from that. Then we move to the second one, Let's not go there. You need a war or a pandemic So no, no solution. We don't talk about that. Let's look at rain, then. Can we do anything about the rain? No, it's a natural phenomenon, we can't control the rain. But it's important to know And I was wondering myself, so I asked the Royal Meteorological And actually, they didn't they sent me the Climate Report 2020, and I saw at the background of that cover, I saw lines and I thought, "OK, well done, Now, let's read the climate report." But then, on the second page I saw that those lines meant something. Going from 1833 to 2019, this shows the temperature red for relative warm years. I'm going to repeat that: red for relative warm years. And then, I was a little bit shocked, "OK, then why were you shocked? This is climate change, Yes, I did. But seeing it like this, And by then, I also knew what the impact because two things start happening The first thing that happens is that which means stays longer over there and then when it falls, it all falls down And that's what we saw happening Now, next to that warm air can hold more the jet stream will diminish. Now the jet stream is like is a ferocious wind going at 200 kilometres an hour, and it pushes low pressure areas changing our weather. Now, because the temperature and the equator is diminishing, the driving force of the jet stream and the jet stream starts swaying and it can push those pressure areas Meaning that the same weather stays at And those two effects, warm air that can hold more water vapor and water that stays gives extreme weather patterns 2018, 2019, 2020 very dry, And that is what's happening Yeah, all right. You were thinking, "Oh, this is going and I'm here depressing graphs, Yeah, because this points to our solution. The solution is that We need to manage our rain The first thing is if it rains, Now, that's counterintuitive, isn't it? If it rains, I want my water And that's true. I want our water away And in Belgium, we've straightened our rivers, we get away all water But if one of those water bombs fall, and the sewer start overflowing For example, this is Antwerp 2018. This is the river Scheldt. In case you were wondering, you are here. Yeah, this is the Arenbergschouwbug. We see the tidal gates Now, the reason why just keep because 10 km before this picture There was a major nature capturing enormous And that's what we need more, we need more places where water On the upside, you also get where you can walk and and it will be there in the groundwater So if it rains, we need Now, if it doesn't rain, And now you might be thinking, Look, this is a wastewater dirty water goes in, problem solved. That's not true. The water over there is cleaned, but then it's dumped in The average recycled is up and about, around, more or less, almost ... 0 %. Yeah, we don't do that. And it's not that we can't do it. For example, in ISS, they recycle their water. The urine and breath they recycle it to get water again. But they have a very good It takes 1 600 euros to get so they better be managing So their incentive is money. Their incentive to recycle water is money. Our incentive should be drought. And to explain that I want to take you to the Belgian coast, and specifically De Panne, Koksijde, Nieuwpoort. They have a lot of challenges over there. They don't have a lot of groundwater. They don't have a lot of surface water. And they need to provide water But what happens in summer And they get flooded with tourists. Yeah, and they all start using water, so they have a big water problem And they started thinking "We need to change this." And they looked at the wastewater and they thought, And they were trying some things, and they thought, clean it and then, dump it into OK, yeah. But it's a good idea, because over the highest dune in Belgium, you can see the two infiltration ponds. Water trickles into the ground over there, but because they do it over there, the groundwater levels in of the coast have risen 4 to 5 meters. There's nature that we haven't seen there and two to 24 months they pump it up again, So that's wonderful De Panne, Kooksijde, Nieuwpoort, if you open your tap over there, the water flows out goes through to sink to the wastewater treatment they pump it up again That's wonderful, So those are our solutions. If it rains, we need to keep if it doesn't rain, And we will need to do that and it won't be obvious. We need to renovate a lot of sewers. We need to find places We need new technology. We need companies Now, at the end of all that "OK, but what can I do?" Well, if you type in how to save you will find tons of options: don't water your garden, But there's one thing that they don't mention and that is to be amazed It's not that obvious Thousands of people So the next time you open a tap be amazed about the water in your glass. Thank you.