Most people think leaves are a complete bagging and throwing away their leaves, dollars of garden products when you're video, I'm going to show you three steps product you could ever use in your garden, you the most productive beautiful garden neighborhood like I do, then you're very from the trees every single fall and then mulch and soil and fertilizer. And let If you look at leaves and the way they seasons every single year, you realize that of themselves. It's a pretty miraculous out and then they grow to their fullest the fall comes and the temperatures go leaves. And it looks like it's just a soil and It sure really is a perfectly we would just get out of the way. I was up my kids from school, driving down the it, but not one, but two people were and they are literally blowing leaves into these guys are getting paid to use gasoline me and 20 other moms can stir up the no good reason. And I'm like, don't you your garden? First of all, you don't blowers, if you've ever watched someone use leaves in the yard, it is hilarious. And Because I can't tell you how many times garden and then suddenly somebody next door and totally makes me wanna run inside and So back to my point. All you need is muscle. You're going to get the best get your steps in, and all the leaves are because you did it by hand with a rake now let's go find some more leaves. But you get annoyed too when you drive around or not having the best kind of garden or an experienced gardener and chances are love training gardeners to become garden one gardener at a time. If you are an hmm, can I make money starting a business, stuff like turn leaves into compost, then program. You can find out how to apply wheelbarrow at this point, but that is way using a tarp. You simply need something without doing too much work. Now you might leaves like you do. I mean, maybe I have and put on the curve, but not leaves houses back in my Houston home, all we know what I did? I just gotten my minivan and put them in the back of my van, brought project. So even though you may not have who didn't watch this video and have no just drive around, pick up their trash, At this point, we want to expedite the incredible garden soil. And the way we compact setting. So we want to have as space. That's one of the first things decomposing. Then we want to be sure that and a lot of oxygen, a lot of air. And leaves into compost in a very short amount to get your leaves nice and compact so quickly. The first is to build a little wire or a hardware cloth and build a cage those leaves together and let them start right now. So here is one easy way that turn into incredible compost for your I've done this in almost all of my home only requires three things. You need In this case, I'm using chicken wire. but buyer beware hardware cloth and yourself with it. So today I am using a also great for indoor floral projects so if I don't spend it all on this little edge of the wire wrap it around. It And so I just wrap it around that first bring it around every other steak. The need a mallet or a hammer of some sort this circle. You can make this cage as The idea here is when you cage in your decomposition and you multiply it. I'm now all I've got to do is trim off my chicken wire gives you this nice little the circle. I have a few more things to like this if you love saving money in fruits and vegetables in your backyard, because duh, every single week we talk please, please, please subscribe, like, somebody who needs to stop throwing away leaf mold compost that I learned a couple simply by using kitchen trash bags. So this works great if you have a lot less bag, fill it up with leaves as full as water into this bag and literally fill it poke a few holes on the bottom of the property. But I am trying to use a lot gonna be using this method anymore. Instead, is just using a natural bag that's made fiber and it already has holes just naturally lot of airflow and you're gonna be able mean, look how big this thing is. So you the plastic bag, just fill it up to the place it somewhere on your property so that the bag and turn into compost inside this a ton of leaves and you're gonna find and that's why the cage is my favorite we're bringing the rest of these leaves got the space, this is definitely my favorite It's nice and tidy. It takes care of bags. So remember the main thing we're composting process and we're doing that with moving the leaves every now and then so So you're probably wondering how long is you. It's not as long as you think. So didn't really do anything to. We didn't a cage. It's just been sitting here for of inches, you can see how these leaves In fact, you can start to see the difference leaves from just about a year ago, maybe they're starting to turn from this nice, this very fine, soft material. This happens on the temperature, moisture level and other up or slow it down. But this is the you're going to be looking at about a year From 12 months to two years, those leaves just pure garden compost. There is really garden than this stuff. So you can actually point, but I love to add them at this know they're not gonna decompose anymore nutrients to make everything grow better. right now. So I found that my garden two to three months. This is because I intensively planted and it changes every one season and start the next one, I really to get the next season going. And this is in. So I can head to the bottom of my of leaf mold compost and put this below thrive for the next season. A recent study way too much money on outside resources change that just by something as simple neighborhood or our own backyard and turning really is a complete cycle, and we can without having to spend tons of money at in the garden, the more amazed I am at care of itself and it takes care of me. a rake, get out in your backyard, gather drive around downtown and find everybody amazing compost and grow the best garden money. I'll see you next time.