I am about to work this $10 million And I'm going to show you and getting paid $200,000 This is insane. Getting paid $100,000 to dig up Oh, my God. And so many other jobs, starting with the lowest paying job Gold panning, that can make as little But we're going Statistically, not. Basically, gold panners put dirt shaking and water, all of the gold But it's not very easy because after 5 hours of searching, Oh, boys. I found gold. How much is that That is $0.02. Exactly my point. You could do this for a whole year But luckily for us, we're going to be working jobs But first, let's see what it looks like to work a job Digging up dinosaur bones And yes, these are fake So this is just one of our pits. - Are these actually dinosaur bones? I've been here This is easily the largest bone that I've ever This is your thigh bone right here, For comparison, here's stacked on top of each other. Keep in mind, I'm six five. These You're doing it. No idea. Now, this may come as a surprise, Be careful. It took us 5 hours But even with us holding him we were getting somewhere. This is easily the largest bone that - And you let me and Karl touch that? What if we mess it up? Josh, how much does this weigh? Probably going to be 2-250. - Pounds? This is 1/10 God that's wild! Now, because this bone is we have to cover it in a cast Or else it could Let's hope it doesn't fall apart One, two, three. Yes, highway baby. Good job. This is the first time any humans Just Youtubers carrying a dinosaur bone. Front of the table. One, two, lift. Watch your hand, Karl. And believe it or not, its way into a museum. But because museums are boring. Let's head over to the $200,000 job, and my first mission. Learn This is what will one day Yeah. This is how we're going to get Why are they letting me drive this? Open the doors. How do I work this thing? - Push forward on a stick. Yeah, go for it. Jimmy, don't kill us. I'm scared. You good. Oh, this is amazing. - Go ahead and twist. To the right or left, I don't care. Oh, my God. They're cars. Is this street legal? Street legal around here. Oh, this is amazing. Why are we driving sideways? I haven't figured out And even though I'm driving I still managed to get us to NASA's where the real Oh, we're offroading. Oh, God. Oh, it's getting bumpy. You're going to let me drive it Is there seat belts in this thing? There's a seat belt They've got seat belts they don't use, Oh, that's way too steep. No way. Are we really going down? Can I get that seat belt now? Oh, my God. Wait, we're going down the hill sideways. Stop it, stop the car. Lift your hand He's actually... I'll get up and let Nick- No, sit there. - Do I go sideways in the crater? Hold me, Karl. Hold me. Lannan, I'm just going to say it, I reckon I could do it. Next in training, NASA showed me around Holy crap. This is the second which, I'll be honest, especially when they showed me As far as anybody is concerned, once you try on a spacesuit, But of course, there was a catch. When you go on a spacewalk, You're in the suit for 12 hours. There you go. Like an actual real adult diaper, Okay. So be careful. This is a space artifact. It's flown on the space shuttle - So real astronauts have worn this. Keep in mind Have you peed in this suit? I have not in the suit. Okay. When's the next mission? What are you doing a year from now? - I can make time. And the final step of my training I've ever done. They were going to No, no. Lean back into it This weighs 9,000 pounds. Nice This is the largest collection on display anywhere in the world. I can't believe they letting us do this. You realize, we're just a YouTube channel? Yeah. Oh, my God. These are just straight up on the moon. What are the odds you'll Zero. Yesterday, I'm an expert in this kind of stuff. - No. This material here No way bro. So you're actually touching the moon Oh, that's wild. So that tube has dirt from the moon and has not been open since it came back. And since you haven't checked, Yes. Well, it would be the first - Wait, you guys heard that? And after we we head into the stratosphere where Karl and Nolan - I've never flown a plane before. Welcome to the first day of flight I'm not joking, for the boys All they have to do is land All right, here we have our throttle. Just like that. Oh. Oh, my God. And after Nolan crashed. Oh, God. And crash. And crash. You crashed the plane?! He eventually did land successfully, reason, gave him the keys Yo, I'm freaking out. Hey, if you can't do this, Nolan, please for love of God, let them know now. Oh, my God. I'm Oh, my God. All right, you ready to go? As ready as I'll ever be. - Full throttle. Kind of wobbly, but now, We're taking off. - There you go. Your life is in my hands. He's literally controlling Yes, he is, all by himself. Turbulence has never caused a crash, right? Oh, well. Watch this, I'm going to turn right. No. Turn right. I can't believe that Look, no hands. Stop. Oh, sweet Jesus. You moron. All right, we're going we're going Oh, my God. That's the one thing, All right, I'm descending. My mental health is descending also. This is the part I crashed it Oh, God. We're going to land right there Oh, my God. Wait, we're too close, right? Keep it pointed right down the middle. - Oh, my God. Keep your hand on the throttle. You're going to wait to pull back. Just breathe. Here we go. We touched ground. - You did it, man. Oh my God. He said I couldn't do it, You didn't kill me. I was genuinely surprised the job that pays But only if you're hand models in the world. She makes five times the average take photos of her hand She's hand modeled for almost any Her hands are even insured I can't wait to see this in action. So to start us off, I didn't know that today was going to be Okay, so immediately - Of course. These Look how much hair is here Can I get paid more for that? The skin texture Can you change me? I don't know if I can work miracles, but I haven't seen your hands yet, Jimmy. Your hands like glow. - That's crazy. I don't know. Yeah, no they're But again, we've got cuticle issues, But that can all be fixed. Our hands clearly needed work, which was pretty easy But for Lazar, not so much. Oh, God. Bro, you can make This hair has been with me my whole life, but you got to do what you got to do And now that my hands are no longer we're going to model And these photos are literally going all across America - That's petrifying. Okay. I mean, the watch looks good. I honestly thought this was going horrible at this. It looks like the watch is on a snake. Bro, this is so hard. Can I see the difference with you - What? The product looks better because But being a hand model isn't Sometimes you have to model Why are you squirming? Because I see a man Breathe, Karl. Breathe. Put your other hand out here Yeah, of course. One final thing I need to throw in the sponsor of this video. Just hold that right there. Now, he's modeling the watch, a snake and this game. Yo, look at that, that looks crazy. Immortals of Aveum where your player is a battle mage Can he save me? This time, I need you to model the Xbox No way, bro. You want to grab between there and here. Is this actually safe Yes. Perfect. Perfect. Get it, get it. Go. Go. Talk, You can sling 25 different types and unlock 80 different talents to customize your character Karl, you think Immortals of Aveum Immortals of Aveum, I hope you love this. Karl, just hold the scary animals The people who created Immortals of Aveum the award-winning campaigns We love those campaigns. Oh, it's moving. And the cool thing is they put me in And if you kill me in the game, than any other boss Nah, I got you. I got you. Immortals of Aveum is out now with a free trial on Xbox And there's a free demo I feel it under me. It's under my hands. We were doing such a bad job that we had the hand the sponsor would Click the link in the description. If you want to play Immortals of Aveum I'm retiring as a hand model, and even though we still got them on billboards And now it was finally time for the job that pays That's right. I'm about to literally join the NFL. This is literally my dream. And if you think this is all fake, here I am signing a real contract for the Buccaneers It might say we're not going to pay it, but it at least says that dollar amount. No, no, focus on the dollar amount. And now it's official. So for the next 48 hours, You are officially a player. I promise I won't let you down. I promise he will let you down. By the end of my contract I'm going to be running out with the team on the field First step is weight training. It might be too light, let's go up. Let's go up. Easy. I don't actually think Easy! Easy! Are you a winner or are you a Falcon? Easy. Yeah! I notice they yell at you a lot Can you set it to whatever the I'm going to see if I can do one. He can do 12 of these? Holy crap. He's not a normal human. I would hate to be hit by him. - One more! - Football! Come on. Why is the NFL so hard? How is this compared It's pretty pathetic. Hopefully the lightheadedness goes It will. You get used to it. Okay. Up next was my first practice training facility. Hello MrBeast! I'm the coach. Good! And my new teammates. Nice to meet you, man. My name's Shaq. My kids love you. I love your videos. the candy bars, the Karl Gummies. Oh really? Yeah! And my new teammates couldn't believe that so I showed them This is the same one You got more money than me though. But if you read it says We're still going to cancel. Yeah. Y'all look at the parentheses for sure. Hey, you're official. - Thank you. My new teammates over here. These guys They're so big. I'll be honest, I've never played football before, so I was terrible at. Mr. Beast, we need you out here! You're right. And since I've never played I just threw it up That's touchdown. In case you didn't know, the team is the same team so I thought it'd be funny Oh, we got him, Tom. Oh, I almost got hit. TB, what's up baby? - What's up, TB? How my boys doing? I have a friend here if you say hi to him. You can't do this to me. Lannan, I love you, bro. I'm dead. After that, our practice Little man. - Tareq. You could go back to filming. All right, guys. See y'all. Some people still have some So afterwards the Bucs We obviously have a big game. I'm expecting very serious questions only. Is this just a publicity stunt? To make the best video possible. Yes, it's a publicity stunt Jimmy, how does it feel It feels great, to be honest. They've accepted me way more than How much playing time are you expecting? None. And after that it's just a stunt, Six foot four and a half. Six, four and a half? Karl, you're six five. - I'm six five. Yeah. These measurements are key so that my gear and my uniform - This actually looks so good. And now that I'm suited up, I still don't know why But hey, thanks, Bucs. Are you surprised Yes. That's my first football Jimmy's about to come out any second now. They say if you get up by 100, Do me a favor and get up super hot. Sounds good. It's his first game and probably Definitely his last. How is this happening? Fire the cannons! That's great... And since this is the only the team, actually, Let's go, boys. Yeah! - Jimmy! Let's not get run over by the players. Yeah! Is it the best day of your life? This is the best day of We're getting passed by the players. Jimmy's an NFL player. - How's it going? I won't let you guys down, - I love America. America. Let's play football. Yeah! Huge shout out to the Buccaneers It's honestly because if they hit me, And I thought it was all over there So, in retaliation,