I noticed that a nomadic woman with her children had taken shelter in the shelter that I had made. At first they were a little afraid of me... _Don't film us... I connected with them through sincere conversations... And I decided to help them so I started expanding the shelter for them... They were a very kind family... I had to make the shelter bigger... I helped them move their things inside. Take them to a shelter. I brought them some food and lighting equipment and gave them one of my cameras to film their simple life... and finally I left and they stayed in that shelter... Greetings to you. Dear viewers, thank you for your attention to my little channel. As usual, I was heading to the mountains to build a shelter... when I suddenly noticed something strange... I took my camera to film this scene. I built a shelter here last week. I was and now there are people next to that shelter, they were a nomadic family, a woman with her children, but what are they doing here!!!! Mother, a man is coming here, don't film us!!! Hello dear viewers and companions, I was planning to go to the mountains today. On the way, I noticed this family, which is apparently a nomadic family . I will help them to have a more comfortable and safe life here. This lady is alone with her children. I convinced them that I can film them so that maybe this will be useful for them and I hope you will accompany and support us . Thank you for helping us stay alive . I had made it here for one night, but now that you want to stay here, we have to expand it a little. Thank you very much. Let's eat , thank you very much, God bless you, give this to the little one , thank you very much, that's enough, keep the rest for yourself, we'll eat together . Sit down, give me the pick, let's have a cup of tea, don't you? Little boy, come have some tea, are you cold? Shall I open the orange for you to eat? Thank you very much. How long are you staying here? We have to be here until spring comes, do you only have these children? Yes, there are three of them. Hope to God everything will be alright, I will help you too, madam, do your children go to school? No, my husband is in prison, what is he in prison for? We were in debt , we had to sell our building and land, we only had a few sheep left, we had no more money, the children also dropped out of school, so now you don't have a home? wander in the mountains yes we don't have money for grass for the sheep we have to bring them to the mountains Nayeb my son don't touch the camera it's okay let him play good boy good girl give me the sledgehammer can you get me a glass of water will you bring Please , thank you , God bless you. You didn't tell me your name. My name is Ali. I'll make it better here as much as I can , but I can't stay. I have to go . Thank you for helping us, Ali Yes, where are you? Am I up? Yes, I want to come there, come, come up, give me your hand, here, okay, is it good here? Mr. Ali, is my brother with you? Yes, it's here , take care of it while we go get some firewood, okay, will you help me? Is it good? My slipper fell, put on the slipper, stay in front of the fire, mother... where are you, dear mother ? Honey, I went to get some firewood , ma'am, I've done all I can for today, thank you very much. Come on, let's put your stuff in the shelter so we can do it before it gets dark . Ma'am, if it gets dark, do you have anything for light? We don't have anything special, a light, a lamp, etc. We don't have anything . I'm going to bring something for lighting. If you bring it , we'll thank you until it's night. I'll go and bring it , may God protect you. Thank you very much, you're very kind. Take these things up with me. to install them, these are also a bit of a food item, Mr. Ali, thank you very much, forgive me, I have to help you more than this, I am not in a good financial situation, the only thing I can do for you is that one of the cameras I give myself to you and you also make a video of your simple life and create a small channel on YouTube and you will be seen through this and maybe someone will help you. I hope good things will happen to you. Thank you very much . Can you teach me how to shoot? _Yes ma'am, I'm leaving._I did everything I could._Thank you very much, Mr. Ali, may God protect you. You worked very hard for the lights, camera and food. We thank you. I didn't do anything, it was my duty to help you. - Did you learn to work with the camera ?