Stephen Kotkin: A bilateral US-China The President of the United States, President Biden is sitting down with Chinese President, Xi Jinping. Chinese Leader, Xi Jinping. This will be their first in person talks What are we expecting from a summit? -- I agree that we have to share The point is what are the terms I'm Stephen Kotkin, a Kleinheinz Senior Fellow Bill Whalen: He's also a Senior Fellow at Stanford University's Peter Robinson: Princeton History Professor, Walter McDougall: Kotkin is the author, contributor, Niall Ferguson: I think he's the Jordan Peterson -- History never tells you But what history can tell you -- You can not only win a war you can lose a war and win the peace. So kind of how do you win the peace in Ukraine? -- You have to be ready to be lucky. Gita Wirjawan: So you believe in luck? Hi friends and fellows. Welcome to this special series involving personalities coming from including Stanford University. The purpose of the series is really that I think would be of tremendous value I wanna thank you of your support so far, Hi, I'm honored to have Stephen Kotkin He's also a senior fellow at the Hoover institution - Stephen, thank you so much. It's an honor. I want to ask you one or two questions What made you get interested in history? Yeah, I wish I knew. When you're young, but of course you know nothing, and it's only with time that you realize but you're very confident as a young person. The thing I had going for me and she would take out books several at a time, and one of the areas that she liked a lot And so she would bring them home, and occasionally I would pick one up and I had to go back to the library. So there was that. But on the whole, which was not forced on me, but just indirect through the books I was really a science and technology kid not a reader. And so I loved math, I loved physics and that's what I did mostly and what I thought I was going to do So I went to University for STEM and spent the whole first year I was in a program that after two years instead of the usual four years. And I did very well in organic chemistry, If you passed through organic chemistry, there was a chance you could get on but organic chemistry mostly crushed people I did well. I moved on. I got into this molecular biology class, very exclusive, and part of it was I had to go to an operation, and back then they had where they cut open your neck that had built up in the carotid arteries Now we have Lipitor and other which remove this plaque Heart attack risk is way down as a result, So when I saw the operation I got a little queasy from the blood, - And it ended my medical career. Quest. You're right. Exactly. And I foolishly gave up the science in addition to the aspiration I didn't have to; I could have just stayed in any of the various fields but I just gave it up, so disappointed, gave the whole thing up, wrote my senior thesis on John Milton, But crazily, the had a requirement that you did and then four courses in an allied field. And so I said to my advisor, And he said, &quot;Well, you need to finish major the concentration.&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, I have four semesters of math and the math that I did is like poetry; there are no numbers in it.&quot; It's topology and all this fabulous math And he said, &quot;No. That's not considered You have to take some history courses. So I took almost all history courses and they were fabulous. And then I did it again, and then I did it in addition to the English major only because I was told I needed And then I went on for a PhD in history. So if you had looked at me at any point you would not have predicted, despite the fact that my mother read you would not have predicted that - So therefore accident, contingency, Yes. are really important since that's how I came Amazing. But you started studying before you switched on to that I had a lot of great influences on me, University of Rochester where I did and then switched, They had Christopher Lasch Eugene Genovese in American history, and one of my favorites, William McGrath, So they were my primary influences; And I ended up going to Berkeley and I started in France history had this sort of goatee, And so France history was by far especially at Berkeley. And so 18 students were in the first-year but I wasn't on the left, and I've never had a cup of coffee So France history didn't really work with me. My first major assignment was which was Left to seize a power that was not supported by the Parisian countryside and was overthrown by force. And I did a critical analysis where and everyone was a little bit shocked. &quot;Really?&quot; They said. So French history wasn't really for me, and then I moved into the Central Europe and that was really exciting And I started learning the Russian language which is the time you're supposed to and instead I started learning and then I took intensive Russian and four years later I was assistant professor Why Russia? So it's hard to say exactly, but when I was in Hofburg history, one of the major nations and languages German, Hungarian, Czech, the Czech part was very substantial. And so it was my first Slavic language, and I got to Prague in the summer of '83 and I was behind the Iron Curtain, and it was incredible how interesting it was, it was nothing like the stereotypes that everything was gray on the outside but on the inside was this fabulous to communist way of life, and trying to create your own way of life inside the limitations of and the lack of travel, permission, But the people were very inventive and the system was alive second society, secondary economy inside the formal structures but when you live there you understood and inventive the whole thing was. So it was very oppressive, of course, but it was also had this And so I thought that's interesting. And then I had a teacher, I was very fortunate many Europeans so I met for example (Jurgen) Habermas, Claude Levi-Strauss and Michel Foucault. And so I was a student of Foucault. This is me and Michel Foucault You look a little bit younger. I was 40 plus years younger. But anyway he said to me at lunch one day, &quot;Wouldn't it be great if someone used Because he had applied this theory Western Europe especially France. But how does it work for So I thought, &quot;Yeah, that's really exciting.&quot; I was young, impressionable, I didn't share his view that or imprisoning in many ways that the 18th century European Enlightenment. But I love the way that he was able individual identities and behaviors with the larger structures of a system. So this little tactics of the habitat, actually a phrase I got who was another French intellectual was very exciting. So on the one hand, Foucault's prompt and on the other hand, my trip to Prague to what the Iron Curtain, And so I was very enthused, the Hofburg history wasn't working because and so why not? There were these fabulous who was the main influence on me, both of whom were my thesis advisers, were very prominent professors So that was the piece that was missing and then these influences, and so I started learning and lo and behold I had an amazing who was an emigrate He came out through Siberia He was 80 something years old teaching very accelerated Russian to a handful of kids who needed to Serge Kassatkin; and he had been he wrote a Mongolian-Mongolia dictionary, he worked for British intelligence So he had this amazing East Asian piece and so he had stories World War II and Intel This is a huge influence on me. So grammar and vocabulary So I took accelerated Russian with him So two hours a day, five days a week, considered a year's worth of The second semester was And then the third year of college Russian So I had three years of college Russian mostly thanks to Serge Kassatkin and then thanks to this where first time to the Soviet Union the place was clearly stagnant and I experienced that firsthand, but I had enough Russian I was able to start reading coming back from the Soviet Union and embarked soon enough finished my dissertation a few years later, and then started at Princeton University, - In the '90, right? - 33 years you were there. And the wall fell in November The Berlin Wall fell. So I just caught this wave, this wind, from that molecular biology class on the floor of the OR, from that through Shakespeare To the fall of the wall. All in just a really short period of time. The French intellectuals at Berkeley, And so I was really lucky, really privileged, Gorbachev happened, I chose to study the Soviet stuff So I'm there Konstantin Chernenko and then the Gorbachev thing happens. So it was one thing after another but it was not foreseeable. Looking back, it makes sense. I can tell a story that seems but looking forward prospectively &quot;What was I doing? And so life is like that; you have to perceive these moments and take advantage of them. So you believe in luck. I'm a living embodiment of luck, for sure. Hard work; no substitute for hard work, but a lot of people work hard, some people have the other kind of luck. You had quite a number of lucky events but you're one of the few that not just Stalin but Russia, the Soviet Union. What has changed? And I want to put this so many people don't understand You've written so much, but what is it that the Americans with respect to Russia? This is a problem of big countries. Big countries are so big, they can get and their own story is substantial, American history is consonant That's not how American history it's not studied and written it's studied and written in a nationalist even though America's effect This is true of the way China works, it's true to a certain extent although Russia is somewhat different because it had this giant Eurasian continent America had an assimilation approach so that lots of newcomers wanted to become American My generation; So in other words, my ancestors came My father's side from from Belarus, but by the time it got to me Already the second generation become as American as possible. And so by the time it got to me, And so Russia's a little bit different and folding in all sorts of other people; Ukraine, Belarus, the Baltic states, Russia had a lot larger world for a really long time. It was much more of an Empire than the US or China were in terms of and Americanization in the American case. That's not to say that or completely Americanized. There's an ability to retain one's culture, inside a larger story, but that's much more prominent But nonetheless it's typical to think that America is the world. And so the American version of English, American way of life, that either the whole world is like that And so that's just wrong. The whole world is not like that, and it doesn't have a desire to assimilate So it's something you got to You got to get out there in the world, you got to learn foreign languages, you got to live and learn to think like and this goes for any culture, and we don't do enough of too self-contained, too self-satisfied on occasion, we don't encourage it enough. We encouraged it after we got scared with the Soviet Union sending up couple years before I was born. And so America had a panic in trying to understand the rest of the world. That was really beneficial but now we need that again, where we all want to send so that in the formative years just how big the wide world is and how it's necessary to have empathy and think and their viewpoints. We lack empathy. Empathy is the hardest thing to achieve. - Yeah, you've been talking about that. Is that doable, though? The ability to send a bunch of and vice versa? Sure, it's possible. It just doesn't happen. You're right, it doesn't happen naturally. It doesn't just happen you have to be proactive, So both of my kids are in college now, and I try to let them find their own way, not to use them as guinea pigs to make them do some of the things or not to make them do So, encourage, facilitate, But it turns out that one of my kids decided he wanted to go to France. He learned French in college Now he speaks French, and he understands America and our daughter who's two years younger who does visual arts, anime, so very different profile, about Japanese culture, Now, mind you, my wife is My wife is Korean. So the kids grew up with Korean school they went to Korean school and other influences besides the language. - And K-dramas. And my wife was Chief curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and so she did a number of and we had Psy from Gangnam Style come, and the kids met Psy So they had some international influence, but nonetheless they took like my son to do the French stuff and we think that makes them and much deeper understanding of America. We travel with them as much as we can. Tourist travel. Usually, I'll be invited to give a lecture and my wife will come along and the kids will tag along So we've done some family travel that way, opening up vistas for them that they should do this but showing them what's possible. And so we think that that can be done. When I was growing up, we weren't rich and first time I traveled abroad was when I was in graduate school at Berkeley where they paid my way to go study to study German. But now that I've worked really hard we have some resources to be able to travel, and my kids started traveling much earlier but now as part of their studies. So it's really exciting it's important to bring it here and have it available and we do have a gigantic population of immigrants, green card holders, foreign students, and I would argue, But we also need to get and especially the ones who are officials, positions of authority. It's not just that they got to have passports, and plop down at some five-star hotel in luxury and spent a couple of days there who got a PhD at Harvard or MIT or LSC. Not that kind of travel abroad. Let them go to the villages, Yes. See how the transport system works, see what the school system is like, see how ordinary people live and how they think You alluded to a song by Sam Cooke I get the sense that the kids nowadays, communicate among themselves, as opposed to their predecessors, We call that history. Isn't it a concern that the kids nowadays or most of your peers did? We have a lot of complaints that And so I say, Is that their fault or is that We have to do better. We have to teach a history; we have to write history and teach history It's on us, not on them. You complain till you're blue in the face, or they don't know any history. Well, do something about it; teach them some history sparks their desire to learn more So I'm not a complainer about I try to be a doer about that. But that's true not just of our young people, that's true of people in positions of authority. What I've discovered in my travels with private sector or public sector officials is that the demand for history is really high. It's not a demand problem, when I go to Washington our allies Five Eyes, That's all they ask me about; how did it happen the last time what can we learn from previous episodes. So demand for history same thing I discovered Okay, sometimes the history is the tech people want to know they want to know history of technology and so demand is off the charts, it's just we're not supplying the tour of horizon, the connect the dots, the history that is exciting and gives you and where it might be going, what the drivers of change are. History never tells you nobody can do that. But what history can tell you is that that things are going to change because that's happened Who living in China in the 1960s or 70s that China was going to be per capita GDP was $200 a year And so if you projected that forward, because the China that unfolded that people were living. So you got to do that with your own set of institutions, because it's the reality that you live in and you got to say, I don't know how it's going to change, and therefore let's be ready let's may even try to shape And so what are the levers of power, How do you affect change? Not giving a lecture, giving a speech but how could it happen? What role does agency play? And you only can do that systems theory, complexity theory, and if you understand the drivers of change. So history is really empowering Yes, there's perverse you think you're trying to invent and you get the opposite result because you don't understand and you get these perverse but nonetheless history is if you take it seriously for you to understand the could and not to assume and project forward. So you take the models for climate all those models have built in assumptions 20 years, 30 years, 40 years, and we know that those projections are bunk because if you look at the previous projections, The ambassador of the UK So the Germany's a great power, the UK is the biggest power in the world and this Ambassador is not and he writes this report that He's done. He's toast. And a few years later, not because the Ambassador was a moron, but the Ambassador was projecting forward from the circumstances in which he was living, not understanding larger dynamics at work and so how do you see some of that Once again there's contingency, there's a lot of things that and then wow they happen, right? I like how you've always who would always use Economics is a very powerful profession. I like economics a lot. I have a lot of friends who are economists, their models are very impressive but they always have that line in them All other factors held constant comma and then you're off to the races In geopolitics, nothing is held constant. And so we have this policy advice the economists are dominant. Economists have the ears of officials, and then one day bad stuff happens, and everyone discovers that they're murdering each other. And so then the geopolitics And all of a sudden it's geopolitics 24/7, geopolitical risk and all sorts of and the economists for a time get eclipsed we're having war or there's a pandemic But that's wrong also; So economics is really important; So it's peace and prosperity, and we can't let one occlude the other or just because it seems to be So I try to keep a balanced perspective knowing that it's never as good it's never as bad as people say, economics is just as important as geopolitics even when it doesn't seem to be the case I want to take you to the present. And we kind of talked about this This is on the topic of Ukraine. You've asserted a few times as opposed to winning the war. All wars are about winning the peace. Wars are generally a miscalculation; they generally don't turn out they rarely deliver the advantages But it's not the war per say, So for example, the United States but then we lost the peace. I think it's pretty clear we helped another alternative but in the fullness of time, Iraq is a little bit more ambiguous; looks like we lost the peace, In Vietnam, the United States lost the war Vietnam is a remarkably despite the atrocities that Vietnam has this amazing It's really moving to see that museum And at the same time, the towards me as an American, same towards South Koreans, and the South Koreans as you know in that horrific war in Vietnam. And so that's really interesting. You can not only win a war you can lose a war and win the peace. So, kind of how do you win That was my question early on. I understand that we need to talk and I have talked about the war, Is there an after the war, and therefore how should we if our goal is to win the peace? So, Ukraine defined a victory as recovery of which is under Russian occupation now; a war crimes tribunals for those who and reparations for all the damage So, those are fully understandable At a justice level, this is a criminal what Russia has done. But in order to achieve those war aims, to achieve a victory defined that way, you have to take Moscow So Ukraine is not taking Moscow, and therefore that version of victory As much as it is understandable you can't achieve that in reality. So, what's a better defition of victory? A better definition of victory, now remember we're sitting here Palo Alto California. We're not under bombardment, we haven't had our sons or our sisters, aunts and uncles killed. We're not victims of rape So it's a lot easier for us than it is for the Ukrainians as we sit here and speak. But I think we can talk about as Ukraine getting into the European Union and Ukraine getting some sort of security guarantee. Now, why does Ukraine need Well because it needs that to transform its domestic institutions; to go from a poorly institutionalized, extremely corrupt state to more like a European state with rule of law, open society, free and open media, because Ukraine is remarkably poor And then a security guarantee it then isn't destroyed again. What might that accession process look like? What might the security guarantee look like? I think those are worthy of debate and they are being debated, But to get to that road, You need the fighting to stop. Meaning, you don't need to get in order to start the process transformation of institutions, rebuilding the country in new economy It would be better if you got but it would be much better with an armistice of gaining a Ukraine Ukraine needs Ukraine. Russia doesn't need Ukraine, And so, getting however much of Ukraine and transforming it into a European country, joining the West is how we would put it. Ukraine wants to join Europe, that's why they opposed domestic tyrants that's why they overthrew Yanukovich who fled to Russia. They risk their lives to join Europe and then the fullscale invasion of February 2022. So, that I think is means how do you get to that point that's a better definition of victory So if you look at the Korean Peninsula, of course is a very unsatisfactory outcome; it's only an armistice, They're technically still at war, but there's not large scale fighting. Yes, the families were separated, because the border was closed. And yes, North Korea does a lot of things that the South Koreans regard and so it's unsatisfactory. But still, on the other side with the American Security umbrella, they got an American Security umbrella. They built or rebuilt one of the most as you know, South Korea. It's unbelievably impressive what they did. Again, it's not perfect, it would have been much better But hey, look what they've achieved. And so an outcome like that for Ukraine and would not necessarily involve Ukraine South Korea doesn't acknowledge that quite the contrary, You've mentioned the EU and you've talked about bilateral plus Yes. So right now what's on the table is not a treaty where someone else will come but instead a promise to arm Ukraine What's happening now during the war That's the guarantee they're talking about. Next level up would be some type of treaty, probably not with NATO and there isn't a consensus to extend while it's still at war We're not sure that so we have to live in the world Sure, Ukraine would love to be in NATO, and sure, many officials in NATO but is it feasible? And if it's not And so some type of security would have to be sold to the American people the same way that the one the one with Japan, the one with Australia, is supported by the American people That hasn't happened yet but that could also be joined This is why I call it bilateral plus. For example Poland might wish to join, for example the Baltic states, maybe one or two of them would like to join, maybe the Scandinavians like. So it's a kind of proto version more than just what South Korea has but less than the full NATO. So that would be a big step forward, we would have to prepare the US public and the US Congress, the Senate especially, We're far away from that now, so that people understand You think about Crimea. Crimea internationally recognized because in 1991 when it was part of Ukraine, Well, does it make sense for winning the peace First of all, how would they get it back? You'd have to take it because Russia has it. People say that this is like Munich and I say, &quot;Well, Hitler was given He didn't have it yet; Putin has taken Crimea; He's got it now, it's your potential bargaining chip Moreover, if you do try to take it back what does that give you? It gives you a bad choice of the necessity, You have 2.5 million ethnic Russians are you going to remove them all Otherwise, you have 2.5 million Russians who might not want to live inside Ukraine and might be available for insurgency or sabotage manipulated by Moscow by the Kremlin, and so incorporating Crimea back for your EU accession process, for your overall stability, plus it incentivizes regime in Moscow, whether the Putin one or the one after that it incentivizes Russian rulers and get it back because since Catherine the Great since 1783, and for Russia it's mother's milk, and it's hard to to see how So it has all sorts of potential The final argument Crimea does Russia can use it to attack Ukraine, that's what they're doing now. But Russia can use Russian territory even without Crimea, and it's also possible to demilitarize Crimea even if it was not regained And so, you have to win the peace and you have to think about all of the ways or you don't have an insurgency inside or you don't get yourself involved because ethnic cleansing is not minority rights are, but minority rights can be manipulated So, this is complex; it's fraud. You have a lot of emotion and I'm not trying to underplay I'm just trying to say how do we win the peace so that we don't get an endless war, but instead we get a stable Ukraine that can aspired to become something I want to switch to China, to your earlier statement about could be deemed as a pivot to Asia? Explain that to some of us in Southeast Asia So, many people in the United States which is an absurd concept because the United States has been has huge financial investments where it's just a colossal investor, technology transfer, people-to-people exchange America is in Asia deeply already, but the pivot to Asia was meant as from the Middle East to the Indo-Pacific. So, that was the intention, and that also implied maybe Europe and the US shouldn't expand especially military, with NATO. Why can't Europe defend itself And so the notion of pivot to Asia take it from here, put it over there, the world is changing, we have demands at home, we can't be everywhere So, it's understandable, but it turned out that the war in Ukraine galvanized/resuscitated NATO and the EU, and also brought Europe and the US because China, as you know, has supported Russia's war effort. And so, the Europeans had been from the United States to a degree China and the US were going to be one the status quo power, it was inevitable that but hey we're Europe, so let's distance ourselves from the US and have a more friendly face towards China and have mutual enrichment, And then they discovered that blew up in their face, maybe it's not so good to be that that mistreats its people at home and might therefore behave abroad throw its weight around, bully, coercion, So the Europeans came much closer as a result of the revival of transatlanticism sparked by Russia's aggression against Ukraine and Ukraine's ingenious and So Ukraine gave Europe a gift, which was a revival of the institutional West which turns out to be really important So the pivot to Asia was because Germany and France and the UK Now we have to remember that it is an institutional term. Russia is a European country culturally, but it is not Western institutionally, whereas Japan is not European culturally, Japan looks like a western country institutionally. That goes for Japan's former colonies, it goes for Australia; and one could argue, It's a little more complicated there, But there's a larger non-geographic West that's a club of likeminded rule of law, open economies, open societies, in the sense that they feel whether they're culturally European or not, and many of them are not. And so that's really valuable to have. Whereas Russia, China, Iran, nor in value terms do they identify They're Eurasian ancient civilizations, or in the Chinese case claiming And so there's a big difference in that where if you're going to confront China and it's nice to have and countries that share your values I agree that we have to share China has been here a long time, they're going to be here a long time they're just a remarkable civilization. Their achievements are breathtaking. My wife for 15 years worked at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and I used to take the kids I used to go meet my wife on my own and she's in the Asian art department, and I have to tell you again and again, there's more even if you've seen it every day So China just takes the breath away. We have to share the planet with China, The ocean is wet. We have to share the planet with China. The point is what are the terms and how do we negotiate those terms so that the rule of law, the institutional West Yes, we make a lot of mistakes. Yes, there are a lot of policies and actions from that Vietnam War There's a lot of agony that comes from mistakes, and more than mistakes It's very imperfect but we live in a world Is it better to make the West or is it better to undermine and get something else more hierarchical, less free and open. And so I'm all in favor I just want to negotiate the terms, and I want to have leverage so that we can defend our values and institutions We can recognize China's greatness, but we don't want to live under Xinjiang, we don't want to live we don't want that to happen because China has huge influence and power We want to push back, we want to share in that commercial success We want to push back on use to enforce a different world order that is safe or more secure but not for the kind of values You've expressed this view with respect to Kissinger's outreach With the benefit of hindsight, to make the two largest countries or a little bit better? I mean, you've given description that should have been instilled Hindsight is a lot easier than foresight, and being a critic from an office than being Secretary of State where you have imperfect information, lots of pressures from interest groups So we have to be careful not to be where we know better, we're smarter, I would just say it this way: we're a lot stronger than we think, We're just a lot more powerful and in addition we have a lot of friends, they're so capable, and they're voluntarily our friends; So that's how we have to approach China. we have to approach China with not arrogance, not hubris, but a sense of our own leverage what makes for our success but also with our friends and allies in step. A bilateral US-China won't work because we need to have taken into consideration in those negotiations and in that deal-making The whole point of the American World Order is that it provides opportunity for others, That's what we got to reinforce, and therefore our friends and partners and our actions that may be unilateral; we have to understand what the effects are as well as those who are not yet but might want to be one day So, self-confidence plus humility, a larger room rather than just and making sure that we don't undermine in the deals that we might make And so that's much harder; it requires more work, more talking not just with the Chinese to understand what the effects might be, whether it's in Indonesia or Japan or South Africa or any other place we could add in many many other places. We have to understand we have to understand the aspirations and sometimes we have to compromise. Stephen, I know you got to go, The first one is with respect to that took place in West Asia recently. You've talked about how the Middle East between China and the US, right. And the second question is this perception of this increasing hegemony which is kind of inevitable. I'm just curious as to what your thoughts are Again, we have to be careful to what their challenges are, we can't refract everything through So in other words, let's have because it's important for China policy. No, let's have a conversation or let's have a conversation with Indonesia because it's important in and of itself, not solely and not even predominantly I think that's a mindset that we have to overcome. The other piece I would say we can't be naive about China's aspirations. They want a world that works for China, which means works for that doesn't threaten or undermine a regime which doesn't submit to regular elections, which imposes censorship. For them, the world is dangerous right now because America and its friends which is appealing not just to our populations And of course Taiwan has under Chinese language. They don't think of themselves they think of themselves but nonetheless it's an important of how a Chinese speaking entity And so we need to remember that from commercial relations, the more interdependent we get the more leverage they can have over our sovereignty, over our institutions, We're free and open societies, And so we just have to be careful to protect our institutions, while benefiting from the commercial relations. So, again, lack of understanding that through commercial relations and in some cases already are choosing. So, I'm all in favor, I'm all in favor of win-win commercial ties. But what are the terms? Are the terms reciprocity? Are the terms actual win-win? Or are the terms more coercive, more influence buying, more turning the world in a direction and corrosive for democratic rule of law regimes? Anyway, thank you so much - Really a pleasure talking to you. I got tons of more questions, We'll revisit for sure. It's a great pleasure that and that we raise the interest here in America. That was Stephen Kotkin from Stanford University. Thank you.