This honey hunting work Only people who are strong, brave, Just over that is a huge drop. And they look totally comfortable. Just getting ready there, The honey at this time [of the year] yet intoxicating at the same time. Thus, large amounts of this honey Even a couple of drops can have an [Mad Honey] People drive like maniacs, There's a weird order to it. So, everyone sort of, you know, manages not to kill each other even though it feels like it. We're heading west and to the basically the foothills And we're going to meet up It's a community indigenous And twice a year, they harvest honey It's one of the oldest methods And this time of year in the spring, that honey is rich with which has a psychedelic effect. We're not exactly sure what the but we're going to join and try some of the honey We came to Nepal seeking a rare a wild honey infused that comes Mad honey has a range of reputations, from an aphrodisiac, a deadly poison, To find out what mad honey we embarked on a long journey to the tiny Gurung village That is an incredible view. It's just so vast. Once you get up here, It's kind of hard to the sheer magnitude of how far When the paved roads came to an end, a group of Gurung came to help up to their village. This is the man right here, Mingma. We have 13 guys carrying our stuff. There's all the camera gear And they showed me how to using their foreheads. I gave it a try. How long did you say you can walk More like ten to fifteen. This is how people tend to roll, So I've got to say, for not carrying my own stuff. But, you know, when in Rome, right? When in Annapurna. It's, like, a thing too, you know, we got all these guys are wearing and a short-sleeved button-down. And they're just doing it. They're just trudging up, Alright, you ready Mingmar? You ready? So, as we were hiking up just now, Durga, who is one of our porters, said he had a little treat can I see? -What's this right here? Ganja. So, that's a ball of hash. Rub the hashish leaves between your After it turns black, That's crazy. I've tried making It takes a minute, it takes a lot of We're about to get to the Gurung It sounds like there's going to be Clap everyone, clap! Welcome them nicely! The Gurung have lived in remote for centuries. Their culture is still steeped in which has been passed down for longer They also know how to throw a party. And the local chief was eager to of their way of life. Or three. Three times. There's a three drink minimum here. This way, three times. With respect, To respect and honor our guest means So this is a beverage called Raksi, It tastes a little sake. As remote as this place is, everyone's got their cell phones out, A couple of people just So, you know, even though things are changing, clearly. So, as long as this village your people Why do you guys do it? Our ancestors hunted for honey And now we don't want to stop This honey can also be used Thus, despite the risks, So what's special about the honey that we're going to be The honey at this time [of the year] at the same time. When intoxicated, you feel as if Thus, large amounts of this honey You should, at the most, only Who exactly are the honey hunters Just because you are a Gurung of honey hunting. Only people who are strong, brave, Do the Gurung people have who are making this honey? The bees give us this sweet goodness. They give us this nutritious honey but we aren't able to give anything Yet they stick around with us. We feel like this is a gift to us As night fell on Talo Chipla, and performed a religious to ensure everyone's safety We're at the top of the hill, the There's a bee on your head. Could somebody swat You got that? Thank you. Yeah, where's the hat? Give me my hat! Everyone's got and a couple of guys are Seems like it's kind of an There's bees everywhere. As soon as we got to the top of got stung in the back. So I know he probably hates because these things hurt. Look at the I was going to catch one to show you. But like, look at these ****. They're massive. Are you guys expecting I'm guessing it's going to be The bees have already If the bees attack you, it means the We should put a spoonful of it This will make you very healthy. It sounds like you guys but this stuff **** you up, So, do you guys use it recreationally People become healthy They don't consume this to party. -We're pretty much ready to go. -Ready? Alright, let's go, So, now they're making the ladder. We've got these two super thick ropes of bamboo. And they basically have with arrowheads carved into So, they're making pretty quick They've already got and they're going to hang And some lunatic's Durga is showing me So basically, we're going to gather to burn, to create that smoke and at the top of the cliff Cut all these together. -So, do I cut here? All together. Nice. You see how swole up It's because he's been stung by bees A lot of the guys at the camp have It seems like Like everyone has their own And they all have this common goal And everyone sort of rallies But of course, there's definitely And they've been doing it So it's somewhere in between My name is Ashdhan, and I have been doing this for ten years. So, how much did you practice before the first time I didn't practice I went directly in. Have you ever made a mistake? No, of course not. The one who goes down You shouldn't be scared either... maybe a little nervous maybe a little hesitation while stepping down in the beginning... but the nervousness disappears You don't work here because someone or even because you really You work here because society As time went by, I started really It's very relaxing once we have Our friends become very happy To get to the hives underneath the hunters work in teams. One cuts down the honey that catches the combs It used to be a job for one, but younger hunters are still They're dumping all the broken-up and then separating it has already been consumed But some of it's good to go, and they're putting it in this little and that's dripping down. So, what's in that bucket is minus all the wax and the bees. Just the good ****. My name is Ash Bahadur. I've known about [honey hunting] I am old and can't climb anymore, While some [of the hunters] are and others are preparing the baskets, I tell everyone what to do Since they are young hunters, they were not able to come up With persistence, I keep teaching I made this. What do you think -To cut the hives. Who taught you this skill? You see, we're still kids. -You're still young. Older people like them and our But the younger Gurung kids go to Who do they learn from? Those kids come back home So it's not like the Gurung kids and forget about this work? No, it's not like that. If they forgetting our culture. Our culture and traditions It seems like a lot of fun as well. We have fun because we are all Alright, are we going to Alright, so we're eating Wow, that's really sweet and tasty. Should I eat more, Not too much. Not too much? Alright, I don't want to go over because that's the difference and getting sick. I'm just going to eat another For now. And I'll wait a little bit One more? Alright. Cool, let's do it. It tastes like strong It's sweet, but it doesn't kind of a smoky flavor to it, almost. And it burns your throat But it feels good. Feels like medicine. I'm starting to feel It feels like I just took It's not super strong. I just feel, like, a little buzz, And it's funny, as I'm talking it's actually getting Durga is definitely You can tell, It's really a unique thing and they're loving it. And it's just honey It's just honey and you eat it It's crazy. You guys have got to try Too much honey? Yeah, too much honey. Light it up, brother. Hail to Shambhu. -You call Shambhu? What does Shambhu mean? Shambhu... it's another Ah, OK. So, is the high you get the same as the high from hashish? I feel both give you You feel high slowly on hashish, the To first time users, the high [Honey hunting] is an old tradition Don't you feel like telling people what is happening here? I feel this is a beautiful place where the bees come people have never seen what They don't know. We should allow this so that it continues and people will Thanks a lot, and I had a lot I am also very happy that I met you. Will you come back again? Absolutely, I'll come back. I'll come I'll absolutely come back, brother. Definitely. When the hunt was over for the day, we packed up camp Let's make a big effort. Looks like it's done now. Seeing their reverence for the hunt, it became clear what It's so ingrained that it transcends psychoactive properties, This is for you. You won't get bit. Thanks for everything, I feel pretty **** up, honestly, It's like icy hot. It's like a It's kind of like being stoned, but it's kind of like being Like when you eat just two grams of mushrooms almost lockjaw feeling, like your and you feel loose A guy just walked by, There goes another one. But that's about as articulate But yes. Honey, good. Honey, good. That's it.