Space is pretty deadly. But is it so deadly that we're effectively Many have claimed this is the case, but a few scientists have actually figured it out. Ever since Enrico Fermi asked his famous question "Where is everybody?" We've pondered the mystery of the Fermi In a galaxy where billions of planets have civilizations, why don't we see any evidence There are many possible answers to this, varying from the uplifting - like the idea that we are among the first to overcome some extreme evolutionary challenges - to the horrific - like the prospect that every civilization annihilates itself. We've mentioned all of these before. But there's very commonly cited explanation It's perhaps the most boring explanation possible. We've avoided it because, frankly, I don't It's the idea that we don't see aliens hard for anyone to bother. Technological civilizations like our own may and advancement far exceeding our own. But none ever manage to populate the galaxy because sending living creatures between the stars is so difficult that it's just not So today we're going to explore this question our species' lifespan huddled in our own There are two factors that make interstellar The first and most obvious and the one you That's the absurdly large distances involved. The nearest star, Proxima centauri, is 4.2 It would take the fastest spacecraft we've Parker solar probe - over 7000 years to reach For humans to travel the stars, travel time which means traveling at relativistic speeds But this is actually a solvable problem. The Breakthrough Starshot program proposes sails, which would be accelerated to 20% light speed by a giant array of lasers back on earth. These craft are little more than computer of magnitude more mass for life support and But there are proposed advanced forms of propulsion that could in principle accelerate a proper spacecraft to a fair fraction of the speed For example, really REALLY big light sails, engines. Some of these may be achievable in the distant but foreseeable future. The issue of the crazy distances should be the second problem - which is that that interstellar space wants to murder us. ISM is the official acronym - not interstellar The space between the stars in our galaxy It's filled with diffuse gas and dust grains. This stuff may be sparse, but at relativistic And that's to say nothing of cosmic rays on their own. This is the number one potential dealbreaker Our glorious star-spanning future depends can a ship large enough to carry humans be adding so much extra mass that accelerating such a ship becomes a practical impossibility. And if the answer is no, have we solved the Is the answer to Enrico Fermi's question, "where is everybody?" may simply be "everybody stayed at home." To figure this out, let's design the most imagine. We're going to send a starship to the Proxima Centauri with the aim of getting them there in a generation, and hopefully alive. We'll be using a propulsion system that How far do we get before we're obliterated Well, At 0.2 c, an encounter with a grain a few hundred million joules of kinetic energy. It vaporizes our ship instantly. So do we not even make it out of our solar Well, maybe not. These sort of micrometeorites are somewhat common within the solar system - leftovers from the formation of the planetary system. This impact probability is way too high to Fortunately, micrometeoroid abundance drops dramatically as we leave the solar system. So maybe we punch straight up out of the solar system to avoid the much higher density of junk in the ecliptic plane - and maybe we from Earth. Then we angle towards Proxima Cen and and see how far we can get into the 20+ year journey we manage before we get roasted. To figure this out, let's go over what the It's 99% gas by mass and 1% very tiny dust That gas is around 90% hydrogen, and most of the rest is helium with traces of heavier elements The average gas density through the Milky however the Sun is in an under-dense region It was probably created by a past supernova Around these parts there's on average one The dust consists of silicate and carbonaceous molecules that have clumped together into grains. This stuff comes from heavy elements that ejected in supernovae or in the winds from giant stars. These elements find each other and form molecules, and the molecules then clump together into grains. Most of these grains are between a tenth to Grains larger than this are exceedingly rare So rare that we get to pretty much ignore our ship. Even the smaller grains are sparse, at around So both the gas and the dust are diffuse, That means we're guaranteed to hit a lot None of those impacts are going to wipe the Think about a satellite or meteoroid entering They start to burn up almost as soon as they a millionth the density of sea-level. That's because these objects are traveling And that's the speed of impact with every air molecule, and so a lot of kinetic energy gets dumped into the falling object, usually destroying them before they hits the ground. Interstellar space is quite a bit less dense around 10^16. But we're also traveling around 10,000 times satellite. So how quickly do we burn up at 0.2c? The kinetic energy deposited by each particles is 1/2 times mass times velocity squared. Factoring in the relative densities, particle our ship by the ISM is around a billion times So it sounds like we might be OK with moderate shielding and heat dissipation. But there's another issue. At these speeds, every single impacting atom or molecule can cause damage. In a 2016 paper, Thiem Hoang and collaborators calculated the damage by individual particle impacts. They figure that the light hydrogen and helium don't do lasting damage - they just deposit heat. But each impact by a heavier elements leaves permanent scars, with the relatively common oxygen and extra massive iron adding up to most of the damage. Traveling to Alpha Cen at 0.2c results in But only to a depth of half a millimeter or The damage due to dust impact is similar, vaporized or eroded by tiny impact craters light years. So you DO need a bit of a shield, but not the ship. A windshield, in fact. So we can minimise the additional weight by possible. The Hoang paper wasn't actually focused on missions like Breakthrough Starshot where the "spaceship" is a wafer-thin chip for which a millimeter ablation is significant. It turns out that for the sorts of missions our entire payload could be destroyed by gas OK, so far interstellar travel is sounding the journey. Moderate shielding is sufficient for nearby might get us to more distant parts of the There are more advanced options for the latter - for example, deflection of grains by magnetic fields or a shielding mass moving in front But to begin our interstellar adventure we But there is a more subtle hazard. One that could result in our starship reaching a dead crew. That hazard is radiation. While the ship's hull will stop heavier atoms can penetrate an order of magnitude Such atoms will be stripped of their electrons to become high-energy protons, in other words, they become radiation. In a 2006 paper, Oleg Semyonov calculated ship at any relativistic speed would be subjected to levels of radiation comparable to the core of a nuclear reactor. Needless to say, this is instantly lethal A titanium windshield a centimeter or two this radiation at 20% c, as would be a shield option because you're carrying that water You also need an inner layer of lead or similar to block the secondary radiation. If you want to travel at speeds closer to of titanium or tens of meters of water. At any relativistic speed, spacewalks outside But none of this helps against the other type Interstellar space is flooded with high energy iron nuclei. These things are accelerated in the monstrous magnetic fields of black holes and supernovae and of the galaxy itself. That radiation dose from cosmic rays is lower than that of the interstellar gas - it's not instantly lethal, but will significantly However it's harder to protect against cosmic rays because they hit the ship from all directions. If you manage to accelerate to 80 or 90% light speed then most of the cosmic rays will hit from in front, and then your windshield protects you. But at more plausible speeds the ship will A meter-thick shell of water around the entire ship would do the trick, but would add a prohibitive mass - too much to accelerate txo relativistic of starship propulsion technology. Most likely the first generations of interstellar travelers will have to accept the health risks and hope that the destination is worth it. For interstellar trips further than a few medium, micrometeoroids and cosmic rays will have to get more serious. But it turns out there's nothing in principle system to the next. Interstellar travel is very difficult, but medium it's not impossible. And it's certainly not a clear explanation The universe may be trying to kill us, but it's not trying quite hard enough. Not hard enough to stop us from stretching our species' reach to distant tracts of interstellar space time. Making Space time would not be possible without the generous support of everyone who's joined us on Patreon. Now besides the good feels that come from helping us make a show that you like, there are also some cool perks for members, including access to Q&amp;A. Today I want to give an extra special shoutout to Amy Hickman, who's supporting us at the Big Bang level. Amy, we were going to offer you a seat on as thanks for your support. After making this episode we thought better Instead we're offering you a seat on the less likely to be destroyed by micrometeoroid impact after we figure out what we screwed up with the first stellar journey. Amy, thanks for helping us reach for the stars. In the last two episodes we went pretty deep. We talked about how quantum mechanics can be derived as a model of our information about the world, rather than the world itself. And then we covered a new idea that might involving a pretty crazily abstract idea including imaginary replica black holes connected by virtual wormholes. Let's jump down the wormhole again. Clay Farris Naff asks whether Zeilinger description of informational quantum mechanics is consistent with Hawking's late-in-life anti-realist stance? I'd say yes, as far as I understand the In his book The Grand Design" Hawking says, concept of reality. Instead we will adopt a view that we will a physical theory or world picture is a model of the model to observations. This isn't a new idea - Bohr and Heisenberg But this is the philosophy behind Zeilinger's Yash Chaurasia asks whether asking an electron &quot;are you a particle?&quot; automatically answers &quot;are you a wave?". To refresh your memory, the wave-particle quantum mechanics in that you couldn't simultaneously extract answers to both questions. But if there are only two possible answers the other. Very insightful, Yash. Part of the problem is that we don't know so we don't know if a quantum system's Yash goes on to say "I might have got it the two questions: &quot;what's your phase?&quot; and Framed as yes/no questions. Yash, but you didn't get it wrong - that's You can either ask about the wave-like properties (for example the phase), not both at the same time with the same question. Okay. On to the black hole stuff. Robert Pruitt asks whether the fundamental black hole, given that they do so in the high The answer is that yes, towards the singularity at the center of a black hole matter should reach arbitrarily high densities and energies behaving as we know it. For sure that means reaching the conditions force combine, but almost certainly also the strong force and perhaps gravity also. But I wouldn't say that we can't even We have robust theories for the unification And we even have ideas for black holes in the fuzzball of string theory, which we did an episode on. Anders Hegvik asks whether by collecting the information from the entangled particles that emerge from a black hole as Hawking radiation, could we in principle learn about the inside of the black hole, given that they are entangled with the black hole interior. Could this, for example, show us how black The answer is yes - if hawking radiation really is entangled with the black hole then in principle we can learn about the black hole interior Actually, simply gaining information about counter to the orthodox black hole theory. It would violate the no-hair theorem, which observed about a black hole from its exterior I feel that a lot of physicists expect the solve the information paradox, but learning exactly how it's violated would be revolutionary. Otinane Yos asks whether we can be sure that virtual particle - antiparticle pairs get separated near a Black Hole event horizon. The answer is that we've never detected hawking radiation, but several lines of pretty sound reasoning indicate it must be real. And most of those lines of reasoning say nothing about virtual pairs of particles. Hawking's original argument talked about modes of the quantum vacuum. The virtual particle picture is a sort of on, although I have seen a derivation that Check out our hawking radiation episode for Gene quips: Physicists looking at a wormhole say &quot;Can this solve the black hole information paradox?&quot; While Normal people looking at a wormhole it??&quot; I'm frankly offended by this. Physicists are more like "Hmm. . can this solve the information paradox and if so can can I figure out how to fly through wormholes?" Really, the implication that physicists are less childish than regular people is insulting.