Welcome to GlobalFoundries York. And what is it that you guys Roughly? We put out about a GlobalFoundries isn't the most hype right now. It's not making chips at tripling its stock value as its chips change what's But behind the scenes, essential, quietly helping device. Look around and look at your house and I would bet those devices has at least it. This is one of the misnomers from is that they're not nanometer chips. They're not making the arm Apple. So they're not That's just patently false. It can be a 12 cent part enables it to work and not In its short 14 year risen to the world's third manufacturing chips for them. Its chips are inside to cars, smart speakers to dishwashers. And yes, the AI. You'll find power management find wireless connectivity So it's an indirect AI play play. Five years ago, the company leading edge chips, exiting Taiwan Semiconductor But now, as tensions with world's reliance on TSMC technological tug of war GlobalFoundries finds outside the geopolitical In a period of time where nationalistic interest, I GlobalFoundries really Now GF is spending billions Singapore, Germany, France CNBC went for a firsthand chipmaking looks like on soil and to ask how it plans on the older chips still devices. It all began in 2009 when decided to break off its into a separate company and chips. GlobalFoundries took plant, or Fab, in Dresden, At the time, it was a joint government of Abu Dhabi's The company was run by a Middle East, which often and scrutiny. But it's no surprise for the immensely expensive The cost was also why AMD Now a tech analyst, Patrick at the time. Our founder, Jerry Sanders fabs, so the thought of AMD into its own company But AMD had to do it. Expenses for leading edge 3 years and right now we're campuses upwards of $100 For the first few years. Amd was GlobalFoundries has grown to become designing graphics I think it worked out for One of GF's first endeavors brand new fab and York in 2009. The next year it expanded purchase of Chartered had acquired IBM's in-house taking over its two By the time we hit 2018, billion business. Unfortunately, it had a to produce profitability or It was chasing the dream of Despite a major need for from its main customer, decided to halt efforts to chips. So in 2018, when I became we decided to make a our energy, all our R&amp;D, deployment to go be the chips. And that began a company around to To this day. GF only makes it calls essential chips smartphones and mini cars This is a wafer. This is a factory. They're 12 This is the largest format If you do secure pay on your credit card or on make the chip that does photographs your camera Well, we make image sensor camera. Do you like the phone? We make the PMICs, that make sure that power We're still talking about are being produced. And cost chips, they tend to be Ultimately, we really need And we found that out full of pickup trucks that they couldn't put the ECU you couldn't install power So GlobalFoundries had a requirement. During the chip shortage in out entirely. That same year GF went GlobalFoundries is middle of the world's top Manufacturing China, Samsung with fabs in United Microelectronics and And it's the only one based Not only do we have a high semiconductor manufacturing UMC, TSMC is twice the size combined. TSMC makes more than 90% of microchips, creating a lot during supply chain of China's continued TSMC also makes older nodes Do you have any aspirations future? In the markets we play in, aspirations. We think in our RF technology and in depleted SoI. We are market leaders in I think that the some technologies that TSMC I think silicon on differentiator when it doesn't use that. To further differentiate At a time of geopolitical GlobalFoundries is to add capacity in parts of It currently has two U.S. Fabs in Essex Junction, and it's adding 800 acres Fab 8, where we took a A lot of equipment you're that we're standing in are iceberg, as we call it. A lot of what you don't see sub fab about 60ft below. Our biggest fab is in is in Dresden. And someday that scale as well. In Singapore, GF just expansion that it says advanced fab. And in June, GF finalized a to build a jointly owned France. But not all global gone smoothly. In 2017, GF made big plans fab in Chengdu, China. Then in 2020, it backed It turned out we had three around the world already underloaded. So adding more couldn't fill our existing create a bigger economic I think GlobalFoundries some extent with China when given a series of market compression. The company was bleeding It wasn't performing well. They were having trouble getting the support from I think ultimately there existed outside of China. Now the U.S. has enacted a chip companies sending only producing older nodes. GF says it's in the clear. Are any of your products foundries impacted by the Very minimally. Weipeng Koh started her engineer at GFS Singapore Now she heads up all of Fab There's been so much back China and chips. Does that actually position you output from three In my opinion, yes. Simply because that we can one site. That is our But staying out of leading avoiding controversy. In 2019, GlobalFoundries over patent infringement, months later. And in April, over alleged sharing of IP Japanese consortium helping chips. Although the chips legacy nodes, the process still incredibly complex. A thousand steps or more in over 90 days for a product come out the other end. It starts with slicing a 200 silicon ingot, then putting FOUP -- Front Opening safely through the clean different steps. We are running about 650 track. And they're going pretty They're traveling at about The enclosed robotic FOUPs workers and us keep the any dust or skin particles. So a cheap typically minuscule devices. So they're very, very contamination is going to Etching and layering is done machines from suppliers This is actually the nice and pristine before You can envision any defect begins, processing would be It all takes a lot of chemical treatment, which water, GF says Fab 8 uses water a day, reclaiming 65% So upstate New York has a to high quality and All that heavy machinery power. About two gigawatts per day. It is power that can just Our lowest cost power is in A lot of our power in facility is at, comes from So it's a greener power. In both Europe and power comes off of natural And then there's the has 13,000 employees For our fab I have about but the whole site is about It's challenging to attract world. Do we have a skilled labor That needs to be addressed? I think in general we We just have to make sure engineering jobs. We've apprenticeship program United States to go create ecosystem around our two York. TSMC recently blamed a for delays to its fab being The high cost of materials make building a fab in the More expensive than in much subsidies have been key for GF says New York pitched in 8, and it's also applied billion National Chips and Although more than 460 But focusing on 12 helps GF keep costs down. The equipment does cost They don't have to build ten years like Samsung, So is there any way to put a wafer like this costs to Well, I won't give a dollar that the factory right there's about a half a inventory that's running product. At the end of that three Globalfoundries is putting And when you can see on this each one of those defines a function. Wafer like this complexity of the design, or in some cases, a couple So who are GF's main output of essential chips? Qualcomm, AMD and NXP In short, it's the world's companies. It's supplying U.S. Defense industries. All the RF goodies. All of the power management Silicon photonics. The defense industry wants to be able to build weapons GlobalFoundries is known for big exclusive deals like June for onshoring and a recent $3 billion of Defense. GlobalFoundries has long term agreements. Effectively, they're saying margin commitment capacity we're going to stand by the For companies hit hardest by with GF is a hedge against In February, General Motors production capacity at GM, their lines got held up because they couldn't get And what GM decided is much supply chain risk. We're going to go directly Now, GF says automotive is segments. It makes all the microcontrollers for braking. The sensing chips battery management chips In 2020, we did under $100 revenue. In 2022, that grew And this year we'll do $1 Meanwhile, the growth of business is slowing slowdown in sales. GF laid off some 800 January and issued weaker guidance for Q3. Smart mobile devices last revenue. While it grew last before. So we've been business and to get more high exposure to smart And while it's not making train large language models will likely create an down the line, including GlobalFoundries. GlobalFoundries supports AI With all this increased data center between servers and between data This is where their silicon moving data around not on But now that we see what and that most of that work every device on the planet AI enabled. I see it as the catalyst in the next eight years and if not more of that