Dear rail-lovers, welcome to Railways Explained. was among most requested by our viewers, an currently underway, Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed In addition to its complexity, this project amazing example of geopolitics influencing game between two Asian powerhouses - China strategic influence in the region of Asia-Pacific. projects, much controversy has accompanied let's not waste no more time and start with and Japan. Shinkansen technology to Indonesia. Considering demographics and traffic needs similar to government under the Japanese International a high-speed rail line on this particular by soft loans from the Japanese government. the construction of high-speed line in the cities of Jakarta and Surabaya. This idea proposal to divide the project into several Jakarta - Bandung, study in 2014 and it showed that the project significant reputation in railway construction Then something happened. This guy, Joko Jokowi in October 2014. stopped all the activities, claiming that are other, more important infrastructure issues of Java. considered a high-speed railway as a priority, different opinion. Although, since taking declining economy, he dedicated to attracting of infrastructure. Therefore, he participated Japan. In Tokyo, Jokowi met Shinzo Abe and secured projects, including Indonesia s first mass in Beijing, he met Chinese Premier Li Keqiang projects. During that visit, China promised infrastructure needs, raising the total to To Japan s surprise, these deals for various by China, included Jakarta-Bandung high-speed made a decision to enable other countries project. Of course, China showed up quickly, study and offered Indonesia a better deal. listen to this: To everyone's surprise, in announced that they are now completely cancelling now looking for the slower and cheaper rail railway line, which was in line with priority government. It was again to focus on infrastructure maritime sector. a new proposal in mid-September 2015, the nor funding by Indonesian Government. This and, at the end of the same month, the Indonesian presented a revised proposal, but it still From all beforementioned, we could conclude project and at the same time brought a big s flexibility was not free. Indonesia had Chinese firms which would produce rolling rail and other light rail systems - not only countries. However, it seems that Indonesia it included the transfer of Chinese technology of certain number of train stations. promised the completion of the project in approach, instead of approach &quot;government-to-government&quot;. government was not required to provide any of the line and all the assets only at the So, for the construction, management, future high-speed rail line, the joint venture called KCIC is consisting of Chinese and Indonesian of 4 companies, owns 60% of shareholdings owns 40%. companies officially signed the deal to build The project cost was estimated at US$5.5 billion, a commitment to fund 75 percent, with the funds will be secured by the joint venture Due to the needs to build a major tunnel through of the tracks and to acquire more land from to US$6 billion, which put significant financial in March 2016, the government of Indonesia to KCIC on the period of 50 years. Then, in the Belt and Road Initiative Summit in Beijing, was aimed to secure the 75% CDB funding of CDB also changed its previous decision to of the land has been fully secured. The total acquisition of which would affect approximately green buffer zones. Considering, this broadly National Land Agency was not able to issue part of the land. In order to facilitate this 2017. Nevertheless, some segments had to remain was still slow. However, until December 2017, After this, and after few other barriers were middle of 2018. Regarding the deadlines, in is expected by October 2020, but in February 2021. the project. rail line in the length of 142,3 km (88,4 with Bandung, one of the major industrial has about 31,7 million inhabitants, while these two cities, along the railway line, is planned to become major residential and this project will certainly be the reduction to about 40 minutes, from current 3 hours, mm) railway line. Also, road traffic congestion that this, 150 km (93 mi) long journey, can Approximately 83 km (52 mi) of future railway of the total length. The biggest object will the eastern suburbs of Jakarta. The project in the total length of almost 17 km (10 mi). project, Chinese companies had insisted to These machines were shipped from China on the first tunnel in the length of 608 m (1994 and technology for the ballastless track are of trains with the speeds up to 350 km/h (217 line are CR400AF Fuxing type. Also, we heard of these train sets, there s a chance that with the idea to allow running on the narrow-gauge appreciate if our rail-lovers from Indonesia However, according to the last available data, be 64% of the total planned works, amid delays Apart from the abovementioned regulatory and be the subject to the risk of possible shortfall total revenue from this project, until 2050, is based on the ticket price of $35, which $16. This fare is 2 times higher than for than in case you decide to take the bus. of $35 is higher than the price of similar in China, which is the line in one of the all. The revenue projection that we mentioned passengers per day will use the service in What we should have in mind, is the fact that the current number of people commuting between which is 19,000 persons per day. In addition, relatively low-cost mini-bus segment. What be a potential demand gap for the high-speed If you remember the beginning of the video, with Indonesia. Well, it s not like that. Japan as the partner for revitalization of Jakarta and Surabaya. The project aims to two cities to the speeds of 140 and 160 km/h. and grade separation of large number of level level-crossings between Jakarta and Surabaya, and the speed of trains. The project phase-1 in the length of 436 km (270 mi), while the Surabaya in the length of 284 km (176 mi). after two years of negotiations, with an initial is expected to shorten the Jakarta-Surabaya to only five hours and 30 minutes. The Construction completed by 2025. high-speed railway line from Bandung to Surabaya, project. Japan rejected the proposal because initial proposal where the high-speed rail the island. However, Indonesian government south side of island bearing in mind it believes be more economically viable. again invited China, which agreed to fund investors to join the initiative, so the South partner in this project. As we saw, the Indonesian high-speed rail can influence and shape the railway projects. the other way around. Sometimes the infrastructure as an important tool in diplomacy and international secure political support from the certain However, Jakarta-Bandung is a high-speed railway with the trains running at 350 kmh, cutting 3 hours to 40 min. Also, this project is marked the Indonesian public transportation system, transportation system that could indeed solve This was Railways Explained, we hope you enjoyed the world. Don t forget to like this video, of course, subscribe to our channel. Until