In a recent video I made about the search both why scientists thought proton decay could when they did not find proton decay in the last which is just why is it that scientists are always The story is actually much more complicated than (intro music) Humanity has always been interested in what we might call big questions, or why the universe is the way it is. Indeed, some of the very earliest This cuneiform tablet, which is dated from about and it details thoughts of the time about how While the tablet is over 3,000 years old, older than that. Thus these questions are ancient ones there are still things that are unknown. as well as the need for improved equipment to as interested in the big questions as I am - the reality. While they may not get the same thrill I layer of nature or getting closer to understanding they still benefit from the science. For example, back in the 1700s, electricity wasn't for eccentric guys to putter with in their labs parties. And now it powers our entire society. While I personally don't understand it, particle we've all benefited greatly from the field. equivalent of Fermilab, invented the World Wide world, speeding up commerce and communication, access to unprecedented information. However, for me and people like the ones who wrote these spinoffs are just nice side effects - get to the key point, which is to answer ancient We now know a great deal about the fundamental Rather than the medieval notion of the we now understand gravity and how it works. This system and study the workings of galaxies and cosmos is called the General Theory of Relativity. On the microscopic side, while the ancient and air were the crucial elements, we now know of and at other similar facilities, we have dug even know of nuclear fusion which powers the sun. and vice versa. We know of a substance called but is definitely real. The name of the theory Standard Model of particle physics. Together, general relativity and the standard the laws of nature. We have made great strides written down on the Eridu Genesis tablet. However, despite our successes, we aren't done. There remain unanswered questions and I want by the way, I have made videos going into all description below. My first example: Why do galaxies rotate much One possible explanation is that there that exerts a gravitational force but Whether dark matter may or may not exist, finding spinning galaxies remains. Scientists around various experimental approaches and comparing which the theory of the Big Bang explains. that there be a form of repulsive gravity. The however, we don't really understand dark energy, The full explanation eludes us, and a detailed the universe remains an open question. We also know that there are interesting leptons. While it just might be a coincidence, table of elements. The explanation for the things, arranged in complex ways, with a nucleus leptons may or may not have the same answer, but the answer of why the pattern persists. My fourth example involves understanding which relies on two seemingly contradictory hot dense state called the Big Bang and The second thing is that energy can be converted have been validated. Yet, when we combine these universe. Our universe is made solely of matter, amounts of matter and antimatter. That's another driving reasons why the Fermilab research program developing huge new particle detectors. The discovery of the Higgs boson was work. The Higgs boson was predicted The boson gives mass to subatomic particles. there is a problem. The standard model predicts ginormous, but it's not. While we have some ideas a fifth unanswered question. This is a technical standard model is, its answers are incomplete. The sixth question has to do with a historical on the Earth and in the heavens are one that electricity and magnetism are the same. researchers proved that electromagnetism It remains quite possible that in the future, different forces actually having a single cause. force. It's another question that, if we answer laws of nature. I listed half a dozen questions, but there are relativity are amazing accomplishments, they need to answer to get to the bottom of things. So, that brings us to the related question, which And the answer is simple. We have smart people think about ways to build equipment that can both researchers in the right direction. The problem, of course, is that nobody knows the questions in different ways and come up with existing data and throw out the ones that disagree are theories that agree with everything we know as an example, let me return to my video on physicists came up with some ideas that might The mathematical ideas were complex, involving a was that protons would decay. So giant detectors The result was that no proton decay was solar neutrinos and neutrino oscillations, and Moving forward, researchers wouldn't build a if detectors were built for other reasons that not also use them to look for proton decay That's the case with Fermilab's Deep Underground They're both being built to do neutrino studies, for free. On the dark matter front, there have been different kinds of dark matter and none be true that this means that dark matter doesn't galaxies rotate so quickly remains unanswered. with ideas - some of which involve dark matter Whatever the explanation, we'll only be able to particle accelerators. Since their invention have been an incredible source of data for physics the standard model would have never been devised. have never understood the Higgs boson and how understanding of a century ago. Fermilab's Tevatron was the world's most powerful During that time, Fermilab researchers made important measurements that might help in the universe, and made many other world. Currently, the Large Hadron Collider is the most Higgs boson, and we are exploring in more and more bosons and quarks. We've also found many particles Combining all of the measurements done using 3,000 scientific papers to share unanswered questions, and even the next generation Based on the century-long success we've had with very reasonable to think that finding more answers Of course, it's important that when one builds they be multi-purpose machines that can answer bang for your buck. I think a key point is that it's important driving this. What's driving the inquiry are the awake at night. To answer questions, sometimes a small experiment is what fits the bill. And proposed experiments are the most promising ones, five or ten years to take stock and decide which The European scientific community just finished going on right now. For several years, using what examined many ideas to make a case for this future Particle Physics Projects Prioritization Panel, or do its best to emphasize the promising ideas and Finally, P5 will make their findings available determination on which projects to pursue and the most promising future research. But, as you think about what scientists are remember why we're doing this at all. Just as the origins of the universe and the deepest laws We've made incredible progress over the past The final answer eludes us and it's going to to get us to the end of the road. This months or years - it will take lifetimes. truth - the only way to complete a journey is to (phasing sound) was maybe a deep video. Every so often, it's picture. This neat problem may be interesting, level those are all details. The final answer is progress depends crucially on answering on having the right equipment and experiments maybe finally shed light on the biggest questions least. And that will be a great day because, (outro music)