- Hi, I'm Angie. - Hi, I'm Sarah. - We're the winners of - Hope you enjoy this video. - The specific thing that has no say is something I kinda. - The same way is becoming a Jew. We have no say. - Yeah, but becoming a Jew doing something to your private parts. (cool music) - [Moderator] Step forward if you agree, Jewish men should be circumcised. - This is part of my but I don't understand would do it. I do it because God says, this is my relationship with you do this. And I will be your God forever. When God says to me, circumcise I do it because that is what Jews do. - I remember hearing a story of a woman who was on a transport to Auschwitz. She had just given birth to a baby boy. And while she was marching, she asked someone for a knife and the German soldier you wanna make your, you wanna bring an end And apparently she took the knife, circumcised her son with the comments so that he should die a jew. These types of images create that our families, our grandparents, will sacrifice their lives to be able to maintain that - For 3,800 years, we Jews have done this. It's only been in the last maybe 20 years that people are starting to The moment you stop and the religious things, - [Moderator] Can the - I just didn't feel it to talk about this because this - I'm circumcised and it's never been, you know an issue for me. Like I never like, oh, I You know it's whatever. I don't remember it so, I have, I guess, some qualms with it about when they have no say and you wanna do it more But the specific thing that has no say is something I kinda. - The same way is becoming a Jew. We have no say. - Yeah, but becoming a mean doing something - This is what God wants. This is the first thing was told by God to do. - When God first asked us to do it, yes Abraham, who then I will do that. - He would have done but God didn't bring (contestants laughing) Hi, my name is Rabbi Chaim. I am on the Orthodox side. I don't believe there's a God. I don't believe in Judaism. Belief means that I accept I know there's a God. I know my Judaism is real. This is the way God created me. This is my purpose. I'm oozing Judaism whether This is who I am. - I don't really believe in a of being Jewish, but I the holidays with my family. It's sort of more of than something I actually do. - [Moderator] Women and men - Not necessarily that we're but especially when it comes to Judaism. A woman historically has always been on a higher spiritual level than men. We are the ones that instill the values, the holiness, the culture. We are very strongly a And it's important that these little TV shows that come out, they like to paint the whole situation as if Orthodox Jewish women and they just wanna leave the community. And it's so hard for them to exist and they have no saying and no life. And it's not true. - I don't go around saying, well, we're totally equal in all areas. I have different because like you said, my soul needs greater Whereas my wife's soul, it's a local call, for me it's a long distance call, but we have different roles. - I want to feel equal in And all you have to do is and take a step back and look where the divider is between And the men have three The women have a quarter and And I wanted to have my time And I'm trying to, you And it was really hard when I was there. - God did create a male If he wanted us all to be then we would've been exactly the same. - God created six other genders as well, which are also in- - We'll get to that, we'll God says, I don't trust men - I've heard that narrative a I think the biggest thing wants to wear a Kippah or a Tallis, she feels like it makes her closer to God, why should she not be allowed to do that? I think that's my biggest issue. - Add that to your Kosher. Add that to the Mikvah, the woman is seriously on a pedestal. - In theory, that But I think in practice, men are you know praying a certain way to, And when women want to do - I just wanna step in for a second. I wanna say, even though I I still believe that if they have the right to do so, and I'm not gonna judge them for it. - [Moderator] I would only - I married somebody Jewish and I wouldn't have thought because marriage is not about love. I'm here to build the next I'm on a mission as a Jew - Marrying a Jew is of primarily because I see what happens to many intermarried Where I see the fights that creep up come Christmas Hanukkah time. Statistically, the divorce rate So why go into a relationship obstacles to prevent you a healthy marriage? - Because I grew up in We're very accepting of and things like that. I mean, definitely is possible, but again, in all different walks of it's so different. - So the couples that you are aware of that were successful what happened to their children mothers Jewish or not? If the mothers were not the kids are not Jewish. - The couples I know are still together. Some of them, the mothers Jewish, some of them, the fathers Jewish, there are more progressive that say that, you know we'll still accept you into the community because we want as many Jews Obviously not always successful, but I have seen those successful I'm Aly, I'm here as a secular Jew. And I identify as a reform Jew. I have dated a non-Jewish and it's something that And I actually kept one for a little bit. This is the one area where for them to, for me to end because again, raising Jewish families and celebrating holidays together it just minimizes conflict. I just find a lot of connection - Just being Jewish be in, oh well, that's someone My dad, who is Jewish. When he started dating my they were, my mom was raised Christian and she wasn't Jewish. She did convert later. They married and it was for like a couple years. - Every person who I've dated or who's ever loved me And I mainly attracted the because I grew up Jewish. I'm Yoanna like Moana, my pronouns are she, they. I'm 20 and I am a secular Jew. My family was Orthodox. I feel judged by Orthodox Jews a lot because I'm queer presenting. I found it very restricting. Now being the kind of it's a lot more freeing, I get to be me. - [Moderator] I support with Palestine. Oh boy. - Israel deserves to exist. Israel is our ancestral homeland. Also Jewish liberation doesn't of Palestinians losing their freedom. So in that sense, I don't However, the conflict is - Like you were saying, it shouldn't have to come at There is a conflict going What's true for us is different than what's true for other people. And we should just be I know we want that. - I think blind support for - Yes. I'm Canadian, do I support every action the Canadian government takes? No. Do I support Canada? Of course. - Okay. I'm going to say something that's most probably going to explode this entire conversation. 1947 there was no such They were Jordanians or Egyptian citizens, in 1948 these Jordanian were told by their people we'll wipe out the Jewish In 1964 Yasser Arafat came out and said, I am going to raise up a people and call them the Palestinians. 'Cause we are going to liberate The question was, do I support the conflict I really don't, because the - My issue with it is that as a people, but that's not- - No, no, no. I didn't say, the Jordanian, why didn't the Jordanians take them in? Why didn't the Egyptians - I, don't know why that a Palestinian people-hood was created and we can't take that away. - But terrorism comes from it. - Terrorism can come from anywhere. We have it in our own country. - I'd like to comment, you know I'm a little sick where American Jews have to by saying that Israel has Israel has a right to exist. You don't hear that language anywhere. No, proud citizen of has the right to exist. England has the right to exist. Do I have to justify it? Do I have to bend over backwards and the acceptance of those who judging me. I won't. - There is always this that's used as very destructive. There is are you Why is it one or the other? But this is the terminology that they use when they are only describing Israel. They don't say, are you - I want to support Israel. I love, I love Israel. I want to love it, I want a safe haven for you know Jews religions and backgrounds. I'm not saying that I am against Israel, totally pro-Palestinian. I'm just saying that there that that Israel does that I, in regards to the Palestinian conflict that I don't agree with at all. I mean, what you were was saying about there being no Palestine before 1924, there may not have been a but there was a burgeoning and and a Palestinian identity - Since 64, since 64- - That's not entirely true. - Look at your history. - I have looked at the history. There was, I mean, there's when exactly it started, but there has been a movement People in that area to create- - Because the king of Jordan did not want them anymore And the people of Egypt said, we don't want these people. - I don't think it matters why. I don't think it's about. I don't think it matters why it happened, it just matters that it happened. - Israel is not causing them to suffer. - That's that's not entirely true. - You show me one policy of that makes the people - The settlements, when they, when they appropriate of the Gaza strip and then and they make roads, and bridges and transportation that But the Palestinians cannot use. - Fantastic argument. You're right. So what was the problem - The problem before the settlements? (contestants arguing) - Why was it terrorism - Why was there a massacre in Chevron before the state of Israel was created? - 1927. - Why did the Arab- - I'm not saying there was no, I'm not saying that there that have never done anything wrong- - What, so I'm just saying I wanted to share with was being attacked let's assume at the UN and everyone's coming after Israel, and Israel feels very isolated. I just want you to imagine when they hear American at that moment, when they want their brothers to support them and when you don't, you have to understand that that they feel and I share that feeling. When I see my fellow American Jews, not supporting our brothers You defend your family. - If my brother or sister did so... Committed a crime and was on death row, I would support them emotionally, but I would hope I would what you did was wrong. - [Moderator] I have ancestors - On my grandmother's side, my grandmother's mother seven or eight siblings that Like great-aunts and uncles - Well, growing up in New York, I didn't know anyone who had Pretty much everyone Holocaust survivor. I know that my mother was She was transported to called Transnistria, where the Germans and the local ruffians took and killing Jews. Just this recently over this past Shabbos I learned my great-grandmother sister perished at Babi would line somebody up and they would fall into a trap. So the Holocaust has very In fact, many times I would even fantasize and think that maybe I'm that died in a concentration because I have such vivid because it burns deeply within me. - What I noticed about the world, we call them Holocaust survivors, the children of Holocaust survivors. I, in my synagogue use a different word. I call them the re the Jewish nation was in We weren't, you know We had small schools, we don't take this kind of things lightly. We rebuild. So I look at that generation just about all the Holocaust people that came out. They said, how are we (indistinct) You brought up how your when she came out what's the first thing that she wanted to carry on? - Have babies, have a Jewish family make up for the loss Her children were my mother's her vindication. I believe that I carry the that I have a added to their memories who have been perished. And to maintain the faith that So it's not just some but I believe I'm an - [Moderator] Jewish people - Okay. - America has been playing the Irish are now white, but 200 years ago they were not. I was like eight or nine or And I'll never forget like that would always play with this ball. One day I walked up to hey, can I please like And they were like, oh I was like, no, look, my hands are clean, my hands are clean, you know and I checked and I was like see and then and they were like, ha, ha ha. The dirt's all over you. And they said, you're black and dirty. And they laughed and then and I was just standing there, like, what does that mean? Every day I woke, I went to sleep. I woke up, I'm like, please Make me lighter like my sister so that they'll like me better. I just had this in grow because of what someone else said. And it also led to moments to be religious anymore. - Well, I disagree with a premise that there is a white I don't think in my grandparents' when they were denied jobs on Chablis. So they didn't have any white privilege when Jews were not allowed I don't see any white privilege there, growing up in Queens, New by the local ruffians. I think it is a myth. I am not saying that there isn't racism, unfair treatment to I'm well aware of it and I - If I took off my Jewish I live my life as a proud Jew because I want people to And I don't want anyone and have maybe regretted hiring me or you know things like that. But again, it's recognizing as a white person in my life. It's hard to recognize - I think part of it is it's doesn't mean you don't have or can have terrible things happen to you. It just means that in America hardships that you go through them because they're white. They go through them for - I grew up in Crown Heights My parents were very poor. I was given a trip by my in the sixties. It was the first time I ever dogs and Jews. And I was on the bottom I want this country to be You shall be judged not but by your actions. If we in America have a problem, keeping to that message what Martin Luther king - There's a thing in It has maintained the ethnic groups in America, ever since the civil And what that means is that zip code and you are from a you cannot get a loan. You cannot get a mortgage. You cannot move out of there. - And why aren't the laws to prevent this? - Redlining are the laws that were created to make this happen. - So- - Let's make America a better place. - You're from Crown Height. You should know redlining exists there. - Excuse me. - You should know redlining. - There is no redlining. - Redlining exists there and Redlining maintains and and anti-blackness. How that works. - I grew up there. How that- - Please let, just let her finish. Please, let her finish. Please let her finish. - She's using my hood. That's why I'm. - Yeah, well, most mine - So the Crown Heights that I grew up in was rough and tumbled, yes. But when there was the rioting, There was a black man I don't know why, but he was my neighbor and he And I gotta tell you we loved, we had dinner together. The Crown Heights I - [Moderator] What does it in U.S.A. - Being a Jewish person in America today means consistently and never seeing any repercussions for it. Which is why I believe that to be proud of being a and anti-Semitism. - anti-Semitism has increased - I agree, especially I kind of grew up seeing anti-Semitism, especially even though I was my first experience with And if you were Orthodox, you felt it. 'Cause you were identified, But if you weren't, you And now it's so outta control look Orthodox experience it daily. So yeah. - Yeah, I mean I run a and when you look up Jewish on Instagram, mine is one of the first So of course we invite the And there was this one 13 year old boys were commenting I wish your grandparents I agreed with Hitler, you know these are two 13 year old boys, - Because of social media, people can hide behind the screen. People can hide and they I used for years, I had a radio show on And then from time to time, I'm not an anti-Semite, but. - Yeah, yeah. - The moment they said that It says, let me re-correct If we took the word no, you're an anti-Jew. Do you know how hard it is anti-Semite's a cool word, It's not so bad, I'm just an anti-Semite. - You know, I never You are so right. - You know what, you know like this is also something that started on social media as well. In the past year what some anti-Jewish would say is I'm a Semite, so we started using - Yeah exactly. - You're anti-Jew. - So what we started, so the terminology that we moving forward is anti-Jew hatred. - [Moderator] We are God's chosen people. - People always talk about Jerusalem being like the holy city. And I always tell people, So that makes me a holy. - We're chosen, but our because some people or that we think we're better than people. No, our purpose in this world - Let's get to the crux of when God created Adam and The religion was seven When the world was destroyed by these seven, God I'm choosing you and your So what does it mean really to be chosen? I got a bigger job for you. - Christians, believe that and everyone else goes to hell. Jews don't believe that. So when we say we're the chosen people, we're not saying that we're the only ones that are good enough to go to heaven. Like you're saying, we just - When I see a general in an army, with all of his medals on his lapel. And I keep thinking about how proud he is to be a member of his army. And he wears his medals with pride. I keep thinking as a Jew, and I what comes to mind is the prayer that we say on the holidays. I'll say it in Hebrew. And then I'll translate it in English. (Baruch praying in foreign language) You chose us above all nations, (Baruch praying in foreign language) You love us. (Baruch praying in foreign language) And you desire us (Baruch praying in foreign language) And you raised us up There's a love of affair between I think it's very, very important that we maintain our pride. We wear our medals with pride. We don't apologize for who we are and we do the best that we can. - I'm gonna say it was a pleasure exposing the Jewish community to the world. (Baruch talking in foreign language) - How beautiful it is when and talk. (Yoanna talking in foreign language) - Very good. (cool music) - Thank you for watching this video. - Please subscribe to this