Sex for grades. University professors sexually harassing and This thing has been going on for years and every single student, there's always a story. We all hear about it. But it's almost never proven. The very first advice I got was don't ever It's as if almost everybody in Nigeria and Ghana knows somebody who's been sexually Nobody wants to listen, nobody wants to believe It's crazy. I know a lot of people that been abused and For the past year I've been working with For the first time ever, we planted journalists - the University of Lagos and the University harass and abuse your sisters, your friends, A lecturer will tell her if you don't sleep Who are you? It's about dehumanising your fellow human I have rights, to my body. You will be shocked by what you'll see. Professors. Senior lecturers. Grooming and seducing students. When somebody's trying to pressurise you offence. My name is Kiki Mordi. Lecturers who harass their students, I want Africa Eye has been watching. This is WFM 91.7. My name is Kiki Mordi and today on the Woman abuse of trust, verbal harassment. We all hear about it and joining us in this of the Lagos State University. Good afternoon sir. Good afternoon. So as the head of a university how severe harassing students is? The challenge is much more than what we are Ok. and all of us must take it very seriously. Alright. The challenge is much more. I take this issue seriously. I was sexually harassed by a lecturer at university. It has been happening across West Africa for We are dealing with an epidemic here. You know the thing about sexual harassers You see that word groom, and groom not in They take time to pick their victims, you to strike. Thank you very much. It is 21 minutes to three. Academic institutions are meant to educate But have become hunting grounds for the sexual Our investigation began at the University It's one of the most prestigious in the Welcome to the University of Lagos. Welcome to the University of Lagos, the university Everyone wants to get into UNILAG. Some of the most powerful and most influential Awazi is a popular radio host in Nigeria and Like many young women who study here, she One minute you're there an innocent undergrad the next minute a lecturer is asking you out My lecturer asked me out on a date. Yeah and I was what, 16? What?! Yes. I've worked with a couple of NGOs over It's just been so normalised. Let's bear in mind that the age of consent People get into uni 16, 17. Some people if they're really smart, some That makes them incredibly vulnerable to predators. Everything is just set up against you. For more than a year, myself and an Africa by UNILAG lecturers. We interviewed dozens of current and former We had eyes everywhere. To protect our sources and our undercover their identities when appearing on camera. We are taking a lot of risks shooting this And a lot of the ladies that we are going hidden. These masks, I want it to represent strength. I want it to represent power. One name kept coming up in our research. A senior lecturer in UNILAG's Faculty of of a local branch of the Foursquare Gospel His name is Dr Boniface Igbeneghu. Several current and former students claimed Two of them agreed to speak to us on camera, He is a respected lecturer. He's risen to be one of the top guys in father figure that wants to protect you and he has ulterior motives. He always seemed really friendly. But eventually I could notice how vindictive Ok. He comes to you and he tells you he is a pastor So what kind of things would he do? He would tell you to come to his office. He would lock the door. Sometimes he would want to grope you. Sometimes he would want to dry hump you. He likes to pick on struggling students because there's nothing they can do. I would try not to aggravate him, because I would beg, I was usually kneeling down, please sir, so.... You're doing well, okay? You're doing so well. He doesn't have that power over you anymore... Do you want us to pause? Alright pause. Sorry. Sexual harassment is actually naked abuse It cannot be consensual because the power relation is not balanced. Somebody has all the power, the other person UNILAG only published a robust sexual harassment It bans lecturers from a wide range of inappropriate to grooming to sexual contact. They are not supposed to be predators, hunting To expose Dr Boniface we needed someone smart. Someone who can convincingly pretend to be We call her Kemi. I'm an angry Nigerian, a woman who is angry women, especially in universities. It's something that has become so normalised. Imagine how insane that is. I really wanted to do something about it. First approaching Dr Boniface at his church, the daughter of a widowed mother, who wanted She also pretended to be 17-years-old - under Two days after making contact, Dr Boniface a tutorial. At all times our undercover operatives carried Testing. Yes, I can hear you. If secretly activated, the rest of our team, come to the rescue. Minutes into our conversation, this doctor a beautiful girl, "you're a beautiful I could tell that the way he was talking to In my mind I'm like, hold on, did I just And then, Dr Boniface promised Kemi admission Then he invited me to his church, I attended, his office. He more or less picked off from where he left Even though I wanted to talk about admission, prayer with him. The weirdest prayer I have ever seen in my The prayer just went on and on and on... His legs wide open jiggling his groin, you with this uncomfotable grin on his face. My eyes were never closed during that prayer, I didn't know what was going to happen. After he shook my hand and welcomed me into It felt like I had been accepted into his And he began to show a deep interest I recognise what Dr Boniface is doing. I know what it was it feels like to be groomed Growing up I always wanted to end up being My Mum used to call me her doctor, her little I was just so fascinated about this stuff. I was definitely passionate then. I was so naive. Becoming a doctor meant even more to me after At 19, I got into one of the best universities So, my matriculation pictures. I was a happy girl. Just floating through life... My dad would have been really proud and really I probably would have been embarrassed because hugs and kisses. Yeah. He used to embarrass me a lot. University was nothing like I imagined. A lecturer began to target me. For two semesters he withheld my exam results When I asked him to explain why, he repeatedly And I wasn't, wasn't going to do that. And as a result, right, my results suffered. I never felt so... I never ever imagined I would be a victim. Unprovoked. I didn't do anything. I'm pretty sure if my dad was there... I never got a degree. I never graduated. The harassment forced me to drop out of university. I had nobody to turn to. No future. No money. It almost destroyed me. There are predators everywhere in the universities. It kills me that there are thousands of other know, different variations of what I went I really want those lecturers to get justice, Sexual predators in universities are not just Of all the universities in West Africa, the most impressive. Its huge campus has produced some of the greatest Presidents have studied here. But beneath this grandeur, sexual abuse lurks Let me see if you still have, like, another And women are now taking matters into their So I'm the lecturer. I call, you come. Hey, pick this thing for me. Harassment here is said to be so bad, an NGO classes - role playing attacks by lecturers How severe would you say this is? Very severe, very severe. I say severe because when you have somebody you in a certain way I think it is very difficult And if your degree is on the line I do think We're not going to keep quiet anymore, because on, they rely on your silence. Africa Eye sent a team to investigate sexual finding evidence some lecturers pressure their Several stories involved a lecturer in the Our undercover operative, Zara, posed as a degree and national service opportunities This was only the second time Dr Butakor had What I noticed was in our interactions he but any time I went to see him in his office I told him relationships were a distraction be a distraction because he was going to be A side, as he put it, is he basically wanted University policy forbids lecturers having are in a position to influence their education misconduct. Even though he didn't explicitly say that for me to be in a relationship with him or it would benefit me in a certain way in my He has made it seem as if you have a choice, place of power. That's really the essence of manipulation, hands, but really it's not. During these conversations, Dr Butakor offered to Zara despite telling her the deadline for Dr Butakor vehemently denies any amorous behaviour with Zara or with any University of Ghana harassment and misconduct rules. He says no formal harassment complaints have He told us he never made inappropriate gestures her or circumventing university process to in return for sex and had absolutely nothing or career options. Comments about Zara being his side chick and her she was beautiful were harmless and a motive and could not be construed to mean Of all the lecturers in the University of political scientist and outspoken commentator, He enjoys a great reputation as a teacher the centre of allegations of sexual harassment. We sent an undercover journalist, known as Posing as a University of Ghana student from she attended one of Gyampo's classes. He agreed to become her mentor. She wrote him essays to review, visited his on her academic work. But not everything felt normal - Professor office. Then, one Sunday afternoon, Abigail received a strange phone call from him. He began to tease her and accuse her of always Abigail tried her best not to upset Gyampo he wanted to come over to her house. She reminded him she was a student and told But Professor Gyampo ignored this. Eventually, Abigail managed to persuade him of her home, later that evening. We knew we would have to be cautious. Long before Abigail met Professor Gyampo, who alleged they had been sexually harassed One of them, who we shall call Naa, agreed You need to build them and cut them into square. You can cut the plantain... Naa told us she was sexually harassed twice She alleges the second incident took place harassment. I felt it was my responsibility to let him so I went to him. He apologised and he tried to console me and I was dumfounded, I just couldn't believe next moment he was on top of me trying to She says her encounters with the professor her traumatised. It's difficult and 'till today I can't I get panics sometimes at night. Yeah. It's not something you get over, especially get justice for what happens to you. Before Abigail reached the shopping mall, over the phone. But we wanted to be sure of his intentions Abigail showed me footage of their encounter. As soon as Gyampo arrived, he insisted on to on the phone. We were just talking about shoes. Kissed violently? I was like, what is going on? After that comment, Abigail felt it was better Once in the shoe shop, Gyampo bought her heels. I had literally seen him four times and all Back in the restaurant, Abigail asked about in mind. Watching the footage, this did not feel like a real marriage proposal. The professor laid out how Abigail would benefit But he seemed more interested in other things. Abigail was then pushed to have a relationship After that, she rang the team and began to Abigail did not hug him. After this meeting she spoke to Professor ok that she didn't want to be his girlfriend Professor Gyampo vehemently denies sexually us he treats them with respect, care and genuine for grades. He says several students have made false accusations were discredited after he confronted them. He says the University has never investigated He told us he never intended to harass Abigail, knew he had offended her. He further claims he was entrapped - which Telling Abigail he could help her to gain had done for others, he says, and he had no He says he routinely commends students on office assistants as wedded wives saying calling How do lecturers like Dr Butakor and Professor The University has a committee which investigates We've learnt they've dealt with a number students and repeatedly recommended these But in every instance, the university chose Is it hiding the true scale of campus abuse The University of Ghana categorically denies to have engaged in sexual harassment or misconduct. They say they've sanctioned individuals They add they've vigorously debated naming their policy of not doing so. The University says they've been pro-active out the problem, encouraging students and where needed. The University considers the allegations against disturbing and both men will be investigated. Back in Lagos, tensions over sexual harassment How are we surviving? What are we turning into? It's sad. These things happen every day. Close to two hundred people are out on the women accusing a famous pastor plus a university Many men on social media have accused the I really wish as a country, as a people, we victims to abusers. The shame belongs to them. They are the ones that should be ashamed. Over at the UNILAG campus, our investigation turned to its senior staff club - a place We discovered lecturers were inviting female But what goes on inside? When our operative Kemi went to meet Dr Boniface more. I'd heard a lot of stories about the staff Doctor Boniface. He describes the place to me and even orders office that day, to turn off the light, just is; how dark it is. Lecturers are only allowed to date students if they do date they have to inform university He tells me how, you know, the relationships Sex for grades. Someone who claims to be a man of God tells Earlier, while I was keeping guard for Kemi economics lecturer Dr Samuel Oladipo - thinking pulled me by my hands to his office and pressured It's the perfect example of the kind of UNILAG. Later, I told Dr Oladipo, I was a student He invited me to his office three times for He was consistently inappropriate with me. It was clear he was more interested in seducing At one point he leaned in really close to I could see from his eye line that he was, breasts. I tried to talk about education, but then my hand. He repeatedly asked me to the senior staff At the end of our third office meeting, I He seemed eager to enter. Once inside, he took me to what I later learned This is the place where Doctor Boniface Igbeneghu them and I'm being walked into this room The atmosphere is weird, the windows are blacked Women are offered alcohol. Look around you don't see any male students. Just girls. Right there in the senior staff club. Were these women students? I'm sitting down on my own trying to avoid me to dance, you know, trying to pull me to And this other senior lecturer, a really older literally lift me up to dance. And I'm telling everyone 'I don't I went to find a quiet corner. Dr Oladipo joined me. I knew that, according to the university's student academic help, helping her transfer with her. Because I mean, there is a conflict of interest So I asked him about it. I tested him, I wanted to know if he knew Misleading me about the rules. Trying to make it look like it's ok for When I told him I was ready to go he was reluctant. As I was walking down the stairs, he reached It's like I'm in this space all over again How are they even allowed to do this nonsense? I'm not the only one that goes through this. Everybody, it's like your rite of passage. This is what female students have to go through. Dr Oladipo sent us this response. Dr Oladipo claims it was Kiki who greeted He admits he held her by the hand as she moved He says he never tried to seduce her for sexual her to the so-called cold room; visiting it, birthday party. He denies trying to touch her breast, saying Sexual harassment destroys lives. A former student of Dr Boniface told us he She says that ordeal, and past abuse, has since she graduated. We must hide her identity to protect her. I can't bring myself to go to church because preaching I see Boniface. He touched me inappropriately over ten times I never, ever gave my consent once. There was a time he was preparing for bible study and he was groping me and he was writing There was a time he told me, when he's done lecturer in my department, to do what he likes me to someone else and there is nothing I I felt like I would be better off dead and I want lecturers like him, who do what they do, I want them to stop. Nobody deserves to feel or go through what Nobody. The final time Kemi was invited to meet Dr He said it was quiet and nobody was around. We had a bad feeling about this meeting, so outside Dr Boniface's door. He offered Kemi non-alcoholic wine. It became clear to me that it was all a ploy We went from talking about me getting admission, to kiss me. When I wasn't giving him the kind of response This time he wasn't smiling any more. My hands are shaking, my heart is beating, still trying to do my work as a journalist; I've ever done in my life.... After I refused to give him consent, he stood He remained in there for just over a minute. In my head I'm thinking, I'm this close had to weigh my options; to press the panic go.... Dr Boniface eventually released Kemi when Once there she locked herself in. I called a member of the team. But then I wanted him to hear my conversation I wanted him to know somebody was just waiting And so when I finally came out, he starts It made me feel so small, so irrelevant, so, Dr Boniface then warned Kemi there would be You know, there are so many women who have experienced things like this, even more awful experiences and they just keep quiet, they they feel no one will do anything about it. This is not a story about bravery; I don't I think I'm somebody who sees injustice do something about it... We put our evidence to Dr Boniface and he UNILAG told us it totally dissociates itself and Dr Olidapo, saying as a reputable university and wants sexual harassment of female students The university says it has a zero tolerance of student interests and organises new student procedures - cutting red tape to ensure They say if evidence of wrongdoing by staff They did not comment on the so-called cold room. Despite everything I have seen, everything I choose to stand up for these girls, to help You know who you are. Students are watching. Parents are watching. And in the shadows, we are watching too.