My name is Jiang Yuanyuan Dating with Lu Zhaowei for 7 years We are finally getting married Others said we would be a happy couple. The day I put on my wedding dress I see happiness right before my eyes But I didn't expect Some people hate me because of this happiness Pushed me into the abyss on the eve of my wedding How is it? Does it look good? Looking good is better than wearing anything else Miss Jiao is very young Already a top jewelry designer Only someone like her is worthy of Mr. Lu. What are you saying? sorry Jiang Yuanyuan and Lu Zhaobei are mine Don't let anyone take him away. Jiang Yuanyuan's message has been sent Do it tonight This is the design treasure I lost. How come it's at your place? Of course I found it back I know this is your most satisfying work. Of course I will help you get it back at all costs. Here you look I personally found someone to make it for you. How do you like it? Yeah, I like it so much. Zhang Bei, you are so nice to me Wenyuan, I will treat you well forever Tomorrow is our wedding. Well, I will definitely make you the happiest groom Zhao Ben, I also have a surprise for you What a surprise! I'll tell you the secret tomorrow after the wedding. Go back and rest. All right Then I'm leaving. Go ahead Lu Zhao, you are going to be a father Hahahaha oops The girls are pretty good looking. Bring it back and let me have some fun It's better to die anyway. Hahaha Hey, it's done. The final payment will be refunded Hey, all the guests are here. This bride has no future yet Are you trying to embarrass us on purpose? Yuanyuan, what happened to you? We have searched all the places where Mr. Lu and Ms. Jiang gather. did not find Hum son I told you a long time ago That woman is not a good person. From head to toe, nothing can compare to Xiao Rou Xiaorou grew up in our Lu family. Know everything You have to go out and find that wild woman Let people see our Lu family's joke enough Brother Zhaobei Sister Yuanyuan is not regretting her marriage, is she? impossible Assistant Zhou, please send someone to the hospital. Go to the police station There must have been an accident. Brother Zhao Bei Brother Zhao Bei Brother Zhao Bei I searched all over Ancheng. No news from Sister Yuanyuan Sister Yuanyuan may have really left She doesn't want you to find her. You'll definitely find him. It's raining so hard You will get sick Brother Zhao Fei Let me accompany you from now on, okay? Son, this woman really doesn't remember anything. Don't worry, mom I'm looking for a foot The doctor said He has reached the top. I don't even remember my own name Look at it hehe Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Oh, ok. Isn't this just picking up a wife for nothing? is not that right She's pretty. She is so beautiful that she even saves money on betrothal gifts. Hahaha, go quickly. Wan'er Wan'er How come you even forgot your own name? Your name is Zhao Waner She is the daughter-in-law of our Zheng family. Remember, my wife. Yesterday you accidentally hit your head Some things I don't remember It's alright now. Come and cook for our family. Go quickly! Go to nana nana Go quickly hahahaha snort It surprised me that This bitch was actually pregnant The new daughter-in-law gave birth only 6 months after entering the house If the neighbors knew this Where can we put our Zheng family's face? You shameless bastard If you dare to give birth I'll throw it out for you. I just can't possibly want someone else's bastard. Give birth to one and see What are you doing? Yuanyuan, where are you? There is news from Mr. Lu Zhengjia Village Someone said that someone saw it in the delivery room of the hospital. False news What Bring someone to look for it. Jiang Yuanyuan, this bitch Isn't he dead? Hey, send someone to Zhengjia Village immediately. We must find Jiang Yuanyuan before Lu Zhaobei mom The child is dead. died How come my wallet is so fast? Mom, it's okay, it's okay Stop thinking about it. Get up and work. Are you sure it's that bitch's child? It was confirmed that the child was abandoned in the hospital As for the future I kept it from him. Accompany me to find Live to see people If you want to see the body of a dead person, Brother Zhaobei Sister Yuanyuan seems to have left her child behind Brother Zhaobei I am very worried about Sister Yuanyuan's situation. So I sent someone to look for I just got the news today and rushed here She found out she had left her child behind. Jiangning you are pregnant why did not you tell me Why did you abandon me? child I will find you I must be you That's all. Did you hide the money? I'm telling you starting from tomorrow Make me some more clothes Did you hear that? Like waste What are you still doing here? Sweep the floor now. The clothes were washed Then, then, then, can't you see? What are you looking at? After 5 years of hard work I finally bought this villa I can finally relax a little bit now. That yellow-faced woman won't come over suddenly, will she? What if he sees me? Hey, just see it. I just want to marry you Hahaha Zheng Hao What are you doing What are you doing? What are you doing? Can't you see? You dare to stare at me You yellow-faced woman Zheng Hao Oh OK OK Get out of here! Don't bother us Good thing, right? Ha ha ha ha What did you say Zheng Hao This is the house I bought You let me get out Please take a good look at this property certificate. It's my name that's written now. This house is mine. I told you to get out Get out of here right now. This is impossible This is my day job for five years. Drawing design at night Hard-earned How can the house you come to have your name on it? You give it to him Get out of here Su Meng is now the number one designer in Ancheng If you hurt him Can you afford the compensation, you yellow-faced woman? I've worked several jobs over the years. It's all for you For our family Why are you doing this to me? Come and see Su Mengzi Can you help me get the cooperation with Lu Group? Continental Unlimited Assets Um Take another look You only know how to wash clothes and cook. I feel ashamed to take you out. my face Just a scar You yellow-faced woman It's just as ugly with or without this scar Look at your current behavior. You look at it and you feel sick Get out of here now You can go Give me back all my stuff. This house is mine too. I have packed your luggage for you. What good can come from a wave of breaking? When our Zheng family took you in, we didn't even give you a dowry. Now you want to take away my son's property. You dream on. Since it is broken Then I'll help you throw it away, okay? Hahahaha snort These are the things you take away It's really the same I think it smells sour. Only this jade pendant seems to be worth a few dollars My jade pendant Well, a servant like you It's simply not worthy of such a good thing. Ha ha ha ha This design Where did you get this design? That's my design. You give it back to me That's my design. You can't take it away If Zheng Shuang took this design to Lu Group Definitely win the cooperation real Oh, your red scarf is still useful. That's my design. You give it back to me Hey hey hey grab go Die Grab again, grab again, grab Let's get on with the business. If we are found to have plagiarized I'm afraid it will be bad for the company. I don't have money anyway. I should die Visitors No You let go You let go Oh, old squirrel. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Ha ha go to hell hahahahahahahaha So handsome Ha ha ha ha I want to take you back to my world This kind of ending are you OK Thank you thank you for saving me Mommy mommy How did your face get hurt? Does it hurt? Xuanxuan will blow for you. If my child were still alive, he would be this big. I'm not your person Xuejuan can't just yell &quot;Mom&quot; It must be painful to be injured. Miss, I see you are injured. Do I need to take you to the hospital? Thank you Mother Lu Chenxuan is not allowed to yell outside Mom, but he is mom. You don't have a mother Girl, where are you? I disinfected the wound on your face. It will be fine in a few days. But because of the growth There may be small moles on the face Doctor, thank you, doctor Zhenghao Sumu You guys wait for me He will take back everything that belongs to him. Look at that person, he might not be from the countryside. What are you wearing? I guess this guy can't afford anything. that is Seeing this little thing This is all the savings I owe you over the years You must make all of you system Yeah, very elegant. Suning, you must do it We will repay you a hundredfold Mr. Lu is holding a formal signing ceremony today. The design draft and related files are here. I heard that this is a new design company. I didn't expect them to pass this screening. It seems that their designers are very talented. This mark Is this Jiang Yuanyuan? impossible Why did Jiang Ningning suddenly appear? What's wrong Ahhh Nothing, Brother Zhaobei How about I go to the signing ceremony this time? After all, you are the president of Lu Group. This small company's signature The appointment ceremony asked me, the director of the design department, to attend I've given them enough face. Yeah, maybe Is this design nice? Look so seriously show me Uh, there's nothing nice about this. Very ordinary and not worth mentioning Then I'll go first. Jiang Yanyan I will never let you see Brother Chaobei again. ah Ah, Brother Zhangbei Ah, Brother Zhao Bei This one is already dirty. I'll take it back and deal with it. If it's not such a small matter, let Assistant Zhou go. You go take care of the signing ceremony. This is a company secret. You must clean it up. yes Congratulations! Haha, I didn't expect that Zheng's You can get a job opportunity Zheng Shao is really young and promising Yeah yeah I heard that this design is the work of Miss Su I've heard that Miss Su is a talented designer. I didn't expect her appearance to be so outstanding. She is really talented and beautiful. of course Xiao Mo is the daughter-in-law of our Zheng family. How did I hear that, daughter-in-law? Zheng Shao married a rural person a few years ago. Yeah I must have remembered it wrong. I remembered that he was divorced a long time ago. A country cat wants to be the daughter-in-law of my Zheng family He also deserves Who says I don't deserve it? Yes, this temperament and beauty are absolutely amazing Prove that your designer Su Meng is comparable to him The difference is not being together If it's not my design There will be no signing ceremony. Why can't I come? What nonsense are you talking about? Today is my son Good day Stop talking nonsense here, you unlucky thing. You still dare to do it? You took my property. Copy my design I won't let you win You took it from me I will make you pay back tenfold or a hundredfold Zhao Wen You are tired of living You ran here to cause trouble. Today is Lu's signing ceremony. Not your kind Anyone can come in. Every big shot here You can't afford to offend any of them I advise you to pack up and get out You are embarrassing yourself here As a well-known designer The work submitted turned out to be stolen I think you are the one who is embarrassed I will wait for Mr. Lu to arrive. Tell me the truth Let you be ruined Assistant Zhou, don't you want these anymore? Just throw it away if you don't want it anymore. Remember to shred the files OK etc. You go down Why does this pattern look so familiar? Is it going out? What's wrong, Mr. Lu? Mr. Lu, this is the design draft submitted by the Zheng family. look This is the design I made. How come it's at your place? Of course I found it. I know this is your most satisfying work. Of course I will help you get it back at all costs. This is the original corpse picture Absolutely It's him He's back. Hurry up! Let's go to the signing meeting Yuanyuan must be there, definitely It turns out that he is Zheng Shao's ex-wife I think he's really alive. have no choice The Zheng family and the Lu family signed a contract on such an important occasion He dares to cause trouble A divorced woman She's wearing such fancy clothes Why do you come to this kind of place to show off? Shameless Yes, a country woman. I guess I've never even seen what jewelry looks like. How dare she say Miss Su plagiarized her? Humph, you really don't know how to live or die Mr. Lu will be here soon. She must be dead. Even Zhang Wan'er heard it. Su Meng is a famous designer who studied abroad. A country bastard A lowly person like you. No one believes what dogs say. If you continue to rely on him Only bring shame upon oneself Death of Zhao Waner Lu Group is the world's number one jewelry company President Lu is even more superior Money is not something that people like you can just get if you want to. I advise you to hurry up Get out of here now Men, drag this woman out. Let me go, you are the ones who plagiarized This is my work What does the noise look like? This is Director Qin from the Design Department. Attended the signing ceremony on behalf of Mr. Lu Jiang Yuanyuan is actually you Director Qin cannot sign The design draft of Zhengjia Focus was plagiarized from me Doesn't he remember anything? you do not know me I really didn't know you before But Director Qin Please believe me What are you? please believe me What are you? You are not allowed to make decisions about Lu's Group. I said Shut up, did I allow you to talk? Zhao Wan is still here trying to attract attention Director Qin is a senior executive of Lu Group Director Qin means Mr. Lu, why don't you get out of here right away? Ha ha Zhao Waner, no matter who you are With this face I will never give you the chance to meet Brother Zhao Bei A wild goddess who came from nowhere How dare you use such dirty tricks in front of me? Defamation of the designer I must teach you a lesson today. Hahaha You'll never become a jewelry designer in your life Don't even think about getting close to the Lu family. I'll cripple his hand first. Then smash his face. stop Round round You are finally back What are you going to do? you do not know me This woman Why does it feel familiar? Ouch, Road This woman She is my ex-wife Zhao Wanyan I don't know how she did it. She got in on her own. me I'll have her kicked out right away. You are obviously Jiang Yuanyuan Say what's your name? Zhao Lang impossible You are obviously round Zhaobei Brother You got the wrong person Zhaobei Mu Zhaobei If the man who saved me that night But why did he call me Yuanyuan? There is no such thing on the round face. The mole is not round. But how is it possible? How can there be someone so similar? Brother Zhaozi We got the wrong person. He looks a lot like Sister Yuanyuan But not Sister Yuanyuan Weekly processing to check It's Mr. Lu What were you doing? I am he is this woman plagiarizing Brother Zhao Bei Aren't you the one who hates plagiarism the most? People like him should be punished No, the Zheng family plagiarized my work. You woman Didn't you hear what Mr. Qin just said? You are still arguing oops This woman, Mr. Lu, is the divorced woman of the Zheng family. He was kicked out by Zheng Shao. So I hate Zheng Shaoman That's why he came to make trouble Oh, that's right He is just a lunatic who seeks to attract attention I'll have him kicked out right away. Security guard Slow down, come here What you said is true. What you said is true. They stole my design. shut up Our Zheng family is where we are today thanks to Miss Su. You are a peasant woman who only knows how to wash clothes and cook. I don't know shit about design You are just a country girl who can only deliver food. You are also qualified to say that you know jewelry design You are the one talking nonsense Each of these pictures has my mark on it. These designs are really mine. Design Information A set of actors No one can design so many works I know this woman too well. She is the crazy one who is just trying to attract attention For so many years, I have been working like a slave for the Zheng family. If it weren't for me You Zheng family I still live in that shabby house in the countryside. There would be nothing like what we have now. Zheng Hao, you are worse than a beast It's enough Contract cancellation Lu never cooperates with designers who plagiarize Zhao Wan, you woman How dare you ruin my good deeds? I'll show you what happens if you go against me. In front of me The adults are too brave. In front of me Adults are too brave It's big. I'm sorry, Ms. Lu. She is a lunatic Don't let her fool you. Yes, Brother Zhao Bei This cooperation is with people we carefully selected You must not act on impulse. My judgment is not questioned by anyone. Zhao Waner Zhao Waner, I haven't seen you for such a long time. It's like you changed your face. It turned out that she was on the road to seduction with great effort It's really cheap. What do you mean I've seen a lot of women like you. Dress up with great care Mixed into this upper class Isn't it just to seduce men? Okay, your name is Wan'er It's only been a few days since you divorced me So shameless! If our Zheng family hadn't taken you in, You died outside. When did you go to Zheng's house? Report I was the one who hit this part with my car. Just ran away and wait He has been an orphan since childhood. It was our ID that gave him the shelter. Report that this lady's information has been found Hey hey hey Brother Zhangbei Hey Mr. Lu oops Is he really Jiang Yuanyuan? No, I have to find a way quickly. What should I do Did Mr. Lu discover We stole this design. Mr. Lu was so angry just now But he only took Zhang Wan'er with him. It means he didn't fully believe it. What the crazy woman said You are the future wife of the president of Lu Group Look at our cooperation. You are Zhao Waner's ex-husband I have nothing to do with that woman. Don't worry As long as you do what I say Lu's cooperation is yours Hahahaha Manager Han, haha Go all the way What on earth are you going to do? Who are you? I investigated you You grew up in the Zheng family. But Why can't I find any information about you from 5 years ago? How can it be who are you Who taught you Marking on the design And the previous car accident This is also a trap you deliberately set up. You approach me deliberately with this face What is the purpose? You approach me deliberately with this face What is the purpose? I didn't have that day you saved me Thank you very much I never meant to get close to you. roll dad Why do you bully my mother? Xuanxuan, why are you here? I won't come again My mother is going to be bullied by you and run away again Mom, you look so beautiful today. Miss But I'm not your mother Mom can't yell But you look exactly like my mother. You are my mother Xuanxuan has never seen his mother How could he respect Zhao Wan'er so much? I can't describe such a vicious person. Why do you look so ignorant? Dad, please apologize to mom. Maybe I misunderstood just now I apologize to you But I still have a question Where were you 5 years ago? Why can't I find any information about you from 5 years ago? 5 years ago actually Of course he was feeding pigs in the countryside 5 years ago Brother Zhao Bei His face is fake. News about Sister Yuanyuan's disappearance The news spread among the upper class in Ancheng. This woman must have gotten the news from somewhere. That's why I folded my face like this on purpose Just to attract your attention. come over You are not him Staring at this face It just makes me feel sick. She actually used plastic surgery to seduce men You really put a lot of effort into it. It's a pity that a lowly person like you I also want to get the attention of Brother Chaobei It's just wishful thinking I I don't I'm not going for plastic surgery I'm going to have scar removal surgery. That's enough. I don't want to hear you worrying about me. Mom, don't say mom. She's not your mother. You don't have a mom mom There's news that Mr. Lu is looking for compensation from Yu. What was found Mr. Lu has news about the jade pendant. What was found Someone saw the jade pendant in a hospital It was said that a girl left it there. Xuanxuan is you There has been no news for so many years. Could it be that I saw it wrong? You send Xuanxuan home. I warn you Don't even think about appearing next to Brother Zhaobei in the future Xuanxuan goes home Is this the patient Zhao Waner? You left a jade pendant in the hospital. Come and get it now Sorry, we cannot disclose patient information at will. what do you mean There was indeed a lady holding a jade pendant Received treatment in hospital Feel sorry Assistant Zhou immediately checked all the surveillance cameras around the hospital. Um The jade pendant is still dark The door with the jade pendant is the hospital. Fortunately, it was not lost But why did Lu Zhaoben say I can't find my information from 5 years ago This incident hurt me but there is no evidence Could it be that this suspicious compensation was originally mine? But why only half? Is that half the same as what I remembered before? This is a custom made room that I specially arranged. Why does it hurt so much? Who are you? I have investigated But Why can't I find any information about you from 5 years ago? Could it be that Zheng Hang has been lying? What happened in front of you? It can be accumulated five years ago Mother Xuanxuan misses you Xuanxuan, why are you here? How to cry ah Ahhh Xuanxuan refused to sleep I have to come to you to make a fuss I just came here It's okay. I'm here. You haven't got a job yet? I'll give you 50,000 a month. Come to the Lu family to take care of Xuanxuan Don't you want to get closer to me? Give you this opportunity Mr. Lu I already said I never wanted to get close to you 100,000 per month As far as I know, you were kicked out by the Zheng family. Probably need money. It's not about the money Although I also like Tianjin But my dream is to become a jewelry designer Too many things have been arranged before. Now I just want to give it my all I have my own things to do. I'm afraid I don't have the energy to take care of my grandchildren. Is it because Is it because what's your name ah Feel sorry Can I stay with Xuanxuan? Dad, you are not a big guy. Can I have my mother accompany me? I can arrange for you to enter the room Xuanxuan has to go to kindergarten during the day You just need to take care of him when he's out of school. It won't delay your work Mom, don't you like Xuanxuan anymore? If my child were still alive He will protect his mother like this. Okay, I promise you. But you remember I just saw it in front of Xuanxuan Great, Mom. Do you want to drink it yourself or do you want me to feed you? you are late Sorry it's my first time here Not familiar with the road Grandma, come here soon Let's eat together Xuanxuan, look what I brought you fruit cake Let's go to school after we finish eating, okay? thanks Mom But Xuanxuan can't eat mangoes Xuanxuan is allergic to mango Mango Allergy Allergic Where did you come from, kid? Where did you come from, kid? Of course he was born by his biological mother. Is there any need to ask? What about his mother? Why are you asking this, mom? Aren't you right here? Zhao Bao, don't think about it Your child died five years ago. Brother Zhao Bei Why is he here? Oh, I asked him to come and take care of Xuanxuan correct I arranged a position for him in the design department of the studio. You take him to the room today. Hello, my name is Zhao Wei I'm sorry to bother you today. Mother Let's go! I'm gonna be late Xuanxuan Aunt Qin will drive you to school today, okay? Don't you like Aunt Qin the most? No, I want my mother to send me to school. Ms. Qin Sending Xuanxuan to school is also part of my job Let me do it, Mom. Don't follow that girl People spoke I'm going to be late for school. Jiang Yuanyuan is gone Here comes another Zhao Waner Brother Zhaobei It can only be me No one of you can take it away Hey, have you heard? That woman was arranged by our President Lu himself. What Mr. Lu has always been fair and just. Never give privileges to those around you Even Miss Qin, who grew up in the Lu family All of them had to pass multiple interviews to get into Lu's headquarters. Where does he come from? What could it be? He's just a low-level guy who delivers takeout and distributes flyers. How could Mr. Du allow such a person to enter the room? Didn't he use some shameful means? Woman, oh It's a rich man's plaything. The novelty has worn off Hum will be stepped on In my opinion It won't be long He will be fired by Mr. Lu. Hey, Miss Qin, you are here. Have you prepared the new product plan for next season? it is done I personally reported to Mr. Lu at the afternoon meeting Don't worry. You give this to Zhao Waner Just say it's a design draft of a new product Ask him to give it to Mr. Lu at the weekly meeting this afternoon This is Miss Jiang's previous work. Mr. Lu said No one can send That's why I asked her to deliver it. Like him A person who gets opportunities by throwing herself into the arms of a man Don't you want to kick him out of the company? yes This is This is the design draft of the new product for next quarter You will be in charge of the new product report at today's weekly meeting. I just joined the company today. Besides, this is not my work. It would be better to let the designer himself report. If you are allowed to go, go Why so much nonsense? This is your chance to prove yourself. After all, the entire department You are the only one who got in through the back door. This is not Miss Jiang's previous design draft. Mr. Lu never lets anyone move. Just wait and see the show Mr. Lu This is the design draft of the new product Zhao Waner You are so brave. I gave you face, didn't I? What's wrong You think Xuanxuan likes you Can you take advantage of me? Who do you think you are Who told you to touch these designs? Mr. Lu, I am just reporting on the new product design. Even if we introduce these designs It's not your turn to introduce Mr. Lu, even if I lack experience You don't have to say that to me. These are just some design drafts Who told you to say that? What qualifications do you have to say such things? Brother Zhaobei What happened Zhao Waner, I'm warning you Xuanxuan likes you It doesn't mean you can do whatever you want in Lu's company. If you dare to touch things in my office again Get out of Lu's Zhao Waner, you dare to touch Sister Yuanyuan's design draft See how I teach you a lesson These designs were given to me by my supervisor. Still quibbling It was you who took Sister Yuanyuan's design Want to be in the spotlight Still here shamelessly shirking responsibility There is something I don't have Stop pretending to be pitiful. The inferiors are the inferiors. I touched something I shouldn't have touched and I'm still quibbling okay This matter ends here Take him down Tell him the company's rules It's Zhaobei brother Do not worry What are you going to do? Why are you doing this to me? Because of your face You were just a flyer handing out flyers on the street. The low-class delivery man Why do you appear next to Brother Zhaobei? Let me go you Isn't the company afraid that Mr. Lu will know if they think this way? So what if I know I was spoiled by Mrs. Lu since I was a child. You are just the bottom of society. Hold him down for me. I advise you not to be delusional. Stay with Brother Zhaobei He looks at you more Because of you bitch The face looks exactly like Jiang Yuanyuan's If I didn't have this face Do you think anyone would care if you died? Xuanyuan Where are you? All surveillance cameras near Lu General Hospital have been checked. I didn't expect to take a photo of Miss Zhao Waner. I'm not going for plastic surgery I'm going to have scar removal surgery. Could it be that Zhao Wan'er is really Yuanyuan? That won't work. What are you pretending for? What do you think you are? I have only known Zhaobei brother for a few days. Dare to enter the Lu family No, I did it all for Xuanxuan What qualifications do you have to take care of Xuanxuan? I am the future mistress of the Lu family. Xuanxuan's future mother A lowly person like you is not even worthy of being Xuanxuan's babysitter. Hey, you want to buy Xuanxuan with just a piece of cake Approaching Brother Chaobei I've seen a lot of women like you. You can fool others but you can't fool me You like cake, right? I'll let you eat enough today. Hold it for me. Hahahaha no I can't eat I can't eat Give me some food, dare you snatch it from me, brother Zhaobei This is what happens to you hahahaha slower ha Hahaha Ha ha ha ha what sound cough cough cough cough Hey hahahaha Hey, hey, look at this. He has a rash on his face. Ouch, so disgusting. Hahaha So disgusting to me The other party is empty and begs you to let go Allergic reaction, it seems I didn't think it through. Look at your face full of wounds and rashes. Why don't you let me help you disinfect it? Hahahaha Ha ha Hahahaha Hahahahahaha let me go Release You can only blame yourself This face She looks exactly like that bitch Jiang Yuanyuan Round If you want to blame someone, blame your lowly origins. No one loves me Social scum like you Sooner or later you will be hated Why don't you let me help you? Send you a ride As long as you die I am the only one left with Brother Zhaobei Whoever is inside, come out Get out of here! Miss Qin, what are you going to do? I know all the ways. You have to kick us out. What am I afraid of? I am from the Lu family. Who can drive you out when I'm here? Help Help shut up What are you doing standing there? Open the door now You bitch How dare you push me open Miss Lu came to the company suddenly In your office? Xuanxuan Take a look at what's going on inside. Xuanxuan You don't go to kindergarten. Why are you running here, Dad? Being bullied by others These designs were given to me by my supervisor. no no Could it be that the person who was in there just now was Zhao Wan'er? You bitch I still want to ask Brother Chaobei to save you It's a pity that Brother Chaobei won't come to protect you Go shut this bitch's mouth Do I force the dead? Who will rescue? I Miss Qin, Mr. Lu asked me to come over and take a look. Did something happen in there? Nothing I just came to the warehouse to find something oh Mr. Lu asked me to come and see Zhao Waner Miss, I have searched the entire company. Also not found This warehouse is all that's left. May I ask Miss Qin? Did you see it when you just entered? Miss Zhao didn't see it Whose voice is that? Assistant Zhou You heard wrong There's really no one here. Ms. Qin Zhao Wan'er was arranged by President Lu himself. I'm afraid it's not a good idea for you to do this. so what He is just a man of low birth. The lower class in society He is not qualified to enter the Lu room Not even qualified to enter the Lu family Who said he was not qualified? Mr. Lu, you are becoming more and more courageous now. Even my people dare to move You are becoming more courageous now. Even my people dare to move Brother Zhaobei How did you come If I don't come Are you planning to torture him to death? how could be Brother Zhaobei I do not have it Step aside Oh no Brother Zhaobei You can't go in Get lost Brother Zhaobei It's very dangerous here It's so messy, you really can't go in. Um Get out Sorry, I am late Who told you to do this? Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu It's Miss Qin Miss Qin asked us to do this. Brother Zhangbei Don't listen to their nonsense. is that you Brother Zhangbei It's this bitch He brought it upon himself I'm just teaching him a lesson for you. Qin Rong, you grew up in my Lu family. It doesn't mean you can do whatever you want in front of me. There will be next time Get out of the Lu family! Brother Chaobei I know I'm wrong But I follow your meaning Teach him some road test rules I just taught him a lesson. I'll only say it once I'm heading north It's not your turn to learn a lesson These guys kicked me out of the road test Citywide ban Clean the warehouse spotlessly before you leave Miss Qin Miss Qin Miss Qin, please save us. Please let me go Miss Qin Miss Qin Please let me go Can't be without a job Miss Qin, didn't you say Are you the future president's wife? It's not my business Someone, take them out for me. Didn't you say it was okay? Miss Qin Miss Qin Help me Miss Qin, please Help me Lu Tong I don't want it Lu Tong Not as bad as I thought. I don't want anyone in the company to misunderstand our relationship again Otherwise you get out of Hearthstone too North City Brother North City Brother Isn't this the jade pendant that Brother Zhao Bei has been looking for? Zhao Waner It's Jiang Yuanyuan Jiang Yuanyuan You're back Brother Zhaobei can only be mine I won't let you take him away. Mr. Lu and Ms. Zhao's injuries are not serious. It's just that the allergic reaction is a bit severe Just rest for a few days. Allergy Miss Zhao I'm allergic to mango. Be careful Ah good Mango Allergy Is it the same as wet ginseng? you're awake Um Thank you, Mr. Lu I've always had a question for you. Do you have a jade pendant? Jade Pendant I have it What's wrong What does it look like? May I take a look at it My jade pendant Where's my jade pendant? Someone under Mr. Lu sent a message Said he had seen the jade pendant inside Lu's company What I should have thought of it earlier Mother Xuanxuan, stay here well Stop running around! Dad will be back soon, you know? Mom, what are you looking for? Xuanxuan, I lost my jade pendant. Have you seen a jade pendant? There is no such thing as a jade pendant. Xuanxuan has money and can buy you lots of jade pendants That jade pendant is very precious. Money can't buy it Now I'll help you find it. good Hey Xuanxuan The garbage is dirty You can't throw Wait for me here But I also want to find it with my mother When we grow up I will wash my hands thoroughly Why What's wrong with this person? Come out and pick up trash With children The children still pick up It's so pitiful No jade pendant I can't even find the memory of 5 years ago Is this my destiny? Mom, I found it. Thank you Xuanxuan Mother You're welcome But you have to take good care of your things. Mom, wait for me here. Come on, help me. Hello, Miss What are you doing standing here? My mother's clothes are all dirty. Help her change into a new one Yes Miss Look at your clothes. Don't wear it for my mother. Miss Should I let my daughter wear this ocean star necklace? It's so ordinary. Go get the letter green good Are the bags ready? Yes, wait a minute Ready All the ladies are the latest products from top brands Grandma, which one do you want? This is too exaggerated. Xuanxuan, this is the company Is this where your father works? Is it possible? Okay then, you go first. Don't disturb other people's work. Yes Yes Xuanxuan is so cute hahaha Hahahahahaha Yo Isn't this our great designer Zhao Wan'er? Hey, this is what I said I ask you Su Meng and I came to Lu's to discuss cooperation But how could someone as lowly as you be in Lu's headquarters? Look at you, you're dirty You tried your best to seduce Mr. Lu But just to come to Lu Group Be a cleaner. Then you are a cleaner You have to look like a cleaner. Did someone let you into this VIP lounge? This is the VIP lounge. But Mr. Lu Specially prepared for our partners How can someone like you just come in? I advise you Get out now. This isn't the place for you. Why This bag This bag is a limited edition master design model This is what I gave to my mother. You're not allowed to run Where did this little beggar come from? Tell Xuexue to get up quickly. Does it hurt, mom? I'm fine What did he call you? He called you mom Hahahaha Zhao Waner It's only been a few days since we last met. You become a mother. You don't even spare the children? It's only been a few days since we last met. You've become a mother. You don't even spare the children? What happened to the child? I pushed him, what happened? What if I beat him today? I tell you Zheng Wan'er, you woman, how long have you been divorced from me? You're that old. In the past, you were so shameless. You have done a lot. What nonsense are you talking about? We talk nonsense It seems like you are being forced to be a mother. Zhao Waner, you are really cheap. Just come here secretly by yourself And a little wild one If something in here is broken, can you afford to pay for it? It's everything here. I'm afraid you haven't even spent your salary for more than ten years. You have never seen anything like this since you were born. Good stuff Zhao Waner, let me advise you sometimes It's better not to think about squeezing into our upper class. You do not deserve Auntie Ugly, you are not allowed to say that about your mother. This is something I prepared specially for my mother. Even if it's broken, don't worry. Hahaha, stop being funny. Everything here is worth millions. You guys are not from the slums. Can afford it? Okay, okay, okay, you Bring your little wild master. Get out of here! Otherwise, you are in Lu Group You can't even be your cleaner. You are the ones who should get out. This is my dad's private lounge. Your father Is it you who came back? How about the jade pendant? It's Missy There was news from the hospital that the eldest lady was missing. Xu Xuan, go get the hospital surveillance for me This is Mr. Lu's child. Since you are here to discuss cooperation Just respect it Otherwise, Lu may never cooperate with you in your life. Hahahaha Mr. Lu's daughter he Zhao Waner I think you have a brain problem. Mr. Lu's daughter is the heir of the Lu family. How could I be with a lowly person like you? Pick up trash Zhao Laosan You are so brave now. He just picked up a small wild owner and said he was Mr. Lu Does Mr. Lu know that he has such a beggar daughter? Ahahahahaha What my mother said is true My father is Lu Chaowei, the president of Lu Group Asshole Was Mr. Lu named after a little kid? Come and ask the security guards to drive these two beggars away. We don't have to go there by ourselves. Fortunately, I don't regret it Slow down, can't go I lost my bracelet. Can't leave it alone What's wrong I lost my bracelet What bracelet It's the one you gave me. My favorite bracelet It was him who must have stolen it. The grenade was still in my hand when I came in just now. They were the only ones who had contact with me during this period. You didn't steal That's enough, Zhao Wan'er If this Su Mo bracelet was on you Please hand it over to me quickly. Causing trouble in Lu's territory Why do you think I stole it? That bracelet is over 1.2 million The people who come to Lu's are either rich or noble. They simply can't do it. This kind of shameful behavior Only poor bastards like you who pick up garbage Huh, who are you? I said I didn't steal You didn't steal it. That's what this little bastard you brought in did. So don't spit blood. How dare you openly despise me at Lu's headquarters? Believe it or not, I will have you kicked out right now. Xuanxuan will not curse you No need to look for it The bracelet must be on you. I didn't take your bracelet. It's okay. You believe me Xuanxuan will never take other people's things You made the bracelet yourself. Why blame others? Did you steal it? Just search your body and you will know. What do you want to do I've given you a chance. But you still don't admit it Then search me. Xuanxuan, don't move Where to go Xuanxuan Be honest with me. do not move I said I didn't steal the grenade. You can't do this. Be quiet and don't move Xuanxuanxuanxuan I'll let you suffer So worried You're still arguing I know I'm with Zheng Hao Makes you a little jealous But you can't be jealous. Just do this kind of sneaky thing Just now, you two were the only ones in this lounge. Who else could it be if not your dad? You save my mother Be honest Stop making noise. Don't move. Wake up, where's my bracelet? Mr. Liu found Somewhere someone said they saw the young lady coming to the company Enter your private lounge Never came out again Pull up the surveillance camera in my lounge. Be honest I told you guys to stop arguing. come over coming It's ok Xuanxuan Didn't find it? could not find it I said I didn't steal yours. mystery You didn't steal it. That's what this little bastard stole. Search his body The bracelet is here. How come you are here? The bracelet has been found Can you guys let Xuanxuan go? Hum, let her go. If it wasn't for her bumping into me today How did my bracelet fall under the table? I will never let him go. What else do you want? How do I want this little bastard Kneel down and apologize to me I want this little bastard Kneel down and apologize to me No, he's just a kid. He was the only one who bumped into Su Mu just now Don't try to quibble Kneel down for me! You guys are going too far. Excessive My bracelet is worth more than 1 million I'm already very good that I didn't make you lose money Kneel down, what's wrong? He's just an ignorant child. What happened to the child? If you do something wrong, you will be punished. I'm helping you educate your children. Don't talk nonsense to him. Stop him Come here, don't leave come over come over Don't move. Xuanxuan, don't move Kneel down for me Xuanxuan takes action So brave Xuanxuan Su Meng, your bracelet has been found Treat a child like this. You guys are going too far. Too much pain Then you kneel for him. I kneel I kneel I kneel for him Let go of Xuanxuan If you want to kneel, kneel quickly. Dad, I won't kneel. Hahahaha Weren't you very proud before? Signing ceremony Ruined my good deeds Then I'll let you see what happens when I do the wrong thing. ah Mom, I'm good. Stop it Xuanxuanxuanxuan Are you injured? I'm fine but my mom is being bullied Mr. Yu, are you okay? Mr. Meng, why are you here? What a courage! Mr. Lu, we are riding a ghost here ah Mr. Lu, please don't be angry first There must be some misunderstanding. I heard that my daughter and Zhao Wan'er stole your bracelet. What? This is Mr. Lu's daughter. Mr. Lu Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu sorry I don't know this kid. But this is your daughter. It's all misunderstanding Misunderstanding Misunderstanding My Lu family is the richest family in Ancheng My daughter wants something. besides Zhao Wan'er is the person I designated to take care of my daughter. What are you two? Dare to touch them ah Just 1 million The Lu family doesn't like it. Everything you did to them both I will return them all Everything you did to them both I will return them all Assistant Zhou cut off all official funding Intross me at the lowest price in the market Well, as for these two people Get me out after All persons under Lu's are prohibited from entering or leaving Wan'er Wan'er You can't watch him being acquired. I have no relationship with the Zheng family. Mom, you can't do this. We are a couple after all. You can't just stand by and watch someone die, Wan'er Drag these two out. ah ah Mr. Lu, please don't Don't, don't, don't Mr. Lu It's all my fault that Xuanxuan was bullied I'm fine, it's all the bad guys' fault Take Xuanxuan to the hospital for a checkup Lai Xuanxuan Are you OK Do you want to go to the hospital for a checkup? I'm fine you do not need to worry I have already investigated It was you who supported me behind the scenes these years. The design department you are currently working in If this new product launch goes smoothly, I will let you take over the official group Really of course it's true I, Lu Chaobei, never tell lies. So happy Mr. Lu Thank you so much Sorry, wise I'm so excited Thank you You're welcome I just can't see the people who are used to the Zheng family forgotten What do you mean facing north? She looks like that bitch Jiang Yuanyuan from five years ago Mom, you say What if Brother Zhao Bei is outside? I was cheated by another woman again But what can I do? Don't worry, Xiaorong He would never agree to this kind of Going into my Lujiamen You mean Mr. Deer? Mr. Lu is coming back to China this time Hahaha Jiang Yanyan, let me see what you can do to fight me Lu Zhaobei, I am warning you. If you don't find a mother for Xuanxuan I tell you You have no share in Lu's property. snort Hey, this granddaughter is so beautiful There's news from old man Lao Chen It is said that there is a vixen around Master Zhaobei The young master Zhaobei was completely fascinated What Book a flight ticket now and return home early I can't allow it anymore. What happened 5 years ago is happening again. Old man, do you really want to go to the company dressed like this? This time back Not only to look Is this woman worthy of being Xuanxuan's mother? Lu's employees have been forming cliques and engaging in private activities over the years. I also want to remember clearly Don't reveal my identity. The bad boy will fall into the hands of women all day long This time I want to see what kind of woman it is Ouch! My old waist oh Grandpa, are you okay? You pay me money Hey you You pay me money We just touched each other lightly How come you fell down? what do you mean You said I was blackmailing you, right? Ouch! I'm this old I come out to sweep the streets with my own hands I still want to be bullied by you young people. no no That was not what I meant Grandpa is coming Let me help you up first. The ground is dirty. oops Back pain Oh! My legs hurt too And the arms My arms hurt too. You can't leave You have to be responsible for me Sir, let me call an ambulance for you. No, no You want to leave me alone? That was not what I meant Do you have family contact information? I'll help you contact first Every family every family I do not remember I don't remember my home. I don't remember my family. My family forgot I do not remember I can't remember Go to the nearest police station or hospital No, don't leave me. you You have to be responsible for me They will be late tomorrow. I have to prepare for the new product launch today. Take leave with you Grandpa, how about I take you to my company first? Then I'll help you contact your family after I get off work, okay? What? You took my grandfather back to China? Yes, I heard from overseas. The old man received the text message from the old house What SMS Yes, Mr. Zhao, you are completely fascinated by Miss Zhao. It must be my mother and Qi Long over there again You go inform the design department Preparations for today's new product launch I want to inspect in person Do you think the old man will go back to the company to find Miss Zhao? Is it troublesome to think about it? The old man must have rushed to the company as soon as he got off the plane. What are you laughing at I just think President Lu seems to be a little different to Miss Zhao Ms. Qi Mrs. Lu sent a message saying that Mr. Lu has returned to China I really need to install Arrange a meeting between the old man and Zhao Wan'er? No need for grandpa to return home Just to get Zhao Wan'er Get away from Brother Zhao Bei He will definitely arrange all this in person Zhao Wan'er, just wait to be kicked out of the room. Come This seat is yours You fight first. If you feel bored Just draw or fold paper I'll take you to the hospital when I'm done. Ah, good, good, good This girl has a good heart. Keep your voice down, everyone is working. The design of this girl is good Both attention Today, President Lu has to inspect in person Preparations for this new product launch Cheer me up. what's the situation Zhao Waner You come to work with an old street sweeper. what do you mean You come to work with an old street sweeper. What do you mean Why do you bring a cleaner with you to work? Oh, it's so dirty Zhao Waner, you are not delivering food outside You're used to distributing flyers. This is a road thing. Zhao Waner's design department has a big task recently. The press conference is just around the corner Come to the company Delayed the design department's work plan Can you bear this responsibility? It seems that this girl is not popular in the company. Sorry, Sunny. This grandpa is sick. And there seem to be signs of dementia I'll let him stay here first. I'll take him to the hospital after get off work. Don't worry, I won't let him affect everyone's work. You mean This old man is not only a street sweeper And there is a disease I think you're crazy. I just picked a fool from the street and brought him to the company. This old man sweeps the streets every day I don't think he has any disease. Zhao Waner, this is the company This is not the place for you to pretend to be a good person If you don't want to do it Just get out of here Dirty cleaning. What about cleaning? Let the cleaner clean the office immediately enough you How can you treat a sick old man like this? Don't you have any elderly people in your family? Won't you get sick? This girl is kindhearted. The company has its own rules and regulations If you cannot comply Then get out of the room. as far as I know The company's rules and regulations do not seem to Can't help the weak? Never before Now we have you you what you I'm your boss. He is also a senior leader of Lu's What I mean is the meaning of Brother Chaobei Don't say it's a rule. I'm going to have the security kick you out right now. You can only accept it obediently Brother Zhaobei is coming to inspect the design department soon I advise you Or take this old street sweeper out with you. Otherwise, don't even think about staying in Lu's Why do you You are seeking revenge. From the first day I started working, I was made difficult by him. Stop, you were just flirting. I got the chance to enter the room. You don't deserve to be in the room. Not even qualified to see Brother Zhabei You are fired Visitors Get him out of here. Slow down I haven't been back to the company for so many years. I didn't expect that you guys would make the Lu family so chaotic. I think it's not Wan'er who should be fired. It should be you It's not Wang Er who should be fired It should be you, hahahaha That's hilarious. Did I hear that correctly? Fire us You're just a street sweeper. After all, he is a bad brain It's normal to talk nonsense. No wonder this old man is with Zhao Waner I think these two people are not in their right mind. that is Our Director Qin is the future wife of the president of Lu Corporation. You two are out of your minds. How dare you say you want to fire our Director Qin? Hahahaha, Mr. Lu will be here in a while. You guys are good looking. What is the president's wife? That's right Xiao Li is talking about a girl named Zhao Wan'er Who is this rude girl? Hum me Why haven't I heard that President Lu has a fiancee? What are you? You are not qualified to know about the Lu family. Huh I'll take you away Working with these people who look down on others Can't make any good design what do you mean How dare you speak nonsense in front of me? You're tired of living, right? Believe it or not, I will let the entire jewelry industry in Ancheng ban you Why do you do this? Why do you think you are a social inferior? You deserve to be stepped on by me all your life You are so brave. If you dare to hurt someone in the company, You dare to stop me Oh, you dare to stop me If I stop you, I will fire you. Get out. Good boy, you have a kind heart. Loyalty and righteousness I told you that brat has good taste. Hey, hey, don't worry. You don't have to go today. Someone else is leaving Still talking nonsense here You old thing still doesn't want to leave, right? Don't blame me for being rude. What are you still standing there for? Do it! You've had enough, I told you, Grandpa. He's just sick. I won't help him contact his family. How do you treat an elderly person with limited mobility? This is too much. It's just bad conduct I wonder how you became Lu's boss. Executive The security guard kicked them both out. Do you dare to know who I am? I don't care who you are Get started Make these two people disappear from my sight immediately Let go of you Do you know who I am? Stop it. Working hours are so noisy I see you guys don't want to do this anymore, right? Brother Chaobei, you are here What is the situation? It's all Zhao Wan'er I don't know where she got it from. Such an old man sweeping the streets Dirty and sick This kind of person stays in the company It will only affect everyone's work mood I do this for the sake of the company. yes Mr. Lu Miss Qin recently prepared for a new product launch Do everything yourself If at this time A cleaner came in who didn't know where he came from. Infect everyone with some viruses That's not good. Mr. Lu, I brought this grandpa here. If the company has any punishment, I can accept it. But please don't embarrass this person. Zhao Wan'er, don't waste your energy. Brother Zhao Bei is here You're about to be fired from the company. Brother Zhaobei Zhao Waner has violated the company's regulations You should fire him now. And this stinky old man It's so dirty. enough Qin Rong, this is how you manage the design department The quarrel in the office during working hours Smoky Next time, I will leave directly from the road room Brother Zhangbei I'm thinking about the company. How could you do this for such an outsider? What about me? Who told you he was an outsider? He is the chairman of the board of directors of my grandfather's house. what He is Mr. Lu Humph, you're the one he brought home. Girl, you are so majestic. Is this how you manage the company? Eagle Are you really the chairman? Hehehehe Of course. I'm telling you Okay, hey Zhao Waner Tomorrow is the new product launch conference Go to work soon oh Hey You stinky boy Come back to me Why Have you heard? Two days ago, Mr. Lu Got angry at Director Qin of the design department I heard it too It is said that Miss Qin made things difficult for the design department. A new employee named Zhao Waner This made Mr. Lu unhappy. Ah, I heard that Miss Qin is Mr. Lu's fiancee Mr. Lu has never acknowledged Miss Qin's identity. She claims to be single. That Zhao Wan'er is different I heard that it was arranged by Mr. Lu himself. I have a friend's child I'm in the same kindergarten as Mr. Lu's child I heard that Zhao Waner has been picking up the kids recently. It seems that Miss Qin has fallen out of favor again Are you guys free? Are you guys free? Mr. Qin Mr. Qin He was kidding. The entire Lu family knows that you grew up in the Lu family. Mr. Lu and Mrs. Lu value you very much. What is that Zhao Wan'er? That's it. Mr. Lu also took such an important task as the new product launch conference Leave it to you to handle This is his most important project. Have you finished your work? I'll go back and do it It is said that The host of this conference is a famous designer Michelle is go The last time Zhao Wan'er formally plagiarized Tell him Make sure it reaches Michelle's ears. Michelle never works with plagiarizing designers this way I am afraid it will have an impact on the launch of this new product. I'll let you go. I'm gonna screw up the press conference. Let Zhao Wan'er, that bitch, never stand up again Miss Michelle Miss Michelle Thank you very much for accepting our invitation To host this new product launch I have always liked Lu's designs. Moreover, since its establishment, Lu There has never been any controversy over plagiarism. This also makes me very satisfied Zhao Wan If you screwed up this press conference Just wait to be kicked out of Lushi by Brother Zhaobei How is the on-site preparation going? All ready Wait until the guests and media arrive. You can start Well, this new product launch is very important. If your design can be Aroused enthusiastic response I'll leave the serious matter to you. Don't worry, Mr. Lu I have confidence Zhao Waner, come here quickly Director Qin is here to see you Then I'll go get busy first Um Miss Michelle What about this one? He is the designer of our new product for this road test. This is the host of the press conference. Hello, Ms. Michelle I like your work Thank you, but Today everyone is here for your work. You are so young and you can become a designer for Lu Corporation. Really young and promising I don't know your name yet. My name is Zhao Waner You are Zhao Waner You know me I didn't expect you to come to introduce my work. I'm so honored I can't host this press conference. I would never introduce a designer who copied Plagiarism You actually did such a despicable thing Oops, Mr. Lu Miss Xu is because of Zhao Waner Carrying out its ongoing plagiarism controversy Refuse to host It surprised me that You Lu I actually hired this kind of Designers without professional ethics Hey Mr. Nie What to do now Can this press conference still go on? This press conference is the project that Mr. Lu values the most. The key is finished We have to follow It's all your fault. How can you plagiarize? I also plagiarize Brother Zhaobei Brother Zhaobei Michelle The lady already knew about Zhao Waner's plagiarism in the past she says I will never introduce works to designers who plagiarize The host is gone now. How can we hold a press conference? It's all my fault. How can Director Qin blame you? It's obviously Zhao Waner's problem It's Zhao Wan'er what's wrong with you There is actually such a dark history as plagiarism I didn't plagiarize Is it still useful for you to say this now? The press conference is about to begin If you ruined today's press conference That's all the hard work we put in for so long. It's all in vain. Sorry, grandma, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Lu Anyway Miss Yunxue left because of me I am willing to bear all the consequences Find someone to replace Honey Snow Brother Zhaobei Why not let Zhao Waner go on stage herself? How can this be possible? He's only been here a few days. I don't even have reporting experience. That's right He definitely can't. You've only been here a few days. This time, all the new products were designed by Zhao Waner herself. I believe that no one can be better than the designer himself. Learn more about your work I believe he can Can you do it alone? Believe in yourself Then I'll try to take her to change clothes. Zhao Waner, this is the process of the press conference And the speech Oh, he doesn't dare to come. He doesn't have any experience. Whoops, he must not dare to come What time is it? Still wasting time? How long has it been delayed? Mr. Lu, it's been so long. Miss Zhao still didn't show up Need to order again Director Zhao, yes. The time this conference starts It's been so long. He wouldn't be too nervous to go on stage. Sneaking away? Or let us let Director Qin take over. Brother Zhao Bi, this Zhao Wan'er is still inexperienced Otherwise, I'll go. Sorry everyone I'm late Sorry everyone I'm late Mr. Lu I didn't expect Miss Zhao to look so good on stage. She is exactly the same as Miss Jin before. Um It's a coincidence indeed Welcome everyone to today Lu Group's new product launch Zhao Waner, of course I won't let you off so easily. I'm going to make you screw up in front of everyone. This will never turn around. Yeah, how long have you been waiting? yes What words are there on this? I do not know Hey, look at this. Publicly screwed up the studio press conference Just wait for the industry to ban you. This is his most important project. How long do we have to wait? Tomorrow is the press conference Only the dance music is left Don't be nervous, you are excellent. Relax trust yourself In the past year Lu Shi in the field of jewelry design Achieved the top position What I want to bring to you today is Lushi's new product introduction in the next quarter First of all The concept and idea of our new product introduction Some patterns and porcelain from China Then there are exhibits outside You can go outside and take a look later. I didn't expect this photo to be so playable Well, I didn't expect it. Then the above is my new product introduction today thank you all ah Brother Zhao Bei it's all my fault This press conference was not held successfully. Zhao Wanran performed very well This conference was very effective Mother Xuanxuan haha Grandpa, why are you here? Haha Today is such an important day Of course I came to support you. Mom, you looked so beautiful on stage today. It's even more beautiful than these flowers. child This jade bracelet is prepared by me for my future granddaughter-in-law. Now send it to you Yanyan, this is too precious. I can't collect Xuanxuan, what are you doing? If Grandpa gives it to you, you should accept it. You are kindhearted And talented Xuanxuan still likes you so much I will make the decision today. Decide on your marriage with Shao Bei grandfather Marriage is a major event in life Wouldn't it be too hasty to decide like this? My Lu family's affairs Is it your turn as an outsider to interrupt? I disagree What qualifications do you have to disagree? How many years has it been? Xuanxuan is 5 years old You haven't found a mother for her yet. I can warn you. You don't want to get married anymore You have no share in the Lu family's wealth. Even if you threaten me with my property, I won't agree to this. Asshole I knew you were still thinking about that wild woman from five years ago It turns out that you, Zhao Ben, have always had someone else in your heart. This marriage is settled. No one can object I'm against you bitch I had a child five years ago. Humph, don't even think about entering my Lu family. I had a child five years ago. Don't even think about entering my Lu family. Giving birth to my son is not enough Now I'm focusing on the old man. You are really scheming. I heard that you were kicked out of the Zheng family. You are a woman of lowly origin. You also dream of marrying into our Lu family. this Is what he said true? it is true I gave birth to a child in Zhengjia Village 5 years ago What about the child? No They say it's congenital. Just got sick No Zhengjia Village There is news from Mr. Lu Zhengjia Village Someone said that Miss Zheng was seen in the delivery room of the hospital You gave birth to your child in Zhengjia Village Hospital He gave birth to a child in Zhengjia Village since he was young. Of course, it's also in the village hospital. When did you go to Zhangjia Village? When did you marry Zheng Hao? Five years ago, I don't remember anything about the teacher. You have lost your memory Hey What happened to Mr. Lu? This is Zhao Waner's hair Immediately compare it with Xue Xuan's DNA Mr. Lu, do you suspect that Zhao Wan'er is Miss Jiang? Too many coincidences There will be a feeling She should be Yuan Yuan yes Walk why why Why Why does that bitch Jiang Yuanyuan always haunt me? Why has Brother Zhangbei been here for so many years? Still miss him How can I be better than him? Mom, come catch me! Xuanxuanxuanxuan Slower Mom, come catch me! hey-hey Hello Did that woman die? Mom, come catch me! hey-hey Ha ha Xuanxuan, the sun will come out soon. Be careful not to turn into small coal balls Let's take the toys to the room to play Is it good? good If you hadn't left him alive I wouldn't be entangled by this bitch until now I am obviously the future wife of the CEO of Lu Corporation. I want you to kill King Zhao Get started today He should have died five years ago anyway. This is Xuanxuan Is the result out today? They said the results will be out tomorrow. I must kill Jiang Yuanyuan before the results come out I can't let that little Xuanxuan mess up my plans. Why don't you answer Xuanxuan's call? That Auntie Hua killed my mother Xuanxuanxuanxuan Are you in the house? Xuanxuanxuanxuan Are you in the house? Xuanxuan Are you playing hide and seek with your aunt? Got you Is it you, Han Qing? I won't marry you, little thing. She and Jiang Yuan, that bitch, are really like mother and son. I've raised you for five years and I still can't make you acquainted I can only follow that bitch and call her mom No problem From now on I won't be here Not only will your mother be kicked out of the Lu family He'll die miserably. You can't save him even if you tell anyone. You dare to bite me? Stop! Go to hell Xuanxuanxuan Xuanxuanxuan Come quickly Xuanxuan How is Xuanxuan? What is going on? Miss, I don't know what's going on. Fell down the stairs Xuanxuanxuanxuanxuanxuan Why did you suddenly fall down the stairs? It must be you You bunch of rubbish didn't take good care of Xuanxuan No, no. It was him who was with Mr. Zhao and the young lady at that time. When we got there, the lady had already fallen down. There was only Mr. Zhao next to him. No, it's not me. I was squatting at the entrance to the water I saw Xue Jun fall down Who can prove it to you? Since there is no way to prove my innocence That's admitting it. Not me enough Xuanxuan was seriously injured. You guys be quiet. Xuanxuan has been taken care of by Zhao Wan's son during this period. No problems ever Don't talk nonsense without evidence. Brother Zhaobei I'm also worried about Xuanxuan. You can know a person's face but not his heart This woman was a Intend to get close to you and Xuanxuan Who knows what bad intentions she has? Zhaobei Brother Xuanxuan is already injured We should quickly kick this woman out of the Lu family. Lest she find another chance to attack Zhao Lu I'm only asking you once Did you give the order to Xuanxuan? these days I see everything about Xuanxuan and I like you Shouldn't I doubt you? I don't think there's any need to waste time on someone like you. Someone, get this woman out of here! Mr. Lu's DNA results are out Mr. Lu's DNA results are out It seems I overthink it. I have used a fake test report This is the real Well, the truth will never be known. Zhao Waner, I'll ask you one last time Were you the one who pushed Xuanxuan down the stairs? Although I have no way to prove myself But I can guarantee these days I have already taken care of Xuanxuan as my own child. I've lost a child too. Xu Jie is so kind and cute How could I bear to hurt him? Okay, I believe you. Look What is Xuanxuan holding? This is not the day when the old man Is it a bracelet for Zhao Waner? Qin Mingruojun shut up Zhao Waner, I trust you so much Do you take me for a fool? Zhao Wan, I know you really want to marry into the Lu family That day, Brother Zhao Bei rejected you You are very unwilling But even so How could you do this to Xuanxuan? Xuanxuan likes you so much explain It was because Xuanxuan liked you. I let you into the house to take care of her. No Xuanxuan You don't even have the qualifications to approach me. But what about you? Why do you treat her like this? I didn't drag him out. What is the difference between Mr. Lu's current situation and Lu Chao's? The evidence is in front of us. Gao Wenxian was glad that he Fortunately, he has this face You are such a vicious person. You don't deserve this face. Drag him out yes you Xuanxuanxuanxuan Xinxin in spite of Xuanxuan Xuanxuan What are you going to do? Bitch, you're dead today. Um President Lu Miss Zhao seems to be in danger Should we send someone to check it out? Don't mind him. you What to do You are breaking the law by doing this. shut up Otherwise, the Zheng family would not have ended up like this. I'm going to kill you today Why is Meng Tao afraid again? You mean Meng Zhao? The bitch divorced me so quickly. Just ran to Lu Zhaobei's bed Just be the stepmother of that little bitch My stepmother, I let you be my stepmother I'll make you my stepmother. What qualifications do you have to say Xuan Xuan What qualifications do you have to say that about Xuanxuan? What qualifications do I have? I tell you What qualifications do I have? you are so kind to me I will treat you well forever All right, all right Pretend to be like this to me Let you see That's right Zhao Bei Zhao Bei Save Me Why I sent a message to Lu Zhaobei Guess Lu Zhaobei comes back to save you I am Zhao Bei Wedding wine Then call me. Call the people around here. Damn thing Where did you throw it to me? It would be terrible if you can't find me Stop arguing. Brother Zhou Lei How come you came back so soon? How about Xuan Xuan? You don't need to come tonight. I'll come back to get the information You prepare Come with me to the hospital later. Okay, I'll wait for you outside. Check Pants Zhao Wan'er is the eldest lady's biological mother He is Miss Jiang I have to tell Lu Cao this news immediately. Oh, Xuanxuan I've already said it Those wild women out there are not good people Look how dare you hurt my granddaughter like this I'm not done with her. Wan'er is kind-hearted and loves Xuanxuan How could you do such a cruel thing? Why Things are not clear yet You just drove Wan'er away like this. Other maids at home They are all old people who have used them for several years. Isn't he who can he be? I heard from the housekeeper The servants were cleaning the yard. If it's not Wan'er, could it be Qin Rou? how could be Qin Rou has been a member of the Lu family since she was a child. How could he hurt Xuan Xuan? Yeah Xuan Xuan I took it back I watched him grow up. How could I harm him? Instead, it's Zhao Wan He used Xuanxuan from the beginning. Close to Brother Chaobei I think his kindness to Xuanxuan is just fake. Brother Zhaobei Don't you believe me either? We grew up together How can you not believe me? Then I'm leaving. Mom believes you Mom believes you snort Lu Shaobei I've had enough. I won't allow you to treat Xiaorou like this. Mr. Lu, I have checked it out. explain The one who pushed the young lady downstairs was not Zhao Wan'er but Qin Rou ah You are talking nonsense I'm where the young lady fell I found Qin Rou's button Besides, I'm still at Qin Rou's house. Found a DNA test report that was not burned Shown above Zhao Wan'er is the eldest lady's biological mother Zhao Wan'er is Miss Jiang who disappeared 5 years ago It really hurts Xuan Xuan You bitch From my feelings You have been framing her intentionally Yeah, I already knew it. He had been taken away by Zheng Hao a long time ago He's never coming back. Say it Mr. Lu has found their whereabouts Mr. Lu has found their whereabouts Miss Jiang Zheng Hao took him to an aircraft factory on the outskirts of the city. Location has been determined Xuanxuan hahaha It's still Xuan Xuan The lobster has kicked you out of the house. No one will come to save you Someone come quickly It's not someone, don't worry You left me penniless Of course I want to change you to change money You hurt your face like this Walk ha Ha ha Want to run Run hahahaha Want to run run Hahahaha You want to die, right? I am all you Want to die, right? I will complete you How is it? Does it look good? I'll find someone to do the work for you. Customized half each Zhao Ben, you are so nice to me Back from Qingyuan Zheng Hao, listen to me. If something happens to a person I will make your Zheng family disappear from this world. If something happens to Yuanyuan I will let your Zheng family disappear from this world Yuanyuan Don't scare me Yuanyuanyuan Yuan Mr. Lu, how do you come This woman Jiang Yuanyuan It's him, it's me no He is this woman. I don't know She is the fiancee you have been looking for for five years. I didn't expect you to be so vicious. Brother Chaobei Please give me another chance Please forgive me Visitors Hand it over to the police Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Our Mr. Lu Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu Don't be afraid, round and round I'm right here I won't leave again. Round Blame me It's my fault that I didn't recognize you earlier. You have suffered so much injustice I've suffered so much Round Wake up, please Don't scare me Don't leave me alone Never leave you again Unsolved case: When will he wake up? The patient suffered multiple internal injuries In addition, I also suffered a great mental shock. The brain is now in a protective state Not sure now Oh well Grandpa and mother are very sick Mom is sick now need to have a rest Talk to your mother more. She'll get better faster. Mom, you are sick. Are you feeling uncomfortable? I fell down the stairs last time and it hurts It hurts. Where does it hurt? I'll give you a call Mom, get up and play with me soon Daddy Xuanxuan is here to see you His injury is almost as good as you do not need to worry You should get up soon. OK Mom wakes up doctor doctor Yunan, how do you feel? Zhao Bei Mom wakes up I will always be with you in the future I'm not going anywhere