This video is sponsored by Bespoke Post. I found this on FB Marketplace. So cool. It's missing 2 pulls. The inside is in excellent condition. Very interesting legs. I'm taking them off for now to make it easier to work on. I'll also take off all the doors to work on separately. The top looks very scrapable. Lucky for me, it scrapes off very easily. I'm dealing with veneer, so I have to be careful not to chip or dig into it. For the rounded edges, I'm using my foam padded sander. Ah, silence. The veneer is very thin, so I need to be careful not to over-sand. Both sides have severe veneer damage on the back corners. Instead of patching the damages, I'm going to replace a whole strip. These smaller damages will be repaired later. A slice of oak veneer. Gave it a minute to get tacky. The next day I want this to look more like a design choice, not a repair job. This video's sponsor Bespoke Post is a monthly membership club that delivers you a &quot;box of awesome&quot; every month, containing top shelf goods from under the radar brands. Each &quot;box of awesome&quot; has around $70 in value, but you only pay a fraction of the price. 90% of the products in Bespoke Post boxes come from small brands, many of which are based in the U.S. Based on a quiz you take when signing up, a &quot;box of awesome&quot; is assigned to you each month. The best part is that you only pay for what you want; or You'll always get a preview of what's inside your box and you'll have the option to swap it for a different box on offer or skip the month entirely at absolutely no charge. They've kindly sent me these 3 boxes that I've picked out from their website. The first box is the &quot;Weekender&quot;, which includes a carry all bag. I chose this one because I really like the style, and it feels really durable. I'll definitely be using this when I go travelling. Next up is the &quot;Chill&quot; box. Inside is this heavy duty cooler, perfect for those long car rides to pick up furniture. Comes with a bottle opener! I'm most excited about this last one. The &quot;Scorch&quot; box includes an assortment of 6 different hot sauces. I sampled all of them, and this one has become my new favorite hot sauce. To get 20% off your first box of awesome, click the link in the description and enter MODERNMAKEOVERS20 at checkout, or go to bespokepost.com/modernmakeovers20. I'm planning on staining the piece to a dark wood tone. I'm mixing some dark walnut wood filler to darken the wood epoxy. This should make it easier to mask later after staining. Wood epoxy dries harder than wood itself, making it great for repairs. After about 24 hours, I carefully sand. I wouldn't want to over-sand the surrounding veneer. There were about a dozen other areas that I patched. I'll be coming back to these repairs after staining. Using paint stripper for the decorative part. It's been about 5 minutes. Don't worry, I'm putting it right back together after sanding. The middle door. The veneer damage on this door is severe. I don't think I can repair it seamlessly. I think the grain under the veneer might not be bad. The heat gun is usually effective for removing veneer, but this one's stubborn. At this point, I realize since the veneer is so thin, I could just sand it off. My camera wasn't rolling for the sanding bit :( The grain isn't bad though, I'll just stain it like this. Ready for staining. HELPS WOOD ABSORB STAIN MORE EVENLY. (not cheese) These are cut out sponges from seat cushions. Conditioner soaks into the thirsty pores of the veneer. This allows stain to be applied more evenly to prevent blotchiness. Before staining, I want to match the color of this strip to the rest. I'm using a water based stain to color match. It won't be a perfect match, but it just needs to be closer than it is now. Using a 50/50 mix of dark walnut and espresso. Before the second coat, I'll mask all the epoxy-filled spots. Water based stains feel more paint-like than oil based. Sticks to the epoxy better. Toothpick. Now a second coat of stain to make it darker and richer. Now I need to figure out how to get this light working. The wires are all tucked behind. I'll have to take off this back piece to investigate. Looks like the cable was cut off. I guess I'll need to get a new mirror cut out. The button keeps getting stuck. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to find a light bulb that fit. So I'll need a whole new light, but I want to keep this switch. Much better. I bought this from Home Depot. Cost me $15 CAD to get this new mirror cut out to size. Next I'll seal using clear satin poly. I'm doing 2 coats of poly (3 just on the top). One pair of handles was missing... But I had a similar style that I had saved from another old cabinet. I don't want to completely polish them; I like the patina. I'm just getting rid of the grime. And we are done. Dedicated to June West