Hi, I'm Bill Ackman. I'm the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management you need to know about finance and investing you'll be ready to go. How to Start and Grow a Business So let's begin. We're going to go into business together. We're going to start a company and we're don't have any money today, so I'm going the business. So how am I going to do that? Well I'm going to form a corporation. That is a little filing that you make with a business. We'll call it Bill's Lemonade Stand and investors. We need a little money to get started, so shares of stock. We just made up that number and we're going investor. The investor is going to put up $500. We're going to put up the name and the idea. We're going to have 1,000 shares. He is going to have 500 shares. He is going to own a third of the business So what is our business worth at the start? Well it's worth $1,500. We have $500 in the bank plus $1,000 because Now I'm going to need a little more than $500, I'm going to borrow some money. I'm going to borrow from a friend and he's pay him 10% interest a year for that loan. Now why do we borrow money instead of just Well by borrowing money we keep more of the successful we're going to end up with a So now we're going to take a look at what We're going to look at something called you where the company stands, what your assets net worth or shareholder equity is. If you take your assets, in this case we've We also have what is called goodwill because the $500 the person who put up the money only The other two-thirds is owned by us for starting That is $1,000 of goodwill for the business. We borrowed $250. We're going to owe $250. That is a liability. So we have $500 in cash from selling stock, and we have a corporation that has, and you'll $1,500, so that's our starting point. Now let's keep moving. What do we need to do to start our company? We need a lemonade stand. That's going to cost us about $300. That is called a fixed asset. Unlike lemon or sugar or water this is something it. It wears out over time, but it's a fixed And then you need some inventory. What do you need to make lemonade? You need sugar. You need water. You need lemons. You need cups. You need little containers and perhaps some say have 50 gallons of lemonade in our start Now 50 gallons gets us about 800 cups of lemonade Let's take a new look at the balance sheet. So now we've spent $500 on supplies. We only have $250 left in the bank, but our That is our lemonade stand. Our inventory is $200. Those are the supplies and things, the lemons Goodwill hasn't changed at 1,000, so our to the person who lent us the money. Shareholder equity hasn't changed, so we All we've done is we've taken cash and going to need to succeed in our lemon stand So let's make some assumptions about how We're going to assume we're going to sell That's not a particularly ambitious assumption, is fairly seasonal. Most of the lemonade sells will happen over We're going to assume that each cup we can $530 per year to staff our lemonade stand. So now let's take a look at the income statement, about the revenues that the business generated, for the owner of the company. So we've got one lemonade stand. We're selling 800 cups of lemonade at our We're charging $1, so we're generating $200 on inventory. There is a line item here called COGS. That stands for cost of goods sold. We have depreciation because our lemonade wear out over five years, so it depreciates We've got our labor expense for people to from customers and we have a profit. We have EBIT and that is earnings before interest That is kind of our pretax profit for the We didn't make very much money because you it to our revenues. It's about a 1.3% margin. That is not a particularly high profit. Now we've got to pay interest on our debts have any taxes, but at the end of the day So the question is, is this a particularly Well we're losing money and our cash is Is this a business we want to stay in? Now the cash flow statement takes the income the cash in the company's till, so when a lemonade stand. Some money is lost selling the product and and now we only have $500. Let's look at the balance sheet. What has happened? Our cash has gone down from 750 to 500. Our fixed assets have gone from 300 to 240. That means our lemonade stand is starting Goodwill hasn't changed. We still owe $250 and our shareholder's 1,500 we started with minus the $10 we lost So should we continue to invest in the business? We've lost money in the first year. Is it time to give up? Well let's think about it. Let's make some projections about what the several years. Let's assume that we take all the cash the it to buy more lemonade stands so we can grow. Let's assume we're not going to take any to pay a dividend. We're going to keep all the money in the Let's assume that we're going to--as more each year, so we're going to raise for each cup of lemonade each year and then cups per stand per year. So we've got built in growth assumptions. Now let's take a look at the company. So if you take a look at this chart you'll stand. We add one a year and then by year five we're plan. Our price per cup goes up a nickel a year to grow fairly quickly and the growth comes and it also comes from opening more stands. So by year five we have almost $8,000 in revenue. Our costs are relatively constant, which is That's about $1,702. We have depreciation as more and more stands We've got labor expense, but by year five We went from a 1.3% margin to over a 28% margin. The business is now up to scale. We're starting to cover some of our costs. We're growing. We're still paying $25 a year in interest after interest of $2,300 by the end of year So we put $500 into the business. We borrowed 250 and by year five we're making That sounds pretty good. Now we have to pay taxes to the government. That is about 35% and we generate net income fifth year and about a dollar a share. So if you think about this our friend put He paid a dollar and after five years if our making a dollar a share in profit. That sounds like a pretty good deal. So what has been the growth? The growth has been fairly dramatic over the become a successful business. Now these are just projections, but if they're that we want to start or invest in. Now let's look at the cash flow statement. So as the business becomes more and more profitable builds up in the company. We go from $500 of cash in the company to The balance sheet, again, the starting balance but as the business becomes more profitable They add to the assets of the company. Our liabilities have not changed and the business So again by the end of year five we've got almost three times what it was when we started. Good vs. Bad Businesses Now is this a good business or a bad business? How do we think about whether it's good One thing to think about is what kind of earnings went into the company. Now this is a business that we valued at $1,500 Someone put up $500 for a third of the company. We gave it a $1,500 value. By the end of year five it's earning over return on the money that we put into the company. That's actually quite a high number. We spent--let's talk about return on capital. We've spent $2,100 in capital building lemonade the capital we invested. That's over 100% return on capital. That is a very attractive return. Earnings have grown at a very rapid rate, This is really a growth company and our profitability that sounds pretty attractive and it is. So let's look at the person who put up the Well that person put up $250 and the business We've been able to pay them their interest because they put up $250. They're getting a 10% return on their loan We've got more than that in cash. As a result, they're in a safe position, Now let's compare that with the equity investor, That person earned a dollar a share in year so he is earning over 100% or about 100% return lender. So who got the better deal? Well obviously the equity investor. Now why did the equity investor, why do they lender? The answer is they took more risk. If the business failed the lender is entitled liquidating the company, so if you sell off the lender gets back all their money. They're safe. They got their 10% return while the business They got back their $250, but the equity investor, because they come after the lender. So what is the difference between debt and Debt tends to be a safer investment because company and it comes in lots of different You've heard of mortgage debt on a home. That's a secured loan secured by a house, for a company. There is senior debt. There is junior debt. There is mezzanine debt. There is convertible debt, but the bottom It comes in different orders of priority in related to your security, so the better the rate you're entitled to receive. The more junior the loan the higher the interest can avoid the complexity. All you need to think about is debt comes It's a safer loan, but you're profit opportunity Now the equity also has their varying forms. There is something called preferred equity There is common equity or common stock and They're options, but really not worth talking The important point is that equity gets everything so it's called a residual claim. Now the good thing about the residual claim owe your lender anymore, but all that value So the question is why was the lender willing earned a much higher rate of return and the was no way of knowing whether it would be that if the business failed they could sell It cost $300 to make it. They would have some lemons, some lemonade. Even if they sold it at a much lower price the lender felt pretty comfortable that they is really taking a risk. They were betting on the profitability of if it failed they would lose their entire higher return or have the potential to have we successful. So let's talk about risk. Lots of different ways people think about important--you know a lot of people talk of stock prices moving up and down every day. We don't think that's the risk that you The risk you should be focused on is if you that you're going to lose your money, that When you're thinking about investing your investment versus another don't worry so down a lot in the short term. What matters is ultimately when you get your investment. How do you think about risk? Well one way to think about risk is to compare buy government bonds and government bonds of investment and the US Treasury issues 10 There is a stated interest rate and today So you give your government $1,000 and you At the end of 10 years you get your $1,000 sort of provides a floor. Now obviously if you're going to make a and earn 3%. Well if you can lend money to a lemonade stand this case the lender is charging a 10% rate Why 10%? Because they want to earn a nice fat spread because a startup lemonade stand business Equity investors sort of think about things more risky the business the higher the rate expect and the lower the risk business the to expect and equity investors don't get What equity investors get is they get the of a company. Let's talk about raising capital. You started this lemonade business. Now the point of this was to make money in The business is doing very well yet I, having and the concept, hired all the people, I've So the business has grown in value, but where I need money to buy a car for example, so What are my choices? What can I do? Well we've taken all the cash the business We've reinvested it in the business. Now the good news is we've taken all that We've been able to use it to buy more lemonade and more productive and it's grown the value Now my alternatives could included instead of investing in more lemonade stands I could Now the good news about that is I get money is the business wouldn't grow as quickly this lemonade stand company and you just open can earn hundreds of dollars in each new stand Well how do I keep my business going and growing, take some money off the table? How do I do that? Well I could sell the company, so I could I started this one in New York. Maybe there is someone in New Jersey who wants company. Well the problem with that is once I sell going forward and I believe in this business. I think it's going to be very successful So that's one alternative. The other alternative is I could pay a dividend. We have by year five, over $2,000 sitting to the shareholders of the company, but that forward because I couldn't afford to build the $4,000 that I need in order to raise money. So I'm going to look at taking a business What does that mean? Well first of all, before we take our business worth. It's year five. We've been doing a good job. We've got a business that is profitable. Everything seems to be going well. Well the problem is I've got some personal I've started this company. I've taken all the cash the business generates. I've reinvested the cash in the business. I bought more and more lemonade stands. The growth is accelerating. I feel great about it, but I need money. How do I get money? What do I do? Well I've got a company that generates a lot the cash, so one alternative is perhaps I I don't buy as many lemonade stands and form of a dividend. So each year I pay out some amount of cash My need is really greater than that. There is only about $2,000 in the company If I sent that out that is half of what I So how do I get the rest of the money or how Well I could sell the company, so that's I've got this really good business. It's growing really quickly. Why would I want to get rid of it at this So what should I do? The other alternatives, other than selling the business and I can do that privately. I can find an investor who wants to buy a business is worth enough I can sell them a The other alternative is I can take the business Everyone has probably heard of an IPO, an rich on an IPO. What is interesting is an IPO doesn't make All it really does is it takes a business of it to the public and it gets listed on An IPO, the abbreviation stands for initial it's the first time a company is going public. Going public means you're selling stock finding one investor buying interest in the offering people the opportunity to participate a good lawyer. You get a good bank, investment bank. It's going to be your underwriter and you're prospectus, which is going to talk about all with investing in your company. It's going to have history of how the business It's going to have the balance sheet that It's going to have income statements from It's going to have cash flow statements and they're going to learn about whether and how to think about what price they want When you decide you want to take your business lot of information to the public in order Securities and Exchange Commission they're They're going to make sure that you disclose in the company and you're also going to It's some combination of a marketing document that people should consider before buying That takes time to prepare. It costs money to prepare. You're going to need good lawyers. You're going to need a good investment bank where you're going to make a filing with called registration statement for the offering The FCC is going to comment on it and eventually can then sell shares to the public. That is kind of an exciting time for you because really, in most cases, the way to get the you don't have to sell 100% of the business In fact, typically you only sell a small percentage. You get to keep the rest. You get to keep control of the company, but you can use that money to buy the car that Now before you decided to go public or even to figure out what the business is worth. So let's talk about valuation or how to One way to think about the value of your business Now the stock market is actually a pretty Now the stock market is a list of companies can look in the New York Times or the Wall or Google or other sites and look at stock those stock prices tell you is what the value And how do you figure out the value of the Well you look at where the stock price is. You count how many shares are outstanding. The shares outstanding will be listed in various You multiply the shares outstanding times That tells you the price you're paying for to our example of our little lemonade stand We sold them for a dollar initially, one-third had a value of $1,500. So what is the business worth today? Well one way to look at it; let's look at Let's assume other lemonade stand companies public market for a price of 10 times earnings a sense of value. You could look at the stock market if there a lemonade stand company. Perhaps a company that sold soda every month comparable example. So let's assume another lemonade stand company market. Well we earned a dollar per share in year If we put a 20 multiple on that dollar the about $20 per share. We've got 1,500 shares outstanding. We multiply 1,500 times 20. Now our business is worth $30,000. So we had a company that started out at 1,500, That's actually quite good. Well how do we raise $4,000 if that's the Well if we sold 200 of our shares, 200 of share we could raise the $4,000 that we are Now what would that do? What would happen if we sold 200 of our shares Well our interest in the business would go or 2/3 of the company. A third is owned by our private investors. Well if we sold stock in the market, if we ownership would go from 67% to 53%, so the of the business because in most public companies business going forward, but because the company to make sure their interests are properly directors, a group of individuals who represent a duty to make sure that their shareholders the same degree of flexibility you had when other constituencies that you need to think Now the benefit of the IPO is the stock would There would be a market where it would trade I wanted to sell more stock I could do so could buy stock and our stock would now be It would make me feel better about this business or if a I wanted to raise more money I could each day you could look up the price either and you could figure out what your business Okay, now how does this matter to you? Now the purpose of the example of our lemonade what companies are, what they do, how they provide to investors so investors can figure this lecture is to give you a sense of some you're thinking about investing perhaps invest in a lemonade stand or you want to basic points to think about. One of the most important is if you're going of sense to start early. Now that's kind of a hard thing. Today you're probably a student. You don't have a lot of spare money. Keys to Successful Investing Well let's assume at 22 you have a pretty Instead of spending your money on gadgets or going out and drinking a fair amount you money. Let's say you could save $10,000 at 22 and now and the time you retire. What would you have in 43 years? The answer, if you put aside $10,000, you it in your and you earned 10% on your money and the reason for that is well in year 1 $11,000 would grow by 10% and so you would principle, but you'd earn interest on the and that compounding effect allows money to Now obviously if you earn more than 10% you Now that's if you put $10,000 aside at 22 That's pretty good. What is you had to wait until you were 32 The problem there is by year 33 you'd only Maybe that is not enough to retire, so the an investor one of the most valuable assets years-old is your youth. You want to start early so that your money Now what if you could earn 15%? I'll give a you better sense of how powerful 43 years you'd have $600,000. That's pretty good, but if you earned 15% Now you're in a pretty good position and where you put your money has a huge difference Now obviously if could put aside more than year then you're wealth would be quite enormous. Now just for fun if you were one of the world's example, if you could earn 20% per year for Again the original $10,000 investment would of time just by earning a 20% return. Albert Einstein said the most powerful force key is start early, earn an attractive return to have a very nice retirement. Okay, now let's talk about the risk of losing Now let's assume that in order to try to it turns out that every 12 years you lost hit a bad patch in the market or you made Well your 25 million dollars at 20% would so a key success factor here is not just shooting return. It's avoiding significant loses over the Okay, so as Warren Buffet says rule number number two is never forget rule number one, return over time you're going to have a long period of time. So how do you be a successful investor? Now I'm assuming that you're not going to I'm assuming that you're going to be a doctor You're going to pursue your passion, but going to save over time and I'm going to give It's not necessarily definitive advice, my grandmother on what she should do if she I think that's probably the right way to So number one, how do you avoid losing money? What are the good places to invest? My first piece of advice is despite the story in lemonade stands. I'd avoid investing in startup businesses because again you don't need to make 100% You just need to invest at an attractive return Your money grows very significantly. So how do you avoid the riskiest investments? My advice would be to invest in public securities, trade on the stock market. Why, because those businesses tend to be more They have to meet certain hurdles before they The stocks are liquid, so you can change your If you invest in a private lemonade stand of that investment unless that business becomes So that's piece of advice number one, invest Number two, you want to invest in businesses What I mean by that is there are lots of businesses course of your day in your personal life, because you like shopping there or it's product, but you have to understand how the If the business is just too complicated, you if they've had a great track record I would was an incredible business because it appeared people understood how they made money. It was good to avoid it. Another very important criterion is you want It could be a fabulous business that is done if you pay too much for it you're not going company. The last bit is that you want to invest in forever. If the stock market were to close for 10 years What do I mean by that? Again if you're going to compound your money period of time you really want a business You don't want to constantly have to be And what are businesses that you can own forever? Well there are very few that sort of meet Maybe a good example is Coca Cola. What is good about Coca Cola? It's a relatively easy business to understand. You understand how Coke makes money. They sell a formula or syrup to bottlers and every time they serve a Coca Cola. People drank a lot of Coca Cola for a very The world's population is growing. They sell it in almost every country in the bit more Coca Cola, so it's a pretty easy that I think is unlikely to be competed away product. It's been around long enough. People have grown used to the taste. Parents give it to their children and you of time. I think that's one good example. Another good example might be MacDonald's. You may not love MacDonald's hamburgers. You may or you may not, but it's a business You understand how they make money. They open up these little--build these little They rent them to the franchisees. They charge them royalties in exchange for fries and you know what? People have to eat. It's relatively low cost food. The quality is pretty good and they continue So I think the consistent message here is that's not particularly complicated that makes an attractive profit and can grow over So what are the key things to look for in Well you want a business that sells a product somewhat unique and they have a loyalty to people are willing to pay a premium for that. Another good example might be a candy business. While people are going to buy generic versions they don't need to have the branded product. When it comes to candy people don't tend They want the Hershey chocolate bar or the They want the brand and they're willing I think a key thing. You want the product to be unique. You don't want it to be a commodity that a commodity anyone can sell it and they can hard to make a profit doing that. If you're investing for the long term you little debt. In our little example before we talked about There is $250 worth of debt. That didn't put too much pressure on the $1,000 and we hit a rough patch the business to pay its debts. The shareholders could have been wiped out. So if you can find a company that can earn lot of debt or they generate vastly more profits debt that is a safe place to put your money You want businesses that have what people You want a business where it's hard for compete with you and put you out of business. I mean going back to the Coca Cola example. Coca Cola has such a strong market presence. People have come to expect when they go to a Coke. It's very hard for someone else to break Of course there is Pepsi and there are other time and Coca Cola and Pepsi have continued time. It's going to be very hard for someone to that is just going to put Coca Cola out of choosing a company make sure that they sell else to make a better one that you'll switch Look for something where people have real if someone offers the same, similar product high quality product. You also want businesses that are not particularly factors that you can't control. So if a business will be affected dramatically up or if interest rates move up and down or You want a company that is fairly immune to my Coca Cola example. I mean if you think about Coca Cola it's years. Over that period of time there have been multiple There has been all kinds of you know, development events and tragedies and so on and so forth, a little bit more money than they made before be confident based on the history that this regardless of whether interest rates are at much or the price of gold is up or down. Those are the kind of companies you want to are extremely immune to the events that are Another criteria, if you think back to our to buy more and more lemonade stands. Now those lemonade stands only cost $300 each, grew you had to build a new factory to produce were really expensive. Well that company might generate a lot of you're going to have to just reinvest more The best businesses are the ones where they in the company. They generate lots of cash that you can use can invest in new high-return, attractive So the key here is low capital intensity, business. Maybe the best way to think about a low capital capital intensity business. If you think about the auto industry before a huge factory. You've got buy a lot of machine tools. You have to make an enormous investment before those machine tools wear out over time and invest more and more in the factories, so been very attractive for the owners of the If you looked at the price of General Motors' meaningfully even up until the last several If you ignored the most recent period up through money investing in GM over a 40 or 50 year that GM constantly had to reinvest every dollar factories so they can be competitive. If you compare that to Coca Cola while Coca world a lot of those bottling companies aren't What they're really doing is they're selling they get a royalty on every dollar that is Those are the better businesses. Another good example might be American Express. If you think about the American Express card you buy something American Express card gets So you put up the capital and they get a several They get 3% of so of what you spent. So businesses where you own a royalty on other in the world to invest in. I guess the last point I would make is that it's probably safest to invest in businesses A controlled company is kind of like our lemonade The problem with a controlled company unless completely trust, unless there is someone of so-called minority investors, the non-controlling to invest in that business because you're and even if the controlling shareholder today there is no assurance that in the future they not going to be as supportive of the shareholders So it's not that you just--you can simply that has done well. You have to make sure that the management about you as an owner and are going to protect So these are some of the key criteria to think The Psychology of Investing and Mutual Funds Now when are you ready to start investing My guess is you're a student. You probably have student loans. Perhaps you even have some credit card debt. You're going to graduate. You're going to get a job. So you don't want to jump right in and while in the stock market. The stock market is a place to invest when put away that you won't need for 5 years, So if you're paying relatively high interest want to pay off your credit cards first before You student loans are probably lower cost best advice would be if your student loans if you pay them off it's as if you earned you're just better off getting rid of your debt before you commit a lot of material amount So what do you do with your money while you're The answer is you pay down your debt and you your credit card debts, perhaps you paid down money in the bank so that even if you were 6 months, maybe even 12 months of money set So these are some pretty high standards and start investing earlier, but the safest course is be as--have as little debt as possible. Be comfortable having some money in the bank, until to find your next opportunity and once money that you don't need to touch. If you can do that then you can be a successful So let's talk a little bit about the psychology of the technical factors, how to think about You want to buy a business at a reasonable You want to buy a business that is going to where it's going to be difficult for people are important, but even--and a lot of investors The problem is that when they put them into and the stock market is heading down every IRA or their investment account decline the of what makes sense. Generally it makes sense to be a buyer when seller when everyone else is buying, but just lemming-like tendency when everyone else is encourages you as an investor to make mistakes, '87 when in fact they should have been a So that's why I talked before a little bit You want to be financially comfortable. If you have student loans you want to have You probably don't want to be paying any--you card debt outstanding. You want to have some money in the bank because you're risking in the stock market is not term. As long as you don't need that money tomorrow of the stock market and the fluctuations, on you. People tend to feel rich when the stocks are They tend to feel poor when the stocks are in the short term is what Ben Graham or even Really stock prices reflect what people think If affects the supply and demand for investors, Over the long term however, stocks tend to So if you're buying businesses at attractive periods of time and those businesses are growing a long period of time as long as you're To be a successful investor you have to be to follow the herd. When the stock market is going down every sell. When the stock market is actually going up to buy, so in bubbles you probably should In busts you should probably be a buyer and You have to have a stomach to withstand the The key way to have a stomach to withstand secure yourself. You've got to feel comfortable that you've need what you have invested unless--for many That's a key factor. Number two, you have to recognize that the call a voting machine. It really represents the whims of people in Stock prices are affected by many things, have nothing to do with the value of certain got to just accept the fact that what you you buy it. That doesn't necessarily mean you've made It's just the nature of the volatility of How do you get comfortable? Well the way you get comfortable with the You don't just buy a stock because you like You do your own research. You get a good understanding of the business. You make sure it's a business that you understand. You make sure the price you're paying is company and we talked before a little bit of a business by putting a multiple on earnings. A more sophisticated way to think about a actually the amount of cash you can take out people do build models to predict how much period. That is probably something a little bit more for the purpose of this lecture, but maybe So when you by a bond and you get an interest 3%. You're earning 3% on your investment. When you buy a stock that's trading at a ratio or a price to earnings ratio let's In fact, if you flip over the PE ratio, you and you put the price that you're paying earnings are per share over the price you you can compare that earnings yield to for trading at a 10 PE is actually trading at about stocks or buying equity in a business bond. The difference is in the bond you know what You know that 3% interest rate every year With stock you don't know what the coupon The coupon in the stock is how much profit based on the history of the business and what to move up and down every year. Now hopefully the long term trend is up and buying a bond or buying a stock is I want earnings per share over the price I'm paying get owning a Treasury and that earnings yield long period of time. Now if you had a business that was growing growing its profits at a very high rate, very high multiple of those profits. Why, because they expect that earnings yield even pay--it might be cheap some day to buy or a 3.3% earnings yield if you think that get meaningfully higher to a 5, a 6, a 7, Those kinds of investments are much riskier. The higher the multiple generally the higher more on the future of the business. You're betting more on the future profitability. So my basic piece of advice in recommending the world are to find businesses that where is high enough that you don't need to be the future in order to earn attractive rate Okay, so the few key success factors for being the homework yourself. Make sure you understand the companies that Two, invest money that you won't need for borrow money certainly to invest in the stock if any, that you have as an investor. Okay, so after this brief 40 minute lecture start investing in the stock market. You have some work to do. There is some books you can read and we're books at the end of the lecture that will Almost everything you need to know about investing I learned the business from reading books associated with starting small and investing Let's say this is just not for you. I don't want to invest, buy individual stocks. It just seems too risky. I don't have the time to do my own research. What are your alternatives? Well you alternatives are to outsource your You can hire a money manager or you can hire couple of different alternatives for a startup The most common alternative is mutual fund So what is a mutual fund? A mutual fund is I guess technically it's this corporation and the manager selects a So what they do is they pool together capital, So say they raise a billion dollars and they collection of securities. Now the benefit of this approach is that with you can buy into a diversified portfolio managed to do a good job for you investing in the So mutual funds are a good potential area The problem is there are probably 7, 8,000, are fantastic and some are not particularly good mutual fund manager in the same way that not just the easy thing of just invest in So here are a few key success factors in identifying to select. Number one, you want someone who has an investment what they do and how they do it. They're not appealing to your insecurity that you don't understand. If they can't explain to you in two minutes makes sense then it's a strategy you shouldn't Number two and this is not necessarily in This probably should be number one, is you Again if you're starting out you probably that is sponsored by some of the larger mutual mutual fund that is privately--by a mutual There is some benefit in the larger institutions they're not going to steal your money. You want someone, an approach where the investor Now this sounds kind of obvious, but value and there are other kinds of investing including on stocks based on price movements, but I So you want someone making investments where belief that the prospects of the business to what the business is worth represents a You want to invest with someone that a long is the absolute minimum and ideally you want investing in the markets because there is investor in the market. You want someone who has a consistent approach, materially year by year, that they have a and thin that has enabled them to earn an investor and I always say in some way most the substantial majority of their own money Obviously it shouldn't be that they're This is what they do for you, but for their You want someone whose interests are aligned If it's a mutual fund you want them to have If it's a hedge fund, which is a privately worth you want a manager who is investing I have a strong aversion to strategies that way you want to invest in companies that use strategies that you very little leverage. If you can avoid leverage and invest in high managers it's hard to lose a lot of money Lots of money can be lost. Now in the same way when you're building to put all of your eggs in one basket and and the more sophisticated, the more work is you invest in the more concentrated your investor you want to own at least 10 and probably Many people would consider that to be a relatively In our view you want to own the best 10 or in low leverage, high quality companies that's If you invest with money managers you probably there either and here you probably want to different alternative, mutual funds or money of diversification in your holdings. Finance in Our Lives So we spent the hour. We started with a little lemonade stand company of the basics on how to think about a business, are, what expenses are, what a balance sheet about what a business is worth, how to think business is versus a bad business, how debt risk, but lower return, how equity investors of a business have the potential to earn more a way to think about- We use that as the--just as the basics to investing and we talked about investing in We talked about ways to think about how to of the psychological issues of investing. We covered a fair amount of ground in a relatively Now I entitled the lecture Everything you Less Than an Hour. Well it really isn't everything you need It's really just an introduction and hopefully this for an hour, but there is a lot more books that can teach you on the topic, so whether you choose this as a fulltime career in your career you're going to make some to make a big difference in the quality of have or the kind of house you're able to to be able to enjoy and we talked about the a 20% return over a very long lifetime and wealth you create over the period, so investing like it or not and learning more about investing of life if money is something that you need So I recommend this as an area worthy of exploration more--these same concepts while they're they're also useful to you in thinking about in your line of work, if you're a lawyer of calculations and thought processes are I recommend that you learn more. So take a look at the reading list and good