Transcriber: Min Zhang We have three things We all have a spine, we all sleep, and when we were about five years old Grandma used to scream: "Posture!" And that fear of Grandma even to world-leading influencers, doctors who are sat on front row Where is he? Dr. C, we've seen you So why do we? Because everyone in the room Liam at the backstage doing the sound doing his sound because it's comfy. Posture is the eternal And sitting up like this, although Grandma was watching, (Laughter) This is really hard. Whereas this: Oh, yeah. The thing that Grandma maybe missed was that if posture is the eternal then really we need to consider our sleep. It's great and it's comfy. And the beauty and the difference or standing and sleeping - we remember wearing a book Is that you're already asleep, When you're uncomfortable and this is really my go-to the second you become uncomfortable, The difference with sleep is significant. I'm going to share You will have all, either sat in the back of a car or come to a TEDx and heard and within ten minutes you wake up, and your neck feels Why didn't you wake up then? Is this a completely different thing So I think it's important because we spend so much time. In fact, I met Youngr last night. And Youngr was talking to me about using whole foods You eat for four and a half The lady that came on before nor am I going to mess with her, Um, but you exercise on average In fact, if you add all it's the same amount Now, the first or the second talk I really know that I know where I'm going for a job. By law, we can sue James with an ergonomic workstation provision and an annual screening But none of you have spent because you've all been doing this. This gentleman here And this is a chap the right side of Manchester. (Laughter) And he's a gentleman. (Applause) Dad that was for you. He's so annoyed with me Okay. This is a gentleman He had dementia, walks into hospital, was bedridden And that two weeks becomes seven years. That position you see This is a fixed body shape. So think about his personal care think about him trying to swallow, his comfort, his pain. Who even cares about that? He can't speak. He can't move. And he spends 23 to 24 hours a day in bed. With very, very simple we bring the bed to him. And look at what happens And that's not rocket science. If you always do this, you never do this, And I've discussed the benefits But the benefits for you guys are that it may well increase I met a lady last night at the TED dinner and then she told me that she felt It can lessen tension in shoulders, neck. If you're waking up with really or your shoulders burning through, it could have something to do This happens to the majority of men. Ladies, you'll be very If you want to get back into your sleep posture may well be that thing. And the best bit is it's You need to consider You'll say, "Well, I don't stay Of course you don't. You've moved a thousand times I've got to figure this out, four minutes and something. So the position you go That's what you guys So we are legitimately going to improve your quality of sleep tonight. The second bit is the hardware, Now, if you are suffering with sleep, By the way, we are Congratulations to us all. That does deserve a round of applause because we're all still smiling, In Westminster, in December, the university discussed So in this room, 74% of you one in two, I think, gets less than six Definitely not enough. And every day we read a paper "If you don't get your 7.5 hours, you're going to get dementia, Great. So anyone who's struggling is definitely not looking forward to it. But there's nothing to tell us So we see all these articles, all these phenomenal scientists on TED, with the sleep, why we need it, So this fight between Who cares about quantity? No one in the room is getting any. So let's start focusing on something that I saw James Leinhardt today at TED and that's what I'm going to do you might hate your boss, you might have a bill you There's a million reasons why Sleep is definitely not going to help. Last night, I slept for about an hour. Thanks to herb. (Laughter) And we all know the significance of sleep. In fact, you could argue that sleep is because you wake up tired, you're doing We know it recovers as we know But really, you still can't get the hours. It doesn't matter what I tell you. How many wonderful nuggets of information the world will be a fabulous place Anyway, back to this. What we do know to be true is from a piece of conceptual evidence that talks about the relationship and the speed of recovery Now, if you look at this board, 1.78 billion people have 60% who have chronic pain Imagine waking up in chronic pain. You're going to be and you're not getting You don't get any sleep, everything hurts, This is a cycle that we're all in. I can't just tell you to get your hours. So when you leave tonight, don't worry. You don't have to go and buy that flies you to the moon lavender spray, or a smartwatch you've had a great night's sleep. If you drink a bottle of whiskey tonight, The best bit about sleep posture is it will cost you absolutely and I'm going to share how to do it. As you know, I work with complex But when we realized that and no one really cares about we went to meet with a load of athletes. And just before Tokyo. This is one such athlete who is a bronze medal Olympic champion, But she came to me because she was seven hours a day, "Right, stiff right SIJ, hip", And her shoulders were hurting, but she said it was all down to the bike you need to spend your days which you can't do much It had absolutely nothing If you look at that position, which the second you bring one you've now put yourself in what (Laughter) So, a research from a very intelligent chap talks about the fact that if you go you are more likely to wake up But let's not even go with references or worry about any silly including me, really understand. When you bring one leg as is my knee when I've fallen asleep, and this feels, by the way, 'comfortable', my shoulders going to drop forward. And now I'm face planting. So if you actually look at the picture, you'll see that Katy had right knee pain Her stiff SIJ came because And I think you can see what's And all she needed to do was remember she would have been given and if she only stuck a pillow and wants to fill that space she would So this isn't really an experiment What position do you go to sleep in? Because I suspect you sleep The provocative posture, by the way, is So if you are a tackler and it's the because it's comfy, don't forget that went to the doctor and found out the doctor said, "It's time to move They all did it. So you can't not only. There's only two positions I'd recommend, and I'm recommending this based because these are the two for 2 to 4 hours at a time. There's one significant difference One, as you can see, is supported, and we preserve somebody's body, lung capacity is nice and lovely. And that's just horrendous to watch. These guys can't speak. So you guys have moved probably These people are put for 2 to 4 hours and can't tell you that And none of us have a clue how to do this. None of you in the room have So we called them the soldier Just remember Grandma. Standing nice, standing up straight, And seated posture, Lovely. Oh, yeah, that's better actually. Anyway, these positions are the only The only two you can control What happens thereafter is anyone's guess. And I'm not here to maintain In fact, if you sat like this which some of you have done and you didn't This is really hard, actually. So perhaps, there is a way Because if you have chronic pain then you will definitely be struggling So if you wake up in less pain tomorrow just because you stuck a pillow and didn't look like a twisted pretzel, you might wake up in less pain. If you wake up in less pain, and you might even sleep In this room, you are either looking after somebody the lady that's been taking pictures who after this will be going She's not seen her in two days. Dad, how many times have you been Five. There you go. Because at some point in your life, Or like my wife, you will be looking after But the point is, this is going to affect all of us. It's not about when we get older, he's going to be in a bad mood I'd like to dedicate this talk in memory and never woke up. And whilst we know that we actually are more concerned today Thank you very much. (Applause)