Sometimes, the song can give us goosebumps, but then it can go one step further! Who can say where the road goes Where the day flows Welcome to WatchMojo.com and today we're counting down our picks for the &quot;Top 10 Songs That Will Make You Cry&quot;. Now hush little baby, don't you cry For this list, we've chosen our entries based their individual context, and their resonance with the listener. All by myself It can be happy or sad songs, When I have so much to say but you're so far away Childhood living Is easy to do Exactly who our first entry was Graceless lady You know who I am Marianne Faithfull's the most likely, though it has also been linked to Bianca Jagger, and Keith Richards' son Marlon. Wild horses Couldn't drag me away What is clear is that with one quite simple hook, the Stones produced an ageless piece of music that has stood hairs on end for generations. Tears must be cried So let's do some living Mick's distinctive voice finds a perfect match, as this brooding, crooning, subdued song leaves the listener as lonely as the frontman. Wild horses Couldn't drag me away Hello darkness, my old friend I've come to talk with you again The opening lines to our next track are among the most recognizable Left its seeds while I was sleeping Written shortly after the JFK assassination, this song also became an And the vision That was planted in my brain It welcomes darkness and is perhaps most effective when it's played within it. Within the sound of silence The combination of vocals are as haunting today as The prophets are written on the subway walls And tenement halls It's &quot;our old friend,&quot; and it tingles from start to finish! In the sound... of silence So So you think you can tell Heaven from hell Blue skies from pain The title track to their 1975 album, &quot;Wish You Were Here&quot; was written for in response to his alleged battle with schizophrenia. How I wish, how I wish you were here We're just two lost souls Year after year The whole album explores the theme of detachment, and David Gilmour's vocals as he pines for his friend. Wish you were here The whole track comes across a train of thought that's sad, Sorry I never told you All I wanted to say One of the most commercially this collaboration reigned for colossal 16 weeks. Feeling and knowing you hear... Written and recorded in a matter of days, pop diva Mariah Carey meets R&amp;B quartet Boyz II Men, and together they produce this tearful tune. And I know you're shining down on me from heaven Like so many friends we've lost along the way Reminding us all of the impermanence of life, it's an exercise in saying the things we wish we'd said, and in giving thanks for the lives that we have. Sorry I never told you All I wanted to say Every generation Blames the one before Continuation of Mariah's theme, this 80's ballad once, again picks apart the question of life and death... Come beating on your door and summarizes the conundrum in six short words: &quot;It's too late when we die.&quot; No, it's too late (It's too late) when we die (oh when we die) Specifically about the bond the idea is applicable to just about So say it, say it, say it loud Say it clear (Come on say it clear) that's why it gets us singing along - even if it's difficult to do that and not shed a tear! (It's too late) when we die (it's too late when we die) To admit we don't see eye to eye Goodbye Norma Jean You had the grace to hold yourself Those around you crawled Originally penned in memory of Marilyn Monroe, &quot;Candle in the Wind&quot; is also famously after Elton played it at her funeral. You're like, like a candle in the wind Never knowing Though though the lives of its subjects the song itself has endured for generations. And I would have liked to have known you Your candle burned out long before Your legend ever did It's emotional enough without context, but it's a fitting tribute to two iconic women, and to celebrities in general that died too young... And I would have liked to have known you About you an elegy of the highest order! Your candle burned out long before Your legend ever did Well I heard there was a secret chord That David played and it pleased the Lord But you don't really care for music, do you? This song was powerful when but when Jeff Buckley caressed hair stood on end and lumps formed in throats. She tied you to her kitchen chair She broke your throne and she cut your hair And from your lips she drew the Hallelujah It's love that's gone stale - There's also anguish in his voice, Hallelujah, hallelujah he isn't just singing the words, But remember when I moved in you And the holy dove was moving too And every breath we drew was Hallelujah A talent that was lost too soon, Hallelujah x3 We defy anyone not to be When you're sure you've had enough Of this life &quot;Everybody Hurts&quot; has become a Adopted by the Samaritans charity, it was originally written by the band This song not only prompts tears, it saves lives! Everybody hurts According to the lyrics, &quot;We all cry,&quot; and most of us do when we sing them. &quot;Everybody hurts,&quot; and after this song So hold on Hold on I hurt myself today To see if I still feel Originally penned by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, &quot;Hurt&quot; was taken on by the legendary Johnny Cash several years later. What have I become My sweetest friend It brings the memories of his past under And you could have it all My empire of dirt Cash was very frail when recording the song, and he died seven months after its release. Everyone I know goes away In the end Laying the unstoppable passing of time, its accompanying video is a memorial to one man, but something that we'll all experience. If I could start again A million miles away It's about as powerful as music can be. I would keep myself I would find a way Before we unveil our top pick, Ooh, my own was banished long ago How do I live without the ones I love? Time still turns the pages of the book it's burned Hailie I know you miss your mom When I'm gone but I'm trying to give you the life that I never had I can see you're sad, even when I can see it in your eyes, deep inside you want to cry I will remember you Will you remember me? Yesterday All my troubles seemed so far away All we are is dust in the wind... Oh, ho, ho Would you know my name If I saw you in heaven? Clapten has taken the top spot of this deeply emotional list with an If I saw you in heaven? inspired by great personal tragedy. I must be strong And carry on 'Cause I know I don't belong Here in heaven When his 4-year-old son passed away, we'd have understood if Clapton But he did, and was able to produce a record that's as terrific as it is teary! Beyond the door Reminding us all of anyone who has passed, &quot;Tears In Heaven&quot; verbalizes what And I know There'll be no more Tears in heaven It's a tear-jerking tune that gets us every time! Would you know my name If I saw you in heaven? Do you agree with our list? It's something unpredictable, but in the end is right I hope you had the time of your life For more tear-jerking Top 10's published every day, be sure to subscribe to WatchMojo.com.