17th of June 2001 Rome opened the penultimate match of the season. And with Roma secured their first Scudetto in 18 years, To know the whole story let's go Which was led by Brazilian national the Swedish manager Liedholm, and the Dino Viola. Roma was great in that period, Bruno Conti on the wings, the Capitano Agostino Di Bartolomei, and the league's top scorer, And with that group and other great players, they managed to win the Scudetto in 83 and 5 titles in the Coppa Italia, first of them in 1980 and the last coming in 91'. and also runners-up in the Champions League and the UEFA cup And within that period and entering the 1990's, Roma's golden team The capitano Ago went to Milan against his will, Paulo Falcao went back to Brazil, Roberto Pruzzo, Bruno Conti, Tancredi the Sebastiano Nela, Toninho Cerezo, the transfer of Ancelotti and Rudi Voller. And entering the 92' season, almost all either retired or transferred to another club. One man was left, Roma's 21st captain nicknamed &quot;Il Principe&quot; But in spite of Giannini's brilliance, After the last Cup title in 91' with the the team from the capital went through a rough patch starting with the passing of owner Dino Viola in the same year Franco Sensi took over the realms in March of 93' after Ciarrapico who was handed convicted of fraud and was put in jail. Roma's problems did not end there after the Giallorossi's new signing and Argentine star Claudio Caniggia failed a drug test and was banned by the league for 13 The manager in these hard times was the experienced Yugoslavian Boskov and may be the only bright spot from the 92-93 season came when Boskov gave a and that teenager was.... Francesco Totti Boskov's reign was not successful, so in came Carlo Mazzone with the Argentine striker Abel Balbo, and with that Sensi's era has begun Mazzone preferred the common 3-5-2 and was called &quot;Catenacciaro&quot; for his defensive mindset, and it showed in his first The matches were sluggish and goalscorer like Balbo. even Mazzone was quoted saying that if he was a fan, he wouldn't bother attending the matches for a while and Sensi's relationship with Giannini didn't start on the right foot. after the owner criticized the Capitano following a penalty miss against Lazio The Giallorossi ended the season one But, marginal improvements with Napoli's Jonas Thern, and Daniel whom with Balbo will prove to be a good striker duo for the Giallorossi. Roma ended the season with the strongest defense in the league, but they still had a scoring problem as Balbo and Fonseca combined for almost 65% of the team's goals. This was also the first season for a win system used to incentivize Marcello Lippi figured out on his way to Bianconeri in 8 years. So, the Giallorossi had a long way to go and other than a famous three nil win and ended in fifth place. Mazzone's third season was full of events and most of which were negative and a month into it seven points from the opening seven games, out refereeing decisions and the criticism and a bigger portion towards the press was pushing for Mazzone to Totti behind the strikers and in the seventh game week the wishes of the media came true after Giannini was and after the capitano's absence, Roma entered a good the next eight matches. But, are these results directly related to Giannini's absence? The media was pushing for this agenda and in a match in the San Siro against Inter Giannini came back and was a starter. And after having a bad game which was Mazzone decided to sub the Prince for Totti. Roma lost the match, but they lost something more important that day. the media criticism piled up on Giannini after the match. and the capitano entered a state by his quotes in which he requested match for the rest of the season and his Mazzone stood by Giannini and refused his and the Curva Sud in Roma's next match lifted beautiful banners asking the capitano to stay and one of those banners read with us, you are always a starter. After missing out on European football in the UEFA Cup to save the season and his The opponent was SK Slavia Prague from the Czech Republic in the quarterfinals. And after losing 2-0 under the Czech snow, Roma came back home with a great reception from the fans who were hopeful in achieving the Two goals from the Giallorossi And who other than Giannini Who said football cannot be romantic ? And the impossible became true after However, if there was one match that it could be this one. The attacking and positive football was there but it was too late. Just as football can be romantic, it can also be harsh as well. The Czech side scored to the shock of all the fans, and the hope was gone, as was the season. Mazzone ended the season in but Sensi's decision was final. and after the rumors, in came Carlos Bianchi to take over the job. And after Giannini's relationship The Capitano left as well and without a because of his ban which was a result of After great success with Velez in Argentina, Bianchi came to the Giallorossi with confidence and said that Roma will win with me. The Argentine boosted the squad after converting Delvecchio's loan from and other deals like Damiano Tommasi, Dahlin, and Trotta who came with Bianchi from Velez. And although Roma had a great start in the champions Milan by three goals to nil. There were concerning and conflicting Bianchi's substitutions and his reading of And in the first two months, Roma was out of the Coppa Italia and Europe. And after experimenting with different formations, he didn't settle with one The criticism started in October after the media watched a new Roma, but with the same old problems. Media silence from the team enough to paint the whole picture. The rumors were pointing to Bianchi's desire in fielding a team full of foreigners after not getting along with the local players. Stories were written about a which was confirmed by Roma's ex-manager when he brought up Totti's issues with Bianchi. Mazzone then called Sensi to confirm the news about Totti to Sampdoria, in which Sensi confirmed that negotiations were ongoing. Mazzone made it clear that he would love for Totti to join him in Cagliari on loan, but he was against Francesco leaving Roma in general. But after Totti's performances in a Sensi changed his mind. Bianchi lost the dressing room after that in March and Sensi was very patient with him after giving him the objective of capturing a European spot. But, a last defeat against none other than Mazzone's Cagliari was the last straw. Bianchi lost the media in October, lost the fans in February, lost the players in March, and in the end he lost his job in April. the Giallorossi ended the season with the return of Liedholm and Primavera manager, Sela. But, Roma's problems were rooted deep down and the season ended with them being four points away from the relegation spots. And to add salt to the fifth time in a row in one of THE After the disaster of last season, Sensi A manager that has experience in Italy, a manager that had attack minded philosophies that could nurture Totti. There were many names but there was one that caught his eye, just across town... Zdenek Zeman a Czech national addicted to smoking and the 4-3-3. His aim as a manager is to bring joy to the fans, and after getting fired from Lazio six months ago, his aim was a revenge as well. The Czech became known for his hard training sessions and attack-minded ideologies with Foggia when he was appointed after the team was promoted to Serie B. he gained promotion to Serie A in two seasons. and in his first season with the big boys Foggia had the second best attack behind His football philosophy was very strange for Italy at the time, and Foggia's miracle was labeled by the press as..... &quot;Zemanlandia&quot; Zeman's reign with Roma started with a busy Mercato where 14 new faces were acquired to The most famous of them being Cafu from Palmeiras, Paulo Sergio, and Di Francesco. And with ex-Zeman and Foggia and Candela who was signed by Bianchi in the last winter Mercato, and Totti who was motivated after The Giallorossi was ready to fight for But, at that time Serie A was strong. And ,with each tumble in the standings there were consequences. And, it's no surprise when you see these Wherever you look in the league, there Udinese, Bierhoff. Bologna, Baggio Parma, Chiesa. But, Zeman's start with Roma was entertaining, full of goals. And, he had the best attack in the league And Francesco Totti was officially presented to the world as a star. But, the problem was the inconsistent form. Big wins like five nil were followed by a three nil defeat But, the real disaster was definitely the four defeats against rivals Lazio in the league and Cup which ended by an aggregate score of 11-3. The Czech's insistence in playing match that don't make sense resulted in Balbo and Aldair. The clash between Balbo and Zeman got heated to the point of the Argentine calling his manager a But, Zeman managed to end the season in and over Lazio for the first time in five years. and for that Sensi he gave him another chance in the following season. But, the Capitano's relationship with his manager got to the point of no return. So, Sensi searched the market for a replacement. Christian Vieri Filippo Inzaghi Monaco's duo of Henry and Trezeguet. All these names were discussed by Sensi But, these dreams kept being dreams. And, the harsh reality was across town after Lazio managed to sign will Salas, Stankovic Vieri But, Zeman was distracted from the because he was busy giving an interview that shook Italian football. The Giallorossi manager said in an interview with L' Espresso about the sudden increase in muscle volume of some players in the He mentioned by name ex Juventus player Gianluca Vialli and Del Piero. He also requested from football teams to get out of the pharmacies. The Italian Olympic Zeman to back up his accusations, and The issue grew bigger each day to the point that it was discovered in August that there was major negligence in the drug testing But, all of these issues didn't distract Roma's fans from the abysmal Mercato after Sensi's promises. And, especially after Roma Sensi tried to make amends after after being dubbed the new Ronaldo. The funny thing was that the Corriere dello Sport released a 17 minute VHS montage of the player. in all new stands in Roma to present his skills. And, the word skills should be underlined twice because the only thing in common between Ronaldo and and the club they played for in Brazil. All of this effected the team's ambition for the Scudetto and the Giallorossi struggled away from home that extended to April. Totti getting the captaincy in October after Aldair handing it over after Balbo's transfer, and also the first Derby win against Lazio in 4 years were some of the bright spots of the season. Especially as lazio were two points away from winning the Scudetto. But, Zeman and Sensi were adamant that referee mistakes effected Roma's season. The allegations went so far that Sensi sat with the Attorney General in Torino As Sensi said in an interview with Rai that is paying in a way for Zeman's doping allegations. The Giallorossi ended recently added as a UEFA Cup spot. And, although Zeman extended his contract in February, Sensi suddenly decided to in a crazy turn of events. And, the word was that Sensi was pressured from the senior officials of the Italian league to push Zeman out of Roma, after the Czech's doping allegations that tarnished Serie A's reputation. But, away from the rumors and heresy, the certain fact was that Sensi was searching for a successor. And, his decision was quick. He chose a name with a great reputation, and success. Fabio Capello A name that needs no introduction. Huge success with Milan after Sacchi handed over the keys, and another in Madrid despite the issues. But, after a forgettable season when he came back to Milan, he took an year off from football. But, Fabio came back to the panchina with the Giallorossi after a call from Sensi. And, he joins Franco Baldini who was the Roma's Mercato started with the Italian starlet Vincenzo Montella from Sampdoria who's technically Zdenek Zeman's last signing before he was relieved. But Antonioli, Assuncao, and Nakata in January were part of Capello and Baldini's plans for the season. And, also the consistent Cristiano Capello's first season was a and a new experiment for the Italian which resulted in a famous win against But, rumors started to spread about a Which was a result of Capello subbing the Italian in most of the matches in the season. The team had a physical dip and a hit to their morale after exiting the UEFA Cup against Leeds. And, also losing against Juve in February that distanced them from fighting for the Scudetto seriously. And in the last 10 league matches the, Giallorossi managed to win once only. But, Sensi was confident in Capello and extended his contract in April till 2003 Roma ended the season in sixth place and in the UEFA Cup spots, but 18 points adrift from the And speaking of Champions, the disaster of the season was not Roma's but the results of their neighbors lazio. after Juventus failed to win or even draw under the heavy rains in Perugia in the last match of the season. Which led to lazio winning the Scudetto for the first time since 1974. Which resulted in pressure on Fabio and But, Capello was confident. If he wanted the Scudetto, there was one guy missing. Gabriel, Omar, Batistuta. That was Capello and Baldini's target in the summer but there was a problem Sensi had already signed with Samuel and Emerson before the window opened. And, it was hard to convince him to make a convincing offer for Batistuta. Especially, after the striker completed 31 years of age. But, Baldini and Capello hatched a plan to pressure Sensi into buying the striker and that was after meeting Mario Sconcerti from the Corriere dello Sport for the purpose of spreading After the rumor spread, Sensi's But, the truth was that Batistuta And after days had passed, the fans and the media started questioning Sensi about the transfer And after the pressure, Sensi him the most expensive transfer for a And, with Zebina and the return of Roma's Mercato was done. But, the joy of the great Mercato up a serious injury that would keep him And, after it was evident in the preseason that Montella would be the victim in the starting lineup. The fans didn't accept Capello's but the Italian was adamant in creating a lineup that makes the most sense for Totti who's considered Roma's best player. And it looked like this, a three-man defense that were good with their feet and mobile with only one question mark over Zebina. Cafu and Candela as wing-backs and with full especially for Cafu. And because Capello's lineup was the wing backs had key roles in covering their whole lines. A defensive midfield duo of Tommasi and Zanetti to cover up for Totti and lessen And, Totti behind the strikers as a playmaker and to take advantage of spaces between the lines and chances outside the box. A striker duo with different traits, Batistuta the conventional striker inside and Delvecchio as a space facilitator for his Argentine partner and Totti and Montella as an impact sub especially in the first half of the season. and finally the Italian goalkeeper Antonioli. The season started in September with a cup fixture against newly promoted Atalanta and Roma failed their first test of the season after crashing out of the Coppa Which led to the Giallorossi fans invading the Trigoria the training centre. Which shook most of the players and the staff. But, the event had a rather Roma cemented their status as title with three wins out of the first three matches. But, the curse of the San Siro was still in play after the defeat against Inter. But, the Giallorossi 10,000 away fans inside the Giuseppe Meazza on that day which reflects the team's ambition for the season Three teams were Reigning champions Lazio, representative of the North, Juve. and with an enhanced squad and a strong start, Roma. The Giallorossi was not continued it's fine form after four The most significant being the win against Batigol's former team Fiorentina. The Argentine scored the winning goal and was overwhelmed by his Roma was top of the league of Juve by six points and Lazio by nine. The season was long but it was hard to find any Roma fan who was not win against Lazio after Negro scored an and also after wins in tough circumstances that would have been a Other than another loss in San Siro, The first half of the season ended with Roma on top ahead by six points from Juve and Lazio. It was obvious that Capello was concentrating on the Scudetto after Roma was eliminated from the UEFA Cup against Liverpool by deploying a weaker Emerson was back from injury in January and it performances from Tommasi and in a lesser sense Zanetti. Roma had a strong start in the second half of the season despite Batistuta getting injured. In came Montella and scored four goals in the Which made Capello rethink the Italian And, after 27 matches the of Juve by six points and Lazio by seven. But, two back-to-back matches against the neighbors and the Bianconeri could decide the Scudetto. The first match was against Lazio important derbies in the last 20 years. Scoreless first half, but a strong start from the Giallorossi in the second after Batistuta scored the first goal, and Delvecchio the second in the first nine And, after Juve's draw agains Lecce before the Derby it was an opportunity for Roma to breathe in the standings. But, Lazio managed to level Then came the Bianconeri, but before the match there was a big issue regarding league that came to Italy with fake And, the reason to have fake European passports is to avoid the civil labor law problem that limits each team to three non-European players or on the bench. And, for that reason Hidetoshi Nakata can be found in the stands for most of the matches because Samuel, Batistuta, and Cafu are always starting and occupying the three But, all of this changed after the federal court cancelled the law before Roma's fateful match against Juve in the Delle Alpi which led to Nakata making the bench. Moggi and Juve's staff were furious because a change of this magnitude happened during the season. But, the change was related to civil and was not a footballing law. But, the Bianconeri to the match after Del Piero and Zidane Cutting the deficit between Juve and Roma But, Capello made some ballsy changes and in came Montella for Delvecchio at the start of the second half and Nakata for Totti in the The Japanese player managed to change after a long range effort for the first and another effort in the 91st minute which was deflected from the for the equalizer. And, with that the Giallorossi managed to them and Lazio, and six points from Juve entering the last five matches. Five matches to secure the Scudetto and But, Roma managed to win one nil in a cagey and hard match. Another win against relegation battlers Bari ended with ease. But, Juve and Lazio managed to match Roma's results winning both their games as well. A tough test against Milan awaits the Giallorossi, especially after the Rossoneri's historical win against Inter by six goals to nil. And, after Francesco Coco opened the scoring before half-time Montella entered the to earn Roma a point. Roma failed to secure the Scudetto at against Napoli after a 2-2 draw. and the gap was now two points And, a win in the last match against Parma and the rest is HISTORY. Roma managed to win two cup titles to relive the joy of the Scudetto as separate occasions till today. If you guys the channel as I have more topics lined please contribute in the comment section