- (narrator) We're playing with soldiers and gamers, - Let's go! - (narrator) Rainbow Six Siege and free to play through so join us, jump in, Let's get into it. We've divided you into two teams: - Gamers are gonna win, - We've practiced our coms, so I think we'll have - I think it's gonna be I think they're gonna be based on playing the video game - We actually basically play when we train like this we have just a little so I think it's really - We'd be lying if we said - I'm not nervous at all. - Mouse and keyboard will not necessarily - I guarantee you we're gonna win. We do get the proper training. Yes, they do play video games, but that's a virtual world, (intense rock music) - (narrator) We wanna thank for sponsoring this episode. Somewhere in this base, just like in the Secure Area The attacking team will locate for 10 seconds to win. The defending team If both teams are in the objective, If you get shot three times, Whichever team wins the most rounds - Alright you guys, - Let's go! - Let's go! - Let's go baby. - Yeah! - (narrator) Just like in Rainbow Six, David and Salcido In round one, the gamers while the soldiers attack. Your 30 seconds of preparation - Alright, so we know within the center building. So let's move in that area, and figure out our defenses. - The barrel is on the left side, - Guys, look at all the entrances... - So there's gonna be a lot of, - We're gonna push three this way, See what you see, let us know, Ready, let's go. - (narrator) It's time for the first match. - Load up! - (narrator) The gamers start - Okay, wait, wait, wait, - I saw him, I saw him. Hey move up to the next building, - (narrator) The soldiers start - Valley side, Valley side! They're covering fire, someone peek! - You wanna push up a bit? - Yeah, I'm advancing, I'm advancing! Okay, cover, cover! - (narrator) Ethan finds two soldiers, - I was on the back side and I had caught a glimpse I was like alright, I just wanna see what he does. And then we just did some, shooting at each other, and he ended up I'm out! - They're pushing up, Valley side, woo! - I got shot in the thumb, oh my God! - (narrator) With the first soldier the gamers gained confidence. - That hurt so much! - One's going Hill side, Oh [bleep]! - (narrator) With Gates out, a plan of action. - Double back, fastly, I'm dead, leave that side, - Two Valley side, - Two Valley! I'm pushing up Hill! - There you go, there you go, - One in middle! - (narrator) The soldiers start but the gamers are onto 'em. - Valley side, right behind this wall. - They in the house. - I've got you cover on your right! - (narrator) Ethan gets a clear shot - What the? - (narrator) Lynnie gets three meaning only Torres remains. - I got three, I got three! - (narrator) A hit to the mask - Oh [bleep]! - (narrator) 'Causing him to fire - Ah! - You shot me? - (narrator) Unfortunately, - Yeah, I didn't even die bro, - I know, that was my bad! - (narrator) Torres, sneaks towards the objective, but he doesn't know - Ugh! - Woo! - (narrator) Shots are fired. Torres misses Kendelle, - Yeah, we won that [bleep]! - (narrator) The gamers have won - Woo! - Yeah, Lynnie got - Ah, I got three of 'em! - We won that [bleep] - We won! - Woo! - Definitely defeated right now, but we're gonna get revenge - I think we worked out that stopped us from being - I just had such good teammates. They were doing - Yeah, our strategy was pretty solid. - Our strat was... and they had backup all around. - And then there was me - It was great! - Definitely a little defeated especially, trying to lead these guys We definitely don't wanna lose. - We made mistakes, and we're gonna adjust fire - I shot my teammate. - I feel bad. - We're still good, - Oh, go ahead, shake. - 'Cause this is his time to shine. - No, we need Tom! (laughs) - Hey everyone, get in here. One, two, three. - (narrator) The team switched sides, with the soldiers The prep time begins now. - Alright, let's go, Woo, found it! - That's a pretty open building. - So right off the bat, - What the heck? I already have an idea. - They're starting off strong That side's gonna be heavily guarded. - You can't get around that car. - It's a wall over there I want that, I'll get that. - Yeah. - We'll hold this side, and then that way, and if you're in fights, - (narrator) For round two, The soldiers are defending. David and Salcido Round two begins now. After the last match, already advancing (paintball guns clicking) - One's directly behind the middle! - (narrator) Salcido gets - Woo! - (narrator) He hits her and her gun, - He took my thing off! - Push up to the middle, alright? - They're in the middle - One's directly behind - (narrator) The soldiers advance, surrounding the gamers - Hey, there's one - Right here, right here I have at Hill side! - (narrator) Fortunately Lynnie takes out Gates. - Ah! - Ok, one's directly on the Hill side! - (narrator) Lucas spots David and eliminates him. - (narrator) There are four soldiers but only three gamers. - I'm good on the back! - Ah [bleep] I'm out. - (narrator) Ethan's gun jams - Damn it, my [bleep] gun jammed! (paintball gun clicking) My gun jammed, I'm pissed! - (narrator) And Ethan is eliminated Lynnie and Emma Lee Lynnie finds herself cornered. I definitely tunnel visioned and I'm just like waiting, and then all of a sudden, And I was like no way! - (narrator) Roseboro - Oh no! - (narrator) This makes Emma Lee - There's nothing scarier and everyone's just shooting at you! - (narrator) Before she can - That's what I'm talking about, team! - (narrator) The soldiers win - Woo! - Good game. - I was breaking [bleep]. - We smashed 'em! - We redeemed ourselves pretty much - Before we got out the door, So, next time we're gonna be Each team had a chance First round, they got to see This round, we got to see So now it's gonna be really, - Last game, final dub, - (gamers) Yes! - Let's go! - Army on three, - (soldiers) Army! - (narrator) Going into the teams decide Gamers are attacking, - Alright, we know it's in the center, - Copy that! - Let's move, we got 30 seconds. - Alright, got it, got it, got it. - Yep, got it, got it. - Oh shoot. - Right in the corner? - Alright, so, me, I'm gonna go You go to the right side, right? - I'm gonna go to the far right, yeah. - So we have to push that so fast. When we push, - (narrator) On the attacking team, while Gates swaps out The final round begins now. (tense music) (paintball guns clicking) - Oh, that's one. - (narrator) Tom is the first one - We got two in mid, two in mid! - Watch your mid, we're good. - Valley, Valley, Valley! - (narrator) As Salcido guards he gets a clear shot of Kendelle. - Woo! - (narrator) Kendelle is eliminated. Ethan approaches the objective, of friendly fire. - I don't even know - (narrator) Luckily, he's used to it. - To your right, Tom, to your right! - (narrator) Tom gets closer but Salcido is ready for him. To your left, Tom. - (narrator) Covered by Tom eliminates Zhang. Torres takes advantage to eliminate Tom from the game. - Hey, hey, hey! - (narrator) On a roll, Torres Only Lynnie is left standing. The remaining soldiers (tense music) - Ugh! (paintball guns clicking) - (narrator) Lynnie is eliminated, - That's what I'm talking about. Good [bleep]! - We got owned. - (soldiers) We dominated! - We got reverse sweeped. - Yeah. - We didn't run fast enough. We just have to run faster. - They were good. Like eye-hand coordination, - (Emma) Okay, okay. - They were definitely good. - First round, pretty impressive. - Only first round though. - Only first round. (laughs) - We weren't sure, - I was super surprised - Oh yeah. - I was surprised at all. - No, the amount of welts - They're military, this is - I definitely had fun, just talking to a couple of the guys and actually knowing that they and they invited us so I thought that was really awesome. - Aw yeah. - It's cool to see a mix of like and in-game soldiers - I definitely had fun, I ever played paintball, and to play against was pretty awesome. - It was fun, I only played so technically, - Oh no! - Okay. - I think I'm gonna I'm not gonna lie. - I mean, I'm willing to go - We have left over ammo. - Oh, he said! - Who wants to go now? I am so willing to go another round! - (narrator) Invite your friends through November 24th, Get good for the with two new operators. - Thanks for watching on the REACT Channel. - If you liked this video, - Subscribe for new shows - Bye guys! - Deuces!