Hey everyone, my name's tomatoanus, also known as Churro Pequeno, and this is an Any% This run is performed by Eclypsed, the current also helped me write the script to make sure If you'd prefer to watch either this run world record, they're both linked in the description. Additionally, this is an Any% run, so glitches a glitchless run, I've linked the current description as well. If you've never played Subnautica before, game set on an ocean planet. We've crash landed on this planet, and the resources, interacting with wildlife, and with our overall goal being to escape the planet. This run is done on the Survival difficulty, have to manage health, hunger, thirst, and with certain items removed from our inventory. In order to complete our overall goal of escaping accomplish, but they're sort of spoilers This may seem antithetical to speedrun videos, unless it's absolutely necessary to understand For these purposes, certain things on our When we get to the point where we talk about for spoiler-avoiders to mute the video for having the details of the plot spoiled. There will be visual gameplay spoilers throughout With that all being covered, let's get into the- Hey Chicago Guy, I'm home from my safari! Had to swing by the police station on the Hey! Minnesota Guy! Glad you're home, try my shake! Oh, okay. It's a mix of parsley and beef. Why... why would you make this? Mainly to see if I could. That's fair. Boy, I was really looking forward to trying like the perfect thing to tie me over to dinner, dontcha know. You should have a Mid-Day Square then! Oh, I've heard of these! They're the first functional chocolate bar, right? Made entirely out of ingredients that are Yeah! Plus they taste so much better than protein bad after eating them like I do with a lot It's not going to ruin my appetite or anything, I wanna make tater tot hotdish for dindin. Nah, Mid-Day Squares were made to be a healthy Wait, so they're a snack food, designed Yep, and they're made with real chocolate *mumbling with mouth full of food* Wait, did you fit that whole thing in your mouth? Dude, you're gonna choke. Nah, I'm fine. Oh, okay then. Click the link in the description or use code tomatoanus Wait, what did you say? Click the link in the description or use code tomatoanus Oh, yeah, uh-huh! Wait, did you not hear me again? I... I can just repeat it again, you don't have Man, it's good to be home. I love living in Minnesota. And I love living in Chicago. (together) And we love living together. Before starting the run proper, there's First is that this run is done on a downpatched In the game's speedrun history, it used but it's not as important nowadays aside but not later ones. Secondly, the keybinds that Eclypse uses are Subnautica gives you the option to bind two both the left mouse button and scrolling down mouse button and scrolling up bound to moving This lets him do things like break rocks and to spam inputs, and also spam inputs to interact The last thing we need to go over before the In short, the speedrun of this game is a lot There's a total amount of each resource we'll be keeping track of how much we have Throughout the run, Eclypse will be collecting mentally keeping track of how many of each Resources are either harvested from deposits to do so, or harvested from the planet's Some resources though are available for collection Harvesting nodes are mineral deposits holding hands rather than having to use a tool, and The game determines what item to give you something called a "resource bucket." Think of resource buckets as exactly what Each type of harvesting node has its own resource resource is drawn from that node's bucket There's a few different kinds of resource type of harvesting node that we break, and a chance to drop one of several resources. The easiest way to explain how it's chosen so let's use limestone outcrops first. The way limestone outcrops are set up, is and one copper ore. The first time you harvest a limestone outcrop, titanium or copper ore, and whichever one harvest, you're guaranteed to get the other. This empties the limestone outcrop bucket, The next time you harvest a limestone outcrop titanium or copper ore, with whatever is chosen bucket is emptied, and then refilled again. Limestone outcrops are the simple one, with for every two pulls, but buckets like the The sandstone outcrop bucket begins with two in it, making for a total of eight resources In your first four harvests of this bucket, ore, at least one lead, and exactly one gold. In the final four picks, you're then free bucket until the bucket is emptied, at which Alright, with that all being covered, we can Eclypse begins by pressing and holding "Escape" prompt, and also skip the intro cutscene, frame of gameplay. He then uses the scroll wheel to interact hatch in one smooth motion, giving us a First Our first immediate goal is to get at least Right away, we grab some nearby metal salvage, go into a little cave area to grab acid mushrooms which nets us a copper. Had the metal salvage not spawned where it to get the titanium we need, or if the limestone break a second limestone to get the copper. Back at our base, we make a battery using convert the metal salvage into four titanium. We then use the battery and a titanium to salvage and have three extra titanium, we The standard O2 tank increases our oxygen where Eclypse will use his oxygen to time Having the O2 tank equipped would screw up before the tank is finished being made on doing here as soon as he selects to make the tank. There's a bit more going on than Eclypse exiting though, and I mean, you all viewing that he interacts with the lifepod's storage This is him setting up a glitch referred to For consistency's sake, in this video, we'll So there's a minor delay between when you and when the inventory screen pops up. Exiting the lifepod during this small window being pulled up, causing it to not open. What this does though, is the next time that be able to remotely access the storage container, container from anywhere. This glitch is used all throughout the run, time to perform. It's not something you set up once and then Also, something worth noting real quick while game, the fabricator menu doesn't stay open Usually, the menu fades away and stays gone at which point the menu reappears. By holding down the sprint key though, which the menu stays open for us to navigate while So once we have ghost storage set up, we make we swim on the surface of the water since Eclypse is heading to a Giant Coral Tube that start a new game, you spawn in a random spot Only about 15-20% of the potential spawn area to things on the map like the coral tube, referred to as "Clip A" which is Eclypse's So the coral tube is filled with quartz and for the run, so we're going to collect all 22 is the exact number of items that we'll some other items we're about to grab, so Eclypse makes his way through the coral tube as possible, and in this run he empties out there's a chance that outcrops spawn on make for item 22. He had just enough oxygen to make it through out, and after refreshing his oxygen, he dives This is the oxygen refill that we're going Here we pick up some metal salvage for a reason for now that we picked up some metal salvage After grabbing two Creepvine seed clusters, ghost storage, then deposits the 22 items two seed clusters we just harvested. So our main mode of transportation in the the blueprints for it before we can craft it. To unlock the blueprints, we have to use our spawn somewhat commonly at this wreck just The blueprints don't always spawn in a convenient common reset-point in speedruns. After scanning the fragments, we run out of out before we die. When you die, you respawn in your last base, lose any items on you that you didn't base, save for one randomly chosen item and After spawning, grabbing the O2 tank from titanium, and grabbing a ton of items, Eclypse are: a battery, copper wire, silicone rubber, He then dumps most of his items into storage like the knife and Seaglide in his inventory, He'll then be on his way to make a resource Eclypse knows that throughout the run he needs far he's gathered 9, so he needs to get really never get too many limestone because In addition to quartz and limestone, he just him one silver, one lead, and one gold. Outside the cave, he slashes three table coral He then grabs another metal salvage before into a crevasse where he'll grab a handful Down here in the crevasse, Eclypse will break net him one more of each of the potential Just a reminder, sandstone can drop gold, Since our first six drops from the sandstone means that the next two sandstone we break and the bucket will then reset. Our inventory is getting pretty full at this as many resources as we can before putting our P.D.A. away and grabbing any resources we come across Our oxygen supply is running pretty low, but a ton of resources that we just harvested into storage, so rather than letting our oxygen just head back home. Back inside, Eclypse will make a battery, and put it all together to make a habitat It pretty much just lets us build new bases. He'll then turn the metal salvage he grabbed Before he exits the lifepod with a ghost storage in storage and also picks up as much quartz sure he has a bit of copper too. When he's outside of the lifepod, he starts he's going to be building a base. Depending on where you spawn in the speedrun, to build your base, all with the goal of minimizing When Eclypse goes to place the base, he'll *under breath* ...fuck, that didn't rhyme So once he's in position to place the base, coral shell plate right here. This lines up his camera so that when he then be placed in the perfect position, slightly The I compartment only requires two titanium constructed pretty quickly. Once it's fully constructed, then the coral into gets deleted. This is actually the purpose of the setup: spot so the shell plate is deleted. If the shell plate wasn't deleted, then glitch where the right resources don't drop Eclypse will follow up the I compartment by just a quartz and two titanium to make, which, He follows this up by attempting to construct Having the compartment perpendicular like skipped whenever we leave the base, saving This compartment requires two glass to construct, if you remember what I said 91 seconds ago... *...Eclypse makes sure all his glass in storage, if you forget, then you smell like eggs, and Eclypse not having the glass on him to construct because the compartment doesn't actually animation to be skipped, it just needs to Coupling this with the fact that we need to to deposit the glass like we did so that it can just sit at 0% completed and the exit After he places the compartment, Eclypse places a mental note that he fully constructed the This will be important later. In the base, he'll then build a fabricator couple lockers while the fabricator fabricates. We haven't gotten all of the quartz we need of glass we need for the run, but that's Later in the run, we're going to be making on the wall now which he'll fully construct way he can akimbo fabricators when he goes After depositing everything into a locker back outside and under the base to chop some Chopping them causes them to kinda explode, Because this is the most recent base we've and we actually spawn inside while it's flooding. This makes the game think we're both swimming movement speed to add onto one another, making This is a glitch called "Super Seaglide" around 15 minutes longer. Super Seaglide isn't permanent, and you Two notable ones are that you lose it if you a base that isn't flooded. If you enter a flooded base though, you're If you do lose it though, which will happen it back super easily by going into a flooded With Super Seaglide set up, Eclypse heads he needs ten more for crafting purposes. These three here were destroyed when the acid After grabbing the final two table coral, resources, including four acid mushrooms to Harvesting this cave is unique to runs where A" whereas if you spawn in the area called that has three fewer sandstones. The three extra sandstone you get with the prefers "Clip A" runs to "Clip C" him a chance to get his third gold of the his second fabricator early which greatly After making batteries with both fabricators, everything he has (other than tools) into what Eclypse calls "the biggest pain and Stalker teeth. So in Subnautica, there's four different They're all metal salvage, like, they do They appear in your inventory the same way as simply "metal salvage" in recipes and for the sake of more visual variety. Whenever metal salvage spawns, it has a chance Of these four versions of metal salvage, three while one is considered to be "bad." Brief tangent, there's a Fauna species called The speedrun community for this game refer so we'll call them "dogs" as well because Dogs can pick up some items if they're laying them dropping a tooth if the item they pick There's only a 25% chance of them dropping but there's actually more to it than that. This is where differentiation between "good" The 25% chance to drop a tooth only applies It's a 0% chance they drop a tooth when a bug that's sometimes referred to as "bugged Earlier in the run I mentioned that Eclypse and to remember it for later, and the reason because the metal salvage he picked up then Eclypse wanted to grab it then so that when get teeth from the dogs, the dogs will only and not any "bad" salvage that may have So that's what this upcoming part is: Eclypse he grabbed since leaving the base and leave Also, something to note, "good" salvage inventory, but they're stored in the order knows which is which when he goes to drop them. Getting dogs to drop teeth isn't as simple dogs do their thing though. Dogs don't pick up salvage for the sake called "nests" which are invisible points Once the dogs bring the salvage back to their the dog won't pick it up again since it's This means that our job is to constantly be so that the dogs will grab the metal again Nests are easily identified by just seeing Something that can happen that we get in this Best dogs are dogs whose nest point is above the salvage to their nest and drop it, the gravity, surprisingly, is a thing that exists. The best dogs then pretty much just go into and drop the salvage, turning them into teeth-farming machines. Another thing that can happen is that when ground, their mouth clips into the ground mouths) and if they drop a tooth while their tooth falls under the map into the void, lost The last thing that's worth mentioning going of dogs can spawn in the spot where we do The most common number of dogs to spawn here to spawn, and also possible for more than pretty unlikely in any given run. Obviously more dogs is better since that makes but if none spawn, then we have to swim around Back to the run, after he drops the "good" to see if any teeth have dropped, and notices When scanning the first one, he does the knife just to get a fun janky arm animation that These boxes have a small chance of spawning Vehicle Bay, which we need three fragments After grabbing two teeth and a titanium, Eclypse He then slices a Creepvine to get two Creepvine from the same plant. Eclypse is then going to chill for a bit waiting that he'll grab the metal salvage he dropped One of the dogs will be carrying a salvage so he'll have to slice that dog to make which causes it to open its mouth and drop In the meantime while this all unfolds, I'd If not, then I'd just like to remind you I understand how at times it can feel like of dread and despair, but I promise you, those you, and they do not define the rest of your life. If things are difficult, then please, take is a tomorrow, and you will be here for it. Back to the run, we're now at the base and using them to make a fiber mesh and convert After turning one Creepvine cluster into silicone our standard O2 tank and combine it with two make a high capacity O2 tank. We then make another lubricant and turn ten worth mentioning that we're menuing and that the right mouse button is bound to scrolling up. Eclypse will then perform a glitch called throw a flare and click to open a locker immediately is finished being thrown. This does pretty much the exact same thing principles, it's just we needed the flare the lockers in this base like there is with After setting up flare storage, Eclypse is do a bit more resource gathering. The top area here is filled with eight guaranteed Normally during the run, Eclypse mentally bucket, which in this case he started at four sandstone that spawn here, he knows that he'll Once he clears out this area, he's going sandstone and into the area of advanced darkness, Eclypse is looking in every nook and cranny of completing this sandstone bucket, followed adds up to 24 total sandstone on the tracker. Ignore the bucket number not resetting when While down in these caves, we take pretty The spawn locations for Harvesting Nodes like just a matter of whether or not they do spawn, Something worth noting are two benefits that One is that the Squishy-from-Finding-Nemo deal damage to us, and the other is that an The reasons for these are a bit complicated, the description if you'd like to learn more. So when he exits the cave, Eclypse heads to flare storage to dump everything save two to collect some more sandstone and also look So the reason why we're keeping track of getting to 24, is that having 24 on the counter our fifth bucket and be just one gold away When the count reaches 24, Eclypse keeps searching is guaranteed to be in the first four of the got it on the second. Down here in the dark is a giant chunk of and by building a compartment that clips into letting us scan the fragment for the Mobile This means we've now scanned all three fragments since we scanned two earlier in the Kelp Forest. After grabbing another metal salvage, we're of, it's pretty dark in the game right now isn't constructed serves as a nice indicator This trip to the base is when we're going This will be pretty hard to follow with a Eclypse turns our metal salvage into titanium, We'll then make five copper wires, four We'll then make four wiring kits, with two one going into a rebreather. Eclypse is also going to make a power cell cell requires two batteries in the recipe, been drained a bit from all our use. It isn't required for the batteries that so Eclypse swaps the partially drained battery the drained one in making the power cell. Sorry, I know this is a lot to keep track resource collection and management. Eclypse actually considers all this crafting run because of all the work that goes into On his way out, Eclypse begins fabricating save tools, lubricant, and a table coral, and heavy-crafting stages of the run. We're now on our way to the main wreckage crashed on the planet, and heading there this Aurora is just spewing radiation into the On his way there, Eclypse will grab a metal of something called the Cyclops. The Cyclops is a giant submarine that we have to use a unique fabricator inside the Cyclops is the only place you can do that. The Cyclops is split into three parts, the section requiring three fragments to get the Engine and bridge fragments can be found randomly should scan one if you see one, but we'll After scanning the fragment, Eclypse will go inside of the ship, which isn't intended, Normally you have to play the game for almost but this expedites the process a bit. After swimming in the dark for a bit, which dark, Eclypse will look up in a specific spot, the floor to enter the Aurora proper. This glitch is actually one of the two reasons since jumping through the floor was patched out. Inside, he enters the code to open the Captain's across playthroughs, then jumps in some fire as the door opens, grabs a blueprint inside, to die and spawn back at his base. Back at the base, Eclypse will pick up the with a bunch of other items from storage. He'll then make a titanium ingot, drop off two quartz, two lead, five titanium, two ingots, before setting up flare storage and leaving So when he leaves the base, Eclypse will partially under 20%, netting him a handful of the resources Earlier I mentioned that Eclypse made a mental second, and it's for this exact moment. The way solar panels work in this game is that power is stored in it like a battery, Anytime something is made in the base it costs When you have multiple solar panels, the game Through all the crafting we've done so far, we built, and drained the second one down left at the moment. Solar panels only generate energy when they're has power stored when it's partially deconstructed, it's just that more won't be generated We're about to go off and do some tasks them, enough time will pass for it to become We obviously want to maximize the amount of we're able to get by with one solar panel We still want to get as much power as possible sun, which is why we make sure that we leave so that we can potentially end up with 89 After the solar panels, Eclypse begins making a Hoverfish and some Eye Stalk Seeds, then It's around now we should probably talk hear them, mute the video until this image Alright, three, two, aaaaaand one. So, the reason why we crash landed here was This whole planet is under quarantine because on this planet decided the best way to make was to build a giant gun that shoots down Our end goal for the run is to build a rocket what we got from the Captain's Quarters have to both disable the gun and find a cure On our to-do list, disabling the gun is the is the line with the test tube, and leaving So yeah, uh, that's what those mean. So right now, we're on our way to do the arms and the detective, and in a second Eclypse item, and the first time you pick up a tablet, We're going to do something called "fish in our hand and then in rapid succession, drop the fish, This skips the tablet animation and saves Also, Eclypse grabbed a Hoverfish earlier his favorite fish in the game. We're now going to do a bit more resource which we have none of, and more gold, since resources we haven't finished collecting yet. In this area, lithium spawns straight up similar bucket here which is the shale outcrop. Shale buckets are a bit more complicated than the bucket size being 200. Yes, that is correct. 200. Rather than a detailed breakdown of how this Before continuing with his resource collection in a specific spot using the resources he starts construction of an extra compartment So something about the Seaglide is that it Eclypse uses that to his advantage to be able that's sitting out-of-bounds here for some reason. Using the Seaglide to slightly poke our head We're about to break open a few more shale Eclypse is solely going to pick up lithium and get it to avoid filling our inventory Take that, De Beers. So we're now approaching a crash area that scans our second engine fragment for the Cyclops. In the crash area proper, the main thing he's those spawn here, as well as fragments for the Moonpool. The Moonpool is kinda like a dock and charging be using it for those purposes in this run. Instead we'll be using it for... other things. Glitches, I mean glitches. We'll be using the Moonpool for glitches. After scanning the two Moonpool fragments off again to scavenge lithium. This whole stretch of the run is actually pretty low, but luckily Eclypse watched that run, so he was able to hold his breath long And also he's good at the game and is able of breath, that too, but mainly the TED Talk thing. Like, when Eclypse and I had our call to go for, like, four and a half hours, and then playback speed to double, and blasted through So as soon as Eclypse saw the color of the indicating him entering a different biome, other than his tools, the stuff he had when one of the golds that he picked up, and also He then sliced a bulb bush and tree mushroom for the first time by performing an "M.V.B. Clip" where he wedges himself in this overhang, and climb on as it jiggles and bounces around, After grabbing the M.V.B. for future use, we dive straight have a more direct path to the Lost River biome. If we hadn't gone out-of-bounds, then we'd to get here, and that sounds exhausting, fuck that. Getting back in-bounds is super simple with one-way collision of the rocks, and once we He'll then dive down into the nearby brine about 60% and also see if any crystalline He then waves hello to Casper, a leviathan to enter a new biome, the Inactive Lava Zone. Down here, Eclypse is going to be swimming to look specifically for nickel ore, which We only need to get three of them, but they super ideal since we constantly take little Nickel is both super hard to spot and very just a perfect mess for the fact we're in Eclypse spots a nickel from afar here, and calling my eye doctor about scheduling an exam. Luckily, the second nickel is nearby, but additional scanning of the area and venturing Once he finds the third nickel, Eclypse begins hello to Kevin in the process. Kevin is a Sea Dragon Leviathan, and he doesn't told, he has a big appetite for runners of Also, I'm just being told these names for When we enter this cave to an alien base, along with a crystalline sulfur, both of which There's some additional kyanite to the left really low on oxygen and need to get to a stuff that's on the way. When he enters this big area, Eclypse swims giving him a quick burst of oxygen, but also This is where we build our Moonpool, which to, and it'll begin to flood on its own when built at depths of over 1,100 meters. Eclypse is now running through this alien shortcut and also to take intentional damage Down here, he picks up this green ion cube to open the forcefield-looking gate. In here, he does some fancy little hops to with to retrieve a blueprint, and then hop to kill himself, causing him to respawn back Unlike with our other base that requires us re-obtain Super Seaglide, all you have to one to get Super Seaglide, so after doing the Moonpool for the resources. Eclypse is going to perform another M.V.B. clip in a specific spot, and the exact place we originally spawned and built our main base, If we had spawned in the other area that's to as "Clip C," we would be performing that will be apparent in a moment. So Subnautica, like many games, renders things There is an exception to this though: M.V.B.s The M.V.B. has inflatables on it so it wants to float where we perform the clip and then swimming the M.V.B. will unload from us moving away from it, and The incredible thing about this exact spot us, all the way at the top, is the main base Like seriously, it's straight above us, This is why if we had spawned in the "Clip C" else, because "Clip C" spawn runs have Also, addressing the elephant in the room, but it was so bad that no one does runs with Now that he's out-of-bounds, Eclypse is his two other crystalline sulfur since this You can pick up the sulfur while you're to not get too close to the sulfur and accidentally After he grabs the last sulfur in a moment, the main alien base we're going to. On the way down, we get a weird transmission complete one of our main tasks, the one with After the scene from the found-footage movie to slash a sea crown to get a seed of it, So normally when you enter this area for the thing that plays out, but because we entered trigger for it and it doesn't play, and us stays in a power pose the whole time. After activating the first pedestal with an poke his head out-of-bounds into some sand Normally the leviathan blows the sand away After the animation plays out, we teleport right next to the small makeshift base we There Eclypse will deconstruct the partially-built build a fabricator inside the actual base. He'll then use all the seeds and samples called "hatching enzymes" that he just with the ion cube. He'll then deconstruct the fabricator he the resources from them, but doing this with one, so the next time we die, we'll spawn And yeah, that's right, the whole purpose was to make one item. Eclypse then opens his P.D.A. right before entering the portal, letting that brings us back down to the pedestal leviathan In the menu he unequips his O2 tank and drops When the teleportation finishes, he swims to use the hatching enzymes which causes a In a move antithetical to the tone of this miracle of life, choosing to instead immediately teleporter to head back to the surface. When we finish teleporting back to the makeshift have beaten us up there with them having begun around the map periodically. Eclypse then does something called "Cure the rock wall, positions himself to be above the wall, then interacts with the bubble, puts him out-of-bounds. Interacting with the enzyme bubble plays out which crosses off one of the items on our Now that we're out-of-bounds, we're going called the Quarantine Enforcement Platform, Q.E.P. for short, This is intentional and part of an upcoming glitch called "Q.E.P. Quick Death," So like I said a few moments ago, Eclypse is considered to be the beginning of the Q.E.P. Quick Death process. His O2 level hits zero here, so Eclypse re-equips his O2 tank. This brings his O2 level back up to 84, but is unequipped again, he'll go back down Eclypse will then swim up to a pedestal that and complete a task on our to-do list. Before interacting with the pedestal though, The moment after he clicks to pull it up, interact with the pedestal, which he'll do. This causes the animation of interacting with the pedestal to play out while he actually still being interactable. At the end of the interaction animation, a storyline being updated based on what we just did. Our goal with this glitch is to interact with tank, and time it in a way where we die right back to our lifepod and skips a ton of swimming. To do this, Eclypse will position his cursor the animation, then grab the O2 tank off its cursor to an exact spot while holding onto Eclypse will hold the tank in that spot and a specific point, his cursor and the tank point he'll let go of the tank to take it off. Technically, he can just click on the O2 tank then the tank would be unequipped too soon Unequipping the tank at the right time causes respawning us back in our lifepod and overall Alright, let's see this all in real time. Because we die with our P.D.A. open, that means it'll still be in the darkness to re-equip the O2 tank before When we get there, we'll get to work immediately the other purple tablet, and also turn three Those will be going into making the Cyclops. Before he leaves, Eclypse is going to deconstruct Super Seaglide, and then set up flare storage Outside the base, Eclypse begins looking around titanium it provides, as well as a Peeper Peepers can be hard to wrap your hands around, peepers in my life, but once he finally gets line towards the Sparse Reef biome. It takes a hot second to swim there, so don't When he arrives, Eclypse quickly grabs a salt Once we collect all of those, we'll head where there's a cache located. Eclypse is going to interact with the pedestal tablet, which opens up the vault for us. Inside are a handful of ion cubes, which we'll We then work our way out of these caves, taking us to a big wreck on the ocean floor. Eclypse is going to build a compartment clipping the wreck earlier, and luckily at this wreck need for the Cyclops. Additionally, the blueprint for the one item the Cyclops is located here as well. We need to interact with a databox to get by dropping our Peeper, but this time swapping interacting with the databox. This lets us scan a nearby fragment while is for the Cyclops shield generator. After doing this and scanning two hull fragments, which is for the bridge of the Cyclops, which After scanning it, we'll then head into a Grabbing the shrooms will be immediately followed any new items we've picked up so that they We then proceed to knife the mushrooms to and warping us back to our base. When he spawns, Eclypse will right away grab into titanium, then pick up the blinding flare Him making this titanium marks the end of He then picks up glass, copper wire, and computer We then head outside and begin constructing away from the other one we just exited so on the first base's construction grid. This is to set up what's probably the weirdest After making two I compartments near each window on the higher up I compartment. For some reason, the game thinks that this so Eclypse is able to fully deconstruct the the partially constructed window to just float there. Eclypse will then build an "L compartment" followed by completing construction of the window. The game doesn't like this very much since L compartments, and it makes the game think finish constructing an object. By this I mean that whenever construction construction grid, two of the constructed of one, with resources only being expended In order to build the Cyclops and everything ingots, which is a lot of titanium to go out Moonpools require two ingots to build, and then after expending two ingots to build a Eclypse will then fully deconstruct one of resources that went into it, including two titanium ingots. He'll then quickly partially deconstruct completion of construction producing two Moonpools Eclypse will then fully deconstruct the new bringing him up to four total. Eclypse repeats the process of deconstructing and deconstructing the duped Moonpool until partially deconstructs the "original" bringing him to nine ingots total which is After clearing up some inventory space, he front of him that's finally made its way He redeploys it in a specific spot where there's we need to make to finish the run, which is After placing the launch pad's location, lithium from storage, and use them with our While in here, Eclypse has to deconstruct Seaglide since he lost it when he climbed Once he heads outside the base in a moment, Bay to adjust its position slightly since in an exact spot. He'll then dolphin dive onto the launch gantry of the rocket. That's the big overhead crane thingy. Dolphin diving onto the launch platform loses annoying and slow to repeatedly lose it during This is why he deploys his M.V.B. in this Cyclops overhead before heading back to the It'll be clear why this helps not lose Super On the list right now for things to do in Seaglide by doing the hatch thing, and also another enameled glass, as well as using some By the time we head back out of the base, causing it to hang suspended in the air until With where Eclypse positioned it, it lands it underwater, this way we no longer lose The Cyclops landing on the platform and tilting reason why we play on the September 2018 patch, the platform like this. We're now in our base one final time to and after beginning the final crafting, we you can actually grab items from outside and We're then going to initiate the penultimate than enter the Cyclops the normal way, Eclypse interacts with the ladder from there to get inside. This is called "Tehx Clip" and it saves no time. Eclypse just likes doing it for fun. Inside the Cyclops, we steal a power cell kit and the polyaniline to create the Cyclops That one damned item we need that if we didn't Outside we just need to wait around to begin Eclypse will then go in back of the rocket it's important to note that he made sure There's three levers inside the rocket that to them but by doing the same thing as flare then interacts with the lever, the animation It looks like he has three flares at this them up practically as soon as he throws them After climbing this ladder, there's two unfortunately you can't flare skip them Eclypse will then interact with the time capsule at home and dump all his junk into the capsule for fun. This isn't something you normally do in While Eclypse does this monitor and then types ends, thank you so much to everyone who supports Your support is so entirely unnecessary, but If you'd like to throw in as little as $1 access to videos early, as well as updates occasional bonus content like Fan Fiction This Subnautica run was actually chosen and them for the awesome choice. Again, supporting the channel monetarily is So after typing out the message, Eclypse will the rocket's launch, with the run officially Because we beat the game so quickly, the game to get through that it spams out at us that But yeah, that about wraps up the run! If you made it to the end of this video, thank And an enormous thank you specifically to Eclypse provided me with so much valuable I truly don't feel I could have made the Plus, I got to hear all about David Blaine, Please be sure to check out Eclypse's Twitch description, and are loaded with more Subnautica content. And if you'd like to learn more about Subnautica be sure to head on over to speedrun.com and And lastly, as always, check out the tomatoanus Discord server. The community there are a bunch of considerate and are always welcoming of new faces. That's all for this video though. This was an Any% Survival Glitched speedrun of Subnautica,