Life Church created this podcast because we all need healthy conversations with real people. So this podcast is here to help you start real conversations with your life group, friends and family. Now onto the show. (upbeat music) Welcome to the &quot;You've Heard it Said Podcast. This is Abigail. And this is Jason. And I thought we could start today's episode by talking about one of your favorite topics. So this is like the history of American politics, or I don't know, home roasting coffee. No to all of those things. Okay. Instead, I thought we could talk about feelings. Ah, okay. Like how about we talk about your feelings? How about you talk about your feelings? Alright, so not kidding, I never thought I was a person who was like, I don't have any feelings, I just thought I felt things less. And at some point, I realized I didn't hardly feel things at all, and then I realized, okay, this might be something I should work on. I think I'm actually the opposite of you where I feel feelings, but I feel very large feelings. And one of the ways that I've described it to people, there's this video of the Grinch doing yoga and he's inhaling and he brings his arms up over his head and the yoga instructor's like, &quot;Okay, now when you exhale, let all of the sounds trapped in your mind escape your mouth&quot; or something. And as he lowers his arms, he just starts screaming. And so I think that's how I feel about my feelings sometimes is that they just feel like very loud Grinch screams. Okay, so like it's a lot is what you're saying. Yes, it's overwhelming. What are some things that have helped you learn more about feelings? Because you said that you went from not having a lot of feelings, so what's helped you? Well, I mentioned this actually in the last episode, but about a year and a half ago, I realized this was actually an issue. And so I realized I needed to go to a therapist and that's been really helpful, just quite a few conversations trying to figure out why don't I really feel the things in my life that I want to feel. I'm talking about like big deal things, I just didn't feel connected to it. That was helpful. I would say there's been a couple of books. The one that comes to mind is Brene Brown's &quot;Atlas of the Heart&quot;. She just like defines different feelings and how they're different from each other and how I can recognize them, that one's been very helpful. Something that's really helped me is an emotion wheel, which our friend Greg actually talked about in the last episode. So if you haven't listened to that one yet, go back and listen to it. But my counselor told me about this emotion wheel like a year and a half ago, it was one of my very first counseling sessions. And she was like, &quot;Have you heard of this?&quot; And let me tell you, it has been a game changer in how I think about feelings, how I communicate about feelings just across the board. So you just spin it and then it tells you how you you feel or what is it? I wish it was that simple. If it could tell me my feelings, that would be even better, but it's a circle that has like pretty basic feelings or very broad categories of feelings, like bad, surprised, angry in the center, and then it branches out from there so that you get more specific feelings like shocked or valued or overwhelmed, joy, things that are more specific like that. That actually sounds like it would be really helpful for the conversation that we're gonna have today and it also sounds like a good start for answering today's question, which is how can I process my emotions in a healthy way? So a few years ago, our podcast friend, Kay, who we heard from last week wrote a book called &quot;Numb: Find Healing in Feeling&quot;. And after she released this book, she made her first ever appearance on the podcast. And that was actually the moment that caused me to realize that I wanted to reconnect to my feelings. And that episode is so good that we decided we want to share the conversation we had with her again with you today. And fun fact, this is the first &quot;You've Heard it Said&quot; episode that I ever listened to. That's cool. Yeah and it's still one of my all time favorites. (gentle music) As a therapist, I practiced in Miami before we moved to Oklahoma and I had a friend down there and a colleague, her name is Vicky, and she and I would often just hear the same phrase, I'm numb or I don't have any feeling and we just heard it over and over again. And so she and I just began to talk about, well, what does it look like to really help people process through getting back to feeling and what does that look like for people? And really, it was my own experiences that really pushed me to write the book because I had multiple miscarriages and I lost family members and my husband's identical twin went into renal failure so he became a kidney donor, I was hit by a drunk driver. I mean it was just like every three months there ended up being something that I was gonna have to process. And there really was this one moment where I was back in my hometown of Jacksonville. And it was two days before Christmas and I'm standing in front of the church where I grew up and I was baptized and married and I'm watching it burn. It burned down two days before Christmas. And of course, everyone around me is crying and I just remember looking at it and feeling nothing. And so I just remember thinking, well, that's not good, knowing that that wasn't okay and that I was gonna have to process something and then just trying to figure out, well, what does that actually look like? So it's really, I draw from my own life experiences and then also my clinical practice, but that's really what propelled me to write the book. Oh my goodness, I can't even imagine. I'm so sorry that you went through all of that. How do you keep your faith in the middle of so much tragedy and suffering? And then how do you have the strength to not just let yourself continue to not feel your emotions and stay numb, but how do you have the strength to confront those feelings? Yeah, so there's this really great verse in Romans, it's Romans 5:3-5 where it says, &quot;Suffering produces perseverance, perseverance, character, and character, hope.&quot; And we know based on that verse that suffering is not the end of the story. What that verse tells us is it ultimately produces hope. And so for me, in this time of going through all of those things, I stayed in perseverance for quite a while in that survival mode where I would just get up and do life and repeat and repeat and repeat and just pushing through some of those really hard life events, but then came a time, when I was ready to start feeling it again. And so I didn't do it all at once and I didn't do it all day long. I gave myself the permission to start to feel again in smaller doses that were a little bit easier to just sit with God for a little bit and let him tell me about what was going on, let me yell, cry, scream, whatever I needed to do, in those little bite size pieces. And then as that started happening more, then I started to see more of God's character because I'm processing what's going on with me and he's now able to be who God is in our lives. And then that is actually what ended up giving me hope. Just following along in what the Romans 5:3-5, I would just give myself the permission to go through that. And I often tell people too, you can be in suffering in one area of your life and hope in another, and the reality is we can be all over the place. Yeah, I love that you bring that up because I think people often like move from different stages of grief in and out and it's maybe not as cut and dry as we think it is. What did that process look like for you? For me, what I did was I put myself in therapy and started journeying with that. And then obviously, the people in my life came alongside me and just, I think the best thing that my friend Vicky did for me was, I liken it to like riding a roller coaster with me. So in a 10 minute conversation, I could cry, laugh, be mad and then laugh again, she just joined the rollercoaster with me and so that was really helpful, it gave me permission to just be what I needed to be and really start to feel again and not have any rules. So there's just freedom and like a lot of grace in those situations. And so I think that's what I try to do for people too. And if I tell anybody about you're gonna walk with somebody, who's grieving, just join the rollercoaster. It isn't always sad and it isn't always happy and you just go where they are and that's the most helpful thing that you can do. Hmm, I love that you put yourself in therapy too. Some people may be really nervous about that. That feels like a really big step. I'm curious since you are a therapist, did it still feel like a really big step for you? Okay. That's helpful. And then how would someone know if maybe it is time for them to seek out professional help? So I think one thing that I would say is that it's never gonna feel super comfortable. That's helpful. And I like that you talked about how it's not this hour of torture, too 'cause I think the idea of sitting down with someone and confessing all these deep things or talking about all these negative emotions feels so overwhelming. And I think that most of us, whenever we have these negative emotions come up, we're just like, okay, I'm gonna run, or we might say things like, I'm fine or God's got this, I shouldn't be worried about this so I'm just not gonna feel it. Is that a healthy way that we should? Ah, the infamous, I'm fine. I mean I do that a lot so. The issue with being just fine is that if you turn off the negative feelings, you're also gonna turn off the positive ones. They occur in the same part of the brain. So you can't just say, I'm not gonna feel sadness 'cause then you're also excluding joy because they all accrue in the same part of the brain. In our culture today, there are a lot of messages out there that say, &quot;Don't really feelings&quot; or &quot;You can't trust your feelings.&quot; And I have a lot of people even say that they hate their feelings. And I understand what they're saying, but also I think that's so sad 'cause why on earth would you want to like hate something that can be so life giving? It's such a strong indicator of like more that we can get. And so I think, let's take the example, if you're angry at a friend and you don't process that, but you just say, well, I shouldn't be angry at her and I'm gonna move on. I may have done that recently. So if we do that, we're missing out on what if we need to have a conversation with them for the sake of the body of Christ to sharpen, if iron sharpens iron, the only way we do that is if we have conversations or what if this is an opportunity for God to help us grow? Our whole goal as Christians is to be sanctified. And so we're missing out on these opportunities that are like just this really sweet life giving indicator that God can just use and grow in us. And if we don't do any of that, then we also miss out on who he is. So we have that conversation with that friend and it ends up being a really great thing. Then, we get to see God as redeemer and restorer and then we can see his character in our relationships. So it ultimately benefits our communities, our relationship with God, our relationship with others. I mean there's just so many benefits to actually processing your feelings. I can, and maybe other people too, can feel like there's this either or relationship of like, is it faith versus feelings? But I think what I'm hearing you say is that our feelings can actually help our faith. Am I hearing that right? Yes, yes, I think so. And really when we give ourselves the chance to process our feelings, there's a part in there where we do surround it with truth. It's not that you just end on what you feel, but there's a process to it. There's a time where we put the truth around it and that can really grow our faith. It can give us an anchor for our soul so that next time we're in this situation, we're able to know what's gonna go on or recognize what we're feeling and we've already drawn on a faithful experience from before to handle it again. And so yes, I think they absolutely do intersect and go together. That's good. So what are some unhealthy ways that we process our emotions? Yeah, I think the first one is probably pretending that they don't exist, that's probably number one. And I think another one is distraction. We often think of social media and screens and movies, which is definitely a real distraction, but also, we can run to other relationships instead of processing our feelings too. And then a third way is self-medication through substances, exercise even, food. Any sort of escape is probably an unhealthy way to process them. So maybe binging Netflix for hours at a time is maybe not the next way. Yep, guilty of that. So can you tell us some healthier ways that we can process our emotions? Yeah so I've referenced this feelings guide. My friend Vicky and I, it was just a tangible way that we try to come up with that can help people. And so I'll just talk through that process. So the first one is feel it. And so if I ask you, what does it physically feel like for you to be angry? Some people might say my face gets red or my jaw clenches or my chest feels tight. And so recognizing what we're physically experiencing. And the same goes for, what does it physically feel like for you to be sad? Some people cry, some people stomachs hurt, some people feel like they have a lump in their throat or their chest gets heavy, these are often times what people describe this as. And so really recognizing what's going on within you will help you do the second one, which is to name it. And this is where the research shows if you can name your feelings, then it already produces therapeutic effects in your brain, but that really relies on you actually knowing how you feel and the nuances of it. So if I were to say to you, what's the difference between feeling discouraged and disappointed? If you think about it, there is a difference and you know that there's a difference, but what is that difference? How do you know what the difference is for you? And it's gonna be a little different for you than it is for me or anybody else. And so just recognizing what is actually going on and then naming it appropriately. And then the third step is truth in. And so this is what I was talking about before, where we around what's going on with these feelings, the context of it. So does this feeling match the situation? Am I overreacting or am I underreacting? Underreacting would look like being numb, like not having any reaction. Overreacting can be anything that's just maybe a little bit more intense than what you would probably say is normal for that situation. And then you ask, are there any other triggers in place? Like are there other things that have compounded this feeling? So that can be anything from like having a fight with your spouse before you get into work and having a really bad meeting. Well, that fight with your spouse is probably influencing your intensified feelings. And so just recognizing what else happened in my day, what's going on, what is the truth around this? What does God say about this? What is the Bible say about this? So then adding those, what I say is like being a detective of what's going on a little bit and then filling that in a little bit. And then the last section is choose it. And this one is really important 'cause I always tell people you need to write down all of the choices. 'Cause often times, we will say, &quot;Well, I just don't have a choice.&quot; But that's not true. We may not like all of our options, but we always have a choice. And so what are our choices in that scenario? And I say to write all of them down, even the ones that you obviously wouldn't choose. If you're angry, you're probably not gonna go punch a wall, but that is a choice that you could write down. And so that you're intentionally choosing what you want to do in that process. And so it just gives you a chance to slow down everything and really think about it and reflect and walk yourself through each of those things. That's really helpful. 'Cause I think that sometimes as Christians, we can tend to jump straight to what does scripture say without allowing ourselves to sit in it, like what you talked about earlier. So can you walk us through like a practical example of what that might look like in everyday life? Yeah, let's just take the work meeting again. Okay. Let's say you get to work and you're in a work meeting and something happens in the meeting and you recognize that your face is red, your jaw is clenched and your chest is tight, and you leave the meeting and you actually have a few minutes. And so you think about, okay, I'm feeling these things so obviously I'm upset or angry, and then the third section would be the truth it. Okay, so what happened? What happened in that meeting? What happened before I started feeling those things and does that even match the situation? So let's say that for this example, your coworker misrepresented you and called you out in front of everybody in the meeting. I'm gonna say that probably matches the situation 'cause I can't imagine most people wouldn't be upset a little bit about that. So it would say, this matches a situation. And then what are the other things going on? Let's say hypothetically, this coworker actually has a pattern of doing that to people and did it to a good coworker friend of yours and now that coworker friend is contemplating quitting his job because of this happening. And so your reaction might be compounded by his experiences too and you can recognize that. But if you don't ever sit in that, you're never gonna realize like, oh, there's actually more to what's going on here than just me. And then you get the choice section. So like what do you want to do with this? And maybe you just sit on it for a little while. Maybe you go have a conversation with that coworker, and maybe you talk to the other person who wants to quit and maybe you guys decide on something, maybe you just decide to pray about it. But in that, there's so many options instead of just being mad that this coworker did that and moving on to the next thing. Does that make sense? Yeah, that's really helpful. So I really like that example, but what if you are like rushing to your next thing and you don't have time to sit in those feelings? Yes, good question 'cause that's very true. That happens often. I try to tell people and encourage people if you have a drive where you're alone in the car, maybe don't use that time to distract yourself, like don't turn on the radio, don't call people, 'cause that's what I do when I'm in the car, really giving yourself the gift of thinking through your day and you don't have to do this with all feelings. It's not that like, oh, I felt 10 feelings today, I have to go through all of them, but really, I think we all can recognize those times where we're a little bit more intense and we want to figure out what is going on with those. And the other flip side of this I would say is like also think about what really made you happy today. I think the positive side of things gets really washed away in the negative feelings, but what are the good things that happened today? What are the things that actually made you laugh or made you happy? And like think about those too and process those. And it's not gonna look the exact same as processing a negative feeling, but I think it's also equally as important. Hmm, that's helpful. So I'm also curious, is it ever different, the perspective of men looking at their feelings versus women or what would you tell anybody who's thinking, like I just don't think that I have feelings or I don't want to process them? Yes, I think that men also have feelings. I've definitely heard the phrase of like, oh, I'm just a thinker and I'm not really a feeler, to which I would also say those go hand in hand, that's the process. Like you actually have a feeling, everybody has feelings, and then we do apply thinking and thought to them and then we make a choice, but it's a process that everybody can go through. I don't think it's just women or just men. And I know that there are lots of jokes out there of like, well I only have one feeling, but the reality is that's not true. Maybe you're like my husband who actually is very even keeled emotionally, I would say, but even he has to like think about things and then he has to rewind and say, okay, what am I feeling? And he still has to go through the process 'cause at the end of the day, you still have to put truth and context around what's going on and then you wanna make the choice. And I think it goes back to what you were talking about earlier about how when we process our feelings our faith can actually grow. And so if we choose to ignore them, then we're ignoring that growing process too. And so I'm curious, like what have you learned about God by choosing to process your emotions? Oh man, I have learned so much. I have learned that he is a sustainer. I have learned that he is a restorer, he's a healer, he's a provider. I could go through each story and tell you how I came up with those. I really, I mean I would not have learned about those things of the character of God had I not sat in the feelings and just processed them. And again, this isn't, we're not just saying like feel all the things and like let that be the end of it. We're saying that there's a process to it and you do add thought to it and you do add truth to it. And when you add the truth to it, you could really start to see, like who does God say he is in this situation of my life? There was a time when I couldn't buy diapers and we had no money in our account and I was so upset obviously and I just sat in my car and I cried and cried and I thought, okay, what's happening here? And am I supposed to be the one to fix this? And the truth was I was already working a full-time job, Greg was working a full-time job and I just really felt like, nope, I'm just supposed to sit in this for a second. And because I did, God became my provider, not me. I didn't fix it for myself. I mean there's times where we have to act and that's part of the choice, but in that choice section, I got to say, I'm not supposed to do more now, I'm supposed to let God provide for me. And so I did and because of that, I got to see God as my provider and really my faith grew really deep then 'cause I trusted him. I was putting all of my trust in him in that moment and just really watching for what he did. Here's what's happening in your brain. So you know how we're talking about feeling our feels instead of pretending that they don't exist or walking around denying that we're angry while yelling things like I'm not angry or I am calm? Yeah, your brain is actually wired to label emotions. And as much as it may feel like it is the last thing you want to do, naming your emotions actually helps your brain calm down. In fact, UCLA did a study with two groups of people. They showed both groups a photo of either a girl or a guy with an angry face. Group one had to say either Harry or Sally, depending on whether the photo was a man or a woman. Group two named the photo either angry or fearful. So here's what they found out. In both groups when people saw the photo, their amygdalas were triggered. Amygda-what? Yeah, the amygdala. It's the part of your brain that processes fear. It's very good at helping you escape from dangerous situations, not so good at making rational decisions, but here's where it gets interesting. In the group where people labeled the photo as angry or fearful, they saw reduced activity in the amygdala and their frontal cortex started working. Your frontal cortex is the part of your brain that's very good at making decisions. But when your amygdala, the fear processing part of the brain, gets triggered, your frontal cortex slows down, making it hard to make a rational decision. So simply by recognizing the emotion in the photo, it actually helped people calm down. Yeah I said recognizing emotion, not ignoring it, helps you calm down. That's why feeling your feels is actually a really good thing. It seems like processing your emotions is going to make everything worse, but science tells us that when you take a second to name your emotion, it will actually help your brain do what it's supposed to do and help itself chill out. We're tempted to think that we can feel angry and just decide not to feel it, but our brains and our bodies say otherwise. So when you find an emotion starting to creep up, don't shut it down, name it. Allow yourself to feel it or decide that you'll address it later and then your brain can start doing its thing and stop freaking out. That's science and that's what's happening in your brain. (upbeat music) We wanted to see how scripture plays into all of this so we sat down with Brian Russell who also shared his personal experience of battling anxiety. So I grew up in Northern Virginia in the DC area, but then my wife and I spent about eight years overseas doing cross cultural ministry as well as business internationally. And that's what we were doing right before moving here. Okay, so where are some of the places that you lived out of the country? Before I was married, I lived in Mexico for a couple of years. And then together after marriage, we lived in Spain, Morocco, Tunisia, and Egypt. Wow. And now you're in Oklahoma. That's right. All of that was preparing us for the big cross cultural shift of moving to Oklahoma. I'm just kidding. Oh my goodness, I'm sure. So we were just wondering if you could talk to us about your experience with anxiety. Yeah, absolutely. It actually started, at least what I would describe as acute anxiety, started about 15 years ago while living in one of those countries I just mentioned that we lived in and I really believe that a period of pretty intense stress kind of laid the groundwork in ways I didn't even recognize at the time. But when I look back, we had just had twin babies, our first two babies, we moved from Spain where we could communicate and moved to a North African country that only spoke Arabic and French. We didn't know how to get around. I'm feeling anxious. Yeah, I'm actually starting, I think I'm palpitating as I speak. In addition to that, I felt the pressure to learn Arabic and start a new business. So that was the context of my life at the time. And so it started with chest pains, and one night, I almost walked two miles to a hospital because I was convinced I was having a heart attack. So you didn't feel super stressed out, it just started to show up physically? No, I don't know that I would've described to you at the time, hey, I'm super stressed because I just felt like I've got this under control. It's in hindsight that I look and realize I was under a lot of stress. Okay. So what are some of the things that you started to do? Did you just like immediately know I need to do something about this or what was the journey towards taking action? So because I started to have physical ailments like chest pains, that actually ended up going away, but then I started having migraines. That's a fairly common thing for me, but this was different in that I entered into about an eight to 10 week period of daily persistent, severe migraines, and even the inability to see really well, my vision was being impaired a bit by these. Well, both of those health scares actually led into my battle with anxiety because something that I never do now, but that I did at the time was I hopped on Google and I started looking at my symptoms and trying to figure out what was wrong with me. And you guys are smiling because you know where that can lead, the rabbit hole that that can take you down. Well at some point in this journey, I started to realize I have an anxiety problem. Obviously, I want this to speak to anyone, but for men especially, I think it can be really challenging to admit that you have a problem in this area or anything related to mental health is, can be either a sign of weakness or just a lack of strength when we want to pride ourselves in being strong or capable. And the tough thing about anxiety is that it can hit any of us. Yeah, I think that that is a perception people can have that anxiety somehow makes you weak or that it's just something you need to power through, but we know that that's not helpful or healthy. So are there any other things that maybe people said to you or just things that you thought about anxiety that were unhealthy or unhelpful? I think there's a stigma still often for mental health challenges or things such as anxiety, worry or depression, that sadly can keep people from seeking help, seeking advice or seeking help or advice early enough or earlier rather than later. Another thing that I specifically had to deal with was probably more than that, was my own self-talk and negative self-talk and even guilt that I put on myself because I would read scripture like 1 Peter 5:7 that says, &quot;Cast your anxiety on me.&quot; but I would not read the rest of it, &quot;because he cares for me.&quot; I would read passages like Philippians 4:6-9 and when Paul says, &quot;Do not be anxious&quot;, and I would look at the struggle that I was going through and I would think I'm failing. I'm not living up to what scripture and what God wants for me. And it actually led to a little bit of a bad cycle because that guilt or feeling like I'm missing the mark actually made me more anxious, which made me feel more guilty. And fortunately, I was able to kind of break through that. And I think in some ways going through this journey with anxiety helped me embrace and realize aspects of God's love, compassion, care, mercy, more than I had really felt or experienced prior to that. So how did you begin to see those scriptures in a different way? Yeah, so if anyone listening is going through anxiety, Philippians 4:6-9 I think is a great place to start. So yes, Paul starts off, &quot;Do not be anxious&quot;, a command. However, he doesn't leave it there. One, he says to pray, but he doesn't stop there, he says pray with Thanksgiving. And so that's a specific thing that I started to practice was one, as I started to have anxious thoughts, was to start praying, give it to God, cast it on him, but not just that, combat that negativity with forcing myself to think about things that I am thankful for. Right. So I may be suffering severely from headaches right now, but I'm thankful that my kids are healthy, I'm thankful that I don't have chest pains anymore and it's just headaches. And Paul goes on to say, &quot;Think about what is pure, what is good, what is holy and what is true.&quot; So I found that I actually in anxiety often start lying to myself because if I have headaches, but I instantly go to I have a brain tumor. What if I have a brain tumor? What if I go to the doctor and this is what they say to me? I'm living in a lie. Is it possible that those things are true? Yes, it's possible. But until they're true, I am embracing and just kind of ruminating on a lie. And that could apply to so many things beyond a brain tumor. Like maybe my boss is trying to get rid of me or maybe my friends don't really want to hang out with me. Absolutely, absolutely. So based on that kind of response, I'm curious, do you think there's anything you learned about God that you wouldn't have if you didn't go through that? We know from scripture that he is referred to as a manual, God with us, but there was something about that sweetness in the midst of my trouble that made Psalm 23 come to life. The good shepherd, not keeping us necessarily out of the dark valleys, but even when we're walking through that valley of the shadow of death, he is with us. That's something that I think I intellectually and theologically knew, but it became more of a reality and I felt it during those days. Mmm. So Brian, you talked about this time of acute anxiety when you were overseas. Flash forward to today, is anxiety something that you still have to regularly battle? So that period of acute anxiety lasted for about three to four months and I really feel like God used multiple things in my life. And something that I have often been asked about my anxiety is, &quot;Hey, do you think it was spiritual, physiological or emotional?&quot; And I have come to the conclusion that the answer is yes. Yeah. And I really do believe that there were elements of all three of those things. So I believe there were spiritual aspects to what I was going through that needed to be battled spiritually, with scripture, with prayer. I also came to realize that some of this was physiological. And again, it's often a cyclical thing because I learned a lot in talking to a doctor during this time that one of the most important things for someone who's anxious is to get good sleep, to eat well. Well, when you're anxious, two of the things you don't do very well are sleep well and eat well and that can be kind of cyclical. And then I also had the good fortune of being able to talk to a counselor through this time. And I think it's important to be open approaching attacking your anxiety or combating your anxiety with a multi-pronged approach because often there are various things at play. And I think that even though those three months were sort of a specific season that I clearly got out of, it would be a disservice to act as if I've never struggled with anxiety since then. And I absolutely believe God healed me from anxiety, but I also humbly recognized that I have a tendency to fall back into that if I let my guard down. And so there are certain things I need to put into place to help prevent that from happening. That's a really smart way to look at it. (gentle music) This is still one of my favorite episodes. I think when I first heard this episode's question, which again was, how can I process my emotions in a healthy way, I felt really intimidated and nervous. Tell me more about that. So remember earlier how I was telling you about the Grinch doing yoga? Yes. That's how I felt and that's what I pictured when I heard that question for the first time. It just seemed daunting and overwhelming, but I really liked that Kay makes it super easy to understand how we can process our emotions. We name them, we admit we have them, and then we invite God into them, it's three steps. Right and I think another thing you'll hear is invite people. Yeah. And as I mentioned earlier, I've been learning more about how to let myself feel and share my feelings. And so a couple weeks ago, I'm driving to work and like yelling at God in the car. Oh my gosh. Which turned into a really great time of prayer actually. The yelling actually makes me think about a scripture from the Old Testament. This is my go-to scripture when I am feeling stressed, anxious, even maybe a little bit of despair, this is just my go-to scripture for those emotions and it's from 1 Kings 19. So for context, it's Elijah, he's one of the prophets, and Queen Jezebel is ruling and she wanted nothing more than for Elijah to be killed, she wanted him dead. So naturally, he ran for his life and it was in this running that Elijah felt like he had reached his breaking point. And what I love about this scripture is that God doesn't condemn Elijah for his emotions or feelings or just throwing his hands up and being like I'm done, and instead God meets Elijah right where he's at. He has him lay down, makes him take a nap, when he wakes up, he gives him some food. The first round of food isn't enough so God says here eats some more. I think what it shows me is that in the midst of whatever it may be that we are going through it's a great reminder that God already knows. He knows where we're at, he knows how we're feeling, and it doesn't scare him away, it doesn't make him think any less of us for having the feelings or emotions that we do. And so I'm looking at verses three to four now and it says, &quot;When he came to bear Sheba and Judah, he left his servant there while he himself, Elijah, went a day's journey into the wilderness.&quot; And again, I think this illustrates what we shouldn't do. We shouldn't try to do this without people. We shouldn't try to do this on our own. I completely agree. It's so important that we're inviting God into our feelings and also inviting other people into them too. So this week in your life group, or with some friends who you trust, ask this question, are there any thoughts or feelings I've been ignoring? And then, how can I more regularly let God and others into my ]emotions? (upbeat music) Hey, you're still there? You must be one of those people who watches the credits at the end of a movie, you know like all the way through to like a bonus scene or something. And that probably also means that you really liked the conversation we had today. So if you want to be the first to hear about new episodes, you can visit www.life.church/yhis. This is also a great way to get the conversation guides, which you can find in the show notes of today's episode. Have a great week.