Hello everyone, today I'm sharing my mille feuille recipe with you. Let's go. For the vanilla pastry cream, I start by flattening a vanilla bean before coming to split it in two in order to collect the seeds inside. In a saucepan, I put 1/2 L of milk, so 500 ml. I also put the seeds and the vanilla pod . You can replace the vanilla pod with a sachet of vanilla sugar or vanilla extract. I bring everything to a boil and during this time, in a container, I add 3 egg yolks. I also put 100 g of sugar, it is possible to put less if you wish, and I whisk 2 to 3 minutes to blanch the mixture. When the mixture has whitened well, I add 50 g of cornstarch and I mix again until it is homogeneous. For more recipe ideas, I invite you to subscribe to my channel without forgetting to activate the notification bell so as not to miss any video. When the milk has reached the boiling point, I remove the vanilla bean. I will pour the milk in 3 times on the preparation, mixing well between each addition. It is always important for recipes requiring pastry cream to always prepare it first so that it has plenty of time to cool down and prepare the other steps. So me, that's what I always do first. If you like the recipe, don't forget to put a little blue thumb to encourage me. Once I have added all the vanilla milk in the previous preparation, I return everything to the pan. We will thicken the cream while whisking vigorously to avoid having lumps that form, so over medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes. It's very fast, you will see the cream thicken. At that point, we can remove from the heat. Off the heat, I will come and add 20 g of butter. It's optional but it adds a little more to the cream, it is smoother. So I whisk again until the butter is totally melted. I stretched some food thread on the counter . I place the pastry cream still hot there and I will close the film on the cream, being careful not to overflow it and then I will reserve it in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour. I then tackle the puff pastry step. So I took a 400 g puff pastry. You can go check out my express puff pastry recipe . I put the link in the description of the video. Alternatively, you can use store-bought puff pastry, it works great, but homemade puff pastry is the best option. I roll out the dough in a large rectangle 30x40 centimeters minimum and then I wrap it around the roller. So this is the trick to not break the dough when taking it. I then roll out the puff pastry on the baking sheet covered with parchment paper and then I will cut the pieces of dough that protrude on the edges to have a smooth dough that cooks evenly. So as I said earlier, my plate is 30x40 centimeters. You don't have to take a plate of the same size, you can take a little smaller or even a little bigger. I prick the dough with a fork. I try to prick her all over the place. This will prevent it from swelling during cooking. I sprinkle sugar on the dough, so I put 30 g. It will bring a nice color and a lot of crispness to the dough. I spread the sugar all over with a brush and the goal will be not to let the dough swell. So I put another sheet of baking paper on top and something heavy and ovenproof, it could be a baking sheet or whatever, and I put in the oven preheated to 180 deg for 45 minutes. Do not hesitate to come every 10 minutes to squeeze the dough well so that it does not swell. When the dough is cooked, it should have a nice golden color and be very crisp. I place it on a rack and let it cool completely. Once the dough has cooled well, I cut the 4 ends to better let the puff pastry appear . So use a toothed knife to avoid ending up with your dough in a thousand pieces. Feel free to give me other recipe ideas that you would like to see on my channel soon, I'll be happy to make them happen. I then cut the puff pastry into 3 strips of the same size, so here it's more or less 13x30 centimeters. You can also do it directly when the dough is still raw, even before cooking it to avoid the risk of breaking it. I then recover the pastry cream which has had time to set in the refrigerator and I whip it for a few seconds to relax it. Once the cream has regained a good consistency, I put it in a pastry bag fitted with a smooth nozzle. So the pastry bag is only to provide more careful work, but if you do not have one you can also very well spread your pastry cream directly with a spoon. In my serving dish, I place a first strip of puff pastry and I pocket the cream in strips on top. I then lay out a second layer of puff pastry and again I pocket the pastry cream. I press lightly to weld the cream with the puff pastry and for the white fondant or the icing I chose the simplest method, so I mixed 100 g of icing sugar with 2 to 3 tbsp of water and stir until it takes on the desired consistency. Be careful that it is not too runny, at the risk of seeing the icing run all over the mille feuille. I spread it over the surface of the mille feuille, being careful not to run it over the edges. To make the famous mille feuille patterns, I melted 20 g of dark chocolate that I put in a pastry bag before drawing horizontal lines on the icing. With a toothpick, I draw lines spaced in the other direction and finally I draw other lines in the opposite direction, cleaning the toothpick well between each pass. I keep the mille feuille in the fridge for at least 3 hours. You can then present it as is or cut parts. For my part I was able to cut 5 parts, so always with a toothed knife to facilitate cutting. I really hope you liked the recipe. If so, as usual don't forget to comment, like and share the video. See you soon.