Translator: Riaki Ponist Everybody knows somebody Maybe that somebody is even you. In fact, half of the people would do something else That's an epidemic. Look, I know, it's easier to stick Walking away that doesn't fit conventional wisdom , I mean, who wants to make less money? But when I think about this subject, my immigrant grandfather who left Poland, to go to New York City. I wonder what he would think about us &quot;Happy?&quot; he would say. &quot;Happy at work? Put food on the table, that's 'happy.' What are you talking about, happy?&quot; My dad, first generation American, he was the first to go to college, the first to have a &quot;good corporate job,&quot; his was the 1960s' version But he really wasn't. Today, the research shows that to be happy at work, They want to have mastery They do want to know that what they do matters more So, if we know that, why is it that 50 per cent of us can't figure out I think it's because when we are in doubt, We look to our credentials, What we're qualified to do It isn't necessarily Think of an egg, if you will. From a little hummingbird egg all of them are roundish shell. For people, that shell our accomplishments, and our resume. A lot of us get attached to that shell, and that's what makes it hard to change. But to get to the good stuff, Because inside is the yolk, That's where the DNA is. That's what determines For people, I call that yolk Everything that can be The status, your identity, the perks, the salary. But what can't be taken away is the yolk. That's where the discovery Maybe it's more important to understand that career satisfaction It comes from who you get to be Who your job allows you to be, that's where the happiness comes from. So, the shell is what you do. But the yolk is who; who you get to be. When I was in my 20s, I wanted nothing more Well, I did reasonably well; I worked in reputable theaters, and at year eight, So, I grew despondent, I really did. I was almost suicidal over the fact that I thought that I failed Why haven't this dream come true for me? I'd worked so hard, I invested so much. 10 years after I left show business, I remembered a scholarship for an acting program where they asked me: &quot;What would be possible The answer came to me in a flash. I knew it was like the right answer, the eldest child answer, the &quot;I'm going to get So I went up to the mike and I said, &quot;Well, if I were successful people would see me on stage and be moved That answer got me the scholarship. But it wasn't until ten years later the performer was the shell That was the yolk. That was me. So I hadn't failed at my dream after all; I just suffered I needed to allow I think that's what's wrong when we can't figure it out. No one's taught us to pull the dream apart and understand We're told we could be anything But when we go to pick the question changes from, &quot;What to, &quot;How are you going to make We haven't been taught what are dreams and imaginations John was someone who heard me and he was very skeptical. He said, &quot;Laura, I've accomplished I've had every dream So this cannot possibly hold any weight.&quot; But at the time we met, He was struggling with that. I want to tell you a little secret: I don't believe anyone who tells me I believe they do know; because then they have to do Anyway, back to John. Since he challenged me, I said, &quot;Okay, what are all your career dreams He said, &quot;When I was a kid, As a young adult, then I wanted to change and be responsible for huge He goes, &quot;And now I want to do something maybe an adventure But he couldn't reconcile But I could see it. So, this is where I need your help. If you go - if you go out and you see one that blows your mind, Show me on your face Audience: Wow! Laura Berman Fortgang: Wow! So, if you go to a city and you're looking up at the architecture, what does your face look like? Alright, now if you've been to New York that a woman's navel what does your face look like? Wow. So, you see. Everything that John did Across culture, language, or age, All those jobs were what he did, but who he was If you go out in nature, So, it was completely in his blueprint who worked in nature and took others Today, he owns a company where he designs and manufactures He found his way. So, the formula seems to be: something from the past re-examine for its true significance, married with your skill set of today, equals a satisfying new chapter. Now, there are people that they've never had a dream, that they never had anything they don't have any memory of anything they'd ever wanted to be Over the years, what I've seen is that they all had They either grew up maybe there was raging, perhaps they were worried that a relative who was sick they didn't know any child who has to keep their and doesn't feel safe can't dream. If that's any of you, don't worry, I've also met people who have had but it was based on something So, they succeeded, but now they don't know what to do So, that thing from the past, anyone who'd ever said, or &quot;I won't be like my father,&quot; or &quot;I'll never be poor,&quot; If you did that, it was a reaction and it probably served you well. Look, a lot of people based on things But there may come a point where that motivation because you've outgrown it. And then, what do you do? Karen was someone She was a top salesperson, but she started talking because she felt like She didn't know and she didn't know to be as ambitious as she was before. I suspected that there would be something in her story that would tell us So, there it was; at 17, to play basketball for college, and she found out she was pregnant. She gave up the scholarship, &quot;I will not be a teenage statistic.&quot; She had that baby, she had then she married him, went to school, and now she couldn't figure out Well, she wasn't a teenager anymore, and she had well proven So, once she had the awareness that she needed to just the motivation for why she worked, So you see, your resume All the things that happened that made your life story, That's what reveals that is your yolk. I want to live in a world where people because they realize that there's nobody to compete with. Everyone's unique, we don't cross over, I want a world where we don't torture what they want to do with the rest because we've taught them that their dreams have many ways I'd like to see a world because they understand but they can evolve from the yolk. So, before, I told you would do something different Half! That is an epidemic. But it's an epidemic that has a cure. The cure is understanding that career satisfaction It comes from who you get to be The beauty is, who you Thank you. (Cheers) (Applause)