Life is all about loss, you know. Like my doctor told me... he measured my height and he told me I lost 2 inches. And I thought that's impossible. But then I thought, I lost my waist a while ago so maybe it went there? Oh, but now I know... it went to my patooties. I used to be a 38D and now I'm a 38 long. My nips are almost down to my navel. Oh, is that too much information? I don't know if you're going to use that but I just did that routine last weekend at the theatre. You know, about loss. So, what was the question? I'm losing things you know. The bags are bigger, my cheeks are getting hollow. Where did that go? Oh, it went down to here. But I don't disapprove of it. I don't disapprove of these changes. I guess it just takes a little bit more to accept your body. I call it 'coming of ageing'. Just like puberty, coming of age, is very difficult because it's a real phase shift. And so I think this 'coming of ageing' is another big transition. It's a transition out of that struggle of the middle of your life... the beautiful struggle of it, you know. I've just been through an excruciating process of the parts of a life review. I can do a life review of all my cool stuff, and then as I did that this year I saw through all the cool stuff and I saw the shadow. There was a crack in my story and I saw the shadow. I've had this happen before in my life and I just go completely numb and unconscious and wait for whatever this is to go away. But this time I stayed with it. Not because I mentally wanted to. I would have never done it. It's because my soul took control and showed me... the soul or the shadow just showed me what was necessary. I saw the impact of my behaviour on other people. And I just felt devastated that I had skipped on through life not really taking into account who I left in the dust. I haven't been attentive to the small little feelings of people. I haven't been attentive of the impact of my actions. And so that all appeared and it was like being a drunk and realising the people that you've hurt while you've been on, what you thought, was a fairly innocent process. I drink, so what, I have a lot of fun. Everybody loves me at the party. So it was the reckoning with the things that I hadn't reconciled with. And I went through a process of writing or speaking to people to make amends and say sorry. It was excruciating because the pain I had caused other people was actually as painful for them, or more painful, than I had even taken into account and I had no idea. You need only claim the events of your life, and that's not necessarily easy, to make yourself real. You need only claim the events of your life, which is not easy, to become fierce with reality. That's what it is. So I want to be fierce with reality. I had one writing instructor who said, 'Go over the most painful place because that's where the truth is.' The shadow is where you stuff everything that you're not willing to look at. So shadow work is being able to see the dark and disgusting things that you're afraid of or that you've done and you don't want to own. I'm so grateful that I have another 10 minutes or 15 years of life that I can live beyond that constraint, beyond the barrier reef of my identities and attachments. When you're really attached to yourself things are excruciatingly painful. And when you're less and less attached to you as a little clod of something... less and less attached... you get to be amazed with things. I have a friend who collects poems, or fragments of poems, and puts them into decks. And so I just go through them every day. I pick a card and just read it then pop it in the back. Do you want me to read it? It's called 'Sono's Death Poem'. Don't just stand there with your hair turning grey. Soon enough the sea will sink your little island. So while there is still the illusion of time, set out for another shore. No sense packing a bag. You won't be able to lift it into your boat. Give away all your collections. Take only new seeds and an old stick. Send out some prayers on the wind before you sail. Don't be afraid. Someone knows you're coming. An extra fish has been salted. You get to a certain point in life and you have grey hair and you're old, and you stop. So this is like a challenge. Don't just stand there with your hair turning grey. Going into your death with a sense of freshness... that this is not the end... it's a doorway. And I don't have any theories yet about what the doorway is but maybe it's the last experience of your life. Maybe it is the experience of your lifetime. I used to think that I was going to have Helen Keller's phrase on my tombstone... 'Life is either a great adventure or it's nothing.' Just something that the living could walk by and go 'yeah'. I have a green burial plot up in the cemetery up the hill. So I want to be buried, by my friends hopefully, in a shroud... I probably need to make one so that they don't have to worry about that... and go into the earth. It's just up the hill, so I joke, this is just light hearted, but I think all my cells are going to come back down into my garden and nourish my garden. You know, the water flows down the hill. Yeah, that pleases me... that idea that my flesh will go off my bones and my bones will be in the earth. You know, this (my body) is all on loan. And you're going to be forgotten. Give it a generation or two and we're gone from the imagination. I guess it's getting to be ok with me that I am part of the multitude of people who have passed through here. There's billions of us who live and die. What an amazing blink that I get to be alive.