When I first started the Astrum channel, the first to see why. Mars has long held a place in our of our closest neighbours. It's a fascinating have long pondered its potential as a home for to explore Mars' surface with rovers and orbiters, 4K resolution. Mars has a rugged beauty, a and awe-inspiring features and landmarks to Mars' surface? What would we see? What I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching 4K images of the planet NASA, and plenty of space as we explore some of the most incredible sides To begin with, for an alien planet, Mars is not Mars share a lot of similarities - one being only slightly longer than it is on Earth: 24 slightly longer than ours - 1.88 Earth years, or to be expected for a planet that's further Of all the planets in the solar system, the the similar tilts of the two planets' rotational Mars. So, what does that imply? It means Mars These temperatures in the different seasons can widen the range even further; temperatures can to as high as 35degC in the equatorial summer. each poles' winter, the pole lies in continuous on Earth, the temperature gets so cold that the which collects on the surface of the themselves are not primarily made of CO2, The ice at the poles waxes and wanes. In differences of the size of the polar cap; from thing I love about Mars are these strange spiral of these beautiful spirals; which scientists The CO2 at the poles does not remain there it has a knock-on effect on another aspect dry ice can create enormous wind speeds of on the dust strewn across Mars' surface, While Mars and Earth have their similarities, smaller than Earth - 6,779km in diameter vs means the gravitational pull at the surface is of the impact of this reduced gravity, allow me handsome model. Watch as I drop a ball, with mimic the gravitational conditions between the two As you can see, the ball does fall slower on Mars gravitational pull is 62% lower than what we feel weigh 38 kg on Mars. Curiously, this is almost even though that planet is smaller than Mars, is only stronger by 1%, and which just goes to This allows for some truly amazing geological which is the tallest volcano and second tallest out by Rheasilvia peak on the Vesta asteroid. to me, is a bit of a cheat, as Rheasilvia has the crater, and measurements of its height tend to Olympus Mons stands three times as tall as Mount Everest is very jagged and steep, the edifice It rises to the equivalent of 22 kilometres above as Earth's gravity would pull it down. The only is because its gravity is reasonably weak. Olympus profile. The average slope is only 5 degrees. you wouldn't be able to see the entire Olympus Mons can easily be seen from space. If we clearly. To me, it really does look like a giant the volcano has some collapsed craters as you can cliff face, which is up to 8 kilometres high. stretches across the side of the planet like and every time I look at it I can't help This giant canyon is three times the length of But when you look at the planet Mars, one of its the surface of Mars so red? It all comes down to Over time, these minerals have reacted with oxygen the planet has slowly rusted, just as iron This explains the ground and rocks' reddish-brown various NASA rovers on Mars over the years. you're there on the planet's surface, in a level an impossible pipe-dream for astronomers only a Spirit, Opportunity, and Perseverance, we can see Now after looking at some of these pictures, you a dead planet, but actually that's far from the things happening on its surface. For example, in 2008 as an orbiter was going past. What was could see a lot of dust had been kicked up by the dunes which are up to 700 metres tall, and this that this dust cloud is not exactly small. know that there are "spider" colonies on Mars? shapes might be 45m to 1km across, but they are ice that has been warmed up by spring sunshine. reverts back into its gaseous form, which then way back to the Martian atmosphere. This eruption dark material with it, scattering the material taken by the ESA ExoMars Trace Gas Orbiter just Another example is this dune, photographed and you can see that it does change quite a lot. dust gets worn away. And I've shown a number where you can see the dust has been kicked up by because after the impact, water ice in the ground away from the impact crater. The colours there Mars' surface is awe-inspiring to look at, but think, as Mars is home to huge dust storms. When a lot of the loose dust on the ground, creating It's sometimes hard to imagine the scale of the from space. Have a look at this dust storm which you can see the difference since it died down. you'll see the storm, which has passed anything we ever experience here on Earth, video on them, which you can watch here. on the surface of Mars? Amazingly, they're are surprisingly common on Mars, and have see some from the orbiter's point of view. It's and about 30 metres thick. And the shadow of this the rover's perspective, we're actually fortunate You might think that with all the atmospheric an atmosphere that's comparable to that We are 38,000 feet in the air right now above If I was to go out of the bay right but I would also struggle to breathe along except... even worse. If I were to actually get the I'd need to go up 120,000 feet into the Earth's Breathing issue isn't helped either by the fact So if you did want to visit Mars, you'd have that doesn't stop Mars from having some have actually been captured by the Rovers on Mars. that way. The presence of dry riverbeds proves retain the heat and pressure necessary for liquid Scientists believe that Mars' magnetosphere, that Mars lost its magnetosphere 4 billion away atoms from the outer atmosphere for actually detected these ionised atmospheric One of the last things I want to focus on moons; Phobos and Deimos, which are small and they're very small. If you were to look big they would be in comparison to While Phobos is the biggest of Mars' moons, even as Phobos is actually a lot closer to Mars than km from us. Phobos is just 6000 km from Mars - York. It might be more surprising to you can fit several Earths between the Earth and the Deimos on the other hand is very small and also in Mars' night sky, Deimos looks like just a star they're very pretty moons even if they are tiny. show you something I found absolutely amazing of Phobos, as taken from one of the rovers while I've been on Earth, so to see one on see Phobos in all of its irregular glory, as it effect it has on the lighting in the area too. Well, that's about all we have time for today, in one parting selfie for the road. Want to see Earth a little hard to see - just a tiny dot in the It gives you an interesting sense of perspective, we see it at night, we don't often think about planets' perspectives. All the lives and noticeable pinprick of light in the night sky. taken at a distance of about 80 million bit blurry, but that's to be expected. But just Mars is a truly incredible planet, and the in person. It's fascinating to take a look around or our descendants. It's our closest neighbour, trenches, is filled with wonders to explore. which of my old videos about the solar systems' Let me know in the comments below. For now, if you're like me one of the things you love vistas we find out there the universe is filled my jaw drop in awe if that's true for you too different displates in our collections showcasing brand new Hubble inspired nebulae the moon and Saturn and the planet Collection comes in two Planet discs with their accompanying moons all love how they've turned out so much so that I've metal posters do a great job of bringing the of your own home and being magnetic they're easy put up or swap out scan the QR code or use yourself thanks for watching and thanks to our make science knowledge freely available to and miss sometimes so your contributions help haven't already but you want to join the to get in on the party just sign up with the be able to watch the whole video ad free questions to our team once again a huge team meanwhile click the link to this playlist