The Super Star Destroyer was one of the most Empire. But how many of the massive ships could be In this video we'll be covering the brief Canon and Legends. We will specifically be covering those ships the Eclipse from Dark Empire will not be included. Starting with the canon, thanks to Aftermath: Star Destroyers in the Imperial Fleet. Interestingly, the first one built was the It was the flagship of Grand General Tagge At that point in time, the Executor itself Kuat. It was originally intended to replace the became the personal ship of Darth Vader, and It was present at the Battle of Endor, where After the Battle of Endor, the Annihilator the ship to begin their own pirate empire. In the months following, five super star destroyers Another three were either surrendered or commandeered and rebuilt into the new Starhawk-class capital Another super star destroyer called the Arbitrator into hyperspace. That left two more. The Eclipse was the personal flagship of Emperor Reports indicated that it was among those evidence that those reports may have been The final known canon Super Star Destroyer In the months after the Battle of Endor it in the Imperial Fleet. It was lost in the Battle of Jakku, and it next thirty years. Legends material was more liberal in its use known ships throughout the galaxy. Of course the Executor is on this list as first constructed. The Annihilator was also in Legends, although It was under the command of Admiral Gaarn, of Endor defending the half-constructed Eclipse The Aggressor was used to defend Imperial Endor. One year later it was under the command of an Imperial warlord intent on taking control He met heavy resistance from Grand Admiral into his enemy, destroying the ship and killing Little is known about the Enforcer other than by Rebel forces led by Luke Skywalker. The Guardian was under the command of Admiral arose after the Battle of Endor. It remained in Imperial service for twelve by the New Republic. He refused to surrender, so one of his officers Command passed to Admiral Ackbar, and it remained The Intimidator was part of the Black Fleet, after the Battle of Endor. Eleven years later the Imperial prisoners Failing to reunite with the remaining Empire, The Intimidator was found abandoned in the The Iron Fist was the command ship of Warlord The former Imperial admiral used it against in the years following the Battle of Endor Solo and the Hapan Royal Navy. Razor's Kiss was not completed until three Warlord Zsinj attempted to hijack it, but and the ship was destroyed. However the collected debris were reconstructed Warlord Zsinj ordered the ship to be painted fake his own death. A purpose for which it was used shortly after. The Knight Hammer was used by Admiral Natasi Order on Yavin IV. It was covered in stealth armor, and had advanced smaller crew. But the Jedi were able to sabotage the ship it was destroyed. The Lusankya was the sister ship of the Executor. It was built and then buried on Coruscant situations. After the Battle of Endor it was used by Ysanne launch the ship, an act which killed millions. The New Republic eventually defeated Isard It was finally destroyed in the Yuuzhan Vong The Reaper was originally under the control Admiral Gilad Pellaeon. It served as his flagship until it was destroyed the Battle of Endor. The Terror was used to protect the development with cloaking technology. However it was boarded by Rebel saboteurs, production facility and the Super Star Destroyer The Vengeance was under the command of Admiral of Nocto shortly before the Battle of Endor. The Whelm is another ship with little history, War six years after the Battle of Endor. Shortly after the death of Emperor Palpatine, of a Super Star Destroyer for use against It was destroyed in the Battle of Mustafar. Finally, two unnamed Super Star Destroyers New Jedi Order book Destiny's Way. The first was outfitted with cloaking devices, The fate of the other is unknown. And that's all of them! Twenty total Executor-class Super Star Destroyers I like that the new canon right now has very The more that exist, the less impact they I will be interested to see if the Empire If you liked this video, you might like the TIE Fighters, Superweapons, or Rebel starfighters. You can find links to those here or in the And don't forget to like, subscribe, or Until next time, thank you for watching, and