Hi, I'm Rick Steves, This time we're exploring Israel and Palestine. Our goal -- the people who love this land Thanks for joining us. The land Israelis for a third of humanity, and Jerusalem marks For Christians, this is where Jesus was For Muslims, this is from where And for Jews, the Temple The crossroads the Holy Land has been coveted While Israelis and Palestinians and struggle to this land has a rich We'll go beyond the sights, opening our minds to better understand In Israel, and learn some and ideas and we'll walk where the importance of is an enduring lesson. And now we have to make sure never to let it happen again. In Palestine, making a home visit, we'll get to know a land and a point of view The whole of my whole country. And along the way, of the many perspectives here. We'll learn about controversial settlements, and the persistent challenges At the east end of the region west is split between Israel, and Palestine, which is made up of We'll start in Jerusalem, we'll visit Tel Aviv, and the Israeli-controlled Then, in the West Bank, we'll venture to Bethlehem, and finish in Ramallah. The Muslims and Jews that share a family tree that That's when the patriarch, Abraham had two sons. From Isaac came the Israelites, This ancient ethnic mix Israelites were Jewish. a Jew who brought And today, a religion that arrived Muhammad, Throughout the centuries, this region endured from ancient Romans to Muslim Ottomans. the entire area as it was in Roman times. While Muslims generally Jews and Christians, the various communities In the 20th century, especially with the creation of the state of Israel Today, the combined population is about 12 million, roughly half Jews and only a couple percent In 2012, Palestine as a state. Okay, I know, and it's contentious. And I imagine some people are already upset with me. But I'm a travel writer, is to come here with We'll visit each side, and we'll first Israel then Palestine. Israel is the size with 8 million people, twice While the state of Israel the Jewish people have going back 4,000 years. and within a two-hour drive you can take a sweeping tour its tumultuous past. 2,000 years ago, Caesarea was Further up the coast is the 12th century Crusader And in the 16th century, after the return the Ottoman Turks surrounded with this mighty wall. And the 20th century of the determined that built today's In 1947, after the Holocaust the United Nations helped found and Jews, long dispersed returned to their In the process, hundreds were displaced, and to this day, both people struggle to find to share what each consider The dividing of the Holy Land The 1947 United Nations an independent Jewish state was rejected by the Arabs. Civil war broke out, to the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. After a year of fighting, a cease-fire was declared known as the Green Line, In the 1960s, Arab-Israeli to the point where With a quick and decisive Israel increased [Gunshot] chafing at the loss of staged two uprisings, [Shouting] Approximately 1,000 were killed by Palestinian as violence intensified from 2000 to 2005. In response, Israel asserted building a controversial fence around the West Bank in the name of security The epic stories three great have played out on this It's been a difficult mix, the most contested city Jerusalem is a sprawling of about 800,000 people. But its core, is home to just 35,000. Its venerable walls of many of this planet's Within a 10-minute walk, you can see the Church so sacred to Christians... the Dome of the Rock, and the holiest place the Western Wall. Jerusalem is the closest place to heaven. Much of Jerusalem's importance which is both an inspiration for the religions Muslims believe Muhammad and they've worshipped on Jews teach that here Abraham, was asked to sacrifice God intervened and saved Isaac. They call this place believe it to be and have worshipped here A thousand years before Christ, King David united and captured Jerusalem. His son, Solomon, built It was later destroyed, Then came the catastrophic year when the Romans and ushered in the Diaspora. That's when the Jews became and dispersed The western foundation of this ancient temple complex Here at what's called Jews mourn a horrible past The square operates as with men and women The faithful believe between the stones will be answered. Bar mitzvahs and festivals Holding the Torah high, at the most holy place [Singing in Hebrew] Radiating out from Temple Mount It's divided into Jewish, Muslim, Armenian, Through the Christian quarter the route it's believed Jesus Pilgrims come from around to retrace his steps. Their journey culminates at marked by the Church on Calvary Hill, or Golgotha. Today, the dark, is the most sacred site Built on the site where Jesus died pilgrims line up to pray at And a few steps away, they gather to enter and place a candle Exploring Jerusalem's Old City, and religious passions, I was the feeling of community, things seem to work together. The Jewish Quarter and modern Much of this area was destroyed or under the ensuing period After Israelis took control they rebuilt this quarter. While it's not convenient to live in this devout Jews in living here so close to the Western Wall. with over half the Old City's Like the Jewish quarter, it stretches out which is crowned by that Like the Jews worship Muslim's worship on its top, with its intricate geometric fitting regally within its pure Holy as this spot it's controlled by Israel, are generally not allowed Most of those praying here part of Israel's Here in the Muslim Quarter, a bustling and labyrinthine is popular with local Arabs. Today, on the eve the market is While wandering you may see houses with Israeli flags, homes of Zionist families this bit of the Old City Considering the rich of each of these communities, it's understandable for this sacred real estate. This struggle is a huge While complete Muslim control many Arabs envision with this part of Jerusalem -- East Jerusalem -- It's a very contentious issue, to keep Jerusalem whole An icon of the tension is the wall that Israel has What Israelis call Palestinians consider and a land grab, over the internationally and into Palestinian territory. Just five miles from is a checkpoint in the wall, where I can walk from Jerusalem Like at border towns all over the world, each day, cross the wall on their commute higher-paying jobs in As long as times are calm, the West Bank's wide open You don't need a visa, the same as Israel, and you certainly won't find Bethlehem, a leading is the perfect first stop For me, no Holy Land visit without crossing the wall and learning Israeli and Palestinian. Suddenly, there's not Wandering Palestinian I kept thinking how how little I knew of it, and how rarely visited While beloved among Christians as the place where Bethlehem is now a mostly Its thriving market The main square and the main traffic circle to locals doing time Bethlehem's skyline of both crescents a reminder that the town, still has many Christians. While all Palestinians not all Palestinians In fact, a small minority Nativity Square marks Here the Church of the Nativity believed to be Inside, Emperor Constantine, the first Christian had this church A steady stream of pilgrims from all over Christendom to remember and to pray on the spot Jesus was born. Many assume that Palestinian were converted but in fact, go all the way back to By the way, a century ago, of all Palestinians Today, that number's down and most of those Along with Christians, Muslims also consider this In fact, a mosque has also stood It's Friday, and Muslims have [Prayer] Travel, especially here is filled with After prayer, I met a cleric and enjoyed a conversation What do you hope for? And what do you see in I hope, in whole of the world, -One family. We need this for life. No fightings, no killings, to be good people. I say this message So I hope for everybody, and I say to you, your hand from here to go not alone. -I'm not selfish man. I love you, I love him, I like -- This is my religion. When on the road, the more people To get the most to better understand we're joined by local guide So there's churches but there's KAMAL: Bethlehem is as well as the Christians. Jesus is the second They also believe in Mary, She has a whole section in A whole book in the Koran Yes, exactly, and that's why she's We're dropping by Kamal's place to meet his family and enjoy It's typical that many generations We're meeting Kamal's mother, his sister, After some good conversation Kamal's mother calls us She's cooked up I think it's impossible for a traveler to be The food just keeps on coming. And you have to keep 'cause if you don't keep you'll get another time food. As anywhere, and getting into a home into the everyday worlds I think this is a beautiful, -Sahtein. Bon appetite. -Sahtein. KAMAL: Translated, it's like two times for your health. STEVES: Two times for Heading back across the contrasts and Israel Outside the Old City, we're immersed in modern Joining locals down Ben Yehuda Street we appreciate this culture's of east and west, modern and traditional. About three quarters But most of these are secular About 15 percent of Israeli Jews very religious and living that require them to be apart Entire districts of Jerusalem About 20 percent of the population generally Palestinians after the formation of Israel. Christians, make up a small Israel is a melting pot nation Nearly half the country evident in the cultural makeup who seem to be everywhere. Nearly all 18 year olds do time This service is a kind as even fresh-off-the-boat as good Hebrew-speaking While I found most Israelis as contemporary there are corners where This is especially evident and in ultra-Orthodox With the help of my Jewish observing the way people dress Walking down the street, there different ways people dress. BRESLER: Well, their belonging and following a certain rabbi. of how their followers STEVES: What does the block BRESLER: Well, in the Scripture, it says you should always have so in that capsule, they have a parchment STEVES: What's the significance BRESLER: Jews wear yarmulkes because they are constantly that God is above them. STEVES: Ah, so everybody it's a constant reminder BRESLER: Definitely. STEVES: Now, you see even the little boys, BRESLER: Regarding the earlocks, &quot;Thou shalt not shave And these people take those STEVES: You notice women are BRESLER: The Orthodox women But when they get married, and they cover their hair Regarding the hats, the uniform defining So, by looking at somebody, and which movement amongst Or Sephardi or Lithuanian, STEVES: So there are many of Orthodoxy BRESLER: Definitely. In Jerusalem, 19 amongst STEVES: And it's like the rabbis They have their own following. BRESLER: More than pop stars. -More than? Put it this way, without the pop. The state of Israel was born, a defining event in the long To appreciate the impact critical in understanding visit Yad Vashem. This powerful museum chronicles of six million Jews Its Hall of Names to give every victim of simply being named This archive aspires to catalog each of Yad Vashem also celebrates It shows the spirit of Zionism, that determination both as concentration camp and refugees from Europe to forge for themselves a state Photographs of the first returning to starting as a trickle and becoming a flood Today, just a couple the skyscrapers of Tel Aviv declaring, There was a popular slogan &quot;A land without a people That was inspirational, of the Palestinians and were displaced with Still, it's impressive of those early Jewish settlers turned sand dunes into Tel Aviv The historic town of Jaffa, now consumed by the sprawl was the Ellis Island This was where new arrivals Much of Jaffa, historically was destroyed in 1948 their &quot;War of Independence.&quot; As in any war, and there are losers. the birth of their nation, Israel's Independence Day They remember their loss -- the destruction of many Arab and how hundreds of thousands ended up in refugee camps Just a 10-minute drive north of the old stone buildings are the new glass and steel Gleaming Tel Aviv as any American city its size. While its history the original main drag, is lined with And Tel Aviv's beach scene a live-for-today vibrancy. In this culture, and seems to celebrate We sat down with our Israeli to get an edible lesson in this Hey, cheers. L'chaim. So, Benny, could you say Yeah, you can say this Everything that you see here STEVES: Now, you could say but it's also Arab cuisine. BENNY: Yes. but you can find it in you can find it in Lebanon, you Here we have eggplants Here we have the tahini itself. Here we have another eggplant That's the hummus. Very famous hummus This is something special. It's made of burghul and parsley Very special, very tasty. It's okay to reach and dip You dip it in each and that's the way to do it, And, Kobi, how do you say -Beteavon. -Beteavon. Thank you. -L'chaim. STEVES: Israel is small Getting around is easy. Road signs are in three Hebrew and Arabic for Jewish and English for visitors. A short drive up the coastline a prosperous and open city Many people here are part I was impressed at the youthful It feels like whether from Muslim are most interested in living free and ethnic baggage In a trendy cafe, Talking with a local we learned that, they consider Now, what is it like if you're an Arab-Israeli Is it separate, Well, we mix in we socialize here and there. Some neighborhoods, Some streets. I used to hear from her that, Yeah. Like she had neighbors -Really? To do everything together. STEVES: And what do you see For Israeli Arabs and Israeli Jews together, what do you hope for? and a better life, -I doubt it. The reality is not like that. Even with all the problems this is our roots, you know? We'll never, With everything STEVES: That's beautiful. Yes. Heading into the interior 700 feet below sea level, Israel's primary source it's both fed and drained Galilee is popular among It's famous as the place where Jesus did his and where so many Bible stories from loaves and fishes and Sermon on the Mount, When exploring the Holy Land, from ancient holy sites of 20th century strife Overlooking the Sea of Galilee stands the Israeli-occupied Taken from Syria and now firmly under a visit here helps explain to holding the high ground. See, now, a former Our guide, Benny, show us of this area Standing here on one can understand the settlements, the villages and the kibbutzim For a whole generation, the Syrians were here on the edge of the cliff, every single village Every day, they looked up &quot;Is it going to be a day STEVES: Artillery from Mortar shells, artillery, STEVES: the source of the freshwater Still is. BENNY: The Sea of Galilee the most important water and that's why, today, it's very difficult leaving the Golan, Above all, we must maintain The security of the Israelis, Then we can speak about Control of land between Israelis and occupying the high ground it's a civilian one, as well. Israel is developing fortified communities deep into the West Bank. these controversial what Palestinians consider Many Israelis make the case is justified because And many Jews believe that they occupy which is what they call Roughly half a million now live in settlements These planned come with all the comforts. And with Israeli for housing young Jewish families and commute from West Bank As in other democracies, there are disagreements and many moderate Israelis of settlements But Government policies the ongoing construction I chatted with several settlers And to get another narrative, I talked with both residents Now, there's a lot about settlements and so on. Is this what you would Well, the word &quot;settlement&quot; We consider it a city. And just like Seattle's a city, There is some dispute as to what this should be Are you settlers? Or what do you -- I don't have name for that. We live in Israel, Yeah, so this is your town. -Yeah, this is my country. Now, what is Ma'aleh, It's Israel. Israelis, I've heard, &quot;Well, the land It sits on the top Yeah, that's -- That's a good excuse, Because we are not I'm sure you have a thousand and you're not using it, so it's still your money, -That's a good analogy. Whenever you want to use it, Whenever you don't want to use It's our land. What would you say &quot;This is on the other side of and it's Palestinian territory, What would you say to them? My history goes back not to My history goes back and in my history, Why should I leave my country? My grandfather, his grandfather, his great, great, great, and we still here, We do need to find a way but I don't know how easy and if it's going to be You know that, daily, there are the wall is being built, and the Palestinians We don't fight, we don't do We just want to show the world that we are a people We want to show them because we want to show you We are people who want My hunch is they've learned and that is to respect Israel I don't know if they've learned. STEVES: I'm hopeful. -That's my hope. I think we're all hopeful. Those settlements this idea of us on that land impossible. If you want peace, if you want help us achieving that, The settlements, for sure, I know this is the big, but do you think the future -- is a two-state solution -You answer. I'm not in politics. I'm hoping -- and that's part of to create, plant seeds, hopefully, maybe 10 years, people will realize of living together and having one pluralistic You can't do one country 'Cause it's not going to work, It's not going to work. Yes. Being here, I can see the appeal especially for young families. But I've learned that embitter the Palestinians embitters Israelis. And many fear that the more by Israeli settlements, the more elusive a mutually to this region's troubles The Palestinian perspective is illustrated showing how their land holdings since the creation of Israel in And there's the wall, to defend its border Israeli's say this is built after losing to suicide bombers And they claim noting that, there's been almost Palestinians counter by saying with the pretense of security. They say it's actually designed to hobble The fence or wall, generally runs well within And it's nearly twice as long as the border redrawn in order aquifers, and holy places within While it's landscaped and can look attractive the wall is unfinished from the Palestinian side. This struggle with killings While one man's terrorist may be the fact is, both sides have Israeli Jews have been and Palestinians have I can certainly understand but walls are designed and to me, that's I felt that young generations but with this barrier, which many call people connecting is not an option. Beyond the infrastructure it's the treasured land Rejoined by our our first stop is famed for its hikes and ancient terraces. the land itself is holy and for Palestinians, is a kind of lifeblood KAMAL: We are in Palestine. These are the biblical terraces And we call them biblical 2,000 years of age. My ancestors came here into the mountains. It was the only way You know, You need the terraces They did that at that time, We exist to today. Only though them. This tells me tells me this is Palestine. STEVES: What do olives mean to KAMAL: Olives, They're the poor man's tree gives without taking. The olive tree gives us needing us to do It's October, as they have since families gather in for the harvest. Children are let out of so they can work the trees In the West Bank, most of the trees To Palestinians, represents their past They say, by our grandfathers and we plant it for to eat.&quot; In nearby villages, to the communal press The traditional technique though boosted by as a busy crew in the demands of Rounds of olive paste are The fresh oil, a golden liquid poured As if rising out of the ancient city of Hebron, is the largest city and it's the vibrant with nearly a third of Just strolling the streets, and mixing with the people, I feel the energy that seems Commerce spills out Exploring the market streets, I'm immersed in Experiences like these Along with all comes high security That's because this city so sacred to both Israelis Here, Jews live literally as the two communities struggle to be near the tomb While the city is a determined of several hundred has staked out The tension between by a wire net that protects the Arab food from the garbage of Israeli troops are posted here Turnstiles and checkpoints A no-man's land with decorating closed buildings And it's all about this very an ancient structure which now functions both holding the tombs of The focal point for the tomb of Abraham. Poignantly, descendants of Abraham of bullet-proof glass. Jews worship in the synagogue, the second-most holy place It's enlivened with singing, and praying among the tombs The other half is a mosque, before their shared patriarch Its exquisite minbar, where the imam stands is a rare original with inlaid wood Unfortunately, has a tragic aura. For centuries, not allowed Then, after the Israeli victory the space was shared But during a Muslim service an Israeli settler and killed 29 Since then, this holy space emblematic of that permeate the Holy Land. As a visitor traveling from on fine modern freeways, it's easy to underestimate and the extent Palestinians while nominally autonomous, are living under Israel has granted sections various degrees Palestinian cities with their own security forces. These islands of are surrounded by Israeli military. Most of the West Bank is in Palestinian-controlled but Israel still controls most and most of the land. If there's Israel can activate all across the country and stop all traffic Within minutes, every Palestinian city. Palestinian cars Israelis have Generally, most West Bank roads But when times are tense, and only yellow plates Things are pretty quiet and we're able even with our green plates, Some of the most dramatic is in the vast and arid Hiding in folds of are fabled monasteries which, have given hermits Our ears pop as we continue and drop below sea-level. The road ends at the lowest the fabled Dead Sea. Palestinians living have no access to waterfront. Officially, there's no seaside, or lakefront in the West Bank. to control the entire But when tensions are low, are allowed to enjoy some Approaching any a bold, red sign you're leaving the realm and entering the zone controlled by Palestinian This comes with a checkpoint, sometimes unmanned Regardless, there's always reminding those that Israel is keeping Nablus is the second city of with a fine modern center In ancient times the Roman the New City -- The people of Nablus are And immersed in this vibrant I found simply being a powerful experience. Famed, or notorious, the city has walls crusty These young local men, considered terrorists depending on your perspective, are mostly in Israeli prisons Yet, they live on with posters their commitment As these posters fade, I'm hoping that like a new spirit of to address reflects a permanent shift A recurring symbol throughout Many towns display a big key as a reminder of refugees, the hundreds of who were displaced with Here in the West Bank, many refugee camps with Palestinian when their land became Israel. To this day, these people -- thinking they'd be grabbed their keys treasure those old keys and are MAN: Around the 19th my family was forced They closed their house waiting for two weeks, and then 65 years later, still waiting for this return, Two-thirds of Palestinian people dispersed in 59 refugee camps, and most of them have for doors that do Among the many refugee camps the biggest, is Balata, The 10' x 10' platting, marking where tents were posted Only now the tents are gone, replaced by multistory Throughout the world, there are Wandering these lanes, I can't imagine living the lack of privacy... Being a parent with children the frustration For over 60 years, has maintained a calming When the UN-run-and-funded the streets flood with children with a rare traveler venturing [All shouting] A women's co-op provides cottage industries And the commerce enlivening is like that of a town. who's been sent by his mother [Chicken squawking] Around here, pride can come and Mustafa is heading home Life goes on in these camps, as the refugees wait for It's time to move on to our It's October, is pretty brown Today's vistas feel timeless. In fact, I can imagine or Muhammad each traversing The city of Ramallah functions as the de facto While most Palestinians their rightful capital, and sharing the city seems That leaves Ramallah to host and international agencies. Adjacent the president's stands the tomb of While he certainly has this Palestinian statesman, who led the PLO is without a doubt the father Call him what you like, as the man who did more to raise awareness of for independence. With its international and university students, cosmopolitan energy you feel Whether coming together or browsing down Ramallah helps me envision Palestine of the future. Nearby, with its beautiful campus you feel a younger generation and engaged. A stroll through the campus to connect with students about both their culture In a university like this, are there more men Women, I believe, STEVES: What is it like for They live freely, Yes, we can do everything today. We can go out together, This feels so free and you have such a future, What is that like? It is like I don't see I can't go to Jerusalem, also. I can't go to the sea. I don't know my country. STEVES: Because it's on Yeah. There was during different struggles, but I feel today that that violence is not What is the thinking about violent resistance now? For us to stick together, to be one unite, you know. for us to keep together, and never let them make us feel, to accept the idea 'Cause we are not. So what is the hope for -- Of course, to live in peace, To have all your family around, whenever you want. We're very happy and give you these points because we know that Americans they know the bad idea about us. So it's our pleasure to give our thoughts STEVES: Free women -Yes. Insha'Allah, insha'Allah. STEVES: Traveling here On both sides of the wall, the historical suffering, And you meet Good people motivated Land is treasured, and land is Both communities and both communities And peace is possible move beyond the past The United States and it's hard to peace in the Holy Land There's no easy answer. Yet, traveling here, I feel that neither side violence is not the answer, and everyone will be better off and economic justice I know the hurdles are high, but after hearing I can envision a peaceful with a secure Israel And I'm hopeful. In this land, so treasured by I'm reminded that the prophets taught us to love our neighbors. And the lessons learned from can inspire us all I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, Shalom, salaam, and peace.