Hey everyone, David C. Andersen KnifeCenter, you want to know it spine. Check this out so by now you may have seen this sharp, professional precision thought it'd be a great time to favorite sharpening methods out camera over there has been a precision adjust right here. So you through the improvements in a minute. But short story, and more stable than the bigger and far smaller knives some other cool quality of life this small knife table, which blades, and a nice digital angle more precise. But the cool thing clamped guided system is you sharpening expert to get some that's what we're going to try competition, we've got the ESEE knife, it's like 20 bucks, but after all, we don't want to make do we? The edges have already an impartial fourth party to scratch. These knives are going to even cut string. So we these knives. With each of our the Pro PA from work sharp systems out there. Seth V my old school freehand with going modern with electricity going to see three guys three the best edge, we're going to end. Once we're done, evaluate how things stack up. Thomas got the blue. So you I'll take this orange one to Seth. He's room at the moment. Thomas on to sharpener can do. And here you find me in my optimistic project behind me. not what you're actually here to precision adjust it is my it, but I have some notes. First consequence of its is alright. This is 60 bucks for such there's a bit of play where chassis. A little bit of play affect the operation. Second, if knife is more difficult to here's my tion. Either the tip going to hit and the way you unit. Secondly, this arm it's ingenious setup, it's not really kind of sits off to the side or aside that said this is a pretty grits, a 320 a 600 and a fine edge on my knives. Even experienced some sharpener so is an excellent product. kit for I want to say about 80 are Yeah, so the upgrade kit's case and a couple extra of these them. Pretty cool setup. But got our upgrade kit. And this concerns. A number of grit strop. I've got a much more guide we'll get to that later a beefier. We'll get to the rest main unit got this two piece real estate on this is much section drops in and then we got that into place on each side So much more robust, there is here in there, our base seems to that base got mounting holes on to be very helpful if you want like say for instance, this shop that doesn't move. Nor will kit here continue our Here is our arm, slider, slider a magnetic drop in, we've got a lot more secure there, nicely a grit on here. These are is a ceramic, these are diamond right onto the slider. Now let's of addressed the issues of the no awkward arm issue here. just sits right there. Next up, there. Next up, say you have so knife and time comes to rotate the whole thing up. But if it be able to so what they've done, lift that up. And this whole we've got a much more robust trick that the original didn't this, this knob here that's in clamps themselves are spring smaller knife like the ESEE that just stick it in there. And being held. And then you just move. Popping the clamp into the a small lever here that secures release. Additionally, this Just straight away feels far It's still good. But this is an $250 on our website, as opposed I think the upgrades are well do I know I'm an amateur. If larger size, we've also got the here, make sure you can sharpen little this little nugget. This guide. And this is actually an You still do have the marks on and down, you can get an idea. you need this fancy digital the cost? Well, the fact is, we school geometry or maybe middle than I am. Whatever. If you've bit taller than say this ESEE, this triangle setup, you are triangle and when you lengthen opposite angle is going to here, that angle is going to be out here. And that right there that particular issue of the other guys see what their organized some stuff as best I So here's how I'm going to rebuild the entire edge angle. I gritstone to save myself some 140 grit to get started. From the edge so I'm going to use it then I don't normally use this to be testing, push cut the way up to 2000 Grit with my finished things off with a Alright, here we are in my going to use to sharpen my se and Thomas over there. It's a belt grinder, I've got two arms kicked down. We've got a worn back and you want a nice stiff that to set my bevel with that we'll finish things off on the leather strop loaded with green professional knifemakers are grinders or more commonly 2 by common length you'll find these possible to do this and overcook temper but just go slow with to feel you need to you can dunk have something this hardcore, sharp especially with the blade unit. Works great. I've love what work sharp does, but I if he is not reppin work sharp We'll start off he got he got let's get into it. to my untrained fingers feels Yeah, it feels like the edge show side. So I think we'll are ready to roll starts with is important we we timed this. Okay, we'll start setting our it out on the same service we're set the guide on there and we Now start things off I think sound. Important to note I have a little more at the base I of it harder than others all right, it seems like we're think I'm fairly comfortable loaded up there. Flip it around Okay, move up to our 320 and should not take quite as long as think we're at that toothy edge forever out of after just 320 something I can also adjust is to make sure I don't fall off will say like just the increased Lots of times I don't even need actually Out of the way when you consideration about two minutes and 22 seconds going. Okay, after 15 minutes, I think grits. Yeah, still having ignore that bit. Probably won't. Alright, right, moving on 600. with. It's one of the two grits spend a lot of time here. So 20 passes each side on 600. edge, but things are starting to know Seth at all, he'll have a look at the edge up close. Don't macro lens though. All right, we have an 800. Right, I feel good about 800 And I think we'll be here a Let's see that it'll be five provided it's sharp enough. And Man that actually took no time do with the originals, I usually then I'll use that as a somewhat everything cleans up nice. And is basically a stonewashed edge. each side with the fine ceramic final step I think we can get strop. It's been preloaded with if it's the standard green indeed green. So I'll put that where the real value of this I am familiar with stropping. In think I'm that good at it. So already figured out for me. And not worry about a thing I will actually went with a contaminants on there. So I will let's test it it's nice, just over five completely sharpen it, including reset the camera to reset the Okay, this may not be the best care because it is the best edge half minutes for me to knock breaking here and there. To easily knock out a really good span of a half hour TV show. But like how they've been addressed right there. That lean does a it. Yeah. Alright, we're back in the to so to speak. Thomas, how easy Incredibly easy. Yeah. I'm less edge. But I'll chalk that up to Okay. All right. I don't know garage bit. So I'll ask the it compared to the standard been using? Pretty much since Shortly after? I'd say it's worth The upgrade. to, especially if you're looking original, if you still got one yeah, or gift it or it's a go, work. If you are the kind of guy without getting in getting odd kitchen folks, perhaps, although Anyway, before we we hand these judge upstairs to see where the subjective level, we figured as we could. So we've got our these things certainly have you know, repeatability and measurements off of each knife results starting actually, stake these as Ultra scientific got here, for us coming in last knife, averaging 208.75 grams of medium right here, which I'm funny because subjectively when before coming in here to do any edge a lot. He's definitely got feels nice feel very nice. pro precision to just 187.25 first place 185.5 grams of grinder. So pretty much neck and which is pretty cool. All of achieved fantastic edges, we good edge. But you know, Thomas, sure was gonna get a good edge point for a, quote unquote, it's not a fully scientific judge. He's a man named Gary. something like this. Go easy. Gary. Gary. Gary, what are you I'm here to judge. Excellent. All right before you them sharpened with a different your thoughts on the edges. of you if you want to take some a little chance to take a quick think of the start with the on that guy? So it's got a slight polish to can really feel. Paper test on a nice thin paper here. Thin Not bad, yellow. Let's take a look. Yeah, funny pretty bad but it actually has Factory as you say interesting but is there an early lead you know I'd say they're funny enough the bevel on the from side to side, but not both very sharp. So he'd say the sharpened edge on the more even. Okay. Then the blue one looking at it somebody may have taken any rounded it off quite a bit. But edge looks very well done. Very rounded a bit, this one was sharpest, very good. Well that means we reveal to you that our one of One of these was sharpened with knife grinder and the other was pro precision just you see right to guess which one did the blue the winner which would it be? I would say this one was I would At the workshop, it's got a across and it's pretty sharp. wicked edge, I can sometimes get with this style setup, it's very should say, very cool. Well, I can reveal to you that sharpened with the work sharp, our man behind the camera over was worried about the heel. The yellow was sharpened by me orange the sharpened freehand by Waterstones. And we have we did unscientific results with an The yellow and the blue were orange was slightly behind. But you very much for your service. you, Gary. Bye, Gary. He's this is the second take of this that's fine. Well, there you results. I'm a bit miffed that In the end, I finally figured that? I mean, seriously, like sharpening edges to a pretty it's ingrained like we know know what to look for we know that is a part of it. Like both a freehand system. And there's it. And it's cool to have that. something like this professional right here and get a result that do. Now that either says we got better or this unit is just that both because Thomas is far from But it's you know, it's not your first rodeo. There you go. The workshop works great. Whether you're you newbie, or whether you have a want to invest in something you fantastic results. Or you've just want some consistency, some to your needs. That's the name of the product. You guys. Really us sending this over to us. and Seth for putting up with right here. Check the unit out will take you over to our you can preorder this should be weeks when from the time this what you thought down in the favorite sharpening regimens as I'm sure they'll have opinions which is the internet is the guys really liked the unit. Like sharp. Even though I didn't win. you later.