What for pay email Hi, everyone. Leo Notenboom here for AskLeo.com. It's putting all of your eggs pretty And that's especially true when it comes to email has become such Even if you don't use it regularly to communicate with your friends you're still needing to have an email you use, government programs, who knows Your email address, if you have only one, is really critical to establishing The problem with free email services very specific, and at times So I recommend that you consider which of course opens Let me tell you what I look for, in some of the alternatives And I'll give you my recommendations. So what I look for, one of the important things that I look By that I mean when you put all of your eggs into a single basket, And how easy is that to do? That's very true when it comes to email. Now there are techniques for moving email use if you ever needed But things get more complicated with some of the other features For example, your address book. Can you move your address There are again, techniques. The problem with address books is that some services just They don't necessarily allow you to export They don't necessarily allow you to export all of the information, of the information when you So do look for that or make certain that you're using your email IMAP, through a desktop email program I alluded as to how moving email from one It's a technique that involves IMAP. You download all your email to your PC on one account, you move the email you want to move, and But if you live on your desktop to begin with, if you run your email through that all comes for free, you have one address book, regardless of what email So that's the first thing I look for. Data portability. Either the ability to support IMAP and using a desktop email program like your contact list, maybe some other features that are to leave the service at some It probably should go without saying that Email is kind of interesting in that the protocol, the very protocol, which is actually kind of nice because it might sometimes otherwise The good news is that when things happen, a temporary delay in email, or bounces when things are Nonetheless, reliability remains Will it be there when you need it? Number three, and perhaps the single This is what free services do not have. You get what you pay for. You're paying nothing, Especially when it comes to support. Yeah, they may have forums where you can ask other people but that's not the same as getting support If you're going to use a paid service, That's why I point so heavily at various paid services to make sure that if you're paying for actual honest to goodness There are probably lots of other things but those are the big three So what are my recommendations? The first one, in a sense, it's not a direct recommendation at all, do, makes your world so much more Now, I've been getting my domains They don't necessarily have the absolute lowest prices, but they've Support. I'm dealing with with my domains, and I That's worth paying a little The idea here is that you own a domain, a top level domain of some sort because what that means is I own all What that means is that I now have all to process that email or For example, many services will provide Simple URL does that as well. Others will say, you know what, but will automatically forward So you could, for example, take you at your very own domain name.com to you@gmail.com to your domain, your manager And if that third party Gmail ever messes up or you lose your account over there, I do this, actually, Most of them are handled by Gmail. If Gmail ever disappoints me, if I ever lose the Gmail account or Maybe to Outlook.com, maybe to Yahoo, But the bottom line here is that by having you have all the power to do whatever it your email right then and there, And bonus, you never have to change All those chip providers Change can change right and left, but your email address is still your As long as you keep renewing that domain, it's yours forever, as I keep owning askleo.com. All right, pseudo suggestion, because it opens Let's say you don't want to go there. Let's say that's too complicated. Okay, recommendation Proton built a business around privacy, and you can see that at Proton Me, They have mail and calendar. They've got a VPN service. This is one I actually pay for. I use ProtonMail for some of my email, You can send encrypted email. You can rest assured that nobody's Nobody's using it to target advertising. It's all private. That's their business. And it's actually a pretty The interface is comfortable. The spam filter is good. It's one of those things where if I had provider, I'd probably switch my other Now, as it turns out, I have an account I'm using the drive a little bit, Their VPN turns out to be really good. And one of the reasons that I switched from my prior recommendation But Proton Me is probably my number one recommendation, simply because I know I'd hightail it to their There is a free tier app, ProtonMail, which makes it useful to try And this is not one that I've actually tried myself, but one that's been around good things about is It's a paid service. They have a really good email interface, There is no free tier, there may be a trial, I'm not sure, another one that if I needed to switch reason, these are the guys My third recommendation is a little weird, because by itself, it's not That recommendation is your ISP. When you got your internet connection chances are that included some amount email addresses were very likely The good news here is that by definition, You're paying them every month There better be somebody If you use their email, then they Now the reason I say this isn't a very good selection in and of itself, is that So if you ever move, or you change your ISP, or whatever, that you had for however There's really no way around that. If you move, if you change ISPs, But I've actually already recommended the solution for this, and that was Use your own domain name. Get your own email address I own asclio.com I could forward all that email to my ISP's gave to me, and when I leave the ISP, Leo@askleo.com keeps working, regardless of who's managing it, So consider your ISP, how you manage it, understanding that when you leave So consider hiding it behind another email Okay, one final recommendation, and this actually goes completely contrary If you must, if you can't pay for email, Remember I said that most of my email addresses, even though they're on my own That would be why they're a good service, probably the best I've seen so far The downside, of course, There is no support for gmail. That means you must, take responsibility for your own That means doing all of those things that basically when people don't do, Set up the alternate email addresses, set up the phone number That way, if something ever happens, if a hacker ever gets your password, authentication, you've Because if you don't, But if you manage it properly, you can keep it for a really, Now. The other thing that's important here, of the other solutions, but it really is It's more true for Gmail than it is for a paid solution, Get a desktop email program, configure That way, if you lose your account, if you lose access to your account for any which does not exist, you haven't lost your email, Backing up is especially important if you elect to continue to use The bottom line here is very simple Email is critical. It doesn't matter how much you use it, an email account because of some It may even be more critical that you take backing it up properly, That might mean it's more important than ever to use an email Hopefully I've given you some ideas, For updates, for comments, for related I'm Leo Notenboom. And this is Askleo.com.