[music] See the seals swiftly swim, slick in their warm fur coat. Watch the whale in the waves, water shooting from her head. Otters utter other sounds, otherwise forgotten. Turtles turn together, Tumbling round and round. Dolphins dancing in the day, Diving through the night. At the aquarium, today's the day! At the aquarium, Your sea friends all await. At the aquarium, In their brand new home. At the aquarium, Your friends from down below. [music] Octopus is occupied opening an old seashell. Cute crab, cranky lad, crawl and clamp your claws. Manta ray majestically moves her wings like magic. Penguins play in pairs partying on ice. Seahorses slowly sway, swinging up and down. At the aquarium, Today's the day! At the aquarium, Your sea friends all await. At the aquarium, In their brand-new home. At the aquarium, Your friends from down below. [music] [music] What does a bee What does a bee say? Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz, buzz Big buzz Busy buzz Beautiful buzz Bold buzz What does a sheep What does a sheep say? Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa Big baa Busy baa Beautiful baa Bold baa What does a dog What does a dog say? Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark Big bark Busy bark Beautiful bark Bold bark Bee, buzz Sheep, baa Dog, bark Buzz, Bee, Bark I, I spy with my little eye a bird flying in the sky. I, I smell with my little nose a big, red, beautiful rose. I, I hear with my little ear the home team giving a cheer! Ba ba ba! The world is coming alive! I, I touch with little fingers, hard and soft and fuzzy things and, I, I taste with my little tongue all the flavors. Isn't it fun? Ba ba ba! The world is coming alive! Alive, alive! One, two, three, four, five! I see, I smell, I hear, I touch, I taste it! Ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba! The world is coming alive! Alive, alive! One, two, three, four, five! I see, I smell, I hear, I touch, I taste it! Ba ba ba ba ba ba ba ba! The world is coming alive! Five, alive! One, two, three, four, five! I see, I smell, I hear, I touch, I taste it! Five, alive... one, two, three, four, five! Row, row, row your boat. Gently down the stream. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily. Life is but a dream. Float, float, float your blimp. Up above the trees. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily. Feel the gentle breeze. Choo, choo, choo your train. Up and down the hills. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily. Life is such a thrill. Zoom, zoom, zoom your jet. Flying high and free. Merrily, merrily, merrily, merrily. Life is but a dream. I think I see a black leopard. I think I see a black leopard. I think I see a black leopard. No! That's Lisa! I think I see a flamingo. I think I see a flamingo. I think I see a flamingo. No! That's Billy! Let's pretend we're wild animals on the safari! I think I I think I see a warthog. I think I see a warthog. No! That's Cowy! I think I see a hippopotamus. I think I see a hippopotamus. I think I see a hippopotamus. No! That's Elliot! Let's pretend we're wild animals on the safari! A black leopard, a flamingo, a warthog, and a hippopotamus... What does a bee What does a bee say? Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz Big buzz Busy buzz Beautiful buzz Bold buzz What does a sheep What does a sheep say? Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa Big baa Busy baa Beautiful baa Bold baa What does a dog What does a dog say? Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark Big bark Busy bark Beautiful bark Bold bark Bee, buzz Sheep, baa Dog, bark Buzz, bee, bark [music] Today we're going to go Backwards in time. Buckle up, we're in for an awesome ride! Fossils, paintings, and more, There's so much to look for. That's the way. In the Greek hall I see Lots of statues dancing over to me. I'm an amazing adventurer. Traveling all around the world. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Really got to pull me, Really got to pull me away. From the museum today. Can't wait to see the dino, He's a T Rex! His huge skeleton is so complex! Art, photos, and more. There's so much to explore. That's the way, yay! In the Greek hall I see Lots of statues dancing over to me. I'm an amazing adventurer. Traveling all around the world. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Really got to pull me, Really got to pull me away. From the museum today. [music] Choo choo choo choo choo Choo choo choo choo choo A train is coming down the track Hear the wheels go click and clack Count the cars. Watch them go. Will it stop? ST-O-P or will it go? G-O Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. G-O, G-O Go Choo choo, choo choo The train was fast, and now it's slow. See the ducks walk in a row? They want to cross, so now we know our train must stop. ST-O-P We cannot go, G-O. Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. ST-O-P. ST-O-P Stop, stop, stop. A train has gone down the track. No more wheels click and clack. No more lights flash to and fro. We had to stop. ST-O-P Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. Now we know, now we know. Let's G-O, go! Choo choo Choo choo Choo choo [music] -Look Baby Bot. The sky. -The sky. -That's a cloud. -Clown? -[laughs] No, cloud. -Cloud. -That's the sun. -Sun. -Very good, Baby Bot. Don't worry, Baby Bot. That's the moon. -Moon. -Good night, everyone. [music] [music] [yawning] Twinkle twinkle little star. How I wonder what you are. Up above the world so high. Like a diamond in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle little star. How I wonder what you are. [music] Twinkle twinkle in my sleep, Counting stars and fluffy sheep. Milkshake's on the Milky Way, Slowly turning night to day. Twinkle twinkle in my sleep, Counting stars and fluffy sheep. [music] Twinkle, twinkle little star, How I wonder what you are. Up above the world so high, Like a diamond in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle little star, How I wonder what you are. [music] La-la-la-la-la-la-la La-la-la-la-la-la-la [sheep bleats] [music] Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see some circles spinning down the street. Wheels of cars and buses looking really neat. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I see some orange cones right next to the road, warning there are people busy digging holes. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see cylinders, when it's time to eat. Open up the pantry, to get a can of peas. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a sphere, when I'm playing ball. Pass it on to my friends, this is fun for all. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a big heart, a big heart on a shelf, wishing love and friendship, happiness, and health. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see many cubes, in my big toy box. Try to build a tower, stacking up my blocks. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? [music] Look at the penguin waddle on the ice, So nice! Look at the seal slide on the ice, So nice! Here comes the polar bear. He can swim. He can swim. Here comes the polar bear, So nice! Penguin says, &quot;Nice to meet you So nice! The seal can waddle. The polar bear can waddle, So nice! Now we can waddle here. Waddle here! Waddle there! We've got to waddle now. Waddle all together with me! Oh-oh! Look at the penguin waddle, waddle, waddle on the ice. So nice! Look at the penguin waddle, waddle, waddle, waddle, [music] Let's go on a treasure hunt. I've got my treasure map! Climb up the volcano! Climb, climb, climb. Climb, climb, climb. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Having an adventure. Slide down the tunnel! Slide, slide, slide. Slide, slide, slide. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Finding something special. Hop across the crocodiles! Hop, hop, hop. Hop, hop, hop. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Heading to the jungle. Cross the wooden bridge. Step, step, step. Step, step, step. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Deep into the jungle. Watch out for the monkeys! Run, run, run! We've found the treasure! What's inside? Surprise! The ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah. The ants go marching one by one, hurrah, hurrah. The ants go marching one by one, And they all go marching down to the ground. The ants go marching two by two, hurrah, hurrah. The ants go marching two by two, hurrah, hurrah. The ants go marching two by two, to tie his shoe, The ants go marching three by three, hurrah, The ants go marching three by three, hurrah, The ants go marching three by three, And they all go marching down to the ground. The ants go marching four by four, hurrah, The ants go marching four by four, hurrah, The ants go marching four by four, And they all go marching down to the ground. The ants go marching five by five, hurrah, The ants go marching five by five, hurrah, The ants go marching five by five, And they all go marching down to the ground. [music] Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. His fur is orange like the sunset, with long black stripes all over it. His teeth shine bright like the moonlight, When he's about to take a big bite. [music] - Hey, Tiger. - What, Cowy? - Are you ready? - Ready for what? - Ready for a New Year. Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. He has four big paws. And gives the greatest hugs. His claws are very long. He sharpens them to keep them strong. The jungle is his home. Let's protect it as our own. We've got to take care of tiger. Because together we shine brighter. Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. We are best friends forever. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. Your turn. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. Now let's sing it with the long a sound. I like to ate, ate, ate I like to ate, ate, ate Your turn. I like to ate, ate, ate I like to ate, ate, ate Now let's sing it with the long e sound. I like to eat, eat, eat I like to eat, eat, eat Your turn. I like to eat, eat, eat I like to eat, eat, eat This time, with the long i sound. I like to ite, ite, ite I like to ite, ite, ite Your turn. I like to ite, ite, ite I like to ite, ite, ite This time, sing the long o sound. I like to ote, ote, ote I like to ote, ote, ote Your turn. I like to ote, ote, ote I like to ote, ote, ote Don't forget the long u sound. I like to ute, ute, ute I like to ute, ute, ute Your turn. I like to ute, ute, ute I like to ute, ute, ute One last time, the normal way. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. Your turn. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. I like to eat, eat, eat apples and bananas. That was fun. [music] What does a lion do? Hunt for food. What does a lion say? Roar, roar. What does a lion do? Hunt for food. What does a lion say? Roar, roar, roar. What does a cheetah do? Run very fast. What does a cheetah say? Growl, growl. What does a cheetah do? Run very fast. What does a cheetah say? Growl, growl, growl. What does the zebra do? Run with friends. What does the zebra say? Go, go. What does the zebra do? Run with friends. What does the zebra say? Go, go, go. What does a giraffe do? Eat from trees. What does a giraffe say? Munch, munch. What does a giraffe do? Eat from trees. What does a giraffe say? Munch, munch, munch. [music] Pick up the paper, put it in, Pick up the paper, in the recycling bin. Pick up the food put it in, Pick up the food in the compost bin. Pick it up, Put it in, put it in. Pick it up, pick it up. Put it in. Pick up the plastic put it in, Pick up the plastic in the recycling bin. Pick up the glass put it in, Pick up the glass in the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. I love when winter comes and freezes up the lake. From liquid to solid in just a few days. Put on your ice skates. Get ready to play! I love when summer comes and melts the ice away. From solid to liquid in just a few days. Put on your swimsuit. Get ready to play! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it behaves. Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. I love when winter comes so we can make hot chocolate. From solid to liquid, it melts right away! From solid to liquid, it melts right away! I love when summer comes so we can make some popsicles. From liquid to solid, eat them right away! From liquid to solid, eat them right away! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. From liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves! Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. From liquid to solid! Solid to liquid! Look how it all behaves! Alice the camel has five humps. Alice the camel has five humps. Alice the camel has five humps. So go, Alice, go. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Alice the camel has four humps. Alice the camel has four humps. Alice the camel has four humps. So go, Alice, go. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Alice the camel has three humps. Alice the camel has three humps. Alice the camel has three humps. So go, Alice, go. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Alice the camel has two humps. Alice the camel has two humps. Alice the camel has two humps. So go, Alice, go. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Alice the camel has one hump. Alice the camel has one hump. Alice the camel has one hump. So go, Alice, go. Boom, boom, boom, boom! Alice the camel has no humps. Alice the camel has no humps. Alice the camel has no humps. Because Alice is a horse, Because Alice is a horse! [music] Over in the desert in a hot dry sun, Lived a mother coyote with her baby pup one. &quot;Howl,&quot; said the mother. &quot;I howl,&quot; said the one. And they howled in the desert in the hot dry sun. Over in the forest where the sun shines through, Lived a busy mother bee and her baby bees two. &quot;Buzz,&quot; said the mother. &quot;We buzz,&quot; said the two. And they buzzed in the forest where the sun shines through. [music] Over in the jungle on the branch of a tree, Lived a sleepy mother slot and her baby sloths three. &quot;Sleep,&quot; said the mother. &quot;We sleep,&quot; said the three. And they slept in the jungle on the branch of a tree. Over in the ocean in the waves by the shore, Lived a big mother fish and her baby fish four. &quot;Dive,&quot; said the mother. &quot;We dive,&quot; said the four. And they dived in the ocean in the waves by the shore. [music] There are eight planets in our solar system. Let's go ahead and list them in order from the Sun. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in our solar system. Mercury is the closest to the Sun. Venus is the hottest one. Earth is the planet we call home. Mars is the red one. Jupiter is the biggest one. Saturn has a lot of rings. Uranus is blue and is the coldest planet. Neptune is the furthest from the Sun. Hey, what about me? You will always be our friend, Pluto! There are eight planets in our solar system. Let's go ahead and list them in order from the Sun. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in the solar system. Now, let's go ahead And list them one by one In order from the Sun Mercury Venus Earth Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune What about me? You will always be one of us, Pluto. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in our solar system. I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims... I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine... I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine, and the seahorse jumps! I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? Where the whale swims, and the starfish shine, and the seahorse jumps away. Where the clam... what does the clam do? I'm going down, down, down, under the sea. I'm going down, down, down, won't you come with me? won't you come with me? Come with me... won't you come with me? It's raining. It's pouring. The jaguars are roaring. It's rainy, hot, and it won't stop. The sloth's asleep and snoring. It's showering and soaking. Little frogs are croaking. Rainforest sounds are all around. Hear the monkeys joking! It's drizzling and sunny. Gorillas think it's funny. It's very warm, and that's the norm. So fun to be a monkey. It's foggy. It's spitting. The toucans find it fitting. Sloths will sleep while frogs will leap, and parrots keep on singing. The rainforest's precious. We love it and its wetness. We must defend and be a friend of nature and its treasures. Who's ready to rhyme? Me! Cowy was walking Down by the lake When she met a snake Getting ready to bake. A little while later The snake pulled out a cake. Lake, snake, bake, cake Lake, snake, bake, cake It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is cool When we're in the pool. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy was taking a beautiful hike When she saw a panda Riding a bike. Then she saw a rose Growing a nose. Hike, bike, rose, nose Hike, bike, rose, nose It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun When we're in the sun. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy and her rocket Were flying up to space When she flew by the moon It made a silly face. Wow, thought Cowy. This is such a crazy place. Space, face, place, moon No! Moon doesn't rhyme with space. Okay, you're right! How about space, face, place, race? Space, face, place, race Did that rhyme? Yes! It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is great, But don't be late. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! [music] The eggs are hidden. Where should we look? Up in the rocket. Behind a book. Inside the toolbox there might be one. Or in the cupboard. This is so much fun! I found three blue eggs. That's more than two. I found four yellow ones. That's more than you. I found two red eggs. That's less than three. I found a green egg. Will you count them all with me? One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. The eggs are hidden Where should we look? Up on the mountain. Or on the moon. Among the flowers. Under a pot. Let's go and count them. There all a lot! I found three blue eggs. That's more than two. I found four yellow ones. That's more than you. I found two red eggs. That's less than three. I found a green egg. Will you count them all with me? One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many. Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. One, two, three. Will you count them all with me? Four, five, six. Count them while you move your feet. Seven, eight. Look how many Oh, that's great! Nine and ten. All together equals ten. The eggs are hidden, where should we look? On a boat, a big blue boat, Bobby looks for treasure under the sea! The waves go up. The waves go down. Bobby looks for treasure under the sea! Bobby sees a submarine. Bobby gets inside. Bobby and the submarine go down, down, down... Under the sea! The fish and whales follow him down. Bobby looks for treasure under the sea! There is a box. There is a key. Bobby finds a treasure under the sea! Bobby sees a submarine. Bobby gets inside. Bobby and the submarine go down, down, down... Bobby sees a submarine. Bobby gets inside. Bobby and the submarine go down, down, down... Under the sea! [music] Sailing my boat over the big blue sea. Sailing my boat, all the islands we'll see. Sailing my boat, look at the big palm tree. Sailing my boat, oh yeah, sailing my boat, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away. On the island we go, swimming a lot. On the island we go, sand is so hot. On the island, treasure is what we've got, On the island, oh yeah, sailing my boat, yeah yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah. I want to sail away, yeah, yeah, yeah, I want to sail away, [music] I'm going to need your help with this song. I want you to listen for the sound word and repeat it back. Are you ready? Here we go. I hear the wind whoosh through the trees Whoosh The leaves crunch under my feet Crunch The rocks kerplunk into the lake Kerplunk And I feel drip drops on my face Drip drop Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear That was great. This time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it back twice. The car vrooms down the street Vroom, vroom Its horn goes beep Beep, beep It screeches to a stop Screech, screech And the tire goes pop Pop, pop Uh-oh Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear This last time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it three times. Don't forget to be silly. I chomp on my food Chomp, chomp, chomp I gulp down my drink Gulp, gulp, gulp And now I have the hiccups Hiccup, hiccup, hiccup Oh, no, I'm going to sneeze Achoo Listen up to the sound all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear Achoo. [music] More songs, activities, and the full interactive adventure [laughter] That was fun!