We potentially can go anywhere. Eventually lot of ALA so they need a lot of iron, but production that eventually this feeding without So that's a smart bomb. What are you waiting Welcome to Target Cancer Podcast. My name a medical oncologist, also known as the @theoncdoc this episode for so many reasons. Number one, the most terrible cancers or contrasting from multiform, a very scary diagnosis. It involves it's just challenging to treat. We have, someone my mind, no pun intended, in such a crazy for the MCAT for Princeton Review. I'm really I think everyone will appreciate it. Today the Chief Medical Officer of SonALAsense. degree of anything we've discussed on this it because I'm afraid we're gonna, and I know to have you and thank you for being here. Thank you, Sanjay. Very excited. Also have technology. Yeah, when I first heard about it, I was obsessed right? Like when somebody tells me that their I, a part of me hurts because I've seen just it's so challenging is one, it's in a very is hard to reach with a lot of therapies. means people don't know, but there's like central nervous system. Evolutionarily, it the typical bugs that you get all the time to be able to do, put food in your mouth and to be adaptive to protect it. But then when target it, it's almost like a, something that's challenging. So one, you're able to get into technology, which we'll talk about. But number We're doing things that damage a very vital I feel bad when people message me and say, it really is just surgery, radiation and an a lot else. You can wear a cap, all the time, life. And you said, I don't know about that. that's where SonALEsense comes in. It uses to at the time of this recording actually always talk about targeted therapy, but metabolic a cancer is using for energy? The coal that Can we basically mess that up so that it can't to propagate all these, targets and things to the core, and that's what you asked. You nutrition or tools it needs to survive as script. How and that's what you did, right? take advantage of the fact it needs coal to example. Not and not only that. Correct. So what we of the cell. Correct. So the cell needs to than the normal cell, correct? And they need inside their body, say inside, inside the So 5-ALA is necessary to eventually make Heme, that component, that nutrient, correct? So this product, for this protein. Once they it out of iron, correct? And then they start all the, Heme, how do we make Heme, there's happens? There's too much Protoporphyrin IX, ROS, this, bad oxygen gets produced and kills So we are taking not only advantage of the but even their needs, like basic needs that Correct? Because at the end you don't expect other problems? You don't see having effects food for these cells. Correct. Even resistance. expect resistant because the cell is not gonna the cell will always need nutrients. It's not gonna create a resistance by saying, done. I'm on a diet. They're gonna die. Okay? resistance. And that's what I find so fascinating cuz has his own opinions and he basically talked cells are expressing for a second downstream. it grow, or what is the EGFR? He goes, Let's receptors that are, or those proteins to help and all these things. He goes, let's go down in the similar way, it's when you know somebody to my old me. I used to work out, and I don't all the time, what is the one thing they say, not gonna grow with enough without protein bigger. So they are eating a lot and a lot it all the time, cancers grow fast. That's very beginning came out. Like just simple fast. Let's damage, damage the replication you're saying We know they grow fast, but. DNA gets damaged. Let's do something that attack the thing they need to replicate, the Correct. The coal, the protein in the body lifter and of that system. Why? Because fundamentally you can find a way to take the tool that they and make those receptors and everything, that itself. And that's why it's targeted. Because other central nervous cells or the other cells attacking it, and that's what I'd like to say, why are they using coal or protein that not that they're not using it, you are targeting to make it poisonous. You're basically turning And you're be doing it collectively, like surgery removal. Correct. Tell us about that. Yeah, so I love you know the word that my make a smart bomb. Correct. We put exactly energy and those cells gets destroyed. One important, right? We are really agnostic. of this or that, which mutation do you have? getting to the more primitive. Where is how other expressions or this other transcription So it is a target targeted therapy without a specific receptor. So that's also what it that this is what we see. We hope that this option for patients, correct. That eventually, are invasive. Correct. That's where eventually go after everything else. Correct. So we want of care, just add it to whatever it is, and the relapse, diseases, which are the worst well. When there's recurrence or relapse, other a chromosomal aberrations. At the end Because we are gonna treat, the same way the tumor into, something nastier. Correct. Who better. Correct. Because it's reproducing theoretically that could happen. So this is therapies. Yeah it is. Yeah. You talk about in children, which is even more complicated, glioma, diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma. that's why they're diffused. But in, in intrinsic do surgery on them, right? These kids, this cells. What supports, the neurons and the there even through blood barrier even, you Correct. And they do terribly. These kids And steroids. And, the effect of the therapy by two years, maybe 1% survive. The overall And they have a terrible quality of life, running a clinical trial where we treating doses, and so far, safety looks good. Hopefully Yeah. We just started this protocol, but can you cannot reach? You can, even, the biopsies most of them don't get even biopsied. They That's what it is. So we're, it's that. It imagine how important this is in children. So I have a special place in my heart for in pediatric oncology that needs new therapies. It drives me to come to work every day. And I've been involved in therapy of GBM for a really produce tumor reductions in these, So we're also running then this recurrent soon. We part in this interruption real quick. If for what we discuss and the education and we would very much appreciate a subscribe, information as maximally and broadly as possible. Yeah. I use the example of GBM, cuz at least if we're talking about the worst cancer, at component of children. And also, it's even not even nine months. When you're looking 5% in five years, but we're talking a whole we need to highlight is, When you're using, you know it's even worse and you can't go radiation. The key is because it's in such treat these lesions is basically like you you talk about what is gonna happen if you the doctor will. Let the patient be awake just to know how much can they cut out so purposes. Cause truth is they're probably even if it's a spec. So that is the biggest where we're limited to. What the extent of that bad population or rogue colony. That's a breast, it's like you can do a lumpectomy that's what makes your technology so interesting can stop thinking about, removing or destroying removing with surgery, we can actually go it different than other cells, which is how we've had with previous guests is this whole what they can eat. And the example I thought all day. And they can have great nights with mote. And then some war veteran somewhere attacking the castle and having damage at cut off all the food supply they can have. this castle. And they basically starved out they can't even feed this big army they have is everyone else starves in the process, right? with glutamate in inhibitors or keto ketosis, white blood cells and on maybe on your muscles. Is even a heightened example. It's let the go in the back and do a lot of pesticide. Like they're gonna be the ones that die. And the key. And you activate it with directed very clear. Before you explain this to us, use to identify tumors, right? We use ALA MRI and CT. We know it's uptaken. Yeah. For lack of a better word, in the cancer. or your team says, can we now use, and this some play we can use with wavelengths or basically That same thing we already used to visualize destroy that cell, if I understand it correctly. Yeah. So and that's your targeted concept. But you're So you know, as you very well mentioned all which has 30 years of history. Correct. This things that was learned it that if you use light, you can see on the tumor. Where it come and cut. So we have all that safety. use photons, what if we use light? Correct. ALA to eventually have porphyrin produce the too. And there is evidence, there's where have received ALA and you put the lasers inside you see an activity, you see an activation of the tumor. And we all we have some of that who has been working on photodynamic therapy what? You can create light using sound, so can activate this minute, this micro moment externally. So you don't have to put a laser to test this, you just put the ultrasound So sono photodynamic therapy eventually becomes source of light, we use sound to create, to And as, that is so incredible because as far They are to your eardrums, but they're not the name, I thought it was so clever. It's have become extremely, detail extremely detailed. with an ultrasound. Yeah. We do it at the correct. So you can measure exactly where of the skull or the thickness of the bladder target the energy very specifically to the without having to put a needle through the It's incredible. And the beauty is too, I everyone would talk about the healthcare costs that, and I just didn't appreciate then how is in this country with insurance and bills are actually surprisingly, we're talking about necessarily having a very high cost on the are generally pretty cheap compared to, some all the, are very costly. Correct. And eventually, all these prototypes the idea is to use, that you'll have a device either with a cap or, if it's an abdominal et cetera. So we have started all this in already treating. Essential tremors in the took advantage of that to treat these terrible if you see this as a platform, you start thinking can't we do this non-invasive therapy outside can ultrasound anything in the body, correct. in that area where the ALA is captured. So that you use ALA to circumscribe the tumor for a long time and bladder. Correct. So bladder non-US invasive bladder cancer. So we are some type of device that will not be on the urologist can treat the patients, right? Instead Correct. So think about this just not as an as a platform. So now you start thinking where Correct. Because you're gonna start saying cancer with this before I give them BCG injections? is the first. What about neoadjuvant in many what, before even we do surgery, we're gonna And then we're gonna go and do the surgery, Maybe this is, like I used to I love to say the doctor passing this handheld MRI. Correct. handheld ultrasound and you just injected it needs to be treated. Okay. Tumor is gone. of what this technology can get to. It's crazy because we are like taking out, just for diagnosis alone, like a colon cancer. half of it, have the risk of, post-surgical have a stage and decide how we were treated. whether it's in the lymph nodes or not, potentially. it is or isn't, if you get a therapy that in an ideal world, so that you don't, you a pancreatic, you have to do a whole Whipple's issues with that, when it comes to getting and people have problems with those major we're talking on to the cell, right? With basically of cells in one place. On a CT scan to see it. You're talking about all the way but to million. You're looking to the last and it's using it at a higher amount than Yeah, and if you really see what is happening organelles. Correct. What that amount of energy want, that is really sound that it's activating you're really going basically almost so molecular on those malignant cells. This I'm just trying to wrap my head around people mad at you in the pharma industry. catchall, because you're attacking something through this with me so I understand correctly does, you're injecting through the vein ALA, we know with a lot of study and evidence in fuel are gonna pick it up more. I think, and of doing a PET scan where you're best scan is possibly a cancer or something is hot because metabolism. It doesn't mean all cancers light hopes that you can capture to see where it's But our.. This is a whole, it's a whole.. But this is even better. Correct. Because... yeah. When you do, you use five 5-ALA for surgery fluorescence or the pet avidity Correct. Of And then you can see in our case, we don't So even cells that are not to the level of cells that you say where are the borders here? want to do that. We don't need to be that in the ballpark and our margins if you want. margin can be much bigger because there is are malignant, that are using ALA for survival That you cannot see. That you cannot see. That's the key is because people need to understand on everyone is. Depending if the cancer's six millimeters at best to even see it light had a recurrence after the curative surgery I think it's a misnomer to call it a recurrence. Persistence. You had a persistence of cells that you could a skin because simply there were not enough. you can visualize it or not. We know local node for breast cancer, you do all the lymph cutting out. You're saying, Hey, get in the element like right out, out the gates. We're use and we know that there is a significant tool when they're growing. Yeah. And that we can use this therapy before anything else, So we need to prove it in their current environment there. But the hope then, really that is once it earlier and earlier in the process. And no therapy, you know? I think we're gonna Right now we're going after radiation. No we'll go after. But if we really show amazing to go to radiation first when they saw, tumor So right now we will do that. But if, and the next step will be can we do this before not use radiation. And you made me think of an important concept anyway, anyone listening to this, I want you that's come out in policy in the last probably the compassionate use of certain drugs, whether If you're listening to this and you're like, or may not work, a lot of states in the US makes sense, and it's literally compassionate should go to either your oncologist, you should can even go to your policy makers or your groups to say, Hey, I need help for this on stuff being written that, your doctor, including of and you can get those assistance. So that's wanted to say especially with DIPG with those xCures where you can basically register to this big push in DC to try to bring more attention It's hard to justify to industry or to research. the, the DIPG, like research can be there. is an IV therapy. Yeah. DIPG. That one can get access to. The DIPG. There's a concept that we don't oncology, but it is on the rare disease side. Ultra rare diseases. Correct. And they get And to get therapies for a reduced number But these are non oncological patients? Correct. about congress and about groups is really orphan. Correct, oncology disease. Correct. of patients that are gonna be interesting we're gonna have a program at the IPG because need to find ways to fund this type of thing to these patients. So one of the things that certainly supporting is the idea that of ultra of those. So if you really have to go and placebo control you will never finish. Correct. You never reach it. Half of them would pass because it's so fatal and that's so sad. Correct. So this is what's happening now, family groups, the patients to really push all these very rare pediatric diseases or certainly the ones that have no, not no available That's such a good point. I just want everyone I get encouraged when I hear reasonability if you missed it or it's unclear. What you are designated under something like ultra that are realistically impossible to actually you use in your statistics class, and on step applicable to these scenarios. And so there's But that doesn't exist in, doesn't exist in Correct. Invariably.. Altogether? Altogether, but not in oncology. Correct. there is no concept of ultra rare pediatric There are ultra rare ultra orphan. Et cetera, is certain mechanisms like accelerated approval has to keep getting lower and lower to make new therapies. That's all. That is awful. Yeah, it's just. we need to work on, so one this is my question. and say you have pancreatic or God forbid, carcinoma, liver cancer, and then you're doing that exact, sound frequency to activate. I we can answer a second if that's okay. Which But number one. Number one, how are you not to some degree in the surrounding healthy patient where they may already have cirrhosis is always a concern with Y 90 radiation beads measure how much good, healthy tissue will them? Or if you're activating 'em, does it small? Yeah. And then two, what is happening up. Yeah. Let's start with the first one and to make and one is it's a ex, I will say it's in a second. The other one is, why not other right? Remember the activation happens because if you give the normal cell has the ALA, picks pathway. Here's iron, makes Heme. That's it. normal effect. Remember, what happens is the more and more 5-ALA and are gonna need more Heme. Okay. One of the last steps on information, and we're feeding them to grow fast, that then you have this Uber. Amount of protoporphyrin sound. So that's the beauty of this. Normal don't have exit, they don't produce excess just gonna make Heme, they're not gonna, that's we talk about not having potentially resistance. produce ex excessive porphyrin that will make the cells. Sorry. Is that the same way, like is that, no, this is So that is a experimental, there's something called Erythro porphyria. production of protoporphyrin IX. And you are So these patients cannot be outside. They and they leave. They go out at night. So they sensitivity and the level of protoporphyrin of what you will generate, with our therapy. decrease on life expectancy, but they don't get cancers long term. They have some liver protoporphyrin, they may block, blockage of not to the point that gets cirrhosis or needle, of the things that we potentially will treat Because there's a lot of protoporphyrin re- we can activate that, Okay. And also only in, liver cancer, but cholangios, both of There's a lot of preclinical work on using The census are patient samples and things protoporphyrin luminescence in almost every very fast. There's a lot of papers and this we potentially can go anywhere. Correct. And cells because they're not gonna produce excessive and they're gonna die. Just this gluttony, gonna die because they're gonna have too much so that's the way we eventually, we starve of ALA So they need a lot of iron, but the so much production that eventually this feeding So that's a smart bomb. What are you waiting for? Can we just get is, this is, you know what I'm really thinking, hate seeing that my heart breaks for is when means like for the ovarian cancer or appendix it in a loved one. And you see basically, of chemotherapy standard, high enough concentrations that are abutted or just stuck on or tacked makes intestines hard to have this beautiful, moving and it's just a stubborn disease and and we still do to put chemo in the belly kill some of that disease that it gets exposed like you mentioned. But I just can't imagine difficult to reach IV just from a concentration there any tumor types that maybe it is hard may be more challenging than others when it have to try them. Correct. This is a, yeah, There's not many, there's not many. Correct. But remember that all these, there tumors will create new vessels. Correct. They all this neuro vascularization of tumors will things there? Certainly there are some tumors are more scaring tissue than others. Correct. pancreas is one of those Correct. That's why because it's cannot bring all the immune cells work that the pancreas has big uptake of 5-ALA. will that work? We're certainly, it's one, right? And they're the plan number one right cranium, correct. The DIPG and the recurrent to get this therapy as a platform to be used will be, I can visualize doing a a basket Where you know, everybody with a GI cancer our our recruiting GBM and DIPG our PKs and things. Which it is makes even this even more problems to, to know how much therapy you're how much are you really getting there? And at volume, distribution, C-Max, area under surrogates, correct? Or how much we think you take the tumor out, you can measure it. We really have a problem knowing how much how much ALA is getting into the tumor because The.. Oh.. So there's a normal level of protoporphyrin high because it's utilized to make Heme all do we correlate, the, how much ALA are we of protoporphyrin and potentially we can then levels of protoporphyrin IX in blood with tweak on really being able not only to have but also to have a biochemical measurement. our drug is getting into the tumor. And then in the combination. So that's.. And you're talking about a very high, like milliliters or.. Yes, correct. I'm sure it's very to the micro. Very sensitive to the micro, yeah, to the Just so that people know to that can appreciate of doctors still, aren't using it, but there's Are either taking the DNA and fingerprint biopsied or taken out and they sequence it. and they basically take your blood and see back if there's a match. If there's a match other companies will basically look at all in this neighborhood. There's these cookie have to look somewhat the same or you can't say, Hey, you're still clear or not. But what the sensitivity is. All the companies are I could, it tells me it's valuable if it's if it's negative. Now, what you are suggesting Correct. You're saying. What is it? If I give don't have cancer, then I can see what happens what those levels are if you have none, and and then I can see what those levels are of and they're gonna be much higher than Protoporphyrin, the treatment.. But I have to treat them. And when I check you a week later, are your did with potentially cancer or what? By what Correct. So we can use that as a really, as other hand. Correct. We, you can imagine, all the things that we're doing, but you can that we can look at, that our, can we have where there's still tumor left? For example, So like a much better PET scan. Correct. That's the point. Okay. And then have told me that. Now I'm gonna go make it Just go create it. I'm joking. That's, no, into this concept that's so new for me as and I are both oncologists and it's just we're then on the significance of the metabolic we're talking about oncology fellowship, we're that these cancers are able to pump out. And working, it's because that thing that you an Achilles heel anymore. Yeah. So we keep do this and this. You say, you're saying, about what life changes on the outside. What, think about where the heart is, if it if it to like Goliath does. Is there a way you can are on the outside. Yeah. Send It is Adam. No it's not. Because the PDT has been, for was the genius of saying, how can we do this inside the organ? And this is the beauty of that you got. Correct. What are the, what all these things are different. I'm a little therapies than you have done. But the point I have done, we treat so hard, these patients, pain. The families, the, I we all have been this disease. To have a therapy that you give life worse, but to potentially even make it right there, go through a therapy and then less, correct. Or two months. And yeah, for without having, mouth sore, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia. Taste changes like really is something I appreciate we care about food so much. Like they could anything anymore. And cuisine and food is Yeah, it is. It. My hope is that this therapy more Christmas. Correct. That my hope is this working and the whole people on SonALAsense, that is not hurtful. And and for people like that have talked to this family, that have therapies during the ICU stay, it is, to have It is just amazing. So that's where we're trials. We're excited about the opportunity I hope that next time we talk, my, my smile Yeah. I'll tell you what can't be bigger. very, like you said, you've seen it, you've you're passionate about trying to make an but to do it at a low cost in the quality much. How can people enroll if they if somebody's how long does the treatment last? Is it multiple Correct. So when we started was just a single oh, we were concerned about the safety, but here. So we in from the safety standpoint, right? So we are going monthly therapies. DIPG and recurrent GBM. Is that the best way we are maximizing the, the therapy. Cancer hit it hard, but we are hitting it hard with Yeah. You're being very.. But we are not making life worse for these need to be treated monthly. Maybe they need months. I don't have the answer, but right works. So I'm maximizing the frequency of because the toxicity is not there. So if there I need to give them a break here. Correct. therapies. The patients are in so many things by the size of the surgery. We can come and and. You're fine. You know you are gonna have And it's in one day? It's, yeah. So the.. You just get like an IV infusion for a few It's it's a few hours before the infusion the half life is very short because it's up, But then we have to wait to make sure there three to 12 hours. We usually around three the IV 5-ALA. Then they go through the the three hours. Correct. And and that's it. And Wow. That is unbelievable. Ely, thank you this. Another thing. Me too. I'll be eagerly waiting to see the things Yeah. Sounds great. So we are today, this in DC. So hopefully to keep branding and showing to get more patients in our DIPG study. So GBM, they can go to our web page sonalasense.com and those inclusion and crucial criteria will Amazing. Thank you, Ely. Thank you, Sanjay.