I welcome everyone to basically the announcement of Tesla They are announcing that they are setting a target of being Electric up and down the ladder. The Chinese government has said we want to be the world ev Now you're seeing governments talking about batteries and oil. We are producing energy in a constant basis during day and It doesn't matter if it's raining or it's a cloudy day. They will produce energy. There is a sense that for us to move to the next big jump be the long term answer. We're going through a transformation of the industry as This battery is one of the largest battery energy storage In Moss Land in California. Pge has been working with Tesla to install its Megapack Once complete, it will help store energy for redistribution California needs generation for September August as our key to capture it during the day and then release it in the As nations around the world set goals to transition to on the rise. The market size of grid scale battery storage 2027. Now we're seeing in many parts of the world in California, amount of storage available per unit of renewable energy. If you look at resource forecast or resource plans, the of new energy storage in just California. Welcome, everyone, to basically the announcement of Tesla Tesla got into the energy business in 2015 and it's betting 2020. It surpassed three gigawatt hours of energy storage of Megapack, like the one being built in Los Landing. I think long term Tesla Energy will be roughly the same size I mean, the energy business collectively is bigger than the They have really deep tactical knowledge of batteries, not build a battery management system, how to package them The systems have smart technology built into them. The technology and the way the batteries are actually moment is how you control them. Tesla have a system called auto bidder that actually The amount of data we get from each. Megapack is phenomenal. Jeremy The Tesla product has got a lot of technology. Built into it. It's really an answer to one of the big We all know that we're transitioning our electricity It is the way of the future. We're going to see a lot of these. But energy storage is been around for a hugely long time, The only real viable technology was actually the lead acid The one, of course, that was ramping up during those same First, lithium ion batteries were used in consumer We can thank Sony's Handycam for pioneering this innovation Lithium ion batteries are now everywhere, from electric Though there are many other types of batteries in the Lithium ion is still the most cost effective for utility In the past, prohibitively high costs have meant that scale grid storage levels. In the past decade alone, according to estimates from With the world transitioning to electric vehicles, demand People are moving towards electric vehicles roughly twice as If all transport goes electric and then you need three this is a prosperous future, both for for Tesla and for the And with the recent failure of the power grid in Texas and becoming necessary to keep power up and running. There is a new impetus behind building out a stronger, more We've seen again and again our grid can't handle climate becoming increasingly frequent. Tesla built one of its storage systems on the Hawaiian In addition to supporting the SolarCity solar farm, it's We had our best reliability ever as a CO up last year. Part of running an electric utility grid is you have to Batteries are amazing at that because batteries is If you look at some of the events that the batteries in a bit over a hundred milliseconds. And there's just there's no other technology that can do In the U.S. and around the world, more aggressive energy China has mandated energy storage as part of its effort to by 2025. And Biden's recently unveiled more than 2 trillion There is more than $600 billion earmarked for climate for the power grid. President Biden has set 2035 as the 100% clean electricity Just meaning that one's going to be not only a big technologies. Tesla is one of several companies working on energy storage. Tesla gets and they deserve to get a lot of attention for But there's lots of others. There's a whole range of startup companies in the storage The majority of grid scale energy storage, lithium ion companies such as Next Era Energy down in Florida. Duke Energy. These are a few of the names that are Amy's corporation has been working on a number of projects, In 2019, it completed a 28 megawatt solar farm with a And it just brought a microgrid online at the island's With the success of these projects, the Utility Cooperative hydro for even greater storage capacity. It's going to have 2 hours of battery that can handle the But what's really wild about this one is it's going to also Home storage has been around for decades. So it's a proven technology, but linking it into an Next to the PGE and Ian Tesla storage project and mass systems at its natural gas power plant. Phase one of the project was completed in December of 2020, Phase two will add an additional 100 megawatts when it's We need to do everything we possibly can to accelerate the You can't really talk about energy storage without talking has a big footprint in the energy storage space. Tesla launched its energy business in 2015 with the So this is the sort of product we call the Tesla Powerwall. It has all of the integrated safety systems, the thermal It's designed to work very well with solar systems right People in a remote village or an island somewhere can take. Solar panels, combine it with the Tesla, Powerwall, and And for larger scale applications, Tesla developed the pack. What about something that scales much to much, much larger So for that, we have something else. So we have the power pack. The Tesla Powerpack is designed to scale infinitely. So you literally make this into a gigawatt hour class In the summer of 2016, Tesla acquired SolarCity for $2.6 The deal was controversial and is still the subject of some storage. Tesla has unveiled several solar roof tiles and quickly as expected. They've had a numerous technical setbacks and kind of that works at the right price point, that's competitive But by and large, they've built the right pieces. They've productized it in the right way for consumers. Just recently, Tesla updated the Powerwall to doubling the All calls made since roughly November of last year have a specification on the website. The energy is the same, but the power is roughly double. According to the company. Demand has been so high, Tesla is now only selling power We will not sell a house solar without a Powerwall. A Tesla. Powerwall two has an energy capacity of 13.5 A Model S has up to 100 kilowatt hour battery power pack. Its smallest utility scale storage solution has a capacity This can be scaled up to include several power packs to Tesla's first major battery installation near Jamestown, at the time of its completion. In December 2017, it was the largest lithium ion battery The system charges using renewable energy from the grid following a significant blackout. Extreme weather event that happened in September 2016 in blacking out the response that the South Australian plan that they were already working on was really triggered Based on studies observing its first and second year of use, and has saved the utility company money. That first year performance we could see that the battery It was. But the saving to the electricity system in terms control services were provided with 30 to $40 million. With the success of this project, Australia is looking to There's quite a few underway now in other parts of Australia Another project Tesla took on was in Kauai, replacing diesel couldn't. In the Hawaiian Islands. One thing was for certain we had to do something. We couldn't stay on oil. All these technologies, every single one we've done, even a Solar ones been cheaper than the alternative of oil. So they've all saved us money. The project consisted of a 52 megawatt hour battery and a 13 Quiet Island Utility Cooperative contracted with Tesla to cents per kilowatt hour. It's a great economic thing. We know we're going to have a fixed price for 20, 25 years Before we had the technology when we were heavily oil 2 to 3 month period as we were riding oil. Since the Tesla and Amy's projects, Quiet Island Utility energy. Almost every day. Now we will go 6 to 8 hours at a at 100% renewable working, here, where it's batteries running things. There's not really another grid out there that is doing Similar to Hawaii, Tesla completed a project on the island diesel generators. Tesla installed 5328 solar panels and 60 power packs and for three days without sunlight. Tesla says it will offset the island's use of more than And when Puerto Rico's utility infrastructure was Twitter, suggesting Tesla could help in 2018. Ongoing outages left Puerto Rico without power. So Tesla brought in Powerpacks to several critical sites Another one of Tesla's early projects went online in dependency on peaker plants. In East Los Angeles, the Mira Loma substation has 210 hours. The site is comprised of 396 power packs. With the success of these early projects, Tesla developed three megawatt hours of storage. The equivalent of almost 13 POWERPACKS or. 30 model sedans. Tesla says if scaled to one gigawatt hour of energy Francisco for 6 hours. We're working with utilities large and small, not just developers of all type and building our own projects where And there's a lot of demand for the product and we're Apple is working with Tesla to build a 240 megawatt hour Cupertino headquarters outside of Houston and Angleton, Tesla has quietly been working on its first site in the Once complete, the 100 megawatt system will be capable of Cnbc visited PGE and its Megapack site in Moss Landing, the summer. We're standing at the PGA and Elkhorn Energy Storage It's 182.5 megawatts of Tesla Megapack that are next to megawatt energy storage project combined. You're looking at 930 megawatt hours between the two Some would say the energy storage capital of the world California is the top producer of renewable energy in the In 2014, the state realized that the renewables were great, So the state started launching its energy storage programs One of our first assignments was to procure 580 megawatts It is the glue that holds it all back together is the If you consider how much energy we do use, we're going to When PGA looked to integrate an energy storage solution, it Tesla for this site. Tesla definitely had the most mature product. The understanding of energy storage was better than the Ul 9548 burned tests on their power pack product for these If there is a fire, it itself extinguishes. It's one of the few projects I've ever worked on with. This is going to save customers money. While Tesla has been aggressive in its rollout, it is It does not break out energy storage sales from its solar In the first quarter of 2021, Tesla energy revenues were 595 million. But energy storage deployments grew 83% from 2019 to 2020, popularity of the Megapack. They've deployed a lot of systems, they've deployed them on also use the project successfully and made money from them. They've built a lot of the right pieces and have a expertize they've had. And the future looks promising for Tesla and others in the As energy storage and as lithium ion and as renewables to fundamentally shift how our grid currently works. This is a big opportunity for a wide spectrum of companies transition. There are still a bunch of hurdles to making batteries. First of all, while the costs have come down a Batteries are the most expensive part of electric vehicles. And similarly, the large quantity of cells and utility The average price per kilowatt hour for a lithium ion 157 in 2019. The increase in energy density really isn't about how do we It's about how can we make them cheaper by using less And there is the issue of resources. With electric vehicle production ramping up, there are batteries. Tesla is reportedly looking into changing to a megapack. The change in chemistry could help cut costs and production. There are definitely issues going forward with whether or demand because demand is not just growing in the United I've been working on lithium ion cells for 20 years and I've And then Panasonic built the Gigafactory, which is just on But even this factory really only supplies one car model. So if we're really going to change to an electrified The Biden administration has emphasized it wants to bring China started to ramp up their mining of rare earths in the supply the United States actually ramped down. Actually, now we're seeing in the United States and Canada supply. To meet the growing demand. New types of battery technology are also being explored. There are sodium batteries, there are salt based batteries. One of my favorites is called flow batteries. One of the huge benefits of low batteries is that instead they give you potentially millions of cycles. And for certain projects, energy storage is being done Long duration storage can be anything from things we're systems or pumping water uphill. As the world transitions to renewable energy, storage will And Tesla could become as important of a player in the So while we don't really have an idea of who is going to win this space, I do think one thing is for certain, and that's both here in the United States and abroad. Getting bulk wind and solar into the network is what will And I think that's important rather than people thinking Are they getting a free ride? It's actually no, they're going to enable much cheaper hopefully what we all want. Think about where our energy comes from. Drilling rigs and smokestacks, windmills and solar panels, What we probably don't think about are the farms that make out that they can be an energy source as well. Barcelona based battery company bio is generating can power agricultural sensors, eliminating the need for So soil is actually very rich in fuels and you're just In this case. Bio is hoping that its biological batteries can help to bioreactors reactors in the ground. And so long as the soil is irrigated regularly, the battery attached sensor. In turn, these sensors give farmers the information they Farmers around the world are buying and buying more sensors They're used to measure humidity, temperature. That, after all, how do you charge those sensors? Literally an army of workers having to go to the fields and really just very expensive, but quite polluting as well. Bio is working with large companies like Bayer Crop Science Piloting their sensor tech on farms while also installations. Eventually, bio envisions a future where Standard batteries rely upon chemical reactions, for Lithium ions move from the negatively charged side of the cathode. This creates free electrons which move through a through the device being powered into the cathode. But instead of using an element like lithium, Bowe uses Within the soil, microorganisms feed on organic matter. Breaking it down in a process that releases hydrogen ions that transports the free electrons from the anode to the In the process. We are producing energy in a constant basis during day and It doesn't matter if it's raining or it's a cloudy day. They will produce energy. Bio is not the first to make batteries from organic Bio battery is using enzymes that break down carbohydrates. Fatty acids and alcohol have been developed in labs for Many are introduced to the infamous potato battery a potato can be harnessed to power small lights or clocks. There have also been a number of trials focused on wastewater and using that to treat the wastewater itself. But the tech has not yet been able to scale. At the University of Utah, Professor Shelley Minter's batteries to increase energy density. She believes that for biosensor tech to gain mass adoption, At this point, it becomes an issue of thinking about the electrodes with, how you're going to wire everything systems. Much of the US tech is made from graphite, which is abundant build solar panels, which can also be used to power sensors sun is shining. Well, single use chemical batteries may Vidyut says that biosensors can last up to ten years and powered by chemical batteries. Many say that's what will truly make the difference. We have a growing audience that is very, very interested in What can my family do, my organization do to not only be foremost economically? Everybody says that they want to be helpful to the economics. Can you group is an agricultural organization that brings land management and farming practices, and it plans to test Collectively, we're in touch with probably about 20 million Lands, and. All of them are focused on regenerative. Agriculture. Bayer Crop Science also plans to test biosensors this year, major savings. Right now they have like 50 million hectares of land using So they've calculated that by applying this biological billion per year. Yeah, we'll be running pilots throughout 2021 and next year In the meantime, it has a number of other projects in the biological batteries that are placed fully beneath the soil day and night. They work using pretty much the same The constant breakdown of organic matter in the soil means store energy on their own for later use. A lot of us now have lighting outside that is using solar. And so rather than having sort of that solar light that is light that light I think is a perfect example. Bio is also working on a number of experimental art used as so-called biological switches, detecting frequency turn on lights or emit sound. As in this piano installation at the Absa Biotechnology What we do with them is to actually detect the exact So actually, if you touch the plant with a metallic bar or It just gets activated with a human touch. It hopes that these installations will help to inspire natural world into their blueprints. What we do with biological switches right now is literally a a city that it's able to literally combine with nature And the panels he hopes will one day help to power these Even imagine farmers using their own fields, not just to only human beings, but all. Societies themselves, the energy needs of cities. But Bill does expect that it will be able to exponentially come. In the next ten years, we're really going to see a great I mean, since we began with the energy, productions of our And actually in the last 5 to 6 months, we've increased our Peter says that in the lab, the panels are able to produce that of a solar panel operating at average efficiency. This is impressive given the constraints of using soil as a But there's still no replacement for energy dense chemical Unlike a piece of metal, a microorganism is not conductive. And so looking at how you can develop strategies to improve cell, how you can. Improve communication. Between the microorganism and the electrode, how you can All of those are sort of engineering feats. That need to be handled because of this. Minter says that sensor tech is a good place to start. Obviously, powering sensors is something that's a relatively Transportation and airplanes would be sort of high power Sort of where you are in between is going to kind of depend with the battery. While Bill hopes that 2021 will be the year that its lots of buzz in the meantime, raising a total of EUR3.5 The European Union overall has been its biggest supporter. The European Union has actually invested EUR2.5 million in the What we got from from the private funding. Supporters are banking on sustainable and regenerative Bennett says he's found a willing audience of farmers to Those that are already in the realm of taking on focused on. And that's in the millions we don't have a As bio grows, it doesn't plan to manufacture sensors and Instead, it wants to license its bio battery tech to the manufacturing and logistics know how to drive mass We're going to go straight forward to companies that want to of clients, and they already have products that are The public at large, starting to take a deeper interest in Bennett sees the market opportunity for a product like The audience is going to say, So tell me, how are you How are you powering these these food sources? You know what's in the soil. We didn't ask that even ten years ago. We didn't ask that really even five years ago. We're starting to ask it now. Since 2010, the price of lithium ion batteries has decreased the U.S. and globally. But as most recent car buyers know, electric vehicles are average at least $15,000 more than a new gasoline powered When you look at the need for electrification of the emissions around the world, it really is the limitations of electrification. Within the EV industry. Lithium ion is the only type of battery being manufactured developing new battery technologies that they hope will be or so. As analysts estimate that the size of the EV battery 2025. There is a sense that for us to move to the next big jump lithium ion is not going to be the long term answer. Coburg, a Silicon Valley startup which spun out of Stanford says could be twice as energy dense as standard lithium While lithium metal has been on researchers radar since the for commercial applications. Kubrick's first customers are in the aviation industry, but Volkswagen and BMW, just acquired the company with plans to We've been obviously looking at what is beyond the next lithium ion batteries, how to get beyond 1000 watt hours But Richard and the team at Kjellberg really, really seem We're going through a transformation of the industry as vehicles in the first place. It's as big as displacing the entire oil industry for A battery has three basic components one end the anode is charged. The substance in between, which conducts electric In a lithium ion battery. The electrolyte is made up of lithium salt and organic the anode, which is usually made of graphite to the This movement creates free electrons which travel through a device being powered. The more lithium in the battery, the more energy dense that And in a lithium metal battery, the anode is made of pure The pure lithium is the holy grail of nanotechnologies. There is literally no excess weight or volume contained And that allows us to really take the battery to the next battery. Experts have known for decades that if they could get it to But there's been persistent challenges like dendrites When you charge lithium metal batteries, you have these These needles can penetrate through and shot the cell, and So what happened maybe in the early 1990s was people sort Lithium is also a very reactive element, meaning that if it catch fire. Kubrick, though, thinks that it solved these So we have developed a new chemically stable electrolyte metal and that protects it from being decomposed or reacted It's not the only company in this space, but what sets lithium ion batteries, it has a liquid electrolyte. Well, its competitors like Quantumscape and solid power use Solid state batteries have generated lots of interest and reactivity and dendrite formation. Quantumscape, backed by Volkswagen and Bill Gates, went BMW, is set to go public this year both through special shows Promise. Wang says Kubrick's liquid electrolyte makes production methods. So with just some very, very minor retooling and the existing lithium ion manufacturing processes for making This, Wang says, will allow Kubrick to scale up and though many companies, Northvolt included, are interested technologies. You see different types of technologies which all have the densities. So I think there is so much going on that just very dangerous proposition going forward. While Quantumscape and Solid Power are partnering with big aviation industry as the market for short haul electric So far, Kubrick has partnerships with Boeing as well as Arrow. Current lithium ion batteries are not good enough for And that weight ultimately means that you can't carry as And so we are targeting the aviation industry because they technologies and are willing to pay a premium to really get Kubrick acknowledges that it will take a number of years for with lithium ion. Wang predicts that will happen around 2027 or 2028. But in the meantime, when it comes to electric planes, the be well worth the higher cost. The idea here is to start to move away from the two to try to take off from, say, a building go across town from the traffic and drop somebody off here. There are very short runs. You might be only flying for half an hour or 45 minutes. You might have a few passengers and electrifying them has a Ultimately, though, Northvolt plans to get Kubrick's Any path to automotive requires huge scale up, but five upon ourselves. If all goes according to Carlson's plan and Kubrick's 2030, EVs with lithium metal batteries will actually be Using lithium ion as increasing the energy density will Ward by increasing the energy density, you're making the You have fewer production steps per kilowatt hour, you have And even then, when you integrate it into a vehicle because simpler vehicle design, more elegant vehicle structure, and And so ultimately, all of these apply for cost savings Srinivasan says that today's lithium ion battery packs for to reach cost parity with an average gasoline powered car. Packs would need to be more than twice as cheap. Now the target for electric car is somewhere around $80 a And that number comes from taking a small vehicle, say a gasoline car to a electric car. Hedberg says that it expects its battery packs will be 10 to scale. Well, Srinivasan agrees that lithium metal could He warns that charging time has historically been a problem Turns out that fast charging has actually been the big So today it is not clear if you're going to be able to But the hope is that once we start getting these batteries boundaries of things like fast charging. Hybrid believes that fast charging will be possible, though, Wang says that now its battery cells currently take 40 drop significantly in the coming years. Quantumscape says that its batteries can charge to 80% of can get to 50% capacity in the same amount of time. The key is to combine all these parameters with high energy long durations and also very fast charging times. I mean, everybody wants everything at the same time. And this is where we need to continue working with the Manufacturing scale up is also going to be critical in the China and Europe when it comes to building out all elements Today in the United States, we make approximately 40 The number that we need in the next 10 to 15 years could be Now, that's a big change we are talking about creating in gigafactories, so for us to get there. But battery experts are heartened that the Biden The Department of Energy recently released a 100 day In it, the administration says that it will take immediate funding make their products in the U.S. and promises to make loans to EV battery manufacturers to facilities. By offering grants and other types of funding to make it This ultimately allows us to really develop that advanced Cuba itself has received funding from the Department of Energy Commission and hopes to expand its domestic presence I wouldn't be surprised if you would see Factory in the US But building out the battery industry, which is projected to will not happen overnight. So there will be more than enough room for multiple We believe the future of the battery industry will be highly means that there won't be enough good batteries to go And so this naturally means that more advanced technologies technologies. Experts say that now is the time to act when it comes to And a number of innovative battery companies like Cuba have years. There is a worldwide race to capture the battery market going to transition towards an electric future. What this means is that this is the time to take the ideas to the market. The Electric Vehicle Revolution is coming to America. Gm's Ultium battery is. Made for all types of vehicles. So soon everyone can drive it even. So this F-150 prototype is all electric. China sold roughly 1 million more EVs than the U.S. last year, but domestic automakers are finally getting While Tesla has dominated the U.S. industry for years. Ford and General Motors recently announced major They are announcing that they are setting a target of being That's the goal by 2035. If we're looking over the next 10 to 15 years, you're than we've seen in the previous 100 years. Volkswagen, Jaguar, Land Rover, Toyota and Volvo have also of EVs in the coming five years. Problem is, electric cars run on lithium ion batteries, and is in short supply. And so it doesn't take much looking ahead to realize we We simply don't have enough electric batteries. The fact that the US is building one Gigafactory or the China's building one every week. China's in tune with the pace of what's happening here in China has nearly 100 large scale battery manufacturing If current trends continue, projections for the next decade continuing to lag far behind, and relying on China for national security. Should the US become overreliant on Chinese batteries? Well, it'd be so simple. Just the Chinese would say, sorry, we don't have enough Biden's messaging around the need for more EVs could the US market. But even if they all started planning facilities today, delaying the transition to an electric future. By the time you acquire the land, by the time you get all the time you operate, it could be two, three, four years. And those years are going to be critical as we fight to Even before China's big EV push, lithium ion batteries were The tech was first commercialized by Japanese company Sony Japanese giant Panasonic and South Korean heavyweights LG throughout the 1990s and 2000s producing lithium ion laptops. While the U.S. may have been okay relying on imported batteries for their energy independence. The gaps in the US supply chain have been laid bare. If the US wants to buy lithium for batteries today, 0% 0% is produced in the USA. Cathode material 0% is produced in the USA. So at the moment the supply chain up to the battery cells That's not a healthy national security strategy for what is the 21st century. As of 2021, benchmark mineral intelligence values, the reach $200 billion by 2030. But the US still lags behind in mining and manufacturing. Australia is the largest producer of raw lithium by a long Other key battery elements include graphite, nickel, China, Indonesia, South Africa and the Democratic Republic Most of these materials are then shipped to China, which the world's battery cell manufacturing, and 60% of the Japan and South Korea are still manufacturing leaders, too, The problem for America is not a lack of resources. For example, the U.S. Geological Survey reports that the U.S. actually has more lithium reserves than China. The mines just haven't been built here. That's because until recently, domestic automakers just there to support them. China, on the other hand, decided over a decade ago that it to heavily subsidized EVs and EV infrastructure for the You can get up to $10,000 back on the purchase of a vehicle. The government is encouraging its state banks to lend very millions of dollars of easy loans, incentives for The Chinese government has said, we want to be the world ev And while some of China's subsidies have phased out So essentially what they tell automakers, whether the global Chinese market, you must produce a certain percentage of These policies guarantee a robust battery market, giving they need to mine for raw materials and manufacture on a Until 2019, China also effectively required EV makers who giving rise to domestic giants like Catl, which now powers Specific states, most notably California, do have strong support and federal policy has been unreliable from There's been a lack of concerted, directed efforts from the along in the transport industry. And what happens when there's sort of mixed messaging from market really going to grow in the US? Should we set up shop? Is it worth long term returns if we if we make this move? Due to this historical uncertainty and the established currently only a handful of companies producing lithium ion owned. When we look across the landscape, there's really the work Some of the US manufacturers work with LG, and then there's SK facility, which would electrify 330,000 vehicles a year. Korean owned SK Innovation is building out the plant in play an especially important role in the domestic battery Panasonic only provides batteries to Tesla and LG works nearly half of the country's non captive EV battery term contracts with specific automakers. The great thing about this facility is that they will be in the US because we don't have enough batteries. But those plants hit a snag in February when the following an intellectual property dispute with Korean President Biden could choose to overturn this ruling, and a Given the dearth of battery manufacturing in the U.S., deliver on their bold targets in the coming years. Every week there's another announcement, another OEM talks mobility. Currently, there is not enough battery production this point. Some say that the battery problem is already holding them And even Elon Musk went on record and said we would be have enough batteries. But the battery manufacturers need to see more says is more need and when they need it. If the entire automotive industry came out and gave a vehicles and we will need this amount of volume of North America. In this environment, the uncertainty over the future of Sk's some electric vehicle proponents, as well as for Georgia help transform the state's economy. And so the size and the scope of this project at 2000 plus billion of investment, that is going to change really the It is the largest investment ever in the state's history in any one project. Though the International Trade Commission did find SK Korean competitor, LG Chem, some say this dispute ought to awarded monetary damages. Instead, LG took the case to the ITC, which could not done for SK Innovation's battery components. The Korean prime minister went on record to say he was I think it is embarrassing because I think it could be wanted. But the only companies, the only people that will industry. Right now the SK facility is nearly complete and is on track It has a contract with Ford to produce batteries for the for its new line of EVs. The ITC ruled that it will allow SK to continue making Volkswagen over the next two years, giving the companies But many say the decision, if it stands, would still cause A number of manufacturers have had to sort of dial back hands on battery packs. And now add on top of that, you have one of the major Europe is surging ahead. China is surging ahead with lots of different battery capacities at the same time. Does the US want a similar environment or does it want to If so, it needs healthy competition. So where do we go from here? First, experts say that we need to build out a domestic in the US and ends with getting the battery giants to set Already Tesla has secured the right to mine lithium on Large graphite deposits in Alaska are being explored and in calling for faster permitting and. Better mapping to locate deposits of key minerals and Many environmentalists worry about the impact of these importance of these materials for an electric future. It's a tension that the Biden administration will have to action. The federal government almost needs to approach this like step in to lower barriers for investment. You're getting into processing and you're getting into Margins are so low, really is tough for companies to make Many, like Wilson, are heartened by what they've seen and order that he issued in February, which directs the EV batteries and submit policy recommendations for Now you're seeing governments talking about batteries and oil. So lithium ion batteries are now very geopolitical. The executive order from President Biden shows that around the world. And that means. Watch this space, because it's just about to get real. There's a wave of new startups developing techniques to and hopefully recover the grand majority of materials for But for now, this tech remains too expensive. It is cheaper to mine for lithium rather than recycle it So that is projected to go on for the next at least ten So in the immediate future, there will probably continue to as automakers ramp up production of EVs to comply with fuel For the next 5 to 10 years. We are still looking at EVs being in a push adoption rather It's being driven by emissions regulations and policy that electrify more and more of their fleet just to meet the Chandrasekaran predicts that as battery costs continue to then. He says that we can expect to see more organic breaks for EV customers. The regulations, like strict vehicle emission standards, And as the domestic and global EV market grows, the battery it. One McKinsey projects that the Asia-Pacific share of battery from 90% to 60%. Still a majority, but at least a healthy piece of the pie So look for this to become a matter of national security for Throw some weight behind getting more battery manufacturing