Twenty-five million years ago, The great apes. Among them was one family They were our distant ancestors. Through evolution, they gave rise to new, Then ventured far and wide power, tools, love, They competed with the great beasts, conquered the planet, They became us, Where and when did our lineage begin? Who was the first of us? What is that quality that makes us human? The difference that sets us apart Thanks to the latest we are about to take a journey to find out which of our ancestors and gave birth to the first man. Our family story begins at a time of intense global warming. With the vast Tethys Ocean fragmenting humid forests spread north from Africa. Our distant ancestors followed the forest They ruled the canopy, Gigantopithecus, stretched from Europe to modern-day China. This is the age of the Planet of the Apes. Which of these great primates The Mediterranean coast, A humid tropical forest. Here lives a creature This acrobat is Pierolapithecus. The animal kingdom This great ape What makes him our great-grandfather? We are only beginning to understand. Pierola lives in the trees He is too heavy to walk on the branches, though he does sometimes He can walk. Contrary to common belief, the ability to walk upright but up in the branches. Bipedalism was not man's invention This Pierola is a young male. He left his family several days ago. He now faces a difficult task, and he's just discovered one. His fate will be decided here. However, each group has its own territory A young female and her infant. Mothers are especially wary. Not easy to approach. Up there, there is an older female A large male, He seems calm, To be accepted, he must first be noticed, Has the young female picked up his scent? She's the most beautiful Pierola It seems to be going all right. It's another story with the alpha male. He could kill him, but for now, The young male's first attempt but his mood Our ancestors possessed a new quality, something shared Understanding the emotions of others. Even more extraordinarily, they are affected It's happening to the older female. She feels the distress of the young male She must act. She wants to find out more about him. Empathy is a powerful force. It is the thing that allows us Why does he need It relates to the social structure The females never leave the group, while the males are forced to leave What do the old female's gestures mean? Will he be able to stay? Not yet. The young male keeps his distance. He needs to sleep. Most mammals only sleep not Pierolas. In terms of sleeping, The Pierolas have come up They build nests in the treetops. However, it takes a long time and the only way to learn The young male always slept He still doesn't know how to make his own. Up here, Pierolas are protected and their leaf They can sleep all night without fear. Long restorative nights. Thanks to the miracle of sleep, Sleep allows our brains Not all of it received during the day Our brain puts some in the trash and stores the essential parts All that while we sleep, remarkable. Pierolas have passed this down to us. Without this invention, This morning, the group has come down The young male followed them. He wants to make contact Pierolas love the sweet taste of fruit, but they have an advantage Their stomachs Well, they still have their favorites. There they are. The young male has made his choice Out of all the different foods some are highly poisonous. How do they know what is edible For Pierolas, The mother teaches her young This knowledge is passed The beginning of a culture. The elder female Like all Pierolas, Figs. Will she accept them? It's a good sign. Now he can begin the conversation. The language of the Pierolas Grooming and caresses However, touching females in the group The females defend the young male Their numbers make them stronger. The alpha must back down. Among Pierolas, The young male He has become the old female's favorite. Now it's the female's turn to caress. Part of this seems What exactly does she want? The young male To relax the atmosphere, Pierolas have invented laughing. This development, is not a human invention, Our ancestors lived Fruit in abundance, and in all seasons. The only real dangers are the predators To detect them, They have a deep understanding The cry of a bird alerts them. The alarm sounds. A tiger. They have a different call That means the alert is lifted. They can go back down. Pierolas live in a golden age but this period of prosperity cannot last. Great upheaval is on the horizon. Africa is on a collision course Tectonic activity The young male remains outside the group. He is cautious. The alpha is still dangerous. To be completely adopted, He's perhaps not the best nest builder, but he comes from a group that knows An amazing technique the golden-eyed female He uses the stick to catch termites. There is nothing tastier than termites. This invention is crucial. The stick is the first tool. An extension of the hand An idea that will be invaluable to us. They have understood. The young male is now The infant is a victim of his greed. He forgot his mother's teaching A fate suffered so often by the young. The young male recognizes this poison. The Pierolas already have some knowledge This knowledge varies between groups The young male seems that the group does not. There are many different types. Plants that put tapeworms to sleep, plants covered in tiny spines Pierolas were herbalists. The tale of this young hero but it tells another, more powerful story, Societies that forced possess this quality. The young depart and transmit it to other groups. The infant is saved, thanks to the young male. The young female has made her choice. He must become part of the group. It's her will against the alpha. Pierola alpha males resist the pressure but the females always win. The alpha can sense. From now on, It's a sign. The earth is moving and the great period Our ancestors had to leave, and so the great exodus begins. Africa is on a collision course The climate of the planet The humid forests of Europe The same is happening where the forests of China and Japan The Asiatic great apes They give rise to the ancestors The African continent Cut off from the water of the Atlantic, and becomes a dead sea. Pierolas and their relatives They migrate towards Africa, notably on the vast Pierolas evolved and became a new species This new ancestor Further south, 7 million years later. Toumai lived on the shores of Lake Chad. They were probably our common ancestor Their inventions will make them amongst the most dangerous With them, the march towards humanity Toumai still sleep in the trees, A much more varied food supply, The descendant of the young female Her appearance has changed, but she has kept her golden eyes Her son still has much to learn. An infant's education As well as knowing what to eat, Toumai use different tools but mastering each tool Toumai try to benefit The females have a greater They imagine and invent new techniques. Toumai have also improved walking on two feet. It has many advantages, such as being able The descendant of the alpha There have been considerable changes Now the males have the power. There is a hierarchy He often feels the need It's usually the weakest A society dominated by males The alpha is a type of ultra-dominant male who always feels the need Is this young one still alive? He's okay, just a bit shaken up. The Alpha doesn't just rely on strength He builds friendships with several allies. He praises a male knowing He sweet-talks the elder female. Her goodwill could come in useful. Alliances, strategies, betrayal, This type of society has given rise The males spend It is left to the females to find ways It's no wonder that females have become To the alpha, ruling the group The problem with bipedalism is the male can't see How does he know if she's interested? Before being able to mate, he now has to check She's not interested. The new territory and all the food it contains. Our ancestors and will encounter an abundance of riches. The Toumai's greatest invention, A male and a female just to spend some time together. For these two juveniles, A big step in relationships Before there was only sniffing, It only lasted a minute. Now they can spend time together The great apes begin to feel their hair standing on end. The great game of seduction. She seeks his gaze. He is transfixed. She smells him. They feel desire. They give kisses and invent a new way of mating, No one has noticed Too late. The little one's frail body Toumai are well aware The loss of a member is heartbreaking. Life on the ground but there are far more predators That's why Toumai Something strange is happening The young female should have left Why? What does she feel? Something happened this morning. Several unknown individuals were spotted The three males of the group There under the large fig tree, The first time they've seen them. Two very enticing females. They have been eating overripe figs This group has come here for the fermented fruits The Alpha wants the females. He wants what he sees, but they belong to other males, and he is an absolute giant. What can he do? A cunning plan is formulating A previously unimagined idea. An idea that will make us The idea is to kill. Killing one's own species. Killing with premeditation Killing to take the goods of others. The Toumai have just invented war. They have conquered a new territory, and with it a tree full of fruit War has its advantages. From now on, The young female still She is refusing to accept reality The infant is motionless, What is it that lives in us Toumai are starting to understand The loss of life, the loss of a being. They know that their own lives will end. Faced with suffering and confusion, they gather around the body Gathering, the feeling united in space and time. The beginning of a ritual, For many years we believed Not anymore. Today, we know with many other species, Awareness of the passage of time is a huge leap forward Five million years ago, The great forests of the Sahara receded and placed pressure They separate into several families. Some evolve along the line They abandon bipedalism and invent a new way Others evolve along the line of humans. They are spread throughout Africa, Here we find the great family Between four and two million years ago, afarensis, Abel, Africanus, Kenyanthropus, Anamensis, Gary. Around 2 million years ago, He would go on We named him Sediba. Is he an Australopithecus That question hasn't yet been solved. Sediba lived in the south Drought increasingly and will play a considerable role Despite spending the majority sediba are still dependent on the trees. The only protection from the man-eating beast They never stray too far. The dry season is at its peak. There's no more fruit on the trees. The only food is underground. Roots and bulbs are difficult to find and they need a lot of chewing However, that's all there is. Hours are spent chewing this tough food. This young male though he has no female. The females now live in a harem These two females When a carcass is left there's only enough A few bones to suck, That's why the females Less power for more protection. Sediba don't live very long. This old female can no longer chew. The marrow is all she can swallow. The alpha doesn't share with the elders. The old female would already be dead By chewing her food, he keeps her alive. Empathy at work again. This extreme scarcity of food If they don't find an alternative, They must adapt. Fortunately, sediba possesses and an array of tools and techniques. Inside the brain of one of them, If the meat won't come to them, Over there. The alpha's female wants to take the risk. The young male is ready too. None before them have tried this. Against the wishes of the alpha, How can they be so foolish? Neither of them The desire to eat meat outweighs The brave ones who took could not have known on the history of our species. A fresh carcass, an abundance of meat. They've never seen so much. The first pieces they choose The tastiest. Fat is so rare in nature and important The sediba pick out the parts the marrow, the entrails, the brain, the tongue, and the eyes. The two explorers are back, their arms laden Food for everyone. What a success! A solution for the future of the species? However, the alpha is not ready The female is part of his harem. She has betrayed him. Sometimes the females do swap males. However, a possessive alpha like him It's a threat to his power. The young male can do nothing. Here, might is right. He humiliates her in front of everyone, punishes her, The old female has nothing to lose. She's the only one The harshness of this life They have lost a lot of their power The first effects of the meat It's easier to digest than roots, Meat gives the sensation of well-being The second effect will take hundreds Less energy consumed by the stomach Thanks to that, our mental capacity and our bodies become taller and slimmer. Although physical force still dominates, A new generation is coming whose ingenuity will prove Sediba already used rocks but he has a new thought. The young male has an idea maybe even the future of his species. If he can cut the carcasses of animals into smaller pieces, If it works, they will have provisions For this, they will need to cut and slice the flesh He shapes them out of a rock. These shards are as sharp as razors. It will take thousands of years One of the great advantages they relied on their capacity and on the language They were capable of conceiving a project, weighing up different aspects, The young male to find carcasses and bring them back. He lays out his vision. His words evoke images He captures their attention. He wins them over with his words. The alpha understands His physical force so he takes the young male's idea. A dream of plentiful food Sediba are prey. Without their trees, they are vulnerable, and yet they march into the unknown. Driven by an urge They explore a continent On the hunt for carcasses Who would think would soon dominate the planet? When a carcass is found, First the top predators, then the hyenas, It's crucial to get there The alpha doesn't know that yet. Their tree. They should never have left their tree. It is perhaps this moment that the fate of the entire human race They could retreat to the safety or they could head into the unknown, risking being attacked What should they do? The young female Everything is telling them Is there another life beyond the tree? The group splits into two factions. Some follow the young female, In fact, it is the weaker ones They will risk everything The strong never want Those who leave Open spaces, prey in abundance, They dream of another world, Up there, over the mountains. Even the old female. Her energy, nearly spent, This world does exist. A vast land of riches. If some of us you wouldn't be here today. Those who have chosen to stay They will be known as Paranthropus but they will not be able to adapt We thought that Lucy, was the grandmother of humanity. We were wrong. Lucy was, in fact, and her descendants Those who left the Savannah and had to invent a new way of living. The world isn't exactly as they imagined. There are riches all around, Limitless space lies ahead of us Is this how man became free? Is this how we became truly human? Some believe so, After the sediba, a new species emerges, The next character in our story Homo erectus. Five million years ago, This led to the creation This warm current travels from the Gulf and plunges into the ocean, The polar ice cap formed, The green plains of the Sahara dried out. Two million years ago, populations of herbivores left Africa Homo erectus followed. Some of our ancestors They crossed mountains and deserts, They traveled unthinkable distances Driven by the spirit of conquest They migrate to the Far East. The north of China, Homo erectus possesses This man of the plains is born to run. A vertical body propelled by his long legs He is equipped with an extraordinary a body covered in short hairs, and in his brain, a blood-purifying system This gives him the most stamina Homo erectus has now become Like wolves, they track their prey They are slower When the prey is exhausted, For Homo erectus The difference in size The rule of the strongest is now replaced In this group, a female is in charge. Her ability to anticipate, her intelligence and political skill No longer scavengers thanks to their weapons Homo erectus now compete but they have become They must follow them wherever they go. They have become nomads, and so they build shelters Their ancestors They are transforming it. Finding a site to set up camp. They are building their first shelters, camps that allow them Homo erectus has created Each member of the group now has a role, often according Some are skilled at shaping rocks. Others for cutting meat. Social functions appear for tanning hides Work, and the distribution of tasks with all the pressures Clearly, some do more than others. The leader of the group The most important moment of the day Serving some first with the best cuts. Giving a little extra Establishing a hierarchy The fine details of her social life To protect their bodies, Homo erectus have clothes However, this brings its own problems. Parasites have found a new home. A body covered in thin, visible skin, is easy and enticing prey They no longer fear predators, but another enemy now stalks them, The world is still full Homo erectus has an inquiring mind trying to make sense One of the greatest It's here. This savage beast appears It is a huge creature. They must prepare to fight. They are defeated. They save whatever they can. In a few hours, Their camp has gone up in smoke, However, Homo erectus What is that powerful odor? What are these mouth-watering smells? An animal has been trapped in the fire. Its flesh is still good This is perhaps how Homo erectus discovered this remarkable property As well as the taste, they will soon notice What about those awful roots? Cooked, they are delicious. They require An amazing discovery. Cooked food will allow us and develop our brains. We will walk with a lighter step Our brains will become capable of associations, It is likely that the aesthetic sense Shapes and lights elicited new sensations. We were affected They are all dreaming but lack the key ingredient, fire. If only they knew how to obtain it. That one looks small and seems alone. Maybe they can capture it. Another group. They have captured the beast. Technology. In this new world, They are ready to fight to obtain it. They could fight, His clan knows how to control fire. The other has a greater skill This period saw the first instances Through objects, the techniques that go with them A new era for humanity, Thanks to traditions and language, knowledge accumulates over vast distances. From now on, No wonder the use of fire and across the entire world. The young chief Her face stirs something in him. At this point in our history, Selecting, desiring, Aesthetics now play a role Bodies are covered in colors, Sexuality brings people together, A story of bonds The story of love is still being told. The domestication of fire and gave them warmth, It cured their ailments, sharpened the points of their spears, However, the greatest advance Thanks to the development and a small evolution our speech became so articulate that we could evoke the past, speak of the future, and recount stories. Imagine, the old woman is a storyteller. Who are we? Where are we from? She tells the story of these people These tales give meaning to their lives. Perhaps it is this that makes us human. The first man is the one Homo erectus will continue With their skills, Different populations and give rise to new types of man. In furthest China, Homo erectus In Indonesia, Solo man. At its edges on Flores Island, In Central Asia, he is Denisova man. In the cold of Europe, A massive, heavy man He can withstand extreme cold. His skin whitens His eyes and hair grow lighter. In Africa, he becomes Homo sapiens, and it is through him At least six species of humans Each develops according to the environment However, this multi-faceted humanity Homo sapiens will soon replace them all. Around 100,000 years ago, Homo sapiens Invented more complex societies How will he go on to invent art, writing, medicine, and science? His extraordinary imagination but so does the knowledge The Pierola, Toumai, They have left us a heritage one through the impulse to live With this knowledge this great dreamer gave rise A hundred thousand years ago, to conquer the world. He left Africa He mastered navigation, across the seas and vast glacial expanses. He traveled to Australia, to America over the Bering Strait He occasionally intermingled but everywhere he went His appearance changed His skin, his hair, the shape of his eyes. From him arose a multitude of peoples, but deep down the genes are the same. Genes developed He is the father He is the only human on earth, but his presence