Hello friends, thank you for your choice. Please support us with likes and comments. Please stay with us until the end of the video . Bud Akram, did your grandfather say that he will coordinate with the police today? Yes, he called, where else should we look for him , Jalal, look , a small dog is here, let 's make a small room for him, he is guilty . He has been hungry, he is not eating because he is afraid, come eat, I have eaten , please, feed him, I will feed you now , yes, please help him to find him, he is lost here? Yes, he was at home, where is his house, it is located here, Yadfe is lost, it is useless to look for him everywhere, where was his family when he went missing, did they come to our house when his daughter went missing, is this their house? Yes, he is right here. Hello, how are you? Hello , you are very welcome. How are you? Grandfather, no, he has not been found yet. Let's go to work and search again. I brought an officer so that we can find him soon. How did you lose your daughter? Where were you? We went to our grandfather's house. What should we do? Now we have to try to search these mountains properly to find him. Don't worry at all. God willing, we will find him. Today, we will go from this direction. Maybe he will be found. Come on, take some rest. Please, you are tired from work. Let's go this way to work, this way, maybe it was found. Oh, it's okay. Trust God, we bothered you today. I'm very sorry. I looked for him here, but unfortunately I couldn't find him. Are you sleeping? Aunt Farida , what do you want to do, how long should I be here, bear with me for a few days so I can see what kind of dirt I pour on my head? I have to do something , I 'm hungry, you did n't bring anything, where should we go to eat ? We only have empty bread . Aunt, let me go to my father. Do you want to bother your aunt again? Like yesterday, you want to fight again, come eat some bread so we can think, come eat bread, I'm bored, aunt, at least let's settle down, I don't like it here, take me home, you brought me here, take me home, I said, father. He misses you. You didn't like to see Akram's face. Well, not anymore. Well, you've been bothering me for two days. Come, sit here. Take me home. Do you want to go ? Yes, you can't bear it . No, aunt. I want to see my brother. I'm afraid, aunt. Take me home, Bill. Give me, can Jalal and the police find him now that they are searching for me to bring the blocks I am worried about my father so I can make a chair for you aunty I hate this place sit down don't bother me what is this place you brought me how long do you want to talk Hit me , I'm tired, put the clamp on your hair, you're crazy, I'll go get some firewood, I have a headache, I want some tea, don't be afraid, I'll come soon , Farida , Miss Farida, are you drinking water at work , aren't you thirsty? No, thanks , it's Jalal's voice, so I can look. We have to leave here. Farida, let's go. How many strangers are there , who are they? We don't know who they are. Let's go. Hurry up . I don't know you. Hurry up . Let's go soon . The agent was searching for them and introduced them to Faridah as two strangers so that Faridah wouldn't find out Sir, let's search all the way up, maybe they will be found. We went to grandfather's house. When we came back, Farida is not at home. We are tired. We have come a long way, sir, to search this area . Boss, boss, let's go inside this cave, no, it's not here either , there's something in here, it looks like a clip, oh my God, this is Farida's, by God, Jalal will be very upset when he finds the clip in his daughter's hair, don't be upset, God willing, it will be found, we arrived late, anyone He has taken Farida, Jalal is sad for his daughter , Khaya is worried, maybe she has gone this way, Elnaz has deceived Farida, and Farida thinks they were strangers, but Elnaz doesn't say anything .