(upbeat music) - [Narrator] Scientists have A planet circling the with temperatures that could What will it take to go there, to explore it? The answer is speed. Laser driven spaceships. Anti-matter engines. Warp drive, right out of science fiction. How far, how fast can our technology to take us? (upbeat music) (moves in to light music) It's a journey that has lasted a century. A spacecraft approaches its destination, a planet beyond our solar system and a future beyond our imagination. Touchdown will mark a to expand our horizons, to explore and to survive. It's not the first time we've struck out into the void against all odds. For much of our history, the Several thousand years ago, in the Southwest Pacific. Riding ocean and wind currents, the Polynesians sailed East, navigating by the stars, Over centuries of time, they claimed the Pacific Ocean It was one of the most in human history. Their furthest reach, Easter Island, was over 2000 kilometers (upbeat music) Today we have begun to reach beyond our planetary shores, across distances so vast, we measure them in light years. That's how far light travels in a year, almost 10 trillion kilometers. Our roadmap leads us out There, a little over four light years away you'll find our sun's nearest neighbors, a dim red dwarf star And a pair of Sun-like Go beyond them and you've entered the local bubble, a giant of gas by a star that exploded long ago. Within this bubble, 50 are 150 stars bright enough to be seen with the naked eye. (light music) Nestled among them are 2000 smaller stars visible only with a powerful telescope. How many have planets? Could any serve as stations on our way out to explore the galaxy? (upbeat music) Our first stop, no doubt, is a planet orbiting around Proxima Centauri. About one third larger than Earth, it's a very different kind of planet. One side facing away from its The other side facing inward, Did life flourish here? Could humans survive? The key is whether there's an atmosphere and water on the surface. These would be signs and temperatures moderate If Proxima B or any other proves to be habitable, the to mount an expedition to But to get there in the short will take whole new types of spacecraft we have yet to build, whole new designs that can The discovery of Proxima B was to find worlds like Earth in the neighborhood of our Sun. Increasingly, the hunt for light gathering power of on the ground with a growing More than just identifying these instruments allow us to measure surface temperatures, and look for the chemical Astronomers are devising whole One group used the Hubble Space Telescope to probe a series of found orbiting an ultra cool dwarf star 40 light years away called Trappist I. Each of these planets is Three orbit within the habitable zone. At just the right distance and with the right temperature What are the chances they actually harbor oceans Red dwarf stars like Trappist I are known to emit large and violent flares. Over time, solar radiation of water in a planet's atmosphere. Hydrogen atoms liberated in the split then waft into space, leaving the oxygen to bind This same process has been In its early years, there is thought to have been enough water to carve networks of river and lake beds. Over time, these stores along with Mars' chance of nurturing life. To find out whether the planets of Trappist I have been astronomers measured the amount of ultraviolet light striking them, an indication of their They found that the in ultraviolet light and By contrast, the outermost planets have It's possible they have kept the stores of water acquired during their (light music) Based on a statistical analysis of solar systems discovered so far, one study estimates that there is at least one planet like Earth (upbeat music) Astronomers may have already found it. Each night in this control room at the La Silla Observatory in Chile, astronomers conduct the for planets in the They work with an older telescope, commissioned in the year 1977. It has a relatively small but it's outfitted with a that allows astronomers to finally parse the light of nearby stars. It does this by recording caused by the gravitational Among their targets is a star that lies just below the constellation of Leo, 11 light years from Earth. Ross 128 is a red dwarf Orbiting this star, astronomers have found a planet slightly larger than Earth. (light music) Because the star is relatively quiescent, the planet may not have endured destructive blasts of radiation. In the coming years, astronomers will use to probe the planet's atmosphere. They are looking for the presence of biomarkers such as oxygen, and other evidence of a habitable climate. They'll also look for clues to the early evolution of our own planet and ultimately for an answer are we alone in the universe? - Should we ever decide it's worth going there for a closeup Ross 128 is actually moving toward us, in the blink of a cosmic eye, 79,000 years from now, it will become our son's nearest neighbor. Proxima Centauri, Trappist I and Ross 128 are among the first targets in what is shaping up to be the golden age of planet hunting. The Transit Exoplanet Satellite, TES, has found evidence of over 5,000 planets orbiting nearby stars that astronomers hope to (light music) Many are like those found slightly smaller than our The surface of Planet C likely hovers around 400 degrees Celsius. It's so close to the star that it whips around it every eight Earth days. Planet B is a gas giant, 23 times the mass of Earth, temperatures average The sun-like star Pi Mensa hosts a planet twice the size of Earth. Its surface temperature is Then there's this planet, around the red dwarf star TOI0-00 roughly the size of Earth, it's tucked just inside the habitable zone of its parent star. Following up on data from TES, planet hunters used the powerful detectors of the James Webb Space Telescope to confirm its first planet. At 99% the size of Earth, it orbits the Red dwarf star LHS-475. This planet will no doubt be the subject of intensive study in coming years. (light music) Inevitably, the discovery of planets around nearby stars has spurred debate about the imperatives of The physicist Stephen Hawking, of scientists concerned about a cloud of uncertainties - Pollution. Overpopulation. War. Climate change and ecological collapse. We have no choice, they say, but to develop the technologies to other solar systems, but The dream of settling distant worlds is as old as the rocket itself. Back in the early years the Russian space visionary believed humans would one They would evolve into a whole new species he called homo cosmicus. Sulkovsky laid out the His famous rocket equation describes the basic principle of acceleration. It's the force of mass expelled at high velocity out the back of a rocket. Versus the overall mass of the rocket. (light music) Decades later in the in full swing another Russian scientist, Nikolai Kardashev, described space faring civilizations as the product of a long He defined level one as with the ability to tap to that of the sun striking our planet. At this basic level, a planetary civilization would exceed our current energy generating capacity by five orders of magnitude. It may take us centuries It may take thousands or even millions of years to reach level two, the ability to harness of a star, or level three, In theory, a civilization sophistication could wander from planetary bodies from technologies we can scarcely imagine. Advancing that far does not mean we can afford to abandon Earth. According to a recent rethinking of Kardashev's theories, maintaining the health of our biosphere will be crucial to the development of interstellar technologies. In this view, interstellar flight will to solve humanity's growing energy needs, with technologies that are more efficient, powerful, and safe. Indeed, radically more potent fuels and engines could even to the very environments that allow us to develop and test them. (dramatic music) In this way of thinking, to advance toward a planetary civilization means producing energy in ways that actually safeguard Earth. What leaps in science and engineering will interstellar How far, and how fast can they take us. The speeds we can reach we employ and the power that drives them. Power is often measured in joules. The amount needed to one meter against Earth's gravity. The metabolism of an average person at rest produces 100 joules That's the same as a light bulb. An elite runner traveling at almost 40 kilometers per Using the technology of a bicycle we use that same wattage to top 66 kilometers per hour. On the ground, this is a race car can reach speeds with an engine that converts the potential energy packed into gasoline, about 40 million joules per kilo, into the kinetic energy of motion. It's held back by friction One way to fight friction, The SR-71 Blackbird flies at 10 times faster than a race car. As much power as a jet can muster a full tank buys only Rocketing into space To rise into Earth orbit, a giant Saturn V rocket must hit 28,000 kilometers per hour, almost 10 times faster than a jet But the faster it goes, the more it has to carry. To get Apollo astronauts into space and on their way to the moon. A Saturn five rocket had to lug As inefficient as chemical rockets are, they have served the vast Since the 1960s, we've used them to launch thousands of satellites for communications for studying the Earth And we've used rockets to send a succession of The now retired Space Shuttle served as a platform for research, for launching and servicing and for building the a successor to the Russian Mir, and American Skylab stations. The International Space Station It has become the largest collaborative engineering project in human history. This sprawling structure of modules and nodes and a Here astronauts are learning to live for extended periods of time apart from the gravity, climate systems, and comforts of our home planet. From Earth, rockets deliver resupply missions These unmanned capsules from carry hundreds of meals, new equipment and scientific experiments. The International Space Station has become a hub for zero gravity science. At any given time, the crew is conducting pointed research into life support systems for publication in science journals. (upbeat music) Proponents of this work see for longer and more There are a host of Beyond recycling waste and life support systems must include the ability to grow food. On missions far beyond Earth, living compartments must protect against solar radiation and cosmic rays. Once these problems are solved, some proponents envision the construction of bases in orbit around the sun, with factories or supply hubs to support a network of remote colonies. Whether we send people to explore Mars or to mine rare minerals on asteroids, we'll have to overcome the power and speed limits of the space age. Right now, because of the to get into space, most can only coast to their destinations. The Twin Voyager spacecraft got around this by using the as a planetary slingshot. Racing out at 62,000 kilometers per hour, more than double the speed of a Saturn V, Voyager 2 became the first spacecraft to exit the solar system. But as fast as it's going it will need another 73,000 To make long distance whether it's humans or we'll have to reinvent the rocket. (suspenseful music) The search for faster, more in the 1960s in the shadow Nuclear bombs release energy Imagine if that potential could be harnessed to propel a spacecraft. Scientists tested a a vehicle propelled by They envision an orbiting space station as the launchpad for the Orion spacecraft. (upbeat music) A series of controlled nuclear blasts set off behind the craft would accelerate it to Orion would've been in just over four decades of Earth time. Plans for this spacecraft The technology was unproven, In the 1970s with interstellar flight still in their sights, a designed a 200 meter long It would use another type That's the energy that lights up the sun, generated when gravity under immense heat and pressure. Just a gram of fusion in the range of 200 billion joules. The idea was to produce that would propel the craft After accelerating through two stages, it could cruise along at but this required Daedalus to carry more than 40,000 tons of fuel and there'd be nothing Once it approached its destination. As it flew past its target at 129 million kilometers per hour it would deploy a fleet to go in for a look. Daedalus was never built, but the completeness of the design has inspired new generations of dreamers. (light music) Today, one group of scientists a way to reach Proxima B more efficiently. The concept begins with a solar power generating station orbiting Earth. It's lined with lasers each a futuristic version of The force exerted by but together in frictionless space they can propel a space sale with staggering success, to 20% the speed of light. In just 20 years, a fleet of laser powered they send their data to the next on a four year If Proxima B proves a worthy destination there are technologies on the drawing board that - What if we could tap into the stuff of science It's the product of high energy radiation that rips through our solar system. When cosmic rays smash into they create a spray of particles If we can't capture anti-matter particles in orbit we may find a way (light music) Down at CERN, the giant physics and Switzerland, scientists as a way of studying the and how it emerged in the Using the Large Hadron Collider, they accelerate atoms to and blast them together to release their fundamental constituents. But the anti-matter yield of producing just a to be upwards of $100 trillion, and the stuff is so volatile that storing more than remains a significant challenge. Our ability to produce raises basic questions about whether interstellar One thing's for sure, more Earth-friendly solar and wind won't transform us into a planetary civilization, and they simply don't pack to get us to Proxima Centauri. Anti-matter might, provided we can learn to control and produce It is the most powerful fuel known, with about two billion times more energy per volume than conventional rocket fuel. In contemporary spacecraft designs, protons and antiprotons are They're channeled in parallel to a propulsion chamber. Where they collide the The blast creates a high energy beam that pushes on a magnetic Accelerating it forward. Though it would take only a thousandth of a gram to fly to Saturn the craft would need to carry tons more to get up to interstellar speeds and reach Proxima Centauri Such a potent fuel brings serious hazards. The high temperatures produced by an anti-matter engine would be enough to destroy the spacecraft. It would have to be made of materials not yet invented that can (upbeat music) Setting out on its journey, the spacecraft must navigate an obstacle course of If it meets a meteor, it uses a battery of shields to pulverize the object. (loud booms) And whisk it away. If the craft plows through a cloud of dust it's buffered by a As it finally closes in on its Our cosmic envoy, powered by its own anti-matter engine, firing in reverse, the probe would need to spend years even decades slowing down. Even at these speeds, the mission is probably too long for any human to go along. (dramatic music) Imagine for a moment, a future in which time and distance are not so daunting, and the stars are literally at our fingertips. (upbeat music) The spacecraft maneuvers into an orbital station It's a testament to science conceived on a stunning theoretical frontier with engineering far This craft is based on a by Albert Einstein that gravity is the distortion of What if a spaceship could trait to pass between the Such a spacecraft would of matter not yet discovered, of all the electric power Welcome to Warp Drive. In theory, this ship as it traverses the But don't book your flight just yet, building a spacecraft like this will take breathtaking advances in As far off as this may be, who can say what will one day overcome, what ideas or technologies (light music) when, or if, we do reach for the stars, the impulse will no doubt come not from a struggle to survive, but from a sense of wonder at the limitless variety The scene is hundreds or a Starship arrives at Proxima Whether the craft carries humans or not, we'll likely send an unmanned probe down to give us our first up close look. (upbeat music) It may well land using technologies we've perfected in our day. At the dawn of planetary exploration. Sensors will probe the alien landscape. Artificial intelligence that evolved and was updated during the What's the makeup of the planet's soil? It's atmosphere. Has life established a foothold? Steadily a new world With each revelation we reflect on the odyssey that brought us here, and how it began in the discoveries and dreams of generations long past. (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues)