This is a 3D printer. So is this. And this. the years. They look like they're machines on how they're built and what they're common: A 0.4mm nozzle. And the nozzle is work. But why is it always a 0.4mm bore? Surely printers are made for, it can't just be it's not. Honestly, I think it's the wrong it's being used in and you would be better my mouth is, I switched to a 0.6 on the printer up. And, spoiler, with the newest generation at least as good if not better than what the course, it's still much faster at it. So to show you how this new slicer tech works, I'm also going to show you who today's Fiberpunk is a cheap and simple way to add to your 3D printer. Their Node addon directly through USB, which eliminates bottlenecks to continue working. And they're also developing failure detection to Fiberpunk. All the software can scrutinize it or make your own adjustments. So to understand why we're all using 0.4mm wasn't always this way. Back in the early which I guess was a result of the hotends nozzle, being mostly DIY jobs and .5 kinda but looking at the print time increase that the machines used to be capable of, it was their first commercial hotend, they chose their v4 hotend was so far ahead of everything standard. It allowed you to print finer details a .35. take longer to finish, but much more than of all, your extrusion track is less wide, layer, it needs to cover a lot more distance Then, because a smaller bore is also more have to slow down the linear print speed to And lastly, a smaller nozzle also means lower to see layer heights between 1/4 and 3/4 of like overhangs and bridges have the best chance down a thinner track, and having to run more you also need to do more layers to get the 0.4 was a massive step back in print speed, agreed that it's still fast enough, so nobody Until now... naw, that's too cheesy. can you tell which ones were done with a 0.4 I can't. The only way to tell them apart look identical. Now, I know, the Benchy is pretty representative of what you're usually which means I changed another parameter between nozzle, and that is enabling the new Arachne print time differences the new engine made, there are other cases where there's maybe slicer. Arachne was originally developed by for a while, but thanks to Cura being open-source, it's in the 2.5 Alpha, but it's going Basically, it changes how the Slicer generates and I think even in Slic3r before that, you By default, it would always try to fit a full start and end of that extrusion line would simply being ignored that were smaller than would be to enable the "detect thin lines" to do lines that were not full loops. Most pretty rough-looking parts with tons of artifacts, between doing the full two-line loops and option was turned off to get cleaner prints. meant that when your details were slightly need an extra fill line to squeeze into that nozzle size. Or sometimes, you'd get these to print. Not optimal, but it worked. printing perimeters at a fixed extrusion width, printing, and that is especially visible on width. There's no more option to enable sort of doing that - but cleaner. details that previously wouldn't print at an absolute non-issue. The best example is test part that I designed, probably 5 or 6 it. With the classic Slic3r perimeter generation every font up until the tallest 10mm one. smaller texts that just use a single line, to that magic 2x perimeter size, but if we results. And honestly, this is cleaner than detect thin walls enabled. on both the 0.6mm nozzle with Arachne and comparisons in this video, the 0.4mm nozzle .6 with Arachne only takes 1h12m. That's same improvement with the .4, you'd need "Speed" profile. Which, of course, you well and then we're faster again. And if you to use even coarser layers, all the way print is going to finish in just 33 minutes. that coarse, but hey, with .6, that's now But really, I want to keep this a comparison nozzle and what's now possible with Arachne I tried to find parts that really had the with the Prusa SLA test part that's intended with the classic slicing actually is better details at the edge of the part. These are nozzle will just fit, but a .6 lays down just But when we look closer, down here in the actually skipped a row - I guess that's a bit too small for it to get picked up. But, all there. And if we look closer, there are slicing: On the back here, there's this supposed to go all the way through, it's same with this detail width test pattern in off in the back, too. On the .6 with Arachne, impressive that the .4 print was able to print to the model. "Detect thin lines" would wouldn't be pretty, not any prettier than least. But of course, the .6 still has the The 50% scale Salty McCreedy is an interesting cases, it's just very organic and, actually with these sorts of prints, this is what I what .4 was capable of with the classic slicing. The only differences I was able to notice quite have the same definition in the pattern sharp with the .6mm nozzle. Those are things parts side by side, and the light hitting done with Arachne by itself, you'd never this took just 1h49m instead of 3h17m. highlight the differences, here's the thing: the smarter choice for a while. Because these normally going to print. For me, this is the nowhere near being fine enough to require you can now just use a .6. Point in case: Arachne in the first place. It's actually and up until now, you just couldn't print that's no longer an issue. were getting with a .4 and the old slicing with .6 and Arachne, maybe even slightly better course, the other choice you now have is to get even cleaner and finer prints than before redundant if you want to look at it from that But there is one drawback to these larger at the same layer height. So all these parts if it was a 0.4 or a 0.6mm nozzle. But remember height range for each nozzle size? Well, with in its comfort zone also shifts to larger just at the lower limit for a 0.6mm nozzle. section back here - both the 0.4 and the 0.6 but the 0.4 does so much more cleanly. It's the difference is still there. A 0.6mm nozzle height, but going for a different layer height By the way, this was also part of the reason With that, you need even thicker layers for material so quickly that your extruder and meaning the printer would actually need to even get the same speed boost going from 0.6 plus you're definitely not going to get 0.6 and the benefit from Arachne. So with Arachne, should you switch to a 0.6mm Well, at least give it a try and see if you speed gain alone is something that makes filament more immediate - on some prints, Arachne with half, but if you really need some parts even thicker layers than before, and all that without the nozzle itself. Arachne is amazing for think that Arachne with a 0.6 is overall perfectly Bravo to Ultimaker for developing it. So if you're getting one of those fancy straight for the 0.6mm. Or if you just want linked some of the genuine ones down below 50ct Amazon special, as they're sometimes you can use PrusaSlicer with any printer, mind that Arachne is currently not in the potentially buggy 2.5.0 Alpha. It did work But that's it for this one, thank you for in the next one. support the channel on Patreon, almost forgot