As a demolition expert in the female bomb squad Ouyang Lan learned from Director Huang Received a top-secret mission And other departments Elite agents together Arresting Kuomintang traitors Liu Jingshan's Special Operations Ouyang Lan, go set a bomb Prevent them from escaping yes Check weapons and prepare for action We must be more vigilant this time. Deploy all around Can't make any mistakes Prepare for action Let's split up and act separately. Captain, look He should be Liu Jingshan There is no Let's go up and take a look Be careful Yes, thank you. Someone Have a problem Be careful not to move Ouyang Lan, what are you doing? Everyone, don't move. There's a bomb on the floor. What is this How come I've never seen it? This should be a wire bomb Wire Bomb I've only heard of it. Germany has this technology The slightest vibration of any wire Will cause an explosion Don't move. I tried to dismantle it. Be careful Hurry up! Don't argue, it says she's a bomb expert. No one can do this except her Don't divide her god I've never seen a bomb like this. But I will try my best Please Hurry up, I can't hold on any longer. Hurry up Hold on a little longer. Hold on a little longer. Hold on a little longer I can't hold on any longer This place is going to explode Everyone run! Go fast Captain Ouyang Lan hasn't come back for a few days. What's wrong I don't think it's right I remember Ouyang Lan told me She is an orphan Where is she going to visit relatives? She is an orphan I've never heard her talk about it. Chief Huang is looking for you. Find me Report Come in Director Huang, please look for me. sit Xue Min Something might have happened to Ouyang Lan What happened? That's it Liu Jingshan from the Statistics Bureau defected When he escaped Took an important document And he intends to take this document Hand it over to the devils What does that have to do with Ouyang Lan's visit to her relatives? This is the three goods The superiors did not want to publicly arrest Liu Jingshan From various special agent teams Remove an elite member To carry out a secret arrest mission I chose Ouyang Lan from your team. I see No wonder she was so mysterious when she left. What happened to her? I just received the notification Mission failed They didn't catch Liu Jingshan And all the other team members died. What about Ouyang Lan? Judging from the situation on the scene She should be with Liu Jingshan Fell off the cliff together But her body has not been found yet. I'm so hungry Let go and wait for Ouyang Lan to come back before eating Why are you so nice to her? I've lived that long. No one has bought me a cake yet. What's wrong? Boss, what's wrong with you? What's wrong? Speak up. What happened? Ouyang Lan died What Finally found it Ouyang Lan: Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan Where are you Ouyang Lan, come out quickly Here This should be Director Liu's villa. According to Director Huang Ouyang Lan fell from here I originally wanted to celebrate Sister Lanlan's birthday. I didn't expect it would be her death anniversary. What nonsense are you talking about? Just fell from here. No one said anyone fell to death. Falling from such a height How could he still be alive? Ouyang Lan will not die Why Because she hasn't defeated me yet She won't be willing Okay, everyone, stop talking. Let's go look for it again Walk Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan Sister Lanlan Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan Sister Lanlan Ouyang Lan Sister Lanlan Captain, come here quickly. Walk Go down and see Someone has been here before I just don't know what they are looking for. Look what's over there. Go over and take a look I know him He is Liu Jingshan from the Statistics Bureau Director Huang showed me his information that day. Walk Are you okay? It's ok. I just sprained my ankle. Captain, who were those people just now? Just look at their skills. Probably the Japanese devils There's someone over there They're still stealing bodies. Leng Yue, I'll rush over and you cover me good These Japanese agents They must be here to find information on Liu Jingshan. Go find Ouyang Lan right away. Walk Drink this glass of wine There may be no one who knows me on the road ahead The Endless Road There is wind and rain It's hard to meet by chance It's hard to meet each other I will remember you after we part The little bits and pieces of the past Liu Ruyan arrives Even if you die, you will still be a nymphomaniac. The rain is you Scattered on the earth careful It's all you The cloud is you The road is you Don't joke with your life. Only in times of trouble can we see True Friendship True Friendship The wind is you The rain is you Scattered on the earth It's all you Don't move The cloud is you The road is you Only in times of trouble can we see True Friendship The wind is you The rain is you Scattered on the earth It's all you Tong Buling, take your broken flowers away from me Do you believe it, old lady? I just feel It's not time to mourn yet I just think we're all working together. We are five people in the bomb squad Without one it wouldn't be the bomb squad. yes I never thought she was so rare before. When this person left, I felt really empty inside. Look She is so arrogant even when taking photos The more I look at it, the more I hate it. Let's go to bed early. Just save your strength We can continue to look for her. No matter what We must find her. Say who you are Why are you rummaging through my box? You let go first What can I say if you don't let go? Do you say you grandfather Why are you so hot-tempered? Who are you all? Why are you arresting me? We didn't catch you. We saved you. We passed by the cliff two days ago. Seeing you faint I rescued you. You are lying. You are trying to steal my box. No way Isn't your box over there? I said girl Don't be afraid We are not an acrobatic troupe trying to make a living. I am the boss here. This is Miss Li. It was she who bandaged your wound. This one is called Brother Li, and he is her husband. By the way, this is my grandson, Alang Girl, you're too strong. I was almost strangled to death by you just now I said Alang You've gained this flesh in vain. Can't even beat a girl. How can I get married after this? I said, girl, what's your name? How could someone faint on the edge of a cliff? I this girl I can't remember anything. Have you seen this person? Never seen Thanks How is it? Any news? Will she really have Shut up Don't be discouraged. We will always find Go look for it again Who am I and why am I here? What the hell is this place? Liu JingshanLiu Jingshan Who is Liu Jingshan? No. 171, Xinmin Road, Linjiang City Girl, where are you going? Stay away from me But you are covered in wounds. I don't need you to care No, I can't let you go. Don't be so nice to me. I don't even know you I have nothing to do with you Look at me Come on Give me give me Look Come and catch me, run away Come chase me who I am How come I'm here? What on earth is this place? Who am I? Ouyang Lan lost her memory Carrying Liu Jingshan's box Walking aimlessly box Raise your hands and stay away from the box Why kill her with all that crap? Blow you to death Let's go back box Good, good, good, good, good, go Come come come Thank you very much Find a good seat. Good good good well Good good good It's really interesting, yes. So awesome well Good Kung Fu is really good Good good good Very good Good good good One more You got up I cooked a bowl of noodles for you Two more eggs were laid Try it I can't keep calling you girl. May I have your name I I don't remember my name. Then I'll just call you Miss He Look Because I particularly like lotus Miss He is pretty good. What do you think? It's up to you. Go fast Good good good So cool Good Kung Fu Very good well Very good well Go fast Alang get out of the way No. 71 Walk Come I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry Come and sit down Okay, okay, I got it. Okay, okay. Go back, go back, go back Go Go Go Bon Voyage Boss, that's Sister Lanlan, she's still alive Where is it? Sister Lanlan Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lanlan Ouyang Lanlanlan It's me. I'm Xue Min Driver parking Ouyang Lan, it's me, get out of the car quickly Ouyang Lanlan sister Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lanlan sister Ouyang Lan Lanlan, Ouyanglan, get off the bus Get off, get off Driver Stop Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lan, get off the car! Ouyang Lan Ouyang Lanlanlan Lanlan Do you know those girls? Why doesn't she seem to recognize us? No, we have to find a way to get her back. There's a car in front. Go fast parking parking What happened? Are the Japanese devils still chasing you? Master, stop asking so many questions. Let's drive quickly. It's more important to escape. I was scared to death Sister Sister Be careful, Leng Yue You guys retreat first. Sister Captain Head Sister team leader Captain Sister Captain Big Boss Wake up! Wake Up Sister Boss, you can't be okay. We can't lose you again. Captain, wake up, sister. Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Wake up! Leng Yue Tong Ling Ling Are you all okay? fine Does your leg hurt? I'm fine How to help me up Help her up! Be careful Lingling It scared us to death. Don't cry anymore fine I'm fine. Stop crying Are you sure it was Ouyang Lan you saw? Yes, my teammates saw it with their own eyes. There will be no mistake Where is she? Why don't you take her back? She should have gone to Linjiang City now. Why did she go to the Japanese-occupied area? Not sure Director Huang I ask for your permission to go to Linjiang City I promise I will definitely find Ouyang Lan back Report to Director Huang This is our unanimous decision no I have to preserve the strength of the bomb squad. I can't let you go to a dangerous place Director Huang, stop talking. This is the command Every one of you listen to me. Stay well in the dormitory The long-planned rainstorm plan It is a collection of heavy industrial addresses across China Carry out bombing The plan is about to be implemented Kobayashi came specially to assist the Emperor's special envoy Implementation by Goro Oe Looking at the slump of Nomura Kobayashi tried to awaken him with the spirit of kendo Unexpectedly Nomura-kun's swordsmanship is still as powerful as ever Where is the unfamiliarity That's shameful. To defeat Nomura-kun I've been practicing. When I was in school We are evenly matched. I'm tired, let's go have some tea. Nomura-kun, don't you know? Once a kendo match begins There will definitely be winners and losers The same is true of war The one I won today was not the real Nomura-kun Your swordsmanship is top notch. But it's less murderous. If you were me, what would you do? Kill all the members of the female bomb squad This is the only way to free you These are all my good friends. They will take you to those Japanese women I see Xiaolan, you must be careful about everything. I'm waiting for your good news Ah Lang, you wait here for grandpa and the others. I don't Let's go faster Xue Min, just wait for you to kill each other. The wine is coming Come on, drink some more. Sir, please drink Come add two dishes Sir, what would you like to eat? Bring me a drink Okay Boss, you said we left Jianghai City without permission What would happen if Director Huang knew about this? We still have food to eat I don't know how Sister Lanlan is doing. If anything happened to her Can this dead girl not wail here? This is the Japs' territory. Just bear with it. Hide quickly if something happens What's wrong Walk Damn it, I want to avenge my uncle Ah Lang, follow me. Boss, look! That seems to be Ouyang Lan Sister Lanlan, Sister Lanlan is us Ah Lang, give me the bomb Run Don't move Ouyang Lan I am Xue Min I don't know you, I must kill you today You Japanese dogs Ouyang Lan Sister Lanlan, what's wrong with you? How can you do this? You are sick. I don't know you guys, just kill me if you want I'm not afraid of you Ouyang Lan, what's wrong with you? Come on, I'll tell you. The bomb is about to explode Miss He, run away! Ah Lang, let go! Run run Forget about them, let's run. This little idiot forgot his origins Even their own people were blown up Sister Lanlan Why do you think we are Japanese devils? Okay, stop talking. The Japanese patrol will be here soon. let's go It seems someone is following us. The vinyl record has been received Good job We were deceived It turns out they are the Japanese devils Miss He, let's go back to the hotel. I'm worried about my grandfather. No, Alang Now the vinyl record has fallen into the hands of the Japanese devils This happened because of me I have to go in again. Get to the bottom of the matter But this is too dangerous. It's okay. Let me think about it. We'll go in at night. Walk Please note the top secret information The National Government learned Goro Oe I will come to Linjiang secretly in the near future The Nationalist government has sent an assassination envoy Special Envoy The following is a list of cover identities: Liu Zizhao, owner of Lixin Bookstore Zhao Tinghan, head of the National Middle School Li Tianming, a waiter at Dongtian Hotel Wu Dongliang, a deliveryman at the Second Post Office Liu Jingshan's information Fortunately, it fell into our hands Just now on the black LP List of those Chinese agents You heard it all, right? I heard it clearly. Bring people to kill them all immediately. Remember to be neat yes By the way, how are those people in the hotel? Report to the Major We have killed everyone in the hotel. Damn bastard I killed you bastards Ah Lang, follow me, Ah Lang I killed you Ah Lang, Ah Lang, come with me. It's you Ah Lang, please follow me. Go away, bastard Ah Lang, go, go The bastard enemy is there I'll kill you guys, leave now Go away, bastard Go fast You guys follow me yes Don't chase me You bring someone immediately Kill those Chinese agents. Ensure the safe arrival of the envoy yes Alang, how are you? Can you still leave? no problem Go for a walk How do you know that woman? She looks like an old friend of mine. How come? Her name is Ouyang Lan She's a member of the female bomb squad. Thanks to your wire bomb She doesn't remember anything. Brother, I want to play too. Come together Come together I can't reach you guys, throw it down a bit Come give you one for you Next So stupid Come again, come again, come again Come jump rope for you What happened to your hand? My hand is broken Does it still hurt? how so Go fast I'm going to kill these Japanese dogs Alang, what are you doing? I'm going to the hotel I want to find my grandfather and sister Li. You can't go The Japs are still there now Wouldn't it be a waste of time if you went now? Die or die The entire acrobatic class is dead. What's the point of me living? Search for me quickly Report No Report No Walk Ah Lang is better than dying in vain We have more important things to do. Can you help me? help That vinyl record was lost because of my negligence It fell into the hands of the Japanese devils So I have to make up for this mistake. I must notify those Kuomintang agents immediately Prevent more people from being killed by the Japanese devils Miss He, you are right. Now the national crisis I still understand this principle It's a pity that I didn't hear all the lists clearly. I just remember that there seemed to be someone He is the owner of Lixin Bookstore. I know this bookstore. When we were working at the docks in Linjiang City Have seen I can take you there now. search come out Walk You are the bookstore owner. yes Alang, stop smashing it. The person is dead, go away Go fast Old boss It's me grandfather This person looks familiar. Grandpa, I thought you were dead. I was scared to death Ah Lang, thanks to this brother He saved me. Otherwise, he would have been killed by the Japanese devils. What a pity They didn't come out. The hero I thank you I thank you thank you Thank you for saving my grandpa. Okay. I kowtowed to you You're too serious, brother. I came here mainly to find her For me What's my relationship with you? You really can't remember anything. I don't even recognize you anymore Who are you and who am I? Your name is Ouyang Lan You are the granddaughter-in-law of the old boss. Alang is your man I am your uncle you Okay, okay, I won't bother you anymore. Follow me for a while and you will know. Walk Steamed buns Boss, give me two buns. Come Rickshaw ride Boss, give me two buns. steamed stuffed bun Come in Come Xue Min, I brought you the person you wanted. Why you? Are you willing to come back? You actually put a few of us As a Japanese devil You are a guy who can't distinguish between friend and foe. Did You Know You almost blew my sister to death. Sister Lanlan, we finally found you Do you still recognize me? I am Tong Lingling. Tong Lingling What about the boss? Have you forgotten even the boss? Come on, don't even mention me. Don't ask me, I don't know