Welcome back everyone Maximum effort Deadpool and Thanos meeting each other in the soul world All kinds of deleted scenes Just released for the movie. So we'll break it all down. There was a ton of stuff he also joked that he had way to release them like a joke releasing So whatever they do, wind up releasing. Of course, I will continue to do videos for. if you're brand new to the channel, entire other movies with all the deleted scenes Like there's four movies inside this one movie. the actual Deadpool versus Thanos deleted scene versions of the movie that Ryan Reynolds said on the version of the movie that we saw in theaters. it would have been called Deadpool's Strange here coming out of the portal on the cover, of just different scenes from previous Marvel movies in, with special effects all with the purpose of revealing and he'd been in all the Marvel movies up to this point, so the Thanos scene would have been Deadpool showing up when he attacks Wakanda, then actually snaps the infinity Gantlet presumably There's actually a couple of ways to explain how works in the comics, the Russos also changed the way the soul world They explained that just inside the MCU movies, right after they're transported to the soul world of all the souls in the universe the soul world is usually someone like Gamora was Thanos, his favorite daughter He was very close with. The reason it's young Gamora in Infinity War just appearing to him in younger form, each person who snaps the gantlet sees different things that are personal So, for instance, there was a deleted scene of him this would have also explained that the soul world exists and future all exist at the same time. And that's why he's able to see his daughter's future. So in adult form, talking to him. so here's the follow up question to this If the universe is seeing Deadpool in the soul world, Thanos became very close to Deadpool instead of young Gomorrah in this old world. Here. so you can let me know what you think happened For Deadpool to become so close that they knows Like how deeply personal he became to him. but the entire alternate version of this Deadpool Just an entire movie of the wildest, with Deadpool added in, I would have totally paid this next deleted scene that Ryan Reynolds just released more Jean gray name drops, bunch of Nickelback And in the clip, Deadpool also makes references separately from the earlier time Neither Deadpool has already seen Thor. Time is going by so much faster than I. I don't reply, but what happened between you and Jean? That seemed so good together? We blew it. You've not. You've never seen the trailer for tiptoes. You'll love it. I've been called a lot of disgusting things Do you know that -40 Fahrenheit is -40 Celsius? It's so stupid. I don't even think tiptoes is a movie. I think it's just that I think they just made a trailer. And he was crying for. For me like a baby. The god of thunder. Look at that ambush. Off! And I'll tell you. So handsome. But up close. No thank you. You won't believe this. But his hair extensions. Cheap ones. Unless you're in a professional salon, Lace. You're so climbable. Reporter. Yeah. Got a nice one. Really? That's funny. It's not. So you can let me know when you think Deadpool He could have done it if he saw cable's time travel device they never explained what happened between Jean gray She died that like, she's dead in his universe Like, he explains, his entire team of X-Men the very obscure tiptoes If you didn't see that movie, the trailer 2003 comedy Tiptoes It was an actual movie. But the reason why he's making the trailer joke, McConaughey and rewatched his own trailer himself for the first time So Deadpool is making fun of Matthew McConaughey, very, very meta kind of joke to make for Deadpool. there's another deleted scene that he just released Peter Poole shows up and they're all giving their speeches I had to cut a couple of the F-bombs out of this But this is the clip. My Peter gave me a sense of belonging with no one else. Word from the guy for any other. Yeah. Who said that? Go back to about. All that I said, Peter. The some of you might have detected to the voice who says go back to Canada is actually Walker Bell But they also filmed The Adam Project, the film originally Walker's go. Bell was supposed to play kid Pool during the movie, but He grew so big So that's why Ryan Reynolds daughter there are a bunch more Easter Eggs they show here. You see Wolverine doing the X-Men They've actually done They revealed the other alternate versions of the movie Hard, a Die Hard parody. Obviously. Deadpool Big Disney movie with Deadpool Minimum pants, maximum bother. That's also a follow up on all the Winnie the Pooh jokes like the Baby League scene, he's calling it Deadpool's baby is a Rosemary's Baby's joke. That movie's all about her giving birth to the Antichrist. So presumably in that movie, the way they make it to a version of Deadpool actually just parodied something similar during Agatha make people think that Agatha lost her son, But that was a big misdirect Deadpool fiction with Nick Fury, because Samuel L The real version of the movie. Ryan Reynolds in Raging Pool is a raging bull. Robert De Niro Scorsese reference In My Dinner Great movie if you haven't seen it, but the whole movie just talking to each other, This was his pitch to Kevin Feige just him in a Deadpool costume, talking to someone else they actually already kind of did a version of this idea in the MCU during the old school They did one with Coulson and Sitwell getting Thunderbolt Ross to keep the abomination in prison can't force Thunderbolt They agree to send a consultant to meet Thunderbolt Tony Stark, and it's them connecting back to the Incredible there was Deadpool, the Dark World armor over his Deadpool suit on the cover. Here He was going to be a frame for frame remake of Thor and other characters like literally just a shot There are a bunch of other versions of the movie There were like 20 different versions of the movie and he actually revealed that Last Pitch was the version because all those other pages were before he actually said when he was prepping his last pitch for Kevin Feige, He said that if that pitch had failed, There when he would eventually, like many years in the future, All because he felt like he couldn't figure out to actually spend money to make, until Hugh And that became Deadpool and Wolverine. They're a bunch more deleted scenes This is the Thor scene Notice it's not Chris Hemsworth in a motion capture suit They just added him later with visual effects. the way that Ryan Reynolds and Shawn they just came up with the pitch for the joke why he's crying in a future movie, But they filmed it just wanting to have the funny moment In reality, if you had to give an actual answer for why friends with Thor and winds up sacrificing himself Ki being it looks like he dies there. A bunch more deleted scenes and alternate jokes Canadians are supposed to be nice. One more outburst like that God, you are such a dick, versions of Deadpool variants One of them includes a Deadpool variant Any has all the different powers like Iron Man's armor, Captain America shield. But done with the Deadpool logo on it. He's got Hulk hands, meaning that he has gamma powers. Black widow's gantlets. and Hawkeye's bow. And obviously the difference is the blue in red I think that was just meant to pay off the Marvel one of the other big recent reveals are crazy about Channing Tatum Gambit character now, for some reason before it, Kevin Feige had no intention of bringing Channing Tatum back as Gambit, Now, where Kevin Feige is like, maybe we should actually he's actually kind of done that with Wesley Snipes Originally, Kevin Feige had no plans to do but now it sounds like he's they confirmed a couple of big details Like I already did a Ghost Rider video. They confirmed that they did try to get Nicolas Cage, but for some reason it just didn't work out So eventually we will see a version of Ghost Rider one of the other recent fourth wall breaking jokes that they've been releasing like new stuff that he filmed as Deadpool with Blind Owl, So it's Blind Owl also kind of breaking the fourth wall, like in the actual movie, does know that he is a fictional Like we're making the movie and making fun of the MCU they kind of did a version of this. Deadpool where she busts out of her own show while it's on Disney this is kind of like Deadpool's version of that, where he's commenting on his own movie Technically, his fourth wall break powers inside the entire Marvel Multiverse, Like during Channing He talks more about his version of the Gambit movie, as it would have been before Disney bought Fox He explained why he was so happy in Deadpool and Wolverine But if they had actually made his Gambit movie he would not have gotten that armor because movie the original X-Men apocalypse post-credits scene with S Corp was actually meant Sinister was going to be the main villain of that movie. they kind of got into Gambit in Mister but only briefly, the couple of cool shots of some of the Easter Eggs in the background here, like the Fantastic It's basically red schools rotted to look like Iron Man's hot rod car So like it was pruned from a reality where Iron Man bought At some point. I already talked about the stripe helmet in the background If you don't remember stripe, he's which they also kind of got into during X-Men At the very end, X-Men 97. Josh Brolin we get a much better look at the sentinel boot joke that from the original Deadpool game, which actually blew it up So for those of you that wanted more Easter Eggs for the Deadpool game They revealed the street that he lives on here, when they were making the movie as the New York Street, City of the X-Men universe, which makes sense notice that they eventually replaced with the Stan The get stuff joke turned into the Stanley Steamer. Stan Lee joke. They're a bunch of other deleted scenes of Peter here inside the TVA There was like a completely alternate ending to the movie, which they sound like they cut and one of the other cool details from inside Deadpool's apartment here is that you notice That he just keeps. A rat like this exists as a piece of X-Men they kind of got into this phenomenon during the MCU movies where the Avengers The same thing would be true of the X-Men Like everybody would be buying X-Men merch the follow up question is, do the X-Men themselves actually earn any money from that merch Notice here And you can actually see his sword He just wasn't using it during the actual final battle. Probably because they didn't want him using his sword So they just wanted to give him a different weapon this is meant to be the Excalibur sword from the Eternals this looks like a version of the Sword of Might, which would be from some universe. They didn't say which universe it came from, just that one of the other big Easter Eggs here too, is this is meant to be Captain Marvel's So at some point, a version of Captain Marvel got pruned, and then died no idea what she did I think for a while the movie just had many different on what worked out, and at some point Whether or not she was going to be a villain but because there's a billion other Easter Eggs the scenes and deleted scenes. If there's anything that you spotted that I didn't talk about in this video below in the comments on create like a separate playlist I think I've done almost as many deleted scenes watch me say this and then like another week or two, hashtag release the Reynolds cut. everybody click here for all those other deleted scenes to learn about Denzel Washington joining Thank you so much for watching