All right ladies and gentlemen and others. What are others? I don't know. Just to make sure... This one is exquisite. I'm halfway Bernard Wasserstein - Barbarism and He knows the names of people and places I've never heard of. I mean he...this this is so detailed and well put together. Now you got to have a reading stand Okay? Alright, so it uh... But as narrative and analytical Niall Ferguson, The War of the World. Um, also remarkable. And, umm... What he adds to Wasserstein is his is Good... good. -- His is more global. Uhh, so he does more in Asia and things like that. Equally well written. Uh, he makes a Um, he tells you things that make it Um, because he shares the blame very ...uh, in terms of things that happened Uh, and umm, ...it's very, very powerful stuff. [inaudible] Uh like water... W-A-S-S-E-R. Vasser...Oh, ...and stien S-T-I-E-N ...and Ferguson. Now this guy is a turkey. He, he would, he would be oh, Ted Koppel let's say or... uh, or any of the real important... Diane Sawyer. Takes a year off... goes all over Europe and writes the book that does two things at the same time. On the one hand it is a history of the twentieth-century. And on the other hand, it's a history of the present. So in each each place he he meets the children or the of historical actors from the earlier Whether they're [inaudible] officers or whatever ...and interviews them and he intertwines the present and the It's very, very He apparently is one of the great Dutch journalists of this generation. And this book it's Hert - G-E-E-R-T Mak. M-A-K ...and it's now in paperback also. Here's the book I kept on referring to yesterday but had at home... Modris Eksteins's &quot;The Rights of Spring&quot; ...this is difficult. A lot of He makes some claims that are but in getting deep below the surface he brings up issues and questions that So it's very, very much worth If you really serious about it - it's a Um, and one of the most wonderful things Um... I use this about eight, nine years ago for the first time it was too difficult. And now I began using it about four five years ago... and students frequently So, the quality of our students has changed so much over the last 10 [inaudible] okay all you're gonna get over it... I'm roasting you guys tonight! You'll get... I'll...no, no, no, no, no. I'm giving up giving you the evaluation So, uh, it's...E-K-S-T-I-E-N-S and again, he's written one powerful book after another. Now, I know the some of these youngsters lecturing have dazzled you with technology and stuff like that and I can't do that. I go into every class and I let the that I am a dinosaur. I wanted to look up I can't even look at things on the Okay. I have a wife! It's been forty-six years! She can do this stuff ...I do some of it. I from all over the world... but I'm really, really a technophobe. But the photocopy machine upstairs. You should see what happens when Don Miller comes late before class and he has to photocopy something. He runs in my office...&quot;How do you use it?&quot; -- I'm glad he's around because he's the only one -- well he's gone beyond me on many many up other technical levels but not the photocopy machine. I'm really... I thought you were doing so well that Oh, I hope there are enough here. And this of our discussion today. Alright. Here we go. I'm sorry, Okay. I didn't give directions. I didn't How many people are here? We're not over Then there are enough. Because I made Alright. I'm gonna... Just because your sitting alone... [Laughing][inaudible] Uh... They're gonna come. Send all the All the extras, going this way. All the back there. Ahh...Bill Kelliher... ...such a sweetheart. How did you ever get I am, I am, really happy... ...playing cards... you're good poker player. For Dick Sharpless to come in on a day a former student... which he did to see you... is really, really, wonderful. Do you have any questions from yesterday Who won the war? Okay...uh, I answered that yesterday... I said If you had to have a winner it was America ...but, I always say there were no They were equally maimed... and European And world civilization was the loser. Umm, and then I will always put in that that European self-destruction made it for places in which Europe was dominant to achieve their independence. So maybe someone sitting in Africa or Asia was a winner. Okay... it depends how Umm, and as an acceleration of history... umm, it certainly got women out of the even though a lot of their gains that after the war up by fascist like and other dictatorial regimes that to a more hierarchical view of society. A more traditional view of society. Uhh, but I believe really everyone was a and one of the great tragedies is uh, Europeans that... never before had so many people lived At that time period... never before had so in Europe. Europe was really, really but at the same time as progressing when it came to the manhood and all of those kinds of things. irrationality as part of the modernist cultural moment uh, that was at odds with all this that had developed over time and was toward Eastern Europe as well, but far too But again that's just Europe. So this umm, minority part of the world was doing much better as we were in the So no one won in Europe, and the the world... umm, economically not yet culturally but we were the greatest debtor nation going We left the war as the greatest creditor creditor nations. They all left as debtor and that was one of the issues about the They had imposed these reparation mostly, but some of the other a German but are all the European countries States... and uh, as one president said &quot;Well they loaned it didn't they?&quot; Umm, we weren't willing to cancel our We weren't ready for a Marshall Plan. We needed a Marshall Plan. We got a partly because we didn't get a Marshall And what happened after World War II is with this historical time warp and that giving money away to get other was cheap compared to dealing with the savagery that might develop So this was a major step forward in our statesmanship. Other questions, at all? No need to be... I'm just...just wanna see... if anythings hanging over there. Pardon? [inaudible] Um, nothing works everywhere, every time. Everything is knowing the moment. And someone else asked the question which is... &quot;What do you learn from all that?&quot; Well, you learn that there are some generalities and and you have to always be case-specific. So umm, we can fix all the worlds and those states... statesmanship is ...and then we take our licks and we decide we've elected or do we not trust these we've elected? Whose full-time job is to and then if we are out of accord with them we call them on the carpet. But... umm, it doesn't always work and sometimes it does work. Other questions? Yes, please! Tangential question.. [inaudible] No! I'm not qualified to do it! I can. [inaudible] Ummm...is Andy Fix and he fixes everything. [inaudible] That was Geez and I was the and and Gee was the intellectual and, and this is interesting because um, you're not really, really trained in it you have to go all the way back to the ...it's intellectual history, cultural history. deal with... the other... departments you deal with are different ...so I, I do, I do play with that but I when I'm teaching something that I'm... You know...I'm learning it with you and that's the way we go together. Is that course is still around? That course is still around. That's Andy Fix. It's a two-semester course - umm, intellectual history from Platto [laugh] [inaudible] All the way down hill... that's a [inaudible] That's mine... Albert Gendebien gave me that course 1850 to the present. That's, that's what um, modern French history, um, modern Jewish history... um, Holocaust origins of World War I Um, again, I've taught middle east, I looked real real ugly in the nineteen are and I do use a lot of literature in we use a lot of literature in courses. So in a 19th century course they will read [inaudible] and &quot;The Heart of Darkness&quot; by Conrad and um, the other thing that we do now is um... I use sometimes three full volumes in one course. So they may get a set of and so a lot of the intellectual history is But, it's not, not, not as a specialty you'll find out how little [inaudible] I know You know. ...Other questions? Okay. Well, today's comments are going to the first is more analytical and the without that I can't do anything. No... I'm kidding. I have my own copy. I do...You scared me when I saw ...and I did that by heart. Also... you can Um, the first set of comments are going to and then we'll do a time line which is about how the developments in the actually preceded. And the first part um, some of it a recapping. Some other last class. Um, what are the basic structural, uh, issues all the nineteen thirties in Diplomacy in the nineteen thirties... how take a downtrodden Germany in 1933, um... all the way to a dominant - the without shedding that much blood? At least his blood. The blood of his But, actually... um, it is one of the most radical diplomatic Especially considering, um, the fact fairly well demilitarized and its enemies were more militarized and could stopped him at any number of moments. So we want to look at a number a general and then look at that timeline and, and Now the first of these &quot;Stiens&quot; is that domestic and international issues were intertwined continually. You can't study the foreign policy without studying the domestic politics everywhere and in each particular place and in terms of the domestic politics laying over from yesterday, um... the issues were the continued, long-term, impact of World War I and then the more immediate impact of Which struck all the European nations and without which Adolf Hitler would to come into power. And we'll talk more No depression, no Adolf Hitler. He had a political party. It had representatives in the Reichstag. But it only had twelve representatives seats. And then it went from 12 to 107 to boom, boom, boom, and on the left the and all of a sudden the middle trial can um, because up the depression and the hopelessness of people during that time. Real hopelessness. Um, your a class in of graduating seniors at the University ...and remember it's the elites who to went to the universities at that time... um, you know, sixty-percent are gonna be Forty-percent of all Germans are of people... ...and the unions and the government had So the benefits ran out.. I bet many have you know people whose unemployment benefits now have right now and who've had to take early Social Security to pay the bills and it's not funny. It's really, really, sad. And this is nothing compared to what So, whenever you ask yourself, &quot;Why did &quot;Why did France do that?&quot; ...ask yourself...What was happening in during that time period? What was most And, the answer in many cases is going to Um, they just cant get beyond that. They the forest from the trees or the trees They just can't focus well because they have so many other things that they're dealing with. The world is divided between the haves And, especially Europe is divided And the haves favor the status quo they favor stability. Your two most predominant haves are The whole diplomatic system rests on They basically would like pretty much the same although they have with respect to Germany and I'll speak But then, you're facing on different levels a whole series of irredentist nations. Of nations who think they have been wronged. Of nations who think they deserve more and they want to change the status quo and they you want to do that either by or by force if necessary Now clearly, no Germany considering its centrality its its population was going to accept the long-term, in the long term the Treaty of Versailles provisions. So I always say it's not whether - it's when. The Treaty of Versailles was going to be changed. They would have had to have renegotiated Germany could not be kept down. When it into the family of nations it was bound to regain some of the it had from World War I. It was so it was simply too powerful to be kept down. And even the German states people who doing it peacefully favored doing it. So Germany is dissatisfied with its Understandably so. Italy under Mussolini is revisionist. And when we get into that timeline, Italy is gonna cause a problem. It had already caused problems in 1920's but they were taken care of rather easily. But in the 1930's is gonna because Italy could have been an allie. against Germany. The Italians were not pro German. They had fought the Germans. The Italians did not like the Germans. The Germans did not like the Italians. Okay? But, Mussolini's irredentist, over-inflated, ego in which he wanted more, more colonies, Japan wanted more as well. And could not be depended on to reserved the status quo. And some other things Japan wanted Because Japan wanted a racial equality inserted in the League of Nations And even Wilson wouldn't accept that. Because we were to racist for that. Now the Japanese were racists too looking down other Asians. And later they began to look down on So by the 1930's the people in power in in some way we're a mirror image - not somewhat of a mirror image or what was And they were revisionists. And the We talk about the map the other day look. it's trimmed down over here a little bit. They weren't as irredentist as others. But, you couldn't count on the Russians However that's just the beginning a bit. had minorities belonging to their And all these little folks wanted more So when it came time to pull apart, pull Poland, Hungry wanna piece of Poll'. Okay? When it came time to pull apart any small countries wanted part of those resided or even if they didn't they Okay? So you know what a [inaudible] is? What's a [inaudible]? Pig. The world was That's the plural of [inaudible]. The All of whom wanted more. It was very, The powers were divided ideologically an internally. And this is very important. They're divided ideologically that means within each country or rather I'll take the internally first based on ideology each country had problems based on ideological arm radicalization polarization especially during the 1930s during the nobody fully accept the Keynesian writing his major series in giving all the way even into the nineteen the head of the British Fashion Fascist and it was a very small party accepted became a fascist because the government wouldn't accept a number of other reasons so there were those on the left depression basically was we gotta do our government just did somebody's got and the right-wing basically said now balanced budgets you can't mess with the economy you so they laid off people all over the they raise protective tariffs and the so the depression got deep now in the case of France the depression because it had a well-balanced economic structure we're used to thinking of cripple but it wasn't a cripple was powerful economically but it got worse series of 26 during the whole nineteen-thirties it toward the country and the people of France were close to a over second half in the 1930s when they should've been in the process %uh they were about to tear each other apart drives and understandings the old class are came to the fore again internationally the country's were now how did of France survive in world war 1 what what's the first you wanna talk about foreign policy or the fighting a war what's the first tell you no I'm not leaving eat thank you all I up this over short is meant to hide it up look at a map look at a map okay how did Fran survived yeah here Lori giving up are word okay that's part of it but that's too out I okay look at this guy overview the alarms I'll group their lives of children but even more rod democratic France the most democratic state your and Czarist Russia the most conservative in Europe and they have an alliance Germany because they're terrified of how that's cold real polling T but your sis 19 1891 1894 all the way through World War all always who or what that's how they by democratic prancing conservative saluting each other's flags and anthems and all the rest to that stuff these politically because this is the most conservative regime but the necessity is the mother of to contain Germany it didn't change the map is still the same accepted the only way somehow contain Germany that really intends to go to war is to have an the problem is the ideology the nineteen twenties and thirties all that the French and even more the feared Russia more than they fear even though russia was fairly diplomatically and very defensive and is very aggressive an increasingly saw so look at the map how did you you should go back to doing that and Storm the Churchill starts talking about he's no lover Russia he despises he wants England to survive he looks at and the map should tell you at least you agreement with Russia now the French actually had an agreement with Russia in 1935 they ratified it in early 36 the British furious and then they didn't implement so it was an alliance that wasn't they understood they needed it what this is basically is a 300-year step backward into the Warriors of reformation Europe in the sixties and early 17 century in which Catholic four protestant a game each other no quarter what so because they each had a utopian view of life and the future was all about and religion was the ideology up the age and self interest and rationality was so oppressed this is the return all the Reformation style ideology in which secular ideologies have now replaced religion as the a people sport process she's destroying and destroying the Cape capacity to make secular decisions based on geography and it was horrendous in some cases the documents will tell you when you government of France which was very very about the same as FDR in america with the same kinda program as FDR in the British preferred the Italian style government to lay on bloom in 1936 when he was together with the communists and the the French communist who are a pain in the socialists who were moderate and the came together in France in 1935 to prevent fascism from taking control in France so things were so severe and ideologically and with the class that they feared what happen in Italy or would you happen in France because there fascists style leagues like many national socialists or Italian are in the nineteen twenties so this the powers are divided constitutionally you've got lotsa dictatorships and arm you've got are a few democracies who does better in these dictatorships are democracies in solving okay you know by 1929 mussolini had time he didn't get it so quickly and he after then especially once he signs the okay which is the most important lasting saying the reconciliation between the from the time of the breakup of that or more 1871 word when when the the captured wrong and took wrong to be part and the pope was just left with the okay are Hitler had to do that too when also in 1933 one of the first things he is reach an agreement with the church the church also feared communism far more then it's feared Italian or national socialism far far more so the dictatorships could get along arm dealing with loss up the internal much more easily then the democracies and divided they were fifteen different governments a 1928 1939 I don't know the numbers I mean they the rose in the fall so sometimes when major historical changes as with the Anschluss the annexation of in 1938 France technically was in the and technically did not have a new valid it had a government people were making between to different governments okay so about this problem of the arm dealing with all these was really very very extreme during this all had severe domestic problems bought the dictatorships were able to of much more readily then though are by doing all kinds of other things even know much at all about economics the old economists continue to serve him well he just started putting people back roads in building bridges all over the very very openly very evidently arm he started rebuilding the army he just if the ballot the budget was gonna be so be it he didn't think in the long people needed to be employed he put them there were lots of people in fact most for whom he was a god and on Idol until the war began and even until 1943 he was adored he was by far the most even on the apartment number people who because he put food back on the plates it's not the people or or great but they were doing so much security more security than they had before so before that's so what are they gave up to civil disappeared it just didn't up okay hitler became more and more popular in which he ruled until the Battle of 1942 1943 because he was able to deal with those that he was a peacemaker law I to the people and peace but peace with justice and dignity for the world are you don't wanna know I 0 you are so I was personally alright I thank you hope let's not even worry no I didn't say that the Americans are British David Lloyd George the British war in 19 I'll 30 6 when their concentration camps not all over Germany by that time all legal activity all civil rights everything has been usurped Lloyd goes to visit Hitler and he says the whatever one may think his methods and those a parliamentary country there can that he has achieved a marvelous in the spirit of the people in there at attitude toward each other and in their outlook but this is this is the greatest in the last part of the 19th and early we thought mussolini was really cool socialists in check okay roosevelt certainly understood and okay at all but how can you do this and then he adds the Germans will resist dat every invader have their own country themselves to invade any other country 1936 now will come back to the quote because by that time and that's a by that time hitler had already broken treaty and the look or new treaty which Germany okay so by that time to make that kind is very very bizarre well Hitler laid it meets some of us want to thank him is it mono dimensional madman there was the finest tea the cookies people serving everything we're they are autographed picture of Hitler directly there for David Lloyd George but of course and the thing same thing later Hitler runs down the steps to reach a home so sorry I should have come to is because you're older than I am I'm so I really knew how to play the game okay so he he is sick he is a borderline okay he is demonic but he is not out of he plays the game jeannie's politically until he loses that capacity because he fortunately he decides later to give up himself an Alan blocking his wonderful biography talks about the man without his clothes and he says the world will hold its you people you're gonna see everything I got on the and you can go shot and that's when he defeats himself as long as he's playing the game he and and that's one other major points yes home did moves well yeah yes I he became physically and mentally more disabled after the July 1944 plot and at by that time when Germany's the wake and increasingly on drugs so he does become a he does become very very very drug dependent at the he does lose touch with reality at the he does maneuver divisions which have at the end and what you want to do is a Trevor Roper called the last days if and it's an exquisite little book I and it tells you how Hitler lived and the film I'll is a very very good that that film on the last year the last is historically pretty valid are so the materials on on this also up other questions are I'm still wanna in the a in the guidelines were ongoing our book but other questions to take a anything up mentioned so far what was the role state okay a wonderful what was the role than eyes and as an undergraduate I did a paper a on the Rhineland that was gonna be my I think it's the single most important March 1936 will go over again Hitler Treaty of Versailles breaks the three Diablos look or no and the French goin' and stop this and their army is more time even alone okay and a numbered Hitler's generals at that get rid of them he'd already accomplished what they Germany had broken the tree never saw time to take trouble take it back from we gave them the power to fix things up communists we aim the power to break the we gave the proud to break the the unions he's done all those things maybe it's so I read current history right current history Allan Nevins great professor at Columbia University who wrote an ass a in current history in and the last line if it was after all only germany's own back your so our view was its German territory let and don't get us involved again in any and the a Senate and house were still from World War one okay so we wanted we we wondered we wanted out roosevelt to to reeducate the country arm and the predominant arm problem is the depression again dog depression and we did not want to be we were much more concerned that early still with what japanese with the I and with the manchurian crisis 1930 re and a year later it would get worse China in 1937 then we were really Asia so we were still very very much in that okay including our scholarly yep building are well not not as yet it was China and and what would happen later growing and growing yes okay point yet the the German the yes it was iPhone the little hard to believe that a.m. the I was able to who a molecular yeah welcome Louis the issue where there when who writes about part and the clear warriors amor power the crazy yes that was being namely yes yeah I the past %uh ego he got that we're not right I'll talk about this because I would have done a little bit later but okay first of all general though the chief-of-staff 1933 I have wished for and now my wishes have come true it is alright so this guy ends up committing because the plot to kill Hitler but 1933 that's what he say single most important that Hitler dawes June 1934 it's on your sheet with the word knives next to it that's the night of the Long Knives okay that's when stalin began to take it more hitler has several generals and the leading radicals all the s a his own storm troops murder that night and takes credit for politically openly and he says someone had to be so what's the point the generals were over the army which it did and Huntsman wrong wanted to take over and so hitler clean house the clean our lieutenants friends up his supporters have his the last because they threaten the Army in the more and more loyal to him 1935 Field burner von Blomberg he got fired three okay 1935 Blomberg said the fuhrer is cleverer than we are he okay now why the cause he's already he got so away with it every single that works raises his stock because he gets away with and all these really really respect him more yes in Hosley militarization who right leg yes and he said go and they followed me wet he had the guts he had dinner we were we who live %uh it was part of Germany but there was okay in the same way as if there would Bank and hopefully there will be okay it has heavy heavy stuff no air force and stuff like that and guess what if twenty years later it will have an air hold okay but the point is that was party to permanently demilitarized cause that would break and a year after the demilitarization is broken facing the the German security forces called the yes him another reason one mom I'm right not just are this boss-like where you are well that so nicely yes and back pose like that well bro being a great hero bring loan mine a yet is that leftover a that done song on riche people and from you had pain is awesome sure with you know I is this house resolve this house with my own working a 0 I agree with you and that's why is the first thing you have to remember to add some other things about the which will make it even worse okay we'll yes all these who K yes all was me was didn't know for his so much on the island law and everything know this way was new did he did is that K almost he came to would save him you can call that God he wouldn't his this the state himself is my all yet all oh yes in 1937 when he tells the german with the next five years or so he tells them directly this is the hot and he says we must prepare for war in and here are the number of reasons why which is that I'm getting older and we with a order documents other its e-book oh yeah 500 never yeah ha spec memorandum your mmm part yes at the meeting with the solemn no was in public at that point is said he said you guys are doing your jobs right iight I want economic coordination I want us and you guys are doing it and I'll tell because within five years or so we're and part of the reason is ongoing who's right whose little 40 not yeah not know but he appeal he another one of these basic structures is that the world was a mess it's not it's that the world was a mess are the decolonization movement the Empire Britain and France had world empires which were beginning to become major Great Britain and the most important thing to them was and they wanted to maintain the empire so they had worldwide issues to deal how could their Navy be strong enough to German Navy which the Germans began to are at the same time be able to cope Japanese Navy which was getting larger so that really really concerned them empire was a double-edge sword empire the British and the French in world war or much of those resources were used by survive in World War 1 but now the were beginning to become very very difficult issues where else does this we call world when the world war one 39 anyone want to dispute it well if your Chinese you'd probably say hell I i speak for $300 million chinese if the 37 and Japan attacked us in 1937 so which is the old China or the West so we think in terms of Europe okay to war begin in 30 and 39 it be in in 37 it begin in 31 the world part of the war well the most important data still 13 but 37 american policy really begins to change and we begin the press on the Japanese but what about the Italian attack on okay now prior to this time Italy and France and Britain or working against Germany when Germany re militarized in 1934 I Italy decides to attack ethiopia why whistle lady stay lost Ethiopian the okay they could win okay they could win well you know and and everyone everyone I i don't wanna use I wanna line up the on our team okay these are big guys a dole accused them okay Emperor Menelik upto PA and the was making fun of all the european well on this the Italian Army at that time but Italy revenge itself up that defeat and also okay the British and the French have British the French are the only ones who we are a tie-ins we are the heirs Roman we have the rights to an equal Empire DAW check it out first to make sure the you you're worrying about Hitler the more things the more mussolini's appetite got by going to war against Ethiopia in 1935 what he does is make it impossible for wheels him they cannot because of their tell her people that this is okay using poisonous gas against natives using all the world war one min and better weaponry and airplanes relatively on militarized people and and show now Italy is los show the overall structure itself is so discombobulated that arm the whole environment is polluted well what about the league of nations the league then Japan for what it did what's one of the first things Hitler are the British in French won't disarm won't disarm now and bring down their Armani nice talking to you it walks out conference and just to make things good goodbye was the League of Nations we're japan is out a bit Italy's been Germany is out a bit arm and we're still basically in Sammy isolation so add on to that then we have arm Adolf Hitler the man and his policies race and speaks the man and his policy the hardest thing to understand is that I want to buy my lips as I speak in his own mind he was utopian visionary he was going to build a better world Karl Marx said that all history is the Adolf Hitler would have said all history %uh racial struggles and the only thing israelis and the germans are the superior race and destiny has the right the opportunity and even more than that the necessity to trial and if they can't try now then let them be lost as well and the worst part about this is that was very much apart lovely nineteenth and early 20th century thinking Adolf Hitler did not invent any these ideas what he had instead was the demonic believe and the demonic we'll to implement them they were hundreds and thousands of on one level or another after world war in your in Japan in america the difference being that having been part over defeated Germany the vengeful miss and need for making good again breaking oversaw I eighty every me a place for him possible even then most germans harder this in the 1940s first leave whose three parties matalin's our yeah arm socialist or 1928 last election before the crash 3 Martin's aperture shows yeah run for 1929 to 1932 1933 each she election or people palms more people National Socialist papers for you become story basically all eats who have lost their willpower allow him into our in the same way is each d with caissons me 11 years early shouldn't they have known eleven years later Muslims power warehouse here just fine there were no unions they're trains running on time so you he was ring and a not all that's losses for me so what they did who they were held values that was that in grown man the museum even clean house they would him really harm their basie injures journey probably should have had some kind of house democracy danger 31 issue was he was going to be a National Socialist or some kind of all older military are carrying the all all school but they didn't really have any my views masses no smashes did not suspect where he was really a they didn't vote for him because he do you know the against any cost that's that wasn't issue the beach issue laws jury duty who security whole recovery a job I okay there too many Jews your the soviet will that was so I issue at that time on you could say loman sold us was this whole us its firms its X once its its people's hoops us he's aids take Davis shop how he's able to get away one questions yep sup you do pick up Street yeah Walt 128 used in water with the hair Germany like feelings against sanctions are I'm was higher than ever an inning when also he's just everyday Street know it even are he's when he he was a good student until his hormones began the work as a family with a father who probably beat him up a good at it a very repressive father are he did very well in school he sang he sang he was a chorister he was the best student in his class for he went wacko during his high school any was an artist an arched artistic okay a fit well you know we call a if you see his art in bed draw is there anyone here I mean are he would art student Lafayette College easily at but he wasn't good enough to get into he considered failure he had lots of including the pension fund from his holes the woman called ok I'm yes and the British audience would not have accepted his would have had trouble with because the it's kinda speaking for particular wrong well following so in here there he had used in this University yes is friend was jus his friend loans Nationals his follows absurd just your place at mean I'm as he used use fully or has happened %um with him use scapegoating what you can do with great well on useless so I'm he says it in Mein Kampf it's all there okay it really is all earlier than mein kampf he says our he says that if the we're taken fifteen thousand users so make sure they got gay as we would not lost world war one okay and the the craziness about all of that is a Jewish officer who who decorated decorator and the juicer be on their numbers in world war but it was not believe that they did so was even an inquiry commission service record up during the war and to take that further alter Raton now was Jewish and he was German munitions industry are he kept them in the war in the beginning person who put together all the made function he was later assassinated here it was all it's all there it's all isn't people to greater right right it was all there it was to the culture or not the murderous form was common to the culture in a murderous but he was the most radical love those radical and it didn't matter to him at first Madagascar whether they were killed it also didn't matter to him whether because they didn't have any values 150 million poles are only $30 million elsewhere so maybe the third in know that was the there was adultery in the back in the are earlier dan dan a German scholar pretty much set that to rest about there was the belief the rumor that this family yes well him day only just based on the word religion or when Hill yes well that's a huge question that's a pace million it has to do with the homie your coach really I earth-based religions all were nation then you add economic issues US whose it was a station European hatred and fear lives flowers Jews were together NC because a different they're not us but and there for the okay they kill got the children to make martyr I meet okay look at work when I went fellow where my horns were this is 1964 and we were friends we we went out late at night they talk about religion eyesight I take them out when I by calling all this is a serious okay so although and and the and the further east you in are ukraine in in Russia in poland was much more visceral and germany okay what you have is about 500,000 in Germany in poland you've got three 30 three million people living in poland and all held was already breaking loose against them what's marshall Slutsky defend the jews died he this role up the kind yet when would you know even educated people okay hitler one in the University she among the students he won among the he answered their grievances he gave and Jews became to middle-class too quickly and took too many important because they all steel okay too many lawyers too many people doing well they suffered they suffer through the depression was time to clean house and get rid of all these aliens so that fewer germans work or pure polls Ripper Latvians are and they basically all did virtually the now that's next year who does it learns document yes others was jewish yes he was protected any any more or those I am the Nazi said everyone has that but Hitler allowed wants that we know of their and also only he could I'll yell but this particular person actually had he was not an artist he really was not bad at all okay touch you want to keep going with it yet your day here game your game keep I N Go I'm line alright arm so we're gonna jump up ugh like shout on that internal regulates coordinate everything by the other political parties that are allowed to abeyance and he's got dictatorial powers by the in 1934 he kills these should a opponents have the army that gives and in 1935 he announces publicly that Germany is remembered to rising breaks I love the Treaty of Versailles Germany I'm gone back thank you now arm the goal wrote a book in 1934 their lappam a dim ATA toward the professional army it he was not the only one who was thinking he thought the mansion o-line which was already being fully was an inadequate defense system because no army should only have a defense system tanks are not supposed they're supposed to go forward if how are we gonna stop them from doing it poll Renault was a conservative French politician who believed in the goals the goal had dedicated his book to marshal petain hair the great marcia to go all believed and movable tanks separate units shock troops small areas small divisions that can respond to small problems and flexibility someone had asked for you always have to have flexibility you you must have flexibility so we're not for discussion the goal has insulted the entire army upper a lead Minister forget shop and says in Parliament with a straight face when we have spent so many billions on here comes one of my favorite quotes and who would believe us foolish enough to in search of heaven knows what adventure this is a general speaking who would mission of to Sally L in front %uh them and search have been knows while venture the impact the French army so overwhelmed with the losses and the impact of World that they never wanted to fight fence wanted the german armies if they came to on their fortifications while the French defended should do fall on her double off first defend yourself World War one a talk at all costs first attack how about doing both that's all how bout being able to do both so the germans read the book a and and and even more them red lid and general fuller's book that were written in English at all said and they implemented it and the French and did not have Nana okay so now hitler has begun to build this army announced the existence up his Air Force and next it's going to be the Rhineland Rhineland in March 1936 now by March 1936 if they had adapted the goals proposal they had the taxes just how to not at the French Court building stop they could have had a way of responding the Rhineland without total mobilization hitler in militarize is the Rhineland pope do anything appeasement what was appeasement the belief that anything wrong with appeasement no if the person can be pieced but it wouldn't be a beast how do you some British believe them passive active appeasement Chamberlain believe an active plate and say which piece do you want to everything anything to give me of course and Maalox still I'll so what happens is the British aid to the French don't with the French cabinet the politicians say to the what plans do you have ready stop him in the general Shane on complete in the middle of the depression who's complete mobilization when you're ally is telling you we're not going with you either we don't want you to do anything one of my favorite quotes the French do nothing it becomes the popular man by far in Germany the brains he's got straight strong legs there's a and that this is what he can bring home and he's the man so what is Renee Albert carry a say believe was the last chance a possibly he says France had effective power over that in the last resort she could have at that moment France was still mistress that choice was abdication still her responsibility to defend every treaty that existed he had really a power French do not act and then what rene albrecht carry a say later in the and the United States was wondering well he was an older fellow and he got and he had a just getting but we that time and the world did not slip into war at 1 more comment take question your cam friend you know way yes you now he can on the French being that way the ready at all his generals were terrified hitler said it fell from heaven Amanda couldn't believe the result that it got but he just felt it was right way to go French didn't think it was gonna happen happen later in the year their ambassador was riding home saying we gotta be ready gotta we can allow it okay the people who should have been who should have been leaving the French army at that time were done in Flanders and elsewhere okay they were the soldiers who have died and and they mark block this wonderful book are called strange the feat was written and he said that the ultimate reason why was mental failure the germans purely outsmarted us they thought creatively they were the they change their tactics we sat on our Hans was mental failure any gives a whole other series of from this great historians mind he was by the Gestapo was mental failure then it gets worse the Spanish Civil War who cares well 500,000 people who died another 300,000 people who became so what happens in Spain there's a 1936 just this other is in France composed the same group communists socialists democrats verses the extreme right wing and the right way they are more radical the army rebels civil war breaks L troops from Morocco Germany and Italy send weapons and try were nigger in 1937 is obliterated the British and the French there's an they're not supposed to send weapons the and the German sign the embargo publicly the russians and weapons to the Popular the Germans in the Italians really try and troops on the side of the right-wing and the French sit on their hands with why because they're afraid of sliding more they're afraid that civil war will break now in France if the french government age the left against the right that in France the right will go into rebellion and France will have a civil war this is 1936 that's how divided society and Spain becomes a proxy war between the axis and the rest especially and Italy and Hitler get drawn into each and then they meet with japan and do the back to 1937 and the whole thing is getting tighter everybody can look in the newspaper and okay they can see what cities look like London will be bomb that there is a war on there's a war and things get me worse 1937 we already talked a little mister Chamberlain are is a believer in active appeasement given the I'm exaggerating mister Chamberlain believes that he is powerful enough to that have hitler's grievances are taken hitler has to be a man of peace after he was a soldier in World War one it all the cares about his German dignity he is a man of peace and Chamberlain put now that the British would not be so upset as long as he does it peacefully and not by using weapons so hitler now knows she's gonna ally in who won't support the French and by the way during the Popular Front in their own documents in some cases Germany to lay on bloom socialist in again that reformation ideology hatred even moderate socialism verses extreme fascism why because the people a property if they they work radical the kept her mouth shut all Germany under Hitler business is doing Jost fine K so they could live with that they were March 1938 Hitler annexes Austria well after all they're only germans $8.9 million make good soldiers they were excellent s s people they volunteered Cosi they catch up volunteer Hitler goes in the BN it tears yes a good political action say people's 76,000 people arrested next couple weeks and put camps look at the map what we have here three and a half million germans in the in a pincer March are some time for 1930 8 are Hitler makes it clear that this immediately Chamberlain the summer 38 use of the force is a danger to the peace of europe they alliances to czechoslovakia france has the russians have an alliance are is the only democratic state left in it has a modern military it has border they let it go Munich September 1938 czechoslovakia is given or rather the shoe Dayton land is this is the last the freebies I want to but this is the last the freebies march where do he marches into the rest czechoslovakia so what what's the problem the problem before this he was saying all I want is far and germans brought back to the but these inslaw's and now it becomes as a flash what Hitler intends to do domini all okay all the assumptions appeasement go down the two looking at all of this well you're sitting in Russia and first this then you see this then you see this then you she demands for this and you omitted from all discussions what do you think stalin 4 the West was Union well hit was not too small for big all those horrible things he was saying stalin fires his Jewish foreign minister Germany and Russia start negotiating August 1939 Nazi soviet pack signal war this time with Germany and together against Poland and the West hanging now having lost all an issue six-and-a-half years from the depths the depression to dominance in Europe the only ones paying the price the the democrats the communists socialist the Jews in Germany no military force used always have to consider your worst case scenarios this was not a easy world to play this was a perfect storm the French have a distinguished military of fighting and defending themselves in after all they dominated Europe from okay where did you ever get a selection never in all the french history British and Island conquering half the world we did you ever get british political as blind as they were during this time and able all on me and want them us all that he and the war a people what I V realized implored and told me own sure it claimed it hard right the good had yep could have had Italy as an ally of their played its cards right because Austria is a offer between Germany and Italy italians don't teacher yes work in Spain who were intelligence a up job for free hitler said old hitless dentist's than ever meet frankel again private so hard to get Franco to enter Franco owed Hitler so much but he just amount of tanks this amount of oil this amount of this in this amount that about it I writer backup was a while this yes yes yeah do how much you hand-holding Allies in you well embolden them a lot because respect to the others but this is a series of a whole series defeating Russian 1905 the if they went they became a great power and the West didn't really understand until later partly because racial and journey silly yeah include war his oh yes oh yes oh yes it brought us in a good earlier might have taken a whole half a or who knows what hitler for hitler for what that hell I'm declaring war on yes churchill's for yes arm he's going on primary and is quotes workers or is local absolutely I Santander actually I as an undergraduate actually found places in which he wasn't where he was saying that he had taken a six months to a year earlier than he had the right position then I read the parliamentary a yes and I will come over here right yesterday your and you kind of lost guys what I was you were saying the this with lifetime you liberals and a is there any natin to today in our country and yes it is area group C yes and it's scary yeah yes and I and II I plead and worry about our cause it's not really a country's an okay I don't want to give rise to a stay done what we've done is is a marvel I well at that that was for the europeans with it now that that's pretty good thing you know now all in here a good thing is going to breakfast in straw swarg and going to in the little German city right across passport that is a good think so if you want to a little bit better after these two discussion we've had wanna feel a little bit better okay very very far since world war two well there are some sure more well with all a bit they're before the real issue is can we continue to do