At around 6:29pm on the 6th of Enterprise (an eight deck car and passenger leaving the Belgian port of Zeebrugge. The incident resulted in the deaths of 193 passengers and crew. It was the most peacetime Enterprise began active service in 1980, the popular ferry route between Dover its class, were designed to facilitate rapid acceleration. On the day of the was not on her normal route. Instead she and Zeebrugge in Belgium. This caused some passengers and cars - specifically the high enough to reach Deck E, issue water was pumped into the bow lowering the whole vessel in the water to commence. Once all the cars and ballast tanks were not emptied and the further exacerbated by something known motion the movement of water beneath the causes the boat to sink slightly lower this effect is strongest in shallow Both of these conditions were true for The Zeebrugge Harbour was shallow and in an effort to compensate for a these combined factors was that water at all the way up to G Deck. the doors there would be sealed. However, for some reason wide open. Water cascaded the other decks below. The car decks on spaces not subdivided by watertight slosh around freely, throwing off the capsize. The incident unfolded with Harbor at 6:24pm with a crew of 80 less than four minutes later. After briefly righted herself before listing side. The whole events took no more than and a half systems plunged the ship into darkness. Floors became walls, walls became floors, passenger decks were inundated with Many people drowned in those first injuries sustained during falls or when It was a stroke of good fortune that the not the case it would have undoubtedly was the ship came to rest on its side trapped inside. Here is an account of the Simon Osborne: &quot;I was standing at a &quot;violent jolt a woman behind me in the &quot;she was overreacting but seconds later &quot;vessel and then almost instantaneously &quot;very quickly. I fell onto my back and &quot;the ship's lounge until I landed on the &quot;being vertical to horizontal. In the &quot;I had a clear view of the horror around &quot;decks came crashing down. I recall fruit &quot;tumbling through the air as the vessel &quot;sight of people somersaulting from &quot;man cried out as he crashed through a &quot;rooted to the spot, wide-eyed, frozen in &quot;plunged into darkness as the lights &quot;the swirling wave of freezing water &quot;doors and windows. I thought I was going to die.&quot; Passengers, like Simon, who survived the stuck within the overturned hull, often had no choice but to wait for rescue - coming. An immediate inquiry was launched into the incident. It found that many different that none were more prominent than the the ship left port. It was the job of the Assistant close the doors, and the job of the First sure that they were shut before fateful voyage, however, Stanley was vicinity of the bow doors to be on deck bow doors were closed, simply assuming job. The court placed the majority of the working culture of the company as a &quot;sloppiness and negligence at every level Seven people from the ferry company were charged with gross negligence manslaughter and corporate manslaughter, judge ordered the jury to acquit all Nobody was punished for actions aftermath many changes were made to addition of indicators on the bridge to -tight ramps fitted to bow sections, and vehicle decks in the event of flooding. a greater minimum distance between the roll-on roll-off ferries. As for the salvage operation was successful in were removed from the vessel a month was towed to a shipyard near Zeebrugge. The basis that she could be repaired and found and she was eventually sold for a year after the disaster had concluded destination and was broken down for now nothing more than a memory, but the passengers their lives is one that the never forget.