The Arabian Persian Gulf is located in the center On the southern coast which occupies a peninsula an area almost 200 times Until the 20th century, the peninsula's chief resources At its widest point, the country A multitude of islands which for the most whose climate and arid soil In winter, heavy rainfalls are common, The rigorous management of water allow the desert While coming out of its shell, Qatar for many years The Pearl launched and the al-Thani family its constitution and its fame. Located on the East Coast, Doha, the capital, has been completely Eighty percent The ultra fast growth of this emirate, does not conflict The state of Qatar as its top national priorities. The same importance is given The country's high aims in this area are reflected by the number which are hosted here. Learning is another priority. The entire Qatari society Women find the means to their emancipation by acquiring knowledge The quality of education and constant exchanges also ensure that Qatar's values Here, the digital revolution Only one-third The others are foreign expatriates and the workforce that The customs are those by virtually the entire population. Qatar is a moderate Islamic country. Religious convictions Integrating housing with the environment For centuries, the nomadic tribes Once they became settled, the Nomads still based As a shelter from the wind, sand and sun, Light and fluid lines contrasted imported by Western civilizations The country ignited in the mid 20th century. The wealth obtained from pearl fishing A new pearl had arisen from the soil, the third-largest The gas and oil They also supply Development depends Like magic, It isn't always easy to distinguish The camel, the ship while automobiles cross the desert. Industrial sites are increasing in number, The technology and genius Qatar is traveling Over 1,000 years of history are behind Economic growth is steady one million inhabitants, but the pearl of the past The shell and its graceful shape in designing the building They are working that looms on the horizon. The goal is a very ambitious one, but Qatar has prepared At the desert's edge, those that will shape the future. Reclaimed from the desert, Doha was founded in the mid 1800s Along the seafront, towards the futuristic forms Doha was originally The Doha Corniche On Fridays, the dhows, disembark entire families. They come here to picnic on the grass Although no clothing most of them wear the long black abaya. At the edge of West Bay, the first architects had already proven Today, a veritable forest There was, in fact, because of all the space available. The buildings are in themselves, and Doha has great An architecture without constraints has led to the fusion Ibrahim Jeddah, Architect. The sky is really your limit A lot of places are very much limited Here the sky is your limit and there is usually Why not have Venetian gondoliers Yes, it often takes daring because ambition is high It's surely not that simple. The major problem is with the scale, Only five, six years ago, Usually we go horizontal. The challenge here is to go very high, We tend to lose that identity Everywhere, Oriental lines The flourishing economy rests on solid ground. The government has chosen by turning the capital For example, the Hamar al Kabir Street where everything even the pearls. Here no one forgets that were fished from the waters depths It is also impossible It is the axis around which Qatar winds. The spiral of the minaret All the components of traditional society The architecture of the Museum Its subtle play on cubes was conceived The American architect, Liu Ming Pei. Madam Sabiha Alchemiya When asked to design I.M. Pei embarked on a long journey He was looking and that journey everywhere in the Middle East. What Pei did the root of tradition, to modernity. The objects that are exhibited They span 13 centuries They range from pottery, basically from earthenware to silk, and from Cordoba in Spain It's a wide geographical area, when Islam came to date. Very close to the museum is a boatyard out of time, where the dhows are built The dhow is a commonly and particularly along the Gulf coasts. They are usually built out of teak, The hull is assembled using wooden pegs One of the properties of teak The prow of the dhow Another tradition, the souk, a word which in Arabic The old Doha Souk has been restored which are divided into different sections. Traditional musical instruments. Preparation of the traditional bread. Everything here reflects Inside the souk, have been crafted Early on, artisans which was highly prized Today, the pearls are imported. This is the grandson of a pearl fisherman. He is a pearl salesman and also by using woods of different nuances. His works sometimes recall With an extraordinary for a special highlighting effect, There are two things the art of the sculpting, and also the art There are an incredible number A three dimensional image In the fruit and vegetable souk, it is surprising to see especially considering the limited That's why most of the produce Bulky products are sold at another souk. The harsh desert climate are obstacles to animal breeding. The traditional souks co-exist Modern shapes, exotic shapes, Inside, the air is always cool and the wind The shopping centers Bubbles that function independently No matter what the outdoor temperature is, Nothing can cool the attraction Another Qatari pleasure, perfume. The word perfume originally signified Perfume has existed in the Tradition is important in Qatar. Nevertheless, the country It is resolutely turned In keeping with that goal is Al Jazeera, the satellite television channel It has become one while presenting the news The station has built who have been killed on the job. The Freedom Wall is a reminder and of the risks involved. A museum has been created that belong to journalists and who died while covering the news. To prepare for the future, chaired by Her Royal Highness, Considerable funds have been meet the challenges that await them. By keeping to the lines but also by calling upon an immense complex A simple idea, but a daring one to found a campus but by grouping several of the best The astronomical scale of investment, and top professors have rapidly given Bright colors are especially good for opening their eyes on the world, An open mind that motivated the creation The channel aims at the education It has all the facilities to produce many The size of the projects by the Qatar Foundation is in keeping The new Convention Center will be the largest The palm trees are wondering Qatar created monumental plans With state-of-the-art a 320-meter-high tower in the shape The quality of its sports facilities which organized the Asian Games in 2006. The country is now In declaring its burning desire Qatar obviously benefits Qatar disposes also of a unique Taking young future champions under It thus supports the ambition on the international competitive level. Dieta Hackford is director of Aspire. Aspire, the Academy with the most advanced facilities, Not only are the facilities most advanced, and enhancement of elite sports The basic idea is to create champions to enforce a sports culture here in Qatar. Raising Qatari athletes is well worth the price. The young candidates are taken in hand. They share a communal life in which school courses Here sports contribute the shapes of the future. Organizing high-level sporting events First, the desert had to be conquered. The Doha Golf Club The feat is remarkable in the middle of the desert The grass here is such a luxury. One would think the golf balls are pearls. Horses have always accompanied They have belonged For horse breeding and training, Horses are one His horse farms and his horses have won many prizes. The Qataris have become great racing fans. The long British presence why Qataris are In Qatar, another animal that This bird of prey belongs which makes bird The Falcons have their own hospitals. The bird is often wounded because it hunts Fractures are frequent. During surgery, A small laceration here. This is caused during training when he is landing or some bird in the desert, The owner is very concerned The trained Falcon is of great value, Another type of operation The damaged feather is spliced. Each feather is referenced The stem is simply slipped into the wing. No other fixation is necessary. The Falcon wakes up We're all set for a hunting The prey is released. The falcon takes off. The falconer keeps the bird in sight. The bird swoops down on its prey, The falcon is the fastest It's another Falcon's turn. It disappears from sight. Fortunately, the falconer He has located the falcon. The prey had taken refuge in a bush, and is immediately caught. The hunters reward, Couldn't he have caught it sooner? That's because of the wind. That's why it took a long time to catch, otherwise, he should catch it quickly. The falcon was located, Heading west across the desert. We see familiar silhouettes, another animal On the horizon, a tent camp Qataris are very attached to their without forgoing At the campsite, the customary It is the women who make They also prepare fritters Everyone is here in honor of the animal that makes their existence For the camel, Lots of people like camels. For me, they're my hobby. Camel races are extremely popular here. I still have my Bedouin soul you know. Qataris are passionate fans We begin with a little warm up. A strange silhouette It's a robot, The whip is operated or by a pressure on a key chain. The camels used to be ridden by children. Qataris were the first Ever since, As starting time draws closer, the camels must line up There are no exceptions to this rule. Everything is soon taken care of. Ready, go. The cameras are off, The track is bordered by two lanes used by the camel owners piloting their SUVs Still in their pen, They've had their hair done. They're wearing their best attire. What is going on? A jury of experts is about General appearance and numerous In a beauty contest, And the winner is... A new star is born and the contest Further west on the site of Zikreet, the sandy wind sculpts the limestone rocks In the play of shadows, Here also, The West Coast of Qatar The large beaches could certainly but activity here The country's principal oil fields The pipelines wind their way Oil was discovered here Qatar was entering a new era. Leaving the capital and heading north, The further we go, The desert, however, is not just a vast stretch of land Surprise, we find crops growing Another surprise, but the vegetation without the aid of an irrigation system. They can even grow tomatoes, With certain vegetables, local production supplies Amazing, dairy cows animals that have low resistance to heat. Yet it works out, When excessive heat humidifiers are put The milking process and production Hussein Salem. The milking is managed by computer, and the quality of the milk. The technology also allows streamlining Certain manual work remains, but it is the computer that determines We milk the cows two or three times a day. Each cow has a number which is hooked up to a computer that processes Another animal bred here, the oryx. This animal, which is emblematic to Qatar, but came very close to extinction. Gazelles are also part of the local fauna. They've almost been wiped out by hunters, They're highly valued The islands off the coast Dense mangroves border Further north, The towns face towards the Gulf The dhows are not used The port of Al-Ruwais Fishing is one Today, those who make a living The Al Zubarah Fort was built that came from the sea. At the time, Qatar was responding The region was already a hub Munir Tahar is an archaeologist. During the 18th and 19th century, Zubarah was a trade center It was connected Oman from the south and to the east On display inside the fort during archaeological digs of the ruins. The city used to be There is an important port in Zubarah, And Zubarah The pearls were exported Zubarah was an international port, The city of Zubarah, as early as the 18th century, The importance of this site proves that is not just recent history. Traveling south, Saudi Arabia Immediately leaving the capital behind us is a region southwards There'll be no obstacles Only the sea coast Suddenly, behind a mountain of sand rises one of the emblems the enormous Natural gas, which constitutes is processed here. One of the biggest gas fields in the world The installations in Mesaieed are equipped These involve cooling and then ensuring its transport A veritable industrial city and the installations in Mesaieed are constantly If the world consumption of natural gas and if Qatar continues it is estimated could continue for over 200 years. This is where the country's future begins. To head south, An unexpected oasis An oasis of comfort and tranquillity. Suddenly, Bedouin horsemen The national colors fly proudly. Unexpected luncheon on the grass and young sports fans Of course, bicycles. In January, the tour of Qatar under the direction I think it's an ideal way The stages aren't too long. The cyclists return so it's the ideal way This is the only place in the country It's because of the Barkhans, Tracks, silhouettes, shapes, sand duning in 4x4s has become The sports field goes on forever. What's really interesting is finding dunes Finding new terrain. It's a real hobby, you know. The terrain is constantly renewed because the wind and the desert All this is like taking a safari. We are camping somewhere. We just came here. The southern coast takes us to a channel On the other side, Saudi Arabia. Tents seem like punctuation For several hours or several days, It's a way of returning to their origins, which doesn't mean This room is not in a canvas tent and the air conditioning makes you It'll soon be night. For the day drippers, Reality turns and unbelievable gymkhana. The moon illuminates Doha, The desert has retreated, but the boundaries, are still there. The house lit up Ancestral customs taking place The mosque is a landmark in the night. It's a wedding feast. The guests present their compliments. The men gather in one area, The coffee pots are heated Incense is still used Along with dates. In the very heart of the modern city, tradition goes Pearls of light a Bedouin dance The sword dance. After the dances, the feast. The traditional dish of lamb You eat with the right hand Tomorrow, a new life In the shade or in the light, Qatar is in the process Reconciling identity with modernity. As in a waking dream, the country emerges straight with almost no transition in between. It has raced into a new age. You have to rub your eyes To Arab poets of ages passed, The pearls of today to the life of Qataris, They have become the pearls of the future.