Don't run, don't run, catch it quickly he All hidden my child I will definitely protect you Is it still impossible to escape after all? Wenqi, this is really our child If you don't believe it You can go for a paternity test Take the child down Ah ah ah Wenqi snort Bai Xue, you really think I'm stupid ten months ago The person in that room is Jinyi I haven't touched you at all Wenjing, if I don't leave Bai Xue will kill my mother Sorry, I can't risk my mother's life tell me that you I want you explain where She she left the child Eloped with the man she liked What drug me push me to your bed just to leave me For her to elope with another man I want you to have sex with me This is the way to get you to leave her I thought you actually used this method to put her to sleep. Qianxi, Qianxi I've been looking for you for ten months I didn't expect you to do it for a man Abandoned our children Two treasures and three treasures This time we came back to treat Xiaobao's illness Remember Must be low-key Mommy is beautiful and awesome Bei can't keep a low profile even if he wants to We tried our best Miss Jian, your son's condition cannot be delayed any longer. Cord blood must be obtained as soon as possible Okay I'll be there as soon as possible Dabao was killed by Bai Xue six years ago Now the little baby is sick Come back this time I must get Lu Wenjin's paternity letter Cure Xiaobao Um Hello Mr. Lu Lu Wenjin, Jin Yi is back Just wait to be slept with Oh my god, Jane is back Who is Jian Yi? It was Mr. Lu who regretted his marriage and abandoned us 6 years ago. The Jian Yi who eloped with someone else Check that the other party's IP address is Mr. Lu. Mr. Du's counterparty's IP location keeps moving. I'm afraid I can't trace the exact IP location. Find the other party's address within 10 minutes Otherwise, you should go and receive the punishment in person. It's Mr. Lu 9 minutes left 9 minutes 30 seconds 9 minutes 28 seconds Jianxi It's really you who's back The second and third treasures have eaten. What are you hiding? Nothing to hide Mommy My second brother and I didn't hide the computer I am really not afraid of my god-like opponent I'm afraid of teammates who are like pigs take out the computer show me what bad things you are doing Qian Xiaoyun Qian Xiaochuan Didn't I tell you to keep a low profile? Look at the good things you've done Mommy, I was wrong You shouldn't go to Black Daddy's company network Mommy Ogawa is also wrong Can you say no? Don't spank Ogawa's ass Originally, I was thinking of sneaking into the Lu family tonight Take Lu Wenjin's sperm to save Xiaobao It's better now Being fucked like this by you two live treasures Now the whole world knows that I, Jinyi, am back Mom, don't worry I'll pick you up outside tonight Keep the mission successfully completed Okay, let's go eat quickly Ah, long time no see Long time no see Why run? Don't you want to sleep with me? Let me go. You got the wrong person. I'm not Jane oh Didn't you realize you dropped something? you are like a tornado Don't come too fast Hi Mr. Lu haven't seen you for a long time Do you think I would want to see you? besides What's this Tell me again Never let her know My real purpose for getting the gold Someone offered you 200,000 for your gold shallow tide Your habit of telling nonsense has not changed at all. Six years ago you kept saying you loved me Turn around and send me to someone else's bed Then she ran away with another man. I don't have Wen Jing Did I tell you? Do not lie to me Otherwise I will never forgive you in this life really He hates me now Haha Mr. Lu You see, since you don't want to see me so much Otherwise, do one good deed that day Contribute a little sperm As for you, just stay well. The door here has a fingerprint lock Only my son and I can open it His son Bai Xue didn't lie to me back then they really have kids Then I can't let him know The existence of three other children Otherwise she will definitely do what she did to Dabao 6 years ago Not good for my child lunjing Erbao Why did you come in? Didn't I ask you to wait for me at the door? What are you doing in here? Fortunately, your father didn't see it Otherwise you will be snatched away Who is the pretty aunt? Why do you look so similar to me? daddy you are my mommy Erbao, what nonsense are you talking about? Of course I am your mommy ah Mommy, I finally found you Xiao Lin, this kid, is usually not afraid of anything. Like a little adult Why is tonight so weird? Don't be afraid, Erbao Mommy, it's okay to go Mommy takes you home Mommy holding little hand So this is how it feels I wonder why mommy hasn't come out yet? Bad exposure Lu Xiaoqi stayed up most of the night What are you doing out here? bad daddy This is thinking of me as another child Could it be that I look a lot like the Xiaoqi she talks about? Walk go home with me I do not want It's not up to you Bad daddy, put me down I don't want to go in I'm going to wait for mommy here Mommy, come with me i know how to get out Um Bad daddy, put me down I want to wait for mommy Be obedient How did he know Jian Yi was inside? Have they met Jian Yi? Baby you are so awesome How did you know about this secret passage? I see You must be waiting for me Understand the terrain of the villa Then sneaked into the villa to rescue me Well done, you are indeed my baby Mommy, let's go quickly Otherwise, daddy will find you missing later. It makes sense that we will catch up. Go to work at 8:30 Go baby let's go home Sorry, someone kidnapped the young master Be obedient How did he know Jian Yi was inside? Have they met Jian Yi? Qian Xi, are you so unwilling to stay by my side? angry daddy It's so scary. I have to run away quickly. Mr. Lu is not well The young master was taken away Save you quickly, let me down put me down I don't want to go in I'm going to wait for mommy here Hateful advice The purpose of your coming back this time Sure enough, it was to take Xiao Qi away I will never let you succeed Your daddy will find you soon If he can't catch him, it'll be over You must give it to mommy right away Your bag fell Don't leave your luggage. Tianyi opens the door I'll give you 3 seconds 3 The worst I can do is get caught again. But if Lu Wenjin discovers the existence of the children She will definitely take away the second and third treasures. two Then I will never see my children again in this life one Don't worry, warmth I just went home to pick up some clothes I'll go back with you now Where is the child? What child? You have a kid You are like this now I can sue you for breaking into a private house Then you can go ahead and sue I just want to see who in the whole D city dares to control me. Lu Wenjing Can't enter what are you waiting for Nothing, nothing Is the child in the closet? How can it be The wardrobe is full of my personal belongings If Mr. Lu wants to see my underwear, just say so I can open it for you to see has a problem You must have hidden the child in the closet ah don't want don't want Fortunately, the second and third treasures are not inside. If Jian Xi said that the child was not in the closet just now, What are you afraid of? But our two sons are here You, you go to other people's houses in the middle of the night and go crazy Can I not be afraid? Stop pretending to me The child must be here with you I warn you hand over the child Before I get angry Lu Wenjing, what on earth do you need to do to believe me? A woman like you who tells lies Not worthy of being trusted at all Sure enough, she hates me I say it one last time hand over the child I raised the child with my own hands she can't leave me i tell you i Dabao must be the second and third treasures Why Step aside Mo Wenjing This is my home without my permission You can't break into my room without permission It's not up to you Your phone rang Aren't you afraid of something urgent? I can't do anything to him even if I'm here. What are you doing? Mr. Lu We found the young master in the villa yard ok i got it You see, I told you that your son is not here with me. Since Xiaoqi is not here Who is hiding in the bathroom? Could it be the man she eloped with back then? You know now that your son is no longer here you can go now You think I want to stay here do you want my sperm You agreed to give it to me Then I'll give you a chance Come to our company to report at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning No lateness allowed Will mommy go to daddy's company tomorrow? Of course I want to go Having a chance is better than having no chance I don't know if daddy will bully mommy. no I'm going to follow you secretly tomorrow What if daddy dares to bully mommy? I want to protect mommy Hello, may I ask where Mr. Lu's office is? Are you the new secretary? It just so happens that Mr. Lu wants to drink coffee. Go and pour him a drink, my secretary My secretary eh Lu Wenjing would be so kind Mr. Lu's office is in the middle room on the far right. Don't go wrong Hey, I don't know that yet Is he a secretary? Forget it, I have to go find Lu Wenqi anyway. Then just send it to him on the way. He works hard and is still so handsome What are you looking at me for? Didn't you ask me to come? I asked you to come over and report It's not like I asked you to be a secretary I knew you weren't so kind Will you arrange such an easy job for me? Tell me what job you have arranged for me Lin Zhu took her to the logistics department to report. Lu Enjing, let me go do some hygiene Hey, let me go do some hygiene Is there a problem Of course there is a problem I'm not mentally ill Let's just have a good life at home I will definitely not come to your company to do sanitation. Okay, you don't have to go Then just pretend I didn't say anything about giving you a chance. No, I'll go I'll go now Didn't you just say that you would never go? you Huh snort How could Mr. Lu do this? You must have heard wrong I love labor labour is the honour Logistics department, right? I'll go now Awesome, these ladies are really flexible and flexible. Hey wait a minute Mr. Lu, do you have any other instructions? You remember once you are fired Then this agreement will be void. Hahaha okay Don't worry, boss I will definitely work hard Strive to be a hard-working employee Come on, I'm optimistic about you Then come on I'm optimistic about you Pork Chop Skin Mr. Lu, the logistics department of this company always has a heavy workload. And the conditions are difficult Will Miss Jane be fine? Then go to the logistics department As for how to do it You don't need me to teach you. ah I understand everything This Lu Wenjing is holding back her tricks to start. But she can come over anyway I, Jinyi, will not be defeated so easily. Can you have some longer eyes? Didn't you see anyone? Excuse me Jian Yi You are still alive Oops You are really lucky Like that back then Because God said I shouldn't take my life Bai Xue, you killed me back then I should settle this account for my child Don't mess around This is a company If you dare to touch me Wen Jing, she won't let you go Don't worry, I won't do anything now After all, it's more fun to torture you slowly Bai Xu Sooner or later I will find the evidence Let you pay for my gift with your life I finally solved the problem that Jian Yi and Wen Jing were engaged. no I will never let him return to Wen Jing The new cleaning lady offended Mr. Lu teach him a lesson correct Mr. Lu said that whoever punishes him harder will be promoted and raised in salary. Jian Yi, Jian Yi Just wait and get out who is new I am the supervisor Just received the notification The swimming pool on the first floor needs cleaning. You go there. Myself Everyone has something to do Of course he's alone The swimming pool is so big How can I finish cleaning by myself? Are you a supervisor or I'm the supervisor I said let you go Just go Otherwise, I'll fire you It must be your fault again. Want to fire me No way, I'll go now hurry up Daddy's family is too big I failed to escape just last night At the company today I don't believe it, Master, I can't escape The watch shows Mommy is nearby I need to find mommy quickly Who hit me? Well who are you Why do you look exactly like me? I asked you first You are my mother's other child Could it be that you are what Daddy said? My half brother To your mommy, I am my mommy But my mommy said My brother was killed by that bad woman Let's do a paternity test another day Wait until the results come out Then you will know if we are brothers I think you can give me your phone and watch. I'll save the number Let's make an appointment then Okay, I have to go back to find my mommy now. You should also go find your daddy. Okay, mom, let's go to the swimming pool now, right? If she turns into a drowned rat My aunt will definitely be very angry ah Ah, save me, I'm afraid of water Save me I'm afraid of water What to pretend to be The depth of this swimming pool is only more than one meter, so you can't die. Brother, come quickly Mommy was pushed into the pool What? I'll come right away Daddy and Mommy were pushed into the pool Come with me quickly Ah, Mr. Lu I have already taught this newcomer a lesson for you. Interpretation Ahhh Mr. He What's going to happen to him You just wait to sit through the bottom of the prison You are fired Assistant Lin, why is this? It's my fault that you touched someone you shouldn't have touched. But doesn't Mr. Lu hate this newcomer? No matter how much Mr. Lu hates Miss Jian, It doesn't mean you can move either You'd better pray that Miss Jane is okay Otherwise, you'll have to wait until you're in jail. ah It's over, it's all over now Doctor, how is she? Mr. Lu and Miss Jian were just frightened No serious problem Will wake up soon Notice Don't catch the cold okay, I get it Xiao Lin, go get me a cup of ginger tea. It's Mr. Lu I'll go right away Miss Jian, are you awake? If you don't wake up Mr. Lu is going to bring the entire medical team here. I've been treating you Is he worried about you being free? Ah, Mr. Lu I'm going to get busy right now Drink a cup of ginger tea to ward off the cold are you still there are you still there I tell you Stop being so sentimental What I hate the most is a woman who is so frivolous as you. The reason why I saved you It's because I don't want my company to take human lives really She likes Bai Xue Not interested, not interested I'm not interested in you anyway Please, Mr. Lu, please keep your distance from me in the future. Misunderstandings like today's behavior It's better not to have any in the future I don't want to get into unnecessary trouble because of this besides Thank you for the ginger tea But you'd better leave it to your fiancee to drink. you Wenjing has a document here what are you doing Wenjing, how can you keep her by your side? Don't forget what she did to you before To elope with another man Not even your children I don't need you to remind me Wen Jinggun Daddy and Mommy clearly care about each other You have to be tough-talking Continue like this When will Daddy and Mommy reconcile? It seems we have to take action Brother, you have an idea Wait for the right opportunity That's how we are Hello Miss Jing Welcome to join our logistics department I am Qin Min, the director of the Logistics Department Minister, you don't have to be so polite. Where is the person in charge? He has been fired Our Lu family This kind of scoundrel who framed his colleagues must never be allowed to exist. He just did something evil to me Was fired Could it be Lu Wenjin's order? But even if it's him He definitely wasn't doing it for me It's for the company's image Does the minister have anything else to arrange? Do it for me? Need not Just be in charge of our logistics department and have fun. nothing to do If that doesn't work, I still need to get a mirror. Yes, minister, don't worry I'm not as delicate as I look If you have any work, feel free to leave it to me. There's a storage room there that hasn't been cleaned for a long time. Why don't you go clean it up? no problem I'll go now I must make offerings to this big Buddha properly. Otherwise, it's hard to guarantee that my job will be lost one day. The storage room is a blind spot for surveillance. Even if Jian Yi was burned to death inside No one will find out Jian Yi, Jian Yi You're dead this time Lu Xiaoqi, let me tell you That Jian Yi She is not your mommy Hum, I know everything Daddy still wants to lie to me Mommy is in Chongjiang The opportunity has come daddy daddy Mommy is leaving her job I'll tell you again She is not your mommy snort If you don't bark, don't bark. She is my mommy after all. You said she was leaving her job? what happened She doesn't want to do it anymore I heard Uncle Lin say She is already packing her things by now Really Daddy is in the storage room Hey, he said he doesn't care about mommy When I heard that mommy was resigning, I was more anxious than anyone else. Sure enough, men's mouths are deceiving. You want me to be fired for not working Du Wenjing, you think beautifully Such a mess It seems like no one has cleaned it up in a really long time. I already got Lu Wenjing's sperm early Let the baby recover soon Come on Jinyi Why Done It's inconvenient for me to drop my rope here. Better hang it up Interpretation Ahhh Thanks Chiba I warn you without my permission You are not allowed to die I'm not ready to die I said, you didn't think I was going to commit suicide just now, did you? Is not it Of course not I just watched this rope fall down Want to tie it back on But didn't you say you don't care about me? I didn't care at first, yes, yes, yes I know you are afraid that something will happen to me in your company Affect your company's image Don't worry, I'm fine I won't be able to think about it But you have the spare time Why not pay more attention to your fiancee? To prevent her from misunderstanding our relationship later Come and trouble me again You do care about me. Do I still want your sperm? Can I think about you? Okay, get out now Don't delay your work you Who closed the door? Is there anyone there? There's someone inside? Why is there no signal? so Mom and Dad won't have a signal within a ten-mile radius. Du Wenjing, my mobile phone has no signal Look at your phone quickly Lu Wenjing, what's wrong with you? Lu Wenjing Lu Wenjing, what's wrong with you? He looks like he's suffering from claustrophobia. Lu Wenjing, relax Take a deep breath Claustrophobia should be fear of the dark By the way, it should be better to turn on the flashlight. Is Wen Jing feeling better like this? Get Daddy and Mommy in the same room Now I am not afraid that the misunderstanding cannot be resolved. Let's go and hold Uncle Lin down Let daddy and mommy stay a little longer Waited for so long Finally waited for the simple order God is really helping me Jian Yi, Jian Yi Since you insist on coming back to snatch Lu Wenjing from me Then go die No, he has a fiancee Lu Wenjing, please wake up. I am Jian Yi Do you hate me touching you so much? I hate it OK Then I want to touch it drive me dream dream Cough cough cough hello cough cough cough Gotta go out right away Cough cough cough Daddy and Mommy are in danger Go to the storage room Why has Mr. Lu been gone for so long? Why Two young masters ah ah I just said how could there be two young masters? It turns out I was dazzled Uncle Lin, go to the storage room quickly Daddy and Mommy are in danger How do you know Mr. Lu and Miss Jian are here? Oops, starting from the storage room It's on fire, put out the fire quickly Mr. Lu and Miss Jian are still inside Young Master, please stay here obediently. Um Mr. Lu, Ms. Jane Who is Wen Jing? Longjing Hey you woke up Just take a good rest and then you can leave the hospital. The nurse just brought it to me What about that man? How is he? Oh, she's in the next ward Not awake yet Thank you where are you going I have my fiancee with me. Thank you no do not leave Me hateful She even yelled at that bitch Jian Yi in her dreams Wenjing, I'm here Don't worry, I won't leave you Yes, I have my fiancee with me. I don't need to care Damn it, it's all Jin Yi, this bitch Wen Jing almost had an accident. Fortunately, I cleaned up the scene. No clue left what are you doing I see you haven't woken up yet I worry about you Why are you here Where is Jian Yi and others? Before I passed out, I remember being in the storage room with Jian Yi. Fire in storage room Assistant Lin and I took you to the hospital. Just now the nurse said that Miss Jane has been discharged from the hospital This is heartless Don't come and see me Wenjing, don't leave The doctor said You still need to rest let me go Uncivilized scenery Jian Yi, she doesn't love you at all She hurt you so much You shouldn't have kept her by your side What if she is in Baixue? You should know very well why I want to get engaged to you If you continue to have no sense of proportion Then there is no need for this to exist when we go back. Su Wenjing Why do you only have Jian Yi in your heart? How can I not compare with her? This Jian Yi is really lucky Even the fire can't kill her Lu Wenjing Bastard, big scumbag A bad man like you who goes around in heat You should be cut off from your descendants What are you holding in your hand? Nothing, nothing It's over. My sister was fired again. my doll Lu Wenjin Well, listen to my excuses Well, please listen to my explanation. Then give me a reasonable explanation that This is the doll I made just for you gift to you I look easy to deceive smart It's really terrible that it's not easy to coax at all. Come and take care of me Otherwise I will fire you The dog man caught my weakness and bullied me hard Take care of your uncle Aren't you coming over yet? Okay, Mr. Lu I'll come right away Always so passive do not know when Only then can we get Lu Wenjing's gold Go save Xiaobao No, I have to take the initiative Wait, Lu Wenjing Wait until sister conquers you Wow Mr. Lu, do you want to do something exciting? Mr. Lu, do you want to do something exciting? How do you want to play? I want you here besides woman you are playing with fire Yes, Mr. Lu Do you want to play together? Jian Yi what does this mean? People can't simply be impressed by Mr. Lu's handsomeness It's hard to control yourself Do you think I will believe what you say? Ling shoots the brakes Lu Wenjing, are you a man? am i a man Don't you know best? You, you are shameless Go get me a glass of water It's Mr. Lu mute What on earth are you planning? Are you sure mommy is really here? Brother, don't worry Mommy is here tonight Can't go wrong How about we take responsibility for finding it? It's okay to meet here later. Mommy, I miss you so much Xiaolin, why are you here? No one saw you when you came here just now, right? Mommy didn't I'm also very careful I didn't even see anyone coming out at first. you want to die I'll help you Lu Wenjin hates me so much If only he knew I gave birth to his child Xiaolin will definitely be snatched away No, Xiao Lin can't stay here. Xiaolin, let mom take you back strangeness Let him get some water Where have people gone? Xiaoqi is strange Why did Xiaoqi run to the hospital? Could it be that she came to see Jane? Xiaoqi Guoshan came back to take Xiao Qi away. Jian Yi, stop for me Where are you taking my son? It's over. Now Lu Wenjing knows about the child's existence. Lu Xiaoqi, come here Lu Xiaoqi Lu Wenjing This is because she mistakenly identified Xiao Lin as her and Bai Xue's son. Mr. Lu, you admitted your mistake This is my son Will I admit my mistake to my own son? From the back, you can see that this is our Xiao Qiyi Lu Wenjing must not be allowed to see Xiaoling's appearance Otherwise, I would definitely not be able to hide Xiaoling's identity. I say it again I really didn't lie to you this is not your son Is it real You'll know it once you've seen it no you let go I don't want to let go, daddy Xiaoqi This kid actually looks exactly like Xiao Lin Could it be that my Dabao is not dead at all? This kid actually looks exactly like Xiao Lin Could it be that my Dabao is not dead at all? Look at this kid's stature and Xiaoqi's age. This woman Jian Yi is really cruel. Back then, Xiaoqi and I were left behind to elope with others. He turned around and gave birth to a child for the other party. Jian Yi You are really good What happened to me she How old is she? I don't even remember how old my children are She really doesn't care about Xiaoqi at all This is my son Nothing to do with you Xiaoqi, let's go I am mommy It sounds like she's not your mommy Oh, right Stay away from my son from now on Is Dabao really you? I have to get her hair to make sure. Damn it Jian Yi was actually allowed to see that little bastard no I can't let Jian Yi recognize the child If she recognizes the child Then the misunderstanding between her and Lu Wenjing will be resolved By then it will be even more impossible for me to marry Lu Wenjing. Qianyi I will never let you have what you want Mr. Lu, this lady Looking for you Um Hi Mr. Lu Qianyin, you What the hell? Am I not watching the weekend? Come to Mr. Lu's home to provide some personal services Really want to provide service Of course, if Mr. Lu has any work to do, just ask him OK Then clean the whole villa All by myself You said it yourself Just tell me I'll say it again I didn't take you seriously Is this bitch man trying to trick me? What are you mumbling again? Well, I said no problem I'll clean now Hey, wait a minute, please remember to clean up a little bit. Because I have mysophobia What mysophobia I think he's sick Being courteous for nothing Either adultery or theft What on earth is this woman thinking? Mr. Lu's health care has been taken care of. Do you have any other instructions? OK, looks pretty good you can go back No, I'm good at taking care of children. How about I help you take care of your son? Qian Yi: Actually, the purpose of your visit this time is for Xiaoqi. right Does he know I'm here to get his son's hair. It shouldn't be Jane I said it You stay away from Xiaoqi I didn't hurt her Why are you so hostile to me? Haven't you hurt her enough? It's not you who made it clear How did I hurt her? Simple, this is the choice you made back then Now that you've made your choice You have to be responsible for your choices What happened to Lu Wenjing back then was not what you thought I did that because it was enough I don't want to hear your explanation Get out of here now If you don't listen, don't listen. I don't want to tell you yet Damn it It was she who left our father and son back then. Now I want to get close to Xiaoqi again What do you think of our father and son? Is daddy or mommy here? Xiaoqi, I told you She is not your mommy I don't care, she's my mommy Bad daddy, you drove mommy away I ignore you Does Xiao Qi miss my mother so much? Shouldn't I stop her from meeting Jian Yi? That little guy and I met for the first time yesterday Why did I hurt him? Mom, are you thinking about Daddy? I didn't miss him Women all like duplicity If you say no, then there is. Who taught you these things? That's what was originally said on TV Mommy, if you miss daddy, go find him Sambo and I will help you Let's bring daddy back to you together You two What a big kid But don't worry about adult matters. How did you come Didn't you say you don't want to see me? I don't want to come It's Xiaoqi, she wants to see you Mommy, is she really my eldest baby? Xiaoqi likes Jianyi so much Should I try to reconcile with her Jian Yi? My child was delivered you can go now Walk slowly without seeing anyone off Hey, it's simple Hey hey I must be crazy That's why I want to explain to this woman Xiaoqi, have we met before? Mommy, last time you sneaked into Daddy's house It was my brother who was taken away I just said why were you so wrong that day? It turned out to be a mistake Xiaoqi, what's wrong with you? Why don't you speak? Mommy, can you never leave me again? I don't want to be a kid without a mommy Xiaoqi Sorry, I can't promise you Because I still don't know if I am your mommy How about we do a paternity test tomorrow? In this way, you will know whether I am your son or not. Okay, we'll go tomorrow The inspection report is out Thanks how so Mommy, am I your child? of course not because you are my child I wonder why Bai Xue is here Xiao Qilai Come to mom You are not my mommy you are a bad woman Qianyi, what did you say to the child? He doesn't recognize me now Bai Xue, you are the mother of a child Your child doesn't recognize you What you should reflect on is yourself instead of asking me You must have said something to confuse the child Xiaoqi, come here Bad woman, don't touch me Bai Xue, let me go Didn't you see that the child doesn't want to go with you? this is my child I can take it away if I want to You don't look like a mother at all now. bitch You still want to drive a wedge between me and my child? I'll kill you and me You dare to hit me If you continue to pester me I don't mind slapping you again let's go It seems You don't want to know where that little bitch is buried? Where As long as you leave the Imperial City I'll tell you Not so good And you've given up on this idea It's impossible for me to leave the Imperial City Jane, I will never let you go Mr. Lu, why are you here? I'm here to pick up Xiaoqi Mommy, I don't want to go home I want to be with you But how about you let her stay at my place for a few more days? OK, I'll ask the driver to take you there. sorry to bother you Jian Yi Why did you bring Xiaoqi to the hospital? I thought Lu Wenjing had forgotten about this I didn't expect you would be waiting for me here. Daddy and mommy brought me for a checkup I checked that I haven't been feeling well recently. Go to the hospital for a checkup Jian Yi, do you have any truth in your mouth? Mommy at night is shy Do you dare to turn on the light? Mr. Lu's apartment has arrived Then I'll go down first Still the same as before So easily shy My stomach hurts so much I really said I felt uncomfortable I really feel uncomfortable now Brother, what should I do if my mother feels so uncomfortable? Brother, please think of a way quickly Wouldn't it be great if we called Daddy over to take care of Mommy? It can also enhance their relationship Just do it Hello What I am coming over now End of the meeting Why Look how nervous Mr. Lu is It must be an urgent matter I think Mr. Lu is planning to expand the size of the Lu Group. Developing overseas business can make Mr. Lu so nervous Of course there is only Miss Jane You people still don't understand Mr. Lu very well. Daddy must be here Mommy said we can't let daddy see us Brother, please open the door Sanbao and I went to hide first No problem, let's go, daddy Dabao, where is your mother? Mommy is on the sofa Lu Wenjing, why are you here? Fortunately, Erbao and Sanbao are hiding. I heard Xiaoqi say you are sick I came over to see if you were dead That's sorry Not dead yet I let you down You are in so much pain The mouth is quite tough. Dead duck has a tough mouth I'm talking about people like you Why Take the medicine Lest you scold me later No strength at all Bitter I knew you were afraid of hardship I brought you candy Lu Wenjing Thank you If Xiaoqi hadn't told me I don't care Yes, yes, thank you, President Lu Um Then drink more hot water I'll go to the kitchen and make you something to eat She is quite gentle at this time. But I remember she can't cook. really I'm talking about President Lu Can you do it? I can handle projects worth hundreds of billions I can't handle this tiny egg Mr. Lu, let me do it. You keep knocking like this You knocked all the eggs in my house away You believe me I just didn't find the trick As soon as I find the trick I'll get it done right away Okay, okay, Mr. Lu, you are the best Okay, come out now I'll call you when the meal is ready Oh, why did my Sambo run out? What are you looking at Xiaoqi three children She really loves that man She actually gave birth to two children for him Now that it's over, the second and third treasures can no longer be hidden. you three don't want 3 of you Why are you wearing a mask? Daddy, we are playing a game play games kids playing games We adults, just leave it alone. Kobayashi Ogawa Hurry up and take your little brother Qi back to your room to play. Hey wait a minute What did he discover? Xiaoqi Your bracelet fell off Daddy, this is not mine. It's my son's thank you that bracelet The last time I took Xiaoqi back from the door Saw it once Isn't that child Xiaoqi? Hello Go check it out How many children did Jian Yi have at that time? Two treasures and three treasures Didn't Mommy say that? Don't let you appear in front of daddy? If your dad knew you existed Will take you away from me Mommy Why can't we live with daddy? Yes mommy Other children have daddies Mommy Why can we only choose one or the other? Sorry babies I also want to give you a healthy home But the person your father likes is not me Mr. Lu has already checked Miss Jian only gave birth to one child at that time I just left the hospital after giving birth. That means I got it wrong. Hey Mr. Lu Hey hey What happened last time was my fault can you give me a chance I really can't live without this job You murdered a colleague and you were not taken to the police station. Already Mr. Lu's magnanimity Mr. Lu, I didn't mean to frame Jian Yi. I just want to teach him a lesson What do security guards do nowadays? How come everyone is let in? pull him down Mr. Lu, I have worked in the company for so many years. You can't be so heartless, Mr. Lu This Lu Wenqiang is really hard-hearted No mercy at all This is not the last time because Jian Yi The fired logistics department employee? I'm worried that I won't have a chance to deal with Jian Yi Now the opportunity comes to your door You've fallen to this point No wonder Mr. Lu It was all caused by that woman Jian Yi That's right, if it weren't for her I won't be fired at all You have been harmed like this She is still doing well in the logistics department Even your minister must be courteous to her. Don't you want revenge? If I don't feel well, don't even think about her feeling well. Even if it means death, I will hold her with me. snort Jian Yi, Jian Yi You're dead this time Ahhhhhhh Stop struggling No one will come to save you oops My office is really a little dirty lately Then go to the logistics department and ask someone to come over and clean it up. Mr. Lu, do you want to ask Miss Jian to come over? I noticed that you talk a lot recently Otherwise, I'll give you another job. I'll go right away Forget it I go by my own Mr. Lu is not well Miss Jane is missing Call up the monitoring I have to dig three feet into the ground to find her. Ying Ying, why did you bring me here? You made me lose my job My wife divorced me took the child away What do you think I want to do? The minister told me It has nothing to do with me at all And if you don't harm me You won't be fired from the company It was you who caused it OK it's my fault But you're tying me up like this now It's of no use to you either. Lu Wenjia cares about you the most As long as you are in my hands Hum, I can do anything I want How can it be He hates me more than anything Even if he knew I was in danger It's impossible for him to come to save me. let's make a bet If you want Jian Yi to be okay Just come to the Demon Horse's warehouse alone. He'll be there soon There's no way he won't come He wants to strangle me to death with his own hands You let him go He really cares about me Faster than I thought It seems that he really cares about you Mo Jiu, don't worry, run away Stand there and don't move Otherwise I will kill him Hey hey good what conditions do you have Just mention it I agree You really care about her That being the case You want her to live Take 5 million in exchange Isn't it just 5 million? I promise you You let her go You think I'm stupid I let her go How do I get out of here You let her go I'll be your hostage Don't talk nonsense Just leave and don't worry about me Who asked you to speak? shut up You let her go Otherwise I will kill you OK I can't move her You want to change her tie yourself up good Why does he care about me? Isn't the person he likes Bai Xue? I've tied it up, okay Don't play tricks I untie her You come slowly go I told you to leave why don't you listen Where can I go with you here? Lu Wenqiang You want to fall in love We'll talk later so it won't affect my ability to get money. Call his assistant to prepare the money. Otherwise I will kill him now don't hurt her I'll fight, I'll fight now Hurry up and hit ah ah ah ah ah Ah, take it away How dare you lie to me I kill you ah all Call an ambulance it hurts Am I about to die? No no you won't die I haven't tortured you enough yet I won't let you die Fortunately you are fine 11 Xixi Please wake up quickly As long as you can wake up I will definitely listen to your explanation woke up I knew it Disaster lasting thousands of years People like you It's impossible to die so easily You are the disaster At least I just saved your life Have you ever treated your savior like this? I tell you You must dare to appear in front of me again in the future I can't spare you The wound is still hurting now. Say something nice you will die Are you feeling uncomfortable somewhere? Jianye, since you care about me so much Why did you leave me in the first place? 1 I who is he I am one's fiance So it was because of her that you left me in the first place As far as I know, Mr. Lu seems to have a fiancee. Excuse me In what capacity is Mr. Lu asking this question now? I'm talking to her Why do you answer Yiyi is my fiancee Of course I have the right to answer this question for her If nothing happens to Mr. Lu, Just leave first court death Sister Lu, stop it Our affairs have nothing to do with her Are you protecting her now? She is my fiancee Of course he will protect me enough Can you please stop arguing? Tell you the good news one by one about Luo Enjing You go out first What's the meaning You mean let me go let her stay here Well, you go ahead, I'm fine So I can remember what you said Brother Qianyu, you just said there was good news what good news Xiaobao's illness is cured I already have a fiance I actually believe she has something to hide Hello Mr. Lu When we find that person he committed suicide Then keep checking How was the investigation about the fire in the storage room last time? The storage room is a blind spot for surveillance. All surrounding surveillance videos have also been deleted. It is difficult to recover in a short time You must find this person out for me It's Mr. Lu What you said is true it is true I learned from the teacher that there is a special medicine Can cure Xiaobao's disease But this medicine is hard to find. As long as Xiaobao can be cured I can do it no matter how much it costs It's not about money I heard that this prescription was bought by someone some time ago but The other party seems to have no intention of selling the production now. Is this person sick? Why did you buy the prescription if you don't want to sell it? Maybe it's research and development? Want to raise the price These businessmen Can't afford to go early without profit But that's okay I've already sent someone to ask As long as I can get his contact information I will accompany you to find him Try to buy the prescription as soon as possible Cure Xiaobao's disease Brother Qianyu, thank you You don't have to be so polite with me. By the way Yiyi Since Xiaobao's illness It can be cured without a bone marrow transplant Then you don't have to pester Lu Wenjing from now on. no no why not that Didn't we find a specific medicine? If you can't find it I stayed with her just in case. Yiyi, are you still unable to let her go? Don't forget She still has a fiancee I know I will leave you when I see him getting married Why bother? Hasn't she hurt you enough? You were pregnant with his child six years ago narrow escape She didn't even ask you Brother Qianyu When Bai Xue left him and went abroad When I'm with him I knew he couldn't let go of Bai Xue But what to do I just like him He doesn't deserve your affection at all Thank you for saving his life before Okay, Brother Qianyu Please stop fighting for me. This is all I do willingly And don't do what you did just now in the future Calls himself my fiance I know you want to vent my anger in front of him But if word spreads, it will affect your reputation. I do not care Brother Qianyu I mean, I'm not even married anyway. Just influence it. It doesn't matter You are still sick Lie down and rest now Thank you, Grandpa Qianyu I don't like Lu Wenjing just like you do like you How did you come Chicken soup brought for you This is what you specially prepared for me Don't think too much about it I just don't want to be told by others What kind of heartless person am I? After all, you were hurt because of me Yes, yes, I know Thank you Mr. Lu Why didn't your fiance come to accompany you? Brother Qianyu, he is not me Of course I will accompany my fiancee Don't worry, Mr. Lu, don't worry. You two are here again I'm not familiar with you I'm too lazy to get to know you Please let me know. Thank you. Hey Yiyi Guess what I brought you? Just a friendly reminder your favorite food Could it be small wontons? Guessed it right Eat it while it's hot It tastes hot only Why Let's drink the chicken soup first and eat the wontons first. Eat chicken soup and eat wontons first None of you should argue. I'll eat together Eat mine first ah I'm back It's true that a golden nest and a silver nest are not as good as my own nest. Mommy, Daddy and Uncle Qianyu Don't I go to the ward to stay with you every day? Yes, yes There are two people playing with you How great, don't mention it The two of them started fighting as soon as they met. not just me Even the nurse gave them one head and two heads. They also wish they could stay in the ward 24 hours a day It means that Daddy and Uncle Qianyu care about you. Yes, yes Forget it, your Uncle Qianyu cares about me. Your dad is purely a matter of victory or defeat. Mommy, what is victory or defeat? You two little brats Even if I tell you, you don't understand. mommy mommy My brother and I are no longer young We are already 5 years old I can protect mommy Okay, my two little babies are the best. Two treasures and three treasures I'm going back to the room first If your father and Uncle Qianyu come over later, Just say I'm not here You are so unreliable Sure enough, we have to rely on the two of us at the critical moment. Mommy is not at home Uncle please come back what are you doing here I should ask Mr. Lu this question What are you doing standing at my fiancee's door? Yiyi, she doesn't like you at all Otherwise she would have married you 6 years ago What happened between me and my fiancee Don't bother Mr. Lu anymore. But doesn't Mr. Lu like your fiancee very much? Why don't you get married? My business is none of your business either Let Yiyi go It was she who provoked me first Mr. Lu Why weren't the flowers sent out? Does Miss Jane not like it? Throw this away Mr. Lu failed to send flowers. Someone from Mr. Lu contacted us I want a prescription for a special medicine It is said that a 5-year-old child is sick and needs treatment urgently The price is determined by us 5 years old Wouldn't that be as strange as Xiaoqi? Why do you hear this child is sick? I feel inexplicably difficult The child's situation is not optimistic Urgent treatment good Then make an appointment to come out and meet. If this is true We can provide special medicines free of charge in addition You need to hurry up and recover the surveillance video. Okay Mr. Lu Oh right What is that Jian Yi doing? strangeness Who is thinking about me? Brother Qianyu, what's the matter? ----I have contacted the pharmacy buyer one by one They promised to meet us tomorrow Really? Great Well, I'll pick you up tomorrow great, see you tomorrow Xiaobao is saved now It's so good. It's so good. You are such a big person now Why do you act recklessly? Who told you to walk without making any sound? Don't you know that people are scary and can scare people to death? They all say not to do anything wrong. Not afraid of ghosts knocking on the door I'm too lazy to talk nonsense to you The president of Lu University came to our logistics department despite his busy schedule Do you have any more orders? How about you packing your things? Report to the secretarial department tomorrow Hey that one I just Let me introduce to you This is Jian Yi New colleagues in our secretarial department from now on She is Mr. Lu's personal secretary Hello everyone I hope I can get along with you happily in the future Okay, everyone is busy. Congratulations, Qianye no see for a few days You were transferred from the logistics department to our secretarial department. As soon as I came up, I was my personal secretary. It's not like I worked in the secretarial department for a year or two Just a little secretary It turns out he's from the logistics department. Needless to say, he must have come in through the back door. It's snowy She is Mr. Lu's fiancee They all entered the secretarial department based on their own abilities. She's from the logistics department Why? to the last time I saw her I thought she was a new employee in our secretarial department As a result, I saw him going to the logistics department with Assistant Lin. I didn't expect to come back to our secretarial department again. Jian Yi, let me see how you deal with you now After working for a year or two, I was still just a small secretary. The book can only prove that you are incompetent. hello dog out of the way Please give in. What's her attitude? It's just someone who relies on connections You really take yourself seriously Forget it, who made Wen Jing choose me? Feeling ashamed of her You should take care of her, right? Why is she Mr. Lu's ex-fiancee? I really thought How could anyone leave such an outstanding man like Mr. Lu? Elope with someone else Co-authored because Mr. Lu doesn't like her She must be unwilling to see Mr. Lu getting married. So I came back to seduce Mr. Lu. So shameless A shameless woman like her She should be taught a lesson We are all colleagues This is not good, is it? Xuexue, you are so kind She has bullied you so much You just watch us teach her a lesson for you Let her not dare to covet your fiance anymore Janeyin, Janeyin Let me see how you die Hum hum Not enough printing paper Go to the storage room and get some. They are trying to gang up on me. It just so happens that I'm fine now Play with them OK But I don't know the way Why don't you go with me? ok let's go Presumably the other two people It's already waiting for me in the storage room. What are you still doing? Go in and get some printing paper. OK, I'll go in now Why I'll leave Secretary Li's task of printing paper to you. Open the door for me Open the door. Fight with me to open the door. I got you You're teasing me on purpose, right? Oops Secretary Li Didn't I just ask you to get some printing paper? How could you say that about me? You caused Yanyan to be beaten like this I don't feel any guilt at all That's so vicious This injury was caused by a beating I thought I fell Secretary Li, please tell me who beat you. I'm going to tell Mr. Lu now Last time, the head of the logistics department was responsible for bullying his colleagues. Got kicked out of the company That was my slip of the tongue He just accidentally fell it Right, right, right Secretary Li himself didn't say anything. This injury definitely wasn't caused by a fall. I will go find Mr. Lu now Let him adjust the monitoring Investigate that Jian Yi carefully. Don't bother Mr. Lu with this little thing, right? How can workplace bullying be a trivial matter? This matter must be severely punished Ah, I dropped it I accidentally dropped it Okay then, be careful when you walk in the future. It's so pitiful that he fell so badly A bunch of useless idiots I still have to take action myself Uh-huh Jian Yi wants you to enter the elevator The elevator power will be cut off I don't believe you can escape this time Finally finished Big companies are different Being a secretary is really not a job for humans. No, I have to go home quickly Erbao and Sanbao are still waiting for me to go back and cook. It's over. The elevator is out of order. Ah, is there anyone? Jian Yi, Jian Yi Everyone in the company is off work Just stay there and wait to die. Have fun Mr. Lu, Miss Jian just called you. But it only rang once The other party hung up It's strange why I can't get through Will Mr. Lu and Miss Jian still work overtime in the company? When we left, I saw that she was still at her workstation. back office Yiyi How are you doing You, please drive my car downstairs quickly It's Mr. Lu Doctor, how is she? It's okay, just a little scared Let her have a good rest and then she can be discharged from the hospital thank you Doctor um Lu Wenjing, you bastard Almost done Don't make me do it Every time you appear next to her She will get hurt Lu Wenjing, please let me beg you. Stay away from Yiyi I will send someone to find out what happened today. I promise no one will hurt her in the future But the person who hurt her the most is you snort Cheng Qianyu, what do you mean? Do you still need me to talk about what you did before? what did i do Speak clearly Think about it yourself I'll go find Yiyi first. Cheng Qianyu you Mr. Lu Mr. Lu One step too late Monitoring has been deleted I don't care what method you use You must restore this monitoring to me Yes Yes Daddy has been staying outside Uncle Qianyu didn't come out after he went in. I don't know how mommy is doing. You wait here I'll go over and see Mommy Hey Yiyi, you're awake Xiaoqian, do you feel uncomfortable now? I'm fine Brother Qianyu, it turns out you saved me I thought it was Lu Wenjing It's Lu Wenjing What about others? outside Auntie, please leave him quickly During the time you were with him Injured every day It must be Bai Xue's fault. Wait until I find the evidence I want to settle these accounts with her. But Brother Qianyu, come to the hospital Where are Xiao Lin and Lele? I brought them with me You wait for me to bring them in This has been deleted How to recover from this? let me try Young Master, why are you here? Do you know how to use a computer? What's so difficult about this? Wait 10 hours Deleted videos will be restored Young Master, you are simply my idol Lu Xiaoqi, I called you just now Aren't you already asleep? The brat still wants to run away Hi Daddy Why is this bracelet here with you? This was originally mine Lin Te will help you call back to the villa now See if Xiaoqi is here Mr. Lu, do you suspect that two young masters are calling? Hello Ah ok Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu is asleep, okay? you spy How dare you steal my child I'm not finished with you on this account. Mommy Whose child is Jian Yi? Mr. Lu, why are you asking me this? Isn't this your son? Are you sure he is Xiaoqi? Of course he did Qianxi, let me ask you one last time Whose child is this? Could it be that Lu Wenjing recognized that Xiao Ming was not Xiao Qi? They shouldn't look exactly the same I didn't even recognize it before He must be scamming me Mr. Lu This is your son Xiaoqing Jianye, you are really full of lies. Can you see clearly that she is Xiaoqi? No wonder Last time Lu Wenjing heard me say that the bracelet belonged to Xiao Ming It will be like that you stole my child And let her call someone else daddy How should I settle this account with you? I didn't let him call anyone daddy Okay, then should I thank you? Thank you, I don't need it. As long as you don't make me unhappy again, that's fine concise You are really good Assistant Lin took the child away It's Lu Wenjin This is what I gave birth to in ten months of pregnancy I worked hard to raise him alone you can't take her away Lu Wenjin, you can't take the child away Give me the child back Lu Wenjin When will you learn to tell the truth? Let's talk again Why Miss Jian and Mr. Lu are still angry right now. You'd better stop chasing me The child is with her She will definitely not treat her children badly Lu Wenjiang, you bastard Grandpa Xiaolin is missing He was taken away by Lu Wenqing What It's all my fault that I shouldn't have brought them to the hospital. Brother Qianyu, I don't blame you It was only a matter of time before Lu Wenjing discovered the child. Now what I'll accompany you to find Lu Wenjing take the child back Don't wait until tomorrow to get the special medicine to treat Xiaobao. Then go and get Xiao Lin back then leave Okay, then I'll go with you tomorrow Brother Qianyu, you should answer the phone first. In case there is any emergency Okay, then you go in first I'll come in later good I don't know if the other party will give away the prescription. Mr. Lu made an appointment with this table No. 6 Okay, I'll go in first When you go to park the car, it's Mr. Lu. It's really a narrow road between enemies I encounter them wherever I go out strangeness Why does this figure look so much like Jenny? That woman is your date here? Lu Wenjing is the prescription for effective medicine buyer Is it such a coincidence? Sir, you are on the wrong track This is table 9 Jian Yi, are you still pretending? Ah, Mr. Lu has really good eyesight. Anyone can recognize me Stop smiling at me Do you want special medicine to treat your child's illness? Xiaolin is in good health not sick Is it an honest confession? Did you steal more than one of my children? Just one, Xiao Lin What about the sick child? what happened Lu Wenqing has already snatched Xiao Lin away If you know the three treasures and the four treasures She will take away all the children No, I must not let her know That child belongs to me and Brother Qianyu you want my sperm Isn't it for after pregnancy? Is it easy to have a bone marrow transplant? I was selling it After selling it, I can use it to pay for medical expenses to treat my child's illness. That being the case There is no need for you to take special medicines. And you Just have a new child with your Qianyu brother Then go get a bone marrow transplant yourself The child can't wait any longer Even if I beg you please help me Jian Yi, I just want you to tell the truth. Is it so difficult for you to tell the truth? Wenjing, will you believe me as long as I tell the truth? As long as you say it, I will believe it Lu Wenjing actually, I Uncle Qi you say Actually 6 years ago You'd better answer the phone first Hitting so urgently There must be something urgent OK, wait for me Hey Wenjing come back quickly Mom fell I have something to do and I have to go back first. Wait until I finish this matter Let's have a good talk ah Hasn't the other party come yet? It's Lu Wenjing Why did you say that the buyer of the prescription was Lu Wenjing? Maybe this is bad fate I originally thought that there would be special medicine to avoid Lu Wenjing It turned out to be her Yiyi i have something to tell you But you have to be mentally prepared first Brother Qianyu, tell me what's going on Lu Wenjing is getting married What uh aunt Hey, Wen Jing is back Come and sit down Mom, why did you lie to me? And news matters You must come forward to clarify I will never marry this woman named Bai Xue You and Xiaoxue have been engaged for many years Getting married is normal Xiaoxue saved your life when you were a child You should take good care of her Auntie saves Wenjing I am willing Look, Xiaoxue is such a good child. Can you marry her? That's your blessing Mom, that's because You have no idea what kind of person she is Son, what are you talking about? Assistant Lin called up the video that was just restored. Xiaoxue, how could you do such a thing? This is so unreasonable. Second Master Lu Second Master Lu You listen to my explanation It's because I care about him too much don't want to lose him That's why you do this kind of thing It's all simple She ran away with someone else 6 years ago Now it's enough to come back and snatch Wenjing from me. Jian Yi loves her children so much How could she abandon them back then? And what happened six years ago I will definitely find out As for you My engagement with you is broken off Not tender Cannot be lifted you promised me You promised me you would marry me You can't break your promise of warmth I gave you a chance But you don't cherish it yourself For the sake of you saving me I won't send you to the police station But setting fire to harm someone I will never allow it to happen again take her away It's Sister Wen, Sister Wen Son, you said that Jian Yi would not abandon the child back then What's going on? mom I suspect that Jian Yi doesn't know Xiaoqi's existence at all. After I took Xiaoling away by force yesterday, She has been anxious with me Son, then hurry up and find her. If you really misunderstood her Those two people talked about it Clear up the misunderstanding Good mother I'm going to find Jian Yi now Why Yiyi you are pregnant what are you going to do now Now that I'm pregnant There is no need for its special medicine. I'm going to take Xiao Lin out later. Take them out of the dungeon Really leave like this Not going to fight for it I mustered up the courage today Some people want to confess everything to him He didn't listen chose to leave That being the case so be it But it's nothing for me now Children are the most important Whether he is there or not is not that important. Just be tough What kind of soft-heartedness has become? What a mouthful you have Harder than anything else But now that you've decided I will help you Brother Qianyun, thank you let's go good Where is the patient in this bed? They have just completed discharge procedures Gone now where have they gone Go out to the right thank you Brother Qianyu, we have to hurry up. Take advantage of Lu Wenjin to come to the hospital to find me Go to the Lu family villa and bring Xiao Lin out good Finished one by one He seems to be chasing me Don't worry, wait a moment You go first to the elevator I'll stop him Go so fast What are you doing? Get out of the way Mr. Lu, please leave your fiancee alone and not pursue her. Why are you chasing us? Cheng Qianyu, please let me pass I have something to say to you You are going to marry Bai Xue What else is there to say? I have broken off the engagement The only person I have always loved is Yiyi Don't run around or you'll be discovered. Let me take you through the secret passage Thank you brother The older brother is supposed to protect his younger brother let's go mommy mommy Erbao leaves Before your dad comes back Let's leave quickly Mommy, can you take me with you? Xiao Qi doesn't want to be without her mommy Sorry Xiaoqi I can't take you away now If you disappear Your dad will go crazy Oh, come with me Then check the DNA again If Xiaoqi is really not my big treasure I'll give Xiaoqi away again Return to Lu Wenji? Lu Wenjing Why are you at my house? Where are you going to take our two children this time? Baby, go back to your room first Misunderstandings are all misunderstandings I haven't seen them for several days I want to bring them here to play for two days I told you to wait for me Why are you so naughty? You are going to marry Bai Xue What am I waiting for you to do? I don't want to be said to be ruining other people's marriages Shameless mistress you are jealous I didn't I just can't stand you eating out of a bowl like this Look at the scumbag in the pot Jian Yi I only have you I only love you That Xiaoqi is she is our child What Dabao is still alive I always thought Fortunately, she's fine Yiyi Cheng Qianyu told me everything Bai Xue almost killed you at that time Blame me It's all my fault for not protecting you Failure to protect our children It's all your fault. It's all your fault. Do you know that after so many years How hard is it for me to work several jobs to support my children? You still misunderstood me Yiyi I'm sorry after I will definitely take good care of you and the two children. Quiet Actually we have more than two children Daddy and Mommy So we have three children wrong Counting the sick baby Actually 4 I swear I will definitely protect you in the future I will spend the rest of my life making it up to you Who wants you to spend the rest of your life making up for it? I saved your life I saved you twice What I only remember the time you blocked a knife for me anything else When I was a child You were injured and lying on the roadside If I hadn't given you an injection to stop the bleeding, it would be 120 you are already dead But instead of thanking me You still bully me It was you who saved me when I was a child Otherwise, who do you think it is? I always thought it was Bai Xue That's why I fell in love with her And she's engaged to her Hey, but don't worry i never I swear if I touch her Be honest Do you have any functional impairment? Are there any impairments in my functionality? Do you want to give it a try? Yeah, daddy and mommy are finally reconciled I haven't said I forgive you yet see your performance I will behave well The last dish is here You did all this Guaranteed replacement if fake When did you learn to lie? Isn't this a woman singing along with her husband? learn from wife I didn't say I was your wife I haven't promised to forgive you yet Daddy, you can't do it It's been so long Mommy still refuses to forgive you Don't say you're my dad when you go out It's shameful Even if I co-authored it, I will be scolded by you three little guys. It seems that I still don't work hard enough. Then I have to work hard Let's go to the amusement park as a family tomorrow Good or not? I don't know how Xiaobao is doing. I have arranged everything one by one And I have already sent you the special medicine. do not worry I believe she will be able to live with us soon Lu Wenjing Thank you Thank you should be expressed with actions The children are all here So what do you mean That's fine if the kids aren't around I didn't mean that Have a meal Isn't this what you bought for them? Didn't you say you wanted it? Ogawa's mother is pregnant Go play on the edge I want to play too No, you're pregnant I'm so annoyed. If I had known earlier, I wouldn't have been pregnant. Bah bah bah The child in the belly can hear this. OK, OK, I'll take it back Yiyi marry me Put it on me Miss Jian Yi Are you willing to marry Mr. Lu Wenjing as your wife? No matter how rich or poor you are, you will never give up. I do Mr. Luk Wenjing Are you willing to marry Miss Jian Yi? No matter how rich or poor you are, you will never give up. I would like to ask both parties to put rings on each other now My stomach hurts I feel like I'm about to give birth I'll take you to the hospital come on! Come on Come on Miss Jane Miss Jane Keep pushing The baby will be out soon I don't know if he is a younger brother or a younger sister Maybe mommy will give me four more brothers and sisters. I also think it might come out Come on There is another one Pick up another one And hurry up, hurry up The last one is faster 123456 Congratulations to Mrs. Jane for winning 6 How is the doctor? Congratulations to Mr. Lu on the birth of his sixth son Congratulations Mr. Lu