Could Britain survive a nuclear war? It's a urgent today than ever before. As nuclear we have to ask--could the U.K. withstand the would it be left devastated like so many explore how the U.K. might weather the fallout of plans during the Cold War to the realities of We'll dive into whether Britain's defenses, both population--or if the U.K., like many others, would off with a brief answer to the titular question: it's possible that the people of the U.K. could However, the governmental systems that make the for the past hundreds of years are unlikely to likely that other countries will share a similar the U.K. being one of the few countries not because it has played a big part in shaping a nuclear non-proliferation treaty. As one of the U.K. is no stranger to nuclear preparedness. 225 nuclear warheads, and the capability to hit of them. But what's perhaps more important than is the country's history in nuclear research, As you may know by now, the Manhattan Project is develop a nuclear weapon. The nuclear or atomic Manhattan Project relies on nuclear fission, where until they are forced to undergo fission, breaking process for uranium and plutonium releases energy with other uranium or plutonium atoms to create atomic bomb were seen first-hand by the bombings which killed between 150,000 and 250,000 people, WW2. Despite that, British Prime Minister Winston seem unmanageable as the instrument of war." This bigger contributors to the U.S. nuclear weapons both countries were certain that their knowledge create sufficient countermeasures to prevent the The alliance between the U.S. and the U.K. a series of spy scandals, some involving British the two countries, although they remained allies. Act of 1946, effectively cutting off British security clearances and was approved by the the U.K. pursuing independent efforts to create the designs of the atomic bombs created during for "upgrading" the fission bomb to utilize a energy output. This is the concept of the fusion heavy isotopes of hydrogen: deuterium and tritium. single proton nucleus, the isotopes contain one be found in traces among general hydrogen atoms The fusion process combines the two different protons and two neutrons. The result is a hydrogen contain three neutrons total), and a large amount energy by the neutron. While the fusion process energy than nuclear fusion, it also requires of the few possible ways to jump-start the fusion effect, the hydrogen bomb relies on the previous hydrogen bomb thus contains a separate atomic energy to the hydrogen isotope fuel, which then more energy and free neutrons, which feed back fission stage of the tamper that surrounds the phenomenal. A fission bomb is estimated to of a similar-sized atomic bomb. As a result, a ability to make a smaller, lighter bomb that can The first tests of the hydrogen bomb were done Operation Ivy, with the explosion nicknamed "Mike and the bomb itself was too heavy to transport a deployable bomb. Despite that, the explosion of TNT. For comparison, the Hiroshima detonation on an entirely different scale. The next iteration Codenamed Operation Castle, the detonation on the yield of 6 megatons of TNT. Instead, the actual at roughly 15 megatons, making it the biggest came from an unexpected reaction with the lithium result, the U.S. realized that the hydrogen bombs were far deadlier than the previous iterations and implications of the Castle Bravo testing. While it overshot energy release expectations and caused to the surrounding islands, with traces of But why was this important? The answer lies in the invested in during the Cold War. The first British case of a nuclear attack from the Soviets (or in 1953. This was a year before the aforementioned contingencies for "traditional" atomic bombs by the islands being bombed with roughly 200 nuclear industrial and population centers, air bases, theories, the initial death toll would be roughly while 10 million people would be displaced from the U.K. was approximately 50.6 million in 1953, at the time. With this in mind, the systems were as they would in the blitz during WW2. The main centers and the establishment of underground the radioactive fallout lost its potency. However, do set in, a study of the potential of only 10 far more devastating results. Called the Strath have a death toll of roughly 12 million initially, attack of 200 atomic bombs. The report suggested blasts of radiation poisoning, which would system. The decimation caused by the 10 blasts economy, industry, and logistics capabilities. The likely to be polluted with radiation, leaving conditions." The report made it impossible from the attack of such a scale, rendering any meaningful results. But this was only the start to nuclear weapons advanced their capabilities, be bombed by only 10 hydrogen bombs, but by of nuclear armament in the late 1970s. This would being turned into craters and much of the islands governments subconsciously knew that the effort of would effectively be futile. However, that didn't scenarios, ones which were previously considered dropped on the U.K. alone. The Strath Report only becoming available in 2002, long after the in Britain in 1955 with the conversion of the created in 1925, the ROC was created with the aircraft. As planes got faster before and during during the 1950s. As such, the organization systems against nuclear attacks. The ROC would be on incoming nuclear strikes as well as the areas the United Kingdom Warning and Monitoring to provide more accurate and timely collaboration and the meteorological office. This would accurate forecast of radioactive fallout and was designed as a reporting unit to provide the population, with detailed and accurate reports As a result, the organization had to be designed mind, the British government used the "worst-case" organizing the shelters that ROC would use as the Royal Observer Corps Posts, which were effectively above-ground radiation and blast detectors. The tunnel that used a ladder, with the shelter being people (three beds and a toilet), food storage would interface with the detectors above the with ROC group headquarters and other government attack, the ROC post would be manned by three above-ground detector equipment. The check would the fallout started to settle on the ground. The be trained to perform all this blindfolded to detection equipment would tell the ROC from it was a ground or an air blast. By collating ROC could interpolate the location and strength then remain underground, using the tools in the report to its group headquarters. There were 31 each housed in a similar nuclear shelter. the UKWMO. When cross-referenced with weather information to create a forecast for fallout forecast would be broadcast through available allow the British citizens, who likely took population centers, to get a more accurate image the ROC and UKWMO were responsible for creating after a nuclear attack. Simultaneously with the also enacted plans to protect itself against underground nuclear bunker that could house the the event of nuclear war or conflict against the at the time). Dubbed the Central Government War a secret from its commissioning in 1955 to the England. The location was chosen as a series of excavated and transformed into an underground was designed to survive the bombs created during 4,000 occupants for three months, including vital support and military staff, as well as the The War Headquarters was designed to provide vital military forces aboveground, compile reports from to the general population. However, the Central for its efficiency and even survivability. it's highly likely that the ballistic missiles feasibly target the Headquarters and even damage the ROC reorganization, but before the UKWMO was that the original designs for the bunker were extent of the devastation even atomic bombs could bunker's focus on housing government officials, primarily designed as the country's headquarters country in the war effort against the country that built upon a serious logical fallacy. It supposed traditional one, with atom bombs being precursors and WW2 (at least before Hiroshima and Nagasaki). as long as it could survive the initial blast, retaliate and its military to stay effective in of "broken-backed war theory" in the 1952 British dropped on both sides would decimate the economic nations or coalitions. The war theory supposed the opposing sides using only the available time. The participants' economies and industries equipment. The winner was the country or coalition militaries and destroy the leftover governments caveat that all sides would be affected equally territories. Some strategists suggested for and impossible to predict. It was much more advantage and be able to pressure the other into What the war headquarters was not built to do in the event of total nuclear annihilation. scenario outlined by the Strath Report, which the bunker being commissioned. Bear in mind that of the hydrogen bomb, likely culminating with the yield of the test was the biggest test done easily surpassed that in 1961 with the detonation of TNT. This meant that the Soviets showcased that Strath Report, given enough time to manufacture into usable weapons. This progress stagnated testing, but the Soviets had access to hydrogen Further advancements of the Tsar Bomba proposed a in space. As a result, the Central Government War it was even commissioned. Its only purpose a false sense of security that the country could would likely never experience prolonged atomic be dropped in a matter of hours. The survivors In the rare event that the headquarters it wasn't clear whether the government could and re-cover the entirety of the U.K. territory. improvement of the plan that hinged on the war U.K. governance into regional centers. The first centers of local government typically designed defense infrastructure away from population by expanding the number of regions to 17, now local government. The regional governments would wield absolute power in times of war. The regional fallout and managing the remaining resources to law and order in the absence of country-wide ultimately meant that Britain would be fragmented be forced to fend for itself or attempt to the governments would be headed by a local warlord in the area. They would have total control over food supply. They could enact rationing as to said resources. The destabilizing situation as the local government would be hard-pressed to water considering their widespread contamination. local governments would likely attempt to control they would implode and leave the general populace or governmental structure in an attempt to mass agriculture would likely become unsustainable on hunting and gathering. Effectively, Britain the unfortunate vicinity of a hydrogen bomb blast the British government itself created a supposing that the British government would the general population to salvation, the 1970s Protect and Survive was based on the prerogative taught about the threats of nuclear warfare. The that outlined how the citizens should prepare to help. It created more detailed plans for the necessary equipment and resources needed The informational content also included detailed necessity of retaining communication channels the previously established UKWMO would be able to all of which would be focused on distributing the so-called War Time Broadcasting Service. The with early broadcasts following the format track of them. If the ROC and UKWMO could collate the service would diversify its broadcasts. It was homes after at least two weeks to survey their Survive initiative was supposed to be distributed radio channels on repeat at a time when the threat the uncertainty of its short-term effectiveness, published the content in 1980. However, it's would help in the event of warfare heralded called Square Leg estimated that the mortality meaning that only 35% of the population would injuries. Even then, it was postulated that the fallout-infested lands. Square Leg estimated that cumulative explosive yield of about 200 megatons, an attack with as much as 1,000 megatons' worth likely decimate the population and its chances of the countries unlikely to remain standing there is still some hope. All countries that have Due to a series of defensive agreements, Russia, likely cause a series of counterattacks. All of in the Northern Hemisphere. As a result, the more it is not to experience the direct consequences the Southern Hemisphere, developed countries have the best possible chance of maintaining historical ties to the British through the British from "modern" Britain. With all this in mind, Putin's saber-rattling of Russia's nuclear the U.K. has largely dismantled all efforts to ROC posts have been scrapped, sold as private areas. Some were sold to private investors Government War Headquarters bunker never saw converted to museums or storage. The Protect and after years of irrelevancy. Of course, Putin's theoretical so far. The country that launches to be sent missiles in return. Modern detection ensure mutually assured destruction of all parties don't die as immediate casualties of the blasts winter, with temperatures dropping by as much people could starve to death, reducing the would be the end of civilization as we know foretells an uncertain future for all, including to realize that there won't be a winner in survival. Let us know what you think in the check out Why UK Has No Choice But to Go to War