This is a Notre Dame marble run, and it's big enough to fill I spent 4 months building adding architectural details, lights, and even some hidden marble Watch to the end to see this And I'm gonna show you the difference between this and this half size Lego model, this quarter size foam puzzle, all the way down to this 3 inch printed cathedral. Let's add it to a marble run like the Arc de Triomphe, the Louvre, and the Eiffel tower! The marble rolls under the cathedral! Under the real cathedral in Paris, they recently found 2 sarcophagi belonging It's weird to think I was walking over their Later in this video we have 16, and 32 times bigger! The challenge is to see which And I have a challenge for you: Try to find the Masked Marble Hero, Bandito, But first, let's double in size to this cute It even comes with an envelope for mailing! The instructions are in French. It says this is "Important" but I can't read it. Oh well. The spire is really hard to fold. Overall this card model was super fun to build, but I have no clue how we're going Maybe like this! Let's open the doors. That's better. Let's double in size again Ooooh, the kit includes a My favorite food experience in Paris What's YOUR favorite spot in Paris? Let everyone know in the comments! This kit is more involved. These window decals don't stick by themselves, Just in case you didn't know, Don't forget the trees in Paris! Let's make this a marble run by Do not do this at the real cathedral. They will hate you. The marbles are not coming out. That makes this a marble bank! Maybe we can cut a hole so marbles roll out. That did it! This is our best Notre Dame marble run so far! Slightly larger is this 3D It's been discontinued, but I found one on Ebay. It's like their 3D globe puzzles, But Ravensburger makes more than puzzles. Ravensburger has sponsored this video to show you what's possible with their so we're building this enormous replica well, except for these bells. I wonder if we can get marbles to ring the bells? And for fun we'll add some But even though I own enough GraviTrax to build this room-sized marble computer and this 21 minute marble run I need more pieces to build So I've asked Ravensburger to send more GraviTrax, especially these PRO pillars which are 7 Perfect for the MONUMENT-al challenge that is also a marble run. While we wait for the pieces to arrive, let's which is a little larger than the This model has over 950 pieces, so It seems a bit flimsy in places. The finished cathedral dominates a coffee table! Now let's get crazy with the marbles! This model looks like it's surrounded by When marbles roll through they send wireless signals And we've added fun 3D-printed pieces. If you thought the foam puzzle Doubling in size again, this is a Lego This beautiful design by Stefano Mapelli I love the colorful windows! This model has over 63,000 pieces, and Yeah, that's not in our budget, so unfortunately It's hard to imagine a larger replica of Notre Dame, but we're gonna Let's create an O-scale GraviTrax This build will be epic! First we'll spend some time prototyping architectural details with GraviTrax pieces. Standard GraviTrax building techniques Some pieces surprisingly fit Other times I need the help of my The GraviTrax pieces have finally arrived! I'll save you 3 days of your life watching us unbox and sort everything, After weeks of preparation and The first challenge to tackle is the floor plan. I want pillar locations to But the GraviTrax system uses a hexagonal grid, A rectangle will have to do. And there's a real problem with the Apse. Its curved walls won't fit We'll build this section free-floating with a framework of pieces held together at the perimeter Even though I often "build this is the first time I'm adapting it like spires, windows, archways, statues, railings, and over 200 gargoyles! And don't forget the 3 rose windows. But there's another problem. My research uncovered that Notre Dame has a number uneven railing, and this triangle shape over one entrance. All these unique details take extra time to build. After 4 months of work, we're almost done! These baseplates will make the roof. Time to install the spire! Let's top it off with Notre Let's go with the new rooster, symbol of That's the last flying buttress! They almost look like marbles might roll down. I wonder what the hidden Let's start the marble run to find out!