This is a big pile of 3D printer upgrades, printed upgrades, and I promised to So, let's start with the easy of the more advanced upgrades. Starting with the new Panda It feels like sandpaper, but I've never felt anything like this before. And it seemed to work just as well as the test, except the heated bed was running settings for the textured plate. So, theoretically, you can save a bit on business or a print farm, then they could And, since I have so many build model by @jajaum3d to store them all. Okay, next up is the Panda Lux. And yeah, this whole series of Bambu BigTreeTech is called &quot;Panda&quot; because... well, you get it. Um, anyway, this light I just had to unplug the built in its place, and then snap the And because it uses the same port, light, except it's much brighter It's just a nice easy upgrade. Next up is the Panda Door. It's just a door. Um, there's not much to say polycarbonate, comes in pretty Broken glass happens. I've had a few close calls myself, replacement and customisation options. There's a bit of flex to it, and the a door - it's cheap, and it gets the And because I'm always losing mine, I also that slots onto the handle. It's a really simple yet really this design, I like it a lot! The next upgrade is Panda Fur, like leather but isn't because Right now it's available in orange, Step one is to take the lid off. [glass lid falling to the ground] Whoops, 3D printable jigs that the knife locks I was silly and got the X1 version but luckily the only difference is the enough that I just slapped it on anyway. And here it is. From a distance, it looks really good. But when you get closer, you start I tried taking it slow and being a cuts weren't the best in places and I However, there are issues Like these marks on the left were placed inside the packaging. And on the other side are these out, also caused by poor packaging. So if you do order one, maybe before you start putting it on. Now, I do like the idea Realistically, it's not going to offer man and just enjoy bright colours. However, the issues with the I can recommend this to anyone. Oh, and while I was applying the wrap, I which just cover up the threaded rods. The next upgrade is the Panda Touch. I've taken a look at this in a previous really-in-depth videos about this thing It's basically just a screen your Bambu Lab 3D printers. You can even connect a whole My favourite part though is that over the P1S, which doesn't It also has a battery so it can magnetic charging mount which can be I didn't like this included stand - it instead I downloaded this model from bit off to the side and it's still I've been using the Panda Touch for upgrade to have, especially if you've to mess around with the app or the So yeah, this upgrade is a And makes it much more like its more Now, I do a lot of design and 3D was obvious, but sometimes I need And that's where my PCBWay is an online manufacturing service to 3D printing, CNCing, and laser cutting. Recently I designed this Autobot could just upload the file, select finish, and PCBWay handled the rest. It's solid aluminium with a I could never make something I also had this phone case 3D came out absolutely flawless. I'm making a video about And they've also made aluminium 3D printed The quality of all of And if you want to check them out, save $5 on your first purchase. Thanks. The next upgrade is the Panda Hub. It's just a USB splitter designed It's meant for if you want to need the additional USB port for Threaded inserts and screws are also into the 3D printable case and close this little area near the USB port. You can, of course, just use any just make sure it fits into the with any of the mechanical parts. The Panda Branch is another similar four USB ports to the printer by It has a pass through, so you can Lite, and there's also different 3D on the printer you're mounting to. The provided screws aren't long enough, lying around and it worked fine. And this one is really for the more on, like additional fans or light bars to power everything from one place. Now, I'm not really the audience for going to make with this, but I'm glad And since we're talking If you're watching this video, If you're going to choose Now, we're getting into some I was confused when Why would I need another power brick? But, it's actually smart And you can use it by itself with sync it to the Panda Touch by From the screen you can see energy usage, remotely, there's also an option to sync Plus, there's an auto-shutdown mode off when it finishes printing. This is another upgrade that Okay, the next upgrade I don't care much about the high flow only keen for the quick-swap-ability. For some projects, I've wanted to but it's always just a bit too I'd have to switch back afterwards. But now? Easy-peasy! I did this upgrade on my X1C instead to a 0.6mm nozzle diameter when I only ever do that on the X1C. Anyway, this is definitely a worthy up getting it for the P1S as well. We'll see. Oh, and while I was inside the X1C, I which is a hardened steel extruder gear But, I forgot and then ran out of time. My bad. It should function just as well as the durable, but I haven't tested it, but I think this one's really just for if your So again, I think it's just nice to And last up is the Panda Jet air product, which is really cool. It replaces the existing air that cools omnidirectionally. And it works, it looks nice, but ever going to notice a difference duct already gets the job done fine. And here we are, a heap Some really handy, and some not so much. I'm going to keep putting them to months, and I'll make sure to give Also, if you have any other suggestions Uh, I'm thinking of maybe If you've done one yourself, But anyway, please let me know down Cheers!