Welcome back. Last video, we talked about energy, how it can't be destroyed; ultimately, it forms. These forms, as the energy is in a about how we have different channels which the body, or the spirit. We also talked how this energy comes into form, and what the it would do so, and what the outcomes ultimately species' awareness through evolutionary stages What we're going to talk about now is a meta-model things--all of our stories and ultimately the So Below" connection that we can use as a map begin to establish a very deep connection allowing it to convey its meaning and ultimately So, let's talk a little bit about the cube. The cube is an ancient meditation tool traditions. I discovered it through Kabbalah, to imagine the ancient symbols or the letters came from ancient Sumerian and Akkadian symbols far before writing. Writing became the ability for that we were attempting to convey through word, convey that. Cave paintings, a lot of these came These ideas became the basic archetypal metaphors Now, what you're meant to do with this meditation them--and imagine them at certain locations you're supposed to take one symbol and another might be north-center, and you have built this three-dimensional as you explore it, you see that there each face has very distinct purposes and what exploration into metaphorical ideas, archetypical What it helps us understand is that it provides Not only do we have the specific faces, which three-dimensional space of how it plays together around it that shows how it develops over time. interplay. As I was exploring it deeper, what I at their meanings, we can begin to apply them build different levels of meaning and storage of pass throughout time which help scaffold and build What's even more fascinating is when we look at Tarot and the astrology--these begin to take on more than just a single meaning of a symbol or a have a lot of different meanings to people. As we see it becomes more focused on what it's and astrological meanings and where they're that there is a storyline being told. You are and as we look at that path, we realize what it our narratives and mythologies flow as--our source code of our psyche have this same following Then I began to map what they were saying in the realized the process that shows in how individuals hero's journey follows and that our physical begin to have this larger understanding of what play out on different levels but they follow very realized wow this is a three-dimensional physical I put this over my brain, because I realized connections with what I understood our brain all of these areas reveal. Is that when we put our heads what we've identified in the last 30 or that Tarot astrology and symbol is meaning when to imagine we'll say the strength card when when it on this left side right over here and that is control all of your motor functions. It is where Another example would be to imagine Ayn and you're told to imagine it at the back bottom meaning of that, like I said, is look, know your occipital lobe and that's how you see with up and it goes right back there. Another example the back right along the middle you know right in is you're traveling on the the ancient symbol Mem is metaphorically or abstractly saying the flow of in our brain and it flows right through the limbic the center of the Cube is the ancient symbol beyt your limbic system does is it holds all of the of life that that you've experienced. This happens them or into all of them right now. I just want this reveals is that the ancient symbols which connected and correlated to the emergent functions the experiences that we're actually using the ultimately how your brain functions is your brain metaphorically or abstractly ,aps ideas on top. An brain right here the left temporal lobe and what neurons and so when we are watching something when has a lot to do on the left side with grasping over here is literally all of these symbols on the closing of the fist of the hand. We realize that grasp something literally in the physical world. and so those those neurons would be firing as doing it. It also mapped your ability to grasp is what our left temporal lobe does. So what by using this tool, as we begin to meditate, we're kind of can be sometimes stressful. It's a higher a more relaxed state and what ends up happening we're meditating and think about them. Well as we it directly matches to our brain function. What to engage with the underlying archetypical map and it was unconsciously just naturally selecting ways our consciousness to do that, because we're ability. We don't have to physically do something our perceptive and our neural circuitry. We have and begin to work with the system inside of the that can do that to the level that we do. So by interact with these networks and build them in a responding to the external environment and the can become very distorted because there's a fired and collapsed together and things can it literally has different spiraling in so it's kind of like when they're not in a the physical environment. We have these you know can begin to bring them into a much more coherent and the environment through just thought, and with a medium or a space where we are consciously having to react to the external world. So the Cube with all the different facets of our consciousness narratives, story but it also provides a mapping consciousness understandings that we have in our tool actually provides. Now, when I was looking the symbols and the Tarot and how tarot connects the next video is something that is extremely we move forward to spiritually evolve. We have hero's journey and our mythologies, but we have different locations that these symbols are and connect them to portions of our sky and where we meaningless. But when you think about it, they are the longest-running communication tool. They of time. So we literally connected the dots and and those shapes tell a story that transcends understand about ourselves by the narratives that on the hero's journey and that was to help us system models help support and provide information helped consciousness continue to develop towards self-awareness. But now what the stars provide past the hero's journey and reveals that we have time. The only reason that we participated in this what the next stages of our evolution are. That connect how the stars reveal a much larger story play, the role that's integral in you connecting unified human narrative story that will help us with an extremely powerful and groundbreaking being worked on not only by a bottom-up natural selective process that uses consciousness, the emotional abilities of this biology so that individualized, and use that emotion and higher and higher and evolve in its spiritual and help build and heal the species. That's