Never Say These 5 Things Transcription Interview Tools. And today, I want to talk to you about things specifically, five things that you shouldn't form in a job interview. If you do, it's almost cause for instant disqualification So, the first thing; Don't talk bad about your company. Dont talk bad about the people. Don't say that you didn't like working there; I mean, maybe you hated working there, maybe questions, Did you like working there? Did you like your boss? The answer is, I liked working for my boss. I liked the people. I liked the company. I liked the culture. I liked everything about them. It's a shame that I have to leave. I'm sorry I have to leave, but I'm looking I'm looking for more responsibility. working there, you didn't like what they did Because if you didn't like working there or time flat that you'll be saying the same things reasons not to like them, you'll find reasons That's just the way it goes; people who don't them long to not like the new place. That's just the way it goes; that's human So, you don't want to communicate that to out, even if they ask you, How do you like really like working there anymore. people. Because otherwise, you'll get labeled as cancer. You get labeled as cancerous when you're the about all the people or the company, the policies, And companies get rid of people like that. Now, I know that's not you. You know why? I know that's not you because you're here yourself. And people who are trying to better themselves, I mean, sure, there might be something about could be very genuine reason that they didn't Just don't say that in the interview; do not Okay. So, the next one here; number 2. 2. A lot of candidates go in and they're so desperate It doesn't matter what it is; I'll do anything. employed right now (maybe they've been out two years) and they are desperate for a job But if you go into a job interview and say, I don't care what it is; I'll do it. I'll do anything. Just give it to me. So, when you do this, that just doesn't come out very well. You want to go into the interview, you want you can bring and that you are excited to You don't want to just say, Yeah, I'll I'll do it. I'll sweep the floors. I don't care. tell them what you want to be doing. You have to hold tight to your values. You have to hold tight to your beliefs and Because if they just give you anything, if in two months, you won't be happy doing it. I guarantee you. Employers know this. They know that if you go in there and say, give it to you, two or three months later, This sucks. I don't want to do this anymore and you'll And you'll leave them high and dry. And then they just wasted a whole bunch of somebody else and it costs them a lot of money So, when you go in there, don't tell them anything. It just sends a message of desperation. Alright, let's move on to number 3. 3. So, when they ask you, Tell me about yourself good at? Don't tell them that you're a or you're that you're results oriented; any Now, what you do want to say is how you can So, if this is like a management position, You want to talk about how you have led people. You want to talk about groups of people; the work on certain projects. You want to talk about how you've done it. You don't want to just say that you're results You want to talk about projects that you completed and you want to talk about the details. All the results oriented and the leadership saying. Does that make sense? So, don't go in there and just say, I'm for them and show them how you have done this be, Hey, this person you know, they're mean, that's a label that you get put on after Alright, makes sense? So, go in there and just tell them how you Alright, let's move onto the next one here. 4. When they ask you a question, let's say, Do that you don't know how. Don't say to any interviewer that I don't or I have no idea. I mean, that's the worst possible thing you But what you do want to say is, You know Let me think about that for a second and And what you want to do is you want to connect done. So, you say, You know what? I haven't done that exact thing, but I've And what that does is that shows them that of what they're talking about. Because if you show no level of understanding a big mark against you. And it's probably that's most likely going And if you know anything about competency So, if you miss one or two competency questions; That could wipe you out right there in the You could be done; just two competency questions. One, maybe you can get away with it, but it It depends how crucial the question is. Because competency questions pull in a lot And if you don't know a lot of fundamentals know a lot about what you do. So, never tell them that you don't know. Always try to come close to something; connect And maybe you need to pull lifeline here and Can I think about that for a minute and can to say, Yes. But if you pull that lifeline technique too that's it; you're done. So, you need to give yourself a little bit your experiences to what they're talking about Alright, let's move on to the last one here; 5. When you go into the interview, don't ask That's the worst thing you can do. That shows that you did absolutely no research, the Department or the projects they're working Don't ask them what do they do here. You should already know that if anything, that they are doing. But don't go in there blinded and just say, That sounds interesting. I think I might like to do that. That shows that you have no level of excitement It shows that you put no preparation into You spent no time researching this company It just basically says that you showed up It doesn't work that way. It doesn't work that way out there. There are so many hungry job seekers out there to beat you over tenfold. They're going to be so much sharper than you. They're going to be on their game. They're going to be talking about their experiences They're going to know what that company does. They're going to know; they're going to have So, take that extra step before your next the position. Gather as much information as you can so that questions that will help qualify you about a place that you even want to be. I mean, if you think about it, that's really You are out there talking to them and you're You're interviewing them to see if this is That's the whole key to a job interview. Alright, my friend; good luck on your next Now before you go in your next interview, The Complete Interview Answer Guide from Job This was the quick download. You can get it in PDF e-book, you can get in hard copy. This book has about 140 different interview It goes into detail about the STAR method, the situation, the task, the action, and result. I've got about 40 questions in here that just I teach you how to answer, Tell me about Why do you leave your last job? This 100 percent prepared for any job interview. So I strongly recommend it. It's like 50 bucks. You can get it from jobinterviewtools.com. And if you like, there's an audio version. You can download all the audio tracks. You can put them on your phone and you can You can listen to the questions while you're to those questions out in the parking lot. Theyll get to the job in an interview like the questions before they go in. So, it just kind of puts you in a more heightened energized state before the job interview. So, grab this book; it's good it's good book. It's going to help you a lot. It's been around over 10 years. I keep it updated all the time. And one of the best things about this guide and buy books, they have questions and answers, So, if you get stuck or you have a question you can e-mail me and I will actually reply; around here; you get me. You have me; I am your coach. So, when you own this guide, I am your coach get back to you within a day or two. Nobody else does that. I don't know anybody else on the planet that you e-mail them questions about their book Look on Amazon; there's hundreds of books answers and not one of those people puts their them for help. I do because I want to be here for you. I want to help you. I want to help you succeed. Alright, good luck. Good luck on your next interview and see you Bye now. If you found this video helpful, then give to my channel so you get notifications every And by subscribing, you support me, my message So, I'd really appreciate it. Make sure you hit Subscribe.