- A lot has already been He lives his life between the tweets, upended, reinvented the auto industry, aerospace, now trying it You spent two years shadowing him. What did you learn that about Elon Musk? - Well, there's certainly multiple Elon Musks, Whether it's a hardcore engineering mode that you know so well, where he can figure out or more importantly, on an assembly line that But also, there's almost where he turns really dark. And that can be very problematic, especially when it came which I think involves more - Are there ground rules, Did you sleep on the (Walter laughing) - You know, I slept in Airstream trailers down in the south tip of Texas where SpaceX has its launchpad. I spent a lotta late nights in factories. He put nothing off limits, which surprised the heck out of me. I mean, meetings that were everything else, he said, &quot;I just wanna surprise you And my side of the deal was, &quot;Fine, I wanna be everywhere, but you get no control over the book. You don't even get to read - You've written a lot of books. &quot;Steve Jobs,&quot; biography was maybe, perhaps, an instant classic. And in that book, you of breaking through the Apple co-founder's With Musk, you had extraordinary access. By my count, you talked to more close deputies, even family Did you worry about that that he has, the fact an unreliable narrator in his own life? - Well, yes, he can be unreliable, and his memory is fallible as a hero in every tale. But I didn't feel a He was not, he almost was it seemed, a lot of the time. 'Cause he'd be being a real jerk to people at a meeting or blow of the rocket sites. And I'd think, &quot;Wait a I'm taking notes here?&quot; So it did surprise me not trying to sugar coat things he was. - You spent a really in the beginning talking and his relationship with his father. What was the early days of Elon Musk like? - You know, he was a scrawny beaten up on the playground a whole lot, went to a wilderness camp, in which, you know, sort of the survival. And he lost 10 pounds in a week because they kept beating But when he went back a few years later, he had gotten bigger. He had learned a little judo, and he said, &quot;I just learned to as hard as I could when And sometimes they'd beat me up, but if I punched them they wouldn't do it again.&quot; You almost see that nowadays, He sometimes can be so confrontational, and when in doubt, he punches in the nose. - You talk about his His father is almost described like a Jekyll and Hyde-like character. Sometimes he can be friendly, I've never seen him go so in-depth about that childhood experience. Why do you think he was - It took a long time about his childhood. I just sat there, I'd raise and sometimes we'd get to a place where suddenly, he'd start And he would go, get teary-eyed at times, very, very emotional, and just say, &quot;You don't know how bad the abuse was.&quot; And after awhile, Elon about the psychological scars he had when his father would make him and yell at him for more than an hour and take the sides of the and call Elon stupid. - You write that, &quot;The also instilled in him an What do you think that that he runs? What does that mean for the as they try to reach the goals and sometimes achieve those goals? - He's addicted to drama. He's addicted to risk. And whenever things seem he almost has a compulsion It allows him to become but also a difficult leader. - What do you think was kind of instances of him losing his temper with one of his employees? - Oh, one night in South Texas it's a Friday night at 10:00 p.m. And everything's going smoothly. There's no launches being scheduled. And he looks and there's at the launchpad. And all of a sudden, I almost like storm clouds And I'm thinking, &quot;Well, it's And yet, he just reams who was in charge of the launchpad site. And he orders a surge. He orders 100 people to of SpaceX, from Florida, California, so they can all work for 24 hours a day getting this thing done, even though there was no need to. - What is demon mode in your mind? - It's almost like Dr. Where a cloud comes over and he can just be tough in a cold way. He never gets really angry, but coldly brutal to people. And he almost doesn't remember Sometimes I'll say, &quot;Why did And he'll look at me blankly, as if he didn't quite while he was in demon mode. (crowd yelling) Now, one of the things that says is, &quot;You don't wanna be around him when he's in demon mode. It's really frightening,&quot; she said. But then she added, &quot;But demon - Given all of the stories why do you think he still has the ability to attract talent to his companies? - I talked to some of the at Tesla when they were And a couple of 'em had quit because it was just too and they got burned out. But then one of 'em was back. I said, &quot;What happened?&quot; He said, &quot;I decided I had a or being bored and I decided because I believed in the mission.&quot; So some survive, but a whole lot don't. - Another key one of the ways or how we kinda tries is something he calls first principles, which is essentially a problem-solving way to not take what's been done in the past as the way it should As trying to reach the ultimate goal of whatever you're setting out, kind of getting to the root problem and figuring it out from there. But that's very abstract. It's kind of hard to put that, understand what he means by that, but it seems as if by you've kind of seen the way he's trying to impart that decision-making with something called the algorithm. What is the algorithm? - The algorithm is a five-step process for not only making good products and designing good products, And you're right. It begins with first principles. He says, &quot;Question every requirement.&quot; And by first principles, he means look down at the physics. If somebody says, &quot;No, we he says, &quot;Tell me how Tell me exactly what's involved here. And then, tell me you can or can't do it.&quot; When he first was trying in Russia early on, and they were charging him on the flight home, he of materials and fuel, and he said, &quot;Okay, those are the first principles. We should be able to make With the algorithm, he's always saying, &quot;Question every requirement. And then delete, delete, delete.&quot; So he simplifies things. And then, only then do the manufacturing process, One of his big mistakes at Tesla was he went to automation too quickly before he had deleted every part and questioned every requirement. - Do you see him moving into a new era where he's essentially almost a Thomas Edison character, putting money towards bigger ideas and letting smart people invent it? Or is he gonna kinda keep back in the day of making sure for as long as possible? - Well, I think one of his is he really is a control freak. You want him to give up control. Say of Twitter, you're thinking, &quot;Okay, Linda Yaccarino should run it.&quot; But he doesn't really Gwynne Shotwell at SpaceX He really is focused on the product. She gets to run the company. But no, I don't see him over these companies, even six or seven of 'em, depending on how you - Are we in the final act Has he peaked? Is he on the decline? I would say that, for many years, people have predicted his of something, and he's been Is this just another example of that? - Some of 'me are gonna collapse. It's gonna be like his rocket He believes you can't get into orbit without blowing things So there will be debris. There will be things blown up. But I think, you know, keep surprising me as being successful.