Everyone knows that Frank Sinatra will always Ever since his heyday in the mid-20th century, lovers around the world. But few people realize just how tragic his This is the real-life story of Frank Sinatra. During his birth, Francis Albert Sinatra was Born on December 12th 1915, in the kitchen weighed 13.5 pounds at birth and had to be Frank was originally thought to be stillborn, While the doctor was treating his mother, infant, ran him under cold water and slapped And the mishaps didn't end there. Frank was actually supposed to be given the a misunderstanding led the priest to baptize Frank's mother, probably a little exhausted keep the name as it was. The forceps used during Frank's birth left of his face, neck, and jawline. This led him to receive the punishing nickname During his singing career, Frank would endeavor makeup. In spite of his talent, Frank Sinatra actually childhood. Frank was the only child of Italian immigrants, their Hoboken neighborhood. His father, Antonino Martino, or &quot;Marty,&quot; Frank's mother, Dolly, was a midwife who often Dolly was also involved in local politics their neighborhood. His parents' work and activities meant they left on his own, or with his grandmother. Most children in Frank's predominantly Italian he grew up an only child, which was considered In a later interview with journalist Pete a sibling when he was a child, saying: &quot;I used to wish I had an older brother that I wished I had a younger sister I could protect.&quot; Sinatra didn't find it easy achieving the young. His parents weren't entirely supportive of it only as a hobby. Instead, Marty wanted his son to attend the steady job. However, once Dolly Sinatra understood her him wherever she could, from buying him sound connections to secure singing gigs for him. Dolly's pull even landed Frank a spot with which started him on the path of professional It soon became obvious, however, that Sinatra ambition and drive, and once the Hoboken Four between his singing gigs with local dance After landing a solid gig with trumpeter Harry when he was discovered by renowned bandleader lucrative contract. By 1942, Sinatra's reputation even eclipsed solo singing career. Bing Crosby was Frank Sinatra's greatest inspiration A huge fan of the celebrity crooner, the teenage in his bedroom. Crosby's warm, passionate, but laid-back singing on, until he could develop his own unique Frank even met his idol briefly in 1935 at for nearly a decade, when Frank was a huge By the time the 1940s rolled around, Crosby skyrocketing. Bing had fans, but he was never greeted by bobby soxer girls that made up Sinatra's fanbase. Crosby took Frank's rising popularity in stride, that comes around once in a lifetime, and &quot;But why did it have to be my lifetime?&quot; After that, a media-driven rivalry was born. The two competing crooners would frequently radio broadcasts. The rivalry was played up for media attention, Later, they would perform duets together and Frank Sinatra didn't mind a good-natured rivalry by any new singers who could potentially knock In the early 1950s, singer Eddie Fisher was into a deep depression, believing that his Another time Sinatra's fame came under threat was also known as, quote, &quot;the other Sinatra.&quot; Roselli was ten years younger than Sinatra, neighborhood of Hoboken. Roselli was also incredibly popular with the friends and his own mother, Dolly. Roselli's voice had an even greater range When Dolly Sinatra asked Jimmy Roselli to to sing without receiving a fee, Sinatra used Although he always refuted it, Frank Sinatra In fact, Sinatra's FBI profile reads like Sinatra was known to be good friends with and his crew. He outwardly socialized with the Fischetti to conduct illegal gambling operations. He blatantly partied with Detroit mobsters If Sinatra ever needed to get out of a contract insult, someone could expect to get a visit or might not end with violence. In return, Frank would often perform a few For all of Sinatra's denials of his Mafia friends were or his participation in their and money. &quot;I don't do those things to have anybody follow The FBI kept a close eye on Sinatra, but he activities or associations. Sinatra's full FBI record wasn't released Sinatra was an ardent supporter of the Democratic It's unknown how the two officially met, but fellow Rat Packer Peter Lawford. Kennedy appreciated Sinatra's glamour and admired the power that Kennedy represented. When JFK announced his bid for the presidency, avidly used his star power to generate votes. He organized donor dinners, appeared in political jet. His hit song &quot;High Hopes&quot; even became the It has been speculated that JFK's father, mob connections and union ties to bring in However, the Kennedy-Sinatra friendship crumbled revealed that Sinatra was having an affair Sinatra made it clear on the recordings that and steer the government away from his gangster that Sinatra had to go. Despite all that romantic crooning, Frank fuse. &quot;Do you think your boiling point is low?&quot; &quot;Not anymore. It used to be.&quot; Once, during a show in Hong Kong, a missed room and his hotel suite, breaking priceless Another time, while in a drunken rage, he window. J. Randy Taraborrelli's biography Sinatra: threw a plate of pasta at the wall in an Italian Ol' Blue Eyes also had a habit of bullying and getting his mob friends to beat up people He seemed to have a particular dislike for insecurities and fears of being publicly humiliated. Comic Shecky Greene once made a remark that by a group of Sinatra's friends. Comedian Jackie Mason made a series of jokes to 21-year-old Mia Farrow, which resulted When Mason refused to stop making Frank Sinatra He later had his nose and cheekbones broken Out of his three children, Frank Sinatra had a singer like his father. His career was already budding at the age However, Frank Jr. also started attracting According to the FBI, on December 8th 1963, Club Lodge in Lake Tahoe. He was in his dressing room with a friend to have a package to deliver. Instead, two men entered, tied up, and blindfolded a side door and into a waiting car. The friend was able to free himself and notify The kidnappers contacted the elder Sinatra son's safe return. With the FBI's help, Sinatra Sr. paid the the kidnappers. After some trepidation on the part of the to free Sinatra Jr., whom the police found The FBI later apprehended the three kidnappers &quot;I was scared. I was a little bit nervous, naturally. But the only thing I could do was hope for The kidnappers' defense tried to paint Sinatra his own abduction for publicity. The FBI's evidence proved contradictory to convicted. Frank Sinatra died of a heart attack at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. His wife, Barbara Marx, and his three children Sinatra's last remaining years were filled heart and breathing problems, high blood pressure, He had also been diagnosed with dementia, As the end approached, Sinatra seemed to recognize to his wife were: &quot;I'm losing.&quot; Sinatra was buried with a pack of Camel cigarettes, lighter and a dollar's worth of dimes. In a Rolling Stone interview, singer Bono whom he once performed a duet, and the loss He said: &quot;Frank Sinatra was the twentieth-century, and he had attitude. He was the boss but he was always Frank Sinatra. We won't see his like again.&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about your favorite Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the