Transcriber: Susana Gonzalez (applause) Learning a foreign language Why should I learn English? It's not a question people ask themselves English is probably going to become the world's lingua franca, Today, English is the most book and scientific publishing, international trade, mass entertainment, There are now more than 8,000 courses by leading universities So for people like me, non-native English speakers, it would seem that if we want learning at least one foreign language, We learn it to find a good job, to be more successful, I've been learning English At first it was my parents who taught me neither of them and they have successfully avoided In fact, when I got my mom said: ''Good job, honey, ''Are you now going to get a real degree?'' After my studies and whenever I taught I would ask my students: ''Why do you want The answers I would usually get but before I share them, I would like Think of a time you first started Do you remember why? The answers my students would give were: ''My parents make me'', ''I want to understand ''I want to travel'', and a lot of people also acknowledged that learning a language But if we stop and think about it, watching films, are all amazing, but can you get all that I think we probably can. If we go along with this idea, it takes only a little thought even if you don't understand a word For example, with the technology we have today, software can into your native language There are apps that can translate almost any text captured and most media are served to you available almost immediately Not to mention those lucky enough to be born into English-speaking families. They should be fine, right? And, here we come back to this vague ''Learning a language is good for you!'' And it is! It can bring many benefits, including those that can improve the quality of your life Which is a nice bonus for those of us who started learning it It's like when you buy and ''here's a free sticker inside!'' Let's move on now, and take a closer look I like to visualize concepts, it helps me give form to abstract ideas I like to imagine Let's start with somebody you probably even know someone like that. Can you picture them in your mind's eye? Let's assume that this person was born they have been able to get by with their native language, Now, if we visualize some more in some sense we can compare Now, how does the box work? You spin the handle and magic happens, beautiful, does the trick. But the thing about the box the mechanism is kind of embedded into the box, so changing it You repeat one and the same movement all over again. Now, we have bilinguals, in comparison to monolinguals, they have twice as many choices but it's not that simple. When bilinguals use the target language, they actually activate It means that there is always in their heads between the two languages. They have to be constantly ready and suppress the other one. Instead of a music box, I would give them Not quite an instrument, Now, if you're bilingual, Depending on how well the other one could be secondary. So each time you need it takes you time insert the other one, and then find the word In addition to that, you sometimes or even if this word is even on the tape. Each time there is this switch it takes you mental effort. It's an exercise, and like with all exercises, it gets easier and easier until you know the tape inside out. And with each new language, your musical instrument like adding new keys to a piano. Some of them you know better, some worse, but each time you switch, and as you learn you pick it up faster. You understand the logic and you are more likely to overcome the barriers to speaking And that mental effort translates it opens your mind and prepares you for possible challenges. And, that is not only true for those who started That's right! You can pick up and start enjoying It can even influence opening new paths for you. In 2020, like many others, I found myself in quarantine, my boyfriend, my cat and I for several months. I figured I needed It needed to be a one-person indoor hobby, and it needed to be cheap. So I decided I would start I didn't have a preference. So I did several rounds and it turned out to be Finnish. I armed myself with YouTube videos and soon enough, I learned some stuff about some Finnish delicacies, some Finnish towns, Having this tiny connection to the culture and before I even realized it, it's December, and I'm applying to study at a Finnish University. What started small, that helped me out of depression Our brains are picky, our brains love new things; it gives us that handsome in exchange for novelty, that's why I have so many pairs of shoes. Usually when you learn something new, the brain-boosting benefits decrease as soon as you get your eureka moment. For example, you want you start trying, you go, but, as soon as you get the hang of it, It's just going. But that doesn't happen Instead, your brain needs to keep working, constantly plan, concentrate every day is a school day, it never ends, which to me, I have been learning English for ages. I have been teaching it and I still make mistakes. And there are still words Not so long ago, and I saw the word ''satsuma'' in a joke. Of course I didn't get the joke. At that moment, I felt almost angry who decided to adopt just to make my life more difficult. But, I did make a mental note; apparently, it's a kind of fruit I can never tell because in my native language, Later, I was abroad in a supermarket I pointed to it and I said out loud, ''You little piece of fruit. I know you'' and it felt really good. Our brains like to be proud, we like achievement, and this is the best kind of achievement The only person you are trying and each new word, phrase It doesn't have to be a big victory. It can be as small as understanding It's never too early to learn, and it's never too late. Thank you. (Applause)