(dramatic music) - Imagine you're getting you grab your keys and your bag, and then you take a supplement, and you feel like it's working. It might be working a little too well. What you don't know is one that you bought at the health aisle at your grocery store is laced an illegal drug invisibly In recent years researchers have been grabbing thousands of different supplements off the shelf, and testing them to see what's inside. And what they found in over 3000 supplements that they tested is that 28% had some sort mostly steroids, meaning the are unintentionally doping. In another study, 92% of the by scientists were 87% had fungal contamination, And when they tested CBD supplements they found that 55% of the or way less CBD than stated on the label. And a few of them even had THC in them, the thing that gets you high. And it turns out the government doesn't seem to care. So how did we get here? And why are shady companies, and targeted advertisements selling Americans things that aren't what they say they are, and that are potentially dangerous? And I guess a big question for me is which of these are actually And which of them are dangerous? And is this all just a waste of money? (gentle music) Hey, pause really quick. You know how we started this video with this hypothetical scenario that I'm drinking workout supplements? Well, I actually do workout now. For the first time in my adult life I am kind of buff. The sponsor of today's Thank you CoPilot for This is a game changer. CoPilot is a platform that pairs you up with your very own fitness coach. My coach is named Devon, he's great. You meet with your coach, and you tell them what you want. For me, I don't wanna get buff, but I want to be able and be like strong and not have back pain. And he designed a full-blown like workout, and he can customize it and change it, and I communicate with him. There's no decision making here. You press go, and it guides you through your workout with little video examples so you know exactly what you're supposed and then you move on to the next thing. Over the months your workout will change as you give feedback who's always tinkering with it what you don't like, what you like. It turns out that accountability is basically the key to having someone to stand accountable to. And that's the major is there's a real human being &quot;Are you working out?&quot; But it's also really nice to have a professional out of my workouts. So CoPilot is awesome, I'm grateful for them I'm grateful they exist. I'm grateful that I can do 10 And if you want to try this out there's a nice sweet discount that they're giving to all if they click the link in the description, and they sign up before February 1st. You get 14 days for free to try this out with your own personalized coach, see if it works for you. And 20% off your first month. So you can try it out at as a discount, see if it works for you. But, again, use the because doing so gets you the discount, it helps support the channel. And do it before February 1st. Okay, that's it. Let's dive in to this (drum bangs) It's easy to look at stuff like this, and say it's kind of like medicine, and so it would be kind of tracked and vetted by our like medicine is. But medicine goes through a super lengthy process and clinical trials, paperwork. It takes years and years, and a lot of drugs aren't They fail this process, and never make it onto the shelf. But supplements don't - Companies are responsible for ensuring their products are safe, and in fact can often put new dietary supplements on the market without even telling FDA. - There are rules on are allowed to put in but these rules aren't It's up to the supplement - With dietary supplements that they are following - That's Dr. C. Michael White, - A pharmacist, distinguished professor and chair of pharmacy practice at the University of - And this is Dr. F. Perry Wilson. - I am a physician and researcher (bell dings) - These two doctors helped helped us navigate this and helped us better understand how this $50 billion a year industry runs wild with all of these products that make health claims that are often not backed up by anything. There's a wild story on how we got here, and to understand it we and 90's to understand featuring Mel Gibson - It's only vitamins. - [Reporter] Nelson Mandela from the city of New York today. - The East German authorities have said the Berlin Wall doesn't - Oh yeah. - The 90's was a time of which fueled the rise of a health conscious middle class that was increasingly and fitness regimes, and alternative medicine. - I avoid sugar, that makes me feel good about me. - To cater to this shift, you have this supplement industry, which was very small but they met the demand and began diversifying their offerings. They expanded beyond the and echinacea drops, introducing a variety of new substances, each purporting to enhance One of the supplements was called L-Tryptophan. It was this health food supplement made of amino acids that claimed to help people sleep and lose weight. It sounded healthy enough until doctors found that were developing blood and muscle disorders. Investigations found that it In response to this incident, Congress began drafting laws that would tighten regulation So they drafted this bill. The bill would give more power to the FDA to regulate these companies, to tighten the rules on how supplements were able to be labeled, what claims they could make. But, as we know, whenever there's a growing industry that's making a lot of and the government comes in they don't just sit So all the supplement they held these emergency meetings, they sent an army of and they started pouring - Help make sure your child gets a balanced diet with Flintstones. - And this is where Mel Gibson, the 90's movie star, comes into the story. (gentle music) - [Officer] Freeze. - Hey guys, guys, it's Vitamin C, you know, like in oranges. - [Narrator] If you don't make the FDA stop. - Yeah, they weren't messing around here. They published books, they sent flyers to people's mailboxes. They produced more commercials, they created petitions to rally Americans around their supplements, and it worked. More and more Americans and they responded to this potential tightening of regulation, and all of this fear by writing to Congress, telling the government not to let them keep their vitamins. At the same time, these lobbyists targeted the lawmakers themselves, convincing them to oppose the legislation that was under consideration in Congress, and to actually counter it a law that would be And you can actually see this point blank. Sometimes lobbying is foggy, and we don't know what happened, but in this case the senators from the industry were the ones who actually drafted the And here it is. Public law 103-417 from October 25, 1994. So what started as an attempt actually turned into a law that is friendly to the industry, and the reason we have this. (dramatic music) I mean I love when you're neck and you just see a statement that just makes it so clear Check this out. This law just straight up says that the federal government should not take any actions to impose unreasonable regulatory And especially, says the law, this industry is really lucrative. It has annual sales of $4 billion. Congress wouldn't wanna slow that down. So then the big kicker here, one of the key parts of the law is that they specify that supplements, the thing in this bottle is it's classified as food. That's how the FDA But supplements are not food in the same way a bag of Doritos is food, they're much more complicated. But we'll get back to that in a sec. The point is that this a lot of freedom, including what kind of The law gave them the authority about what their health as long as they include I'm looking at Genius Mushrooms. The product says that it is energy and clarity. Sounds great. But then here on the back teeny tiny, almost illegible font, zoom in here, you will that complies with the law. These statements have not been evaluated by the food administrator. This product is not intended to diagnose. It's right there in the fine print that no one is reading. What people are reading is this. Healthy immune system I mean, the law is so It allows these companies to effectively regulate themselves. The law makes it clear that it's the government's job to go prove that something rather than making the companies prove that their products are safe I mean it's totally backwards. - We do not approve them for safety and effectiveness before they are sold. Companies are responsible for ensuring their products are safe. - So thanks to this 1994 law supplement makers were very happy because now they don't have They don't have to prove that they just have to put a little And the FDA has no real They only really step in in a big way after the supplement is Any authority they do have to check on the supplements has to be done with their shoestring budget. This was Congress giving the supplement telling them they can do what you want, we can't regulate you, it's now the law. And this is why the industry went from a $4 billion industry in the early 90's to a $53 billion industry today. This is why Americans are now inundated with capsules and pills and drops and creams and teas that claim to But this is confusing because supplements actually for certain people who need certain things that their body can't make. So one of my questions what of this is legit? Is any of it, or is it all just snake oil? What does the science actually say? (gentle music) There's been a lot of good study on this, and luckily we got one where they do a study and they put it all together, and they say &quot;This is what all the studies &quot;have concluded over the years.&quot; Like a good old meta-analysis. This meta-analysis, which used 84 studies, and put it all together found that vitamins and supplements were generally, quote, or no benefit in preventing cancer, cardiovascular disease and death. It had a little bit of a benefit on treating cancer if you already have it. They also found that people had a, quote, increased and other harmful outcomes by taking one vitamin, betacarotene. So what this basically is saying for the big things, preventing the killers like And they maybe even hurt us in some cases, depending on the supplement. But in reading these just how complex this is. There are like thousands and there are innumerable that have different chemistry It starts to get confusing to find a satisfying conclusion. So we asked our experts do supplements actually make - Many doctors would suggest that you don't need to unless you have a deficiency. - Ah deficiency, that's the key word here. So maybe my body doesn't vitamin C or I don't get it in my food, then a supplement would be useful. - If you're a strict vegan, you have very strong dietary restrictions for whatever reason, those people probably are good candidates for taking a multivitamin. - That's a situation where But most of us don't need to do that. Whenever there's a situation where all the humans in a society need a certain substance the government goes Like there was a time when we so to fix this the government to just put iodine in salt. So now all of us use it all the time, and we just have enough iodine because there's iodine in all of our salt. I guess what I'm saying here is that most of us check and mineral needs by living and eating a variety of foods. But, of course, within our who can't produce enough or like this YouTuber who just ate chicken I mean they should probably You have to eat a variety of foods to get all your vitamins and minerals. And luckily here in the 21st century we have a test to find out It's a blood test. They take your blood, they test it, and they find out how you're and what you might be deficient in, and thus what supplements And yet 252 million Americans are popping $53 billion worth and most of them probably don't Okay, so if I don't need all this, but I'm taking a fistful where does it all go? - You're just peeing And it might give you which is pretty cool, but it's a large waste of your dollars. - Here's a full disclosure I take vitamins and supplements sometimes. I got sent this green who's thinking about sponsoring and I totally drank it every day. It's a vitamin supplement. It has a billion different vitamins in it. And I was like &quot;Maybe I need one of these &quot;even though my blood &quot;what if I actually do? &quot;What if it's actually gonna help?&quot; And I tell you that to let you know that this isn't easy. This is not an easy thing to navigate. We were hit with all of these messages of improve your mental And you're just like What I'm finding is But what to me is ethically wrong is when people turn to supplements because they've been lied to or because they don't trust or can't afford other forms of treatment. In other words, when they're desperate. - Surveys of American sentiment show that pharmaceutical companies have lower approval ratings than Congress, which is, that's pretty bad. And, again, in many ways rightly so. The profiteering off medications is, in my opinion, quite unethical. - So we hate pharmaceutical companies for good reason, maybe, but we suddenly trust We trust vitamins, and the industry that makes them? Okay, so just quick recap. Supplements are the wild They've been very poorly regulated. The industry's gone wild. They can make these wild claims. And a lot of us are and peeing out supplements Is that the scope of the problem here, just that we're wasting our money and we're being falsely advertised to? Doesn't seem that bad. (dramatic music) That is until you realize that not all supplements are harmless. The law says that supplements but they aren't food. There's a lot of complicated work that goes into creating a It's a complex process of manufacturing, making sure that the substances are pure, the dosage is correct, and it can go wrong very easily. - 23,000 people a year, in after taking a supplement. - Supplement makers don't have to prove that their products are safe. - It was unbelievable what we found. - [Reporter] False and - Remember L-Tryptophan back in the 80's people were taking it, and they were thinking it was and helping them lose weight, and yet it caused thousands of illnesses and dozens of deaths. One of the big problems with that was likely due to contamination not necessarily the substance itself. A few years ago there was that was supposed to but it ended up having lead in it. It caused all sorts of lead poisoning, and two deaths. A few years later, the FDA seized 300,000 dietary supplements because they had an excessive That was from one corporation. The FDA isn't monitoring but luckily scientists are. There's this 2018 study that found that 92% of the had bacterial contamination, and 87% had fungal contamination, which can be really I'm not gonna go down a because there's so much of this. Let's just say there's a lot of instances of supplements being (dramatic music) Okay, let me just tell that is just such a good of the lack of regulation here. There's this one plant called Kratom. I don't know, here in the everywhere, in every strip mall. It's like Kratom Signs. It's made from this evergreen tree leaf, and it's sold in the form of powder and pills and extracts. It sounds totally natural and fresh, and I can see why it's But, once again, Kratom has been linked to hundreds of cases of and there's the fact that especially to those who which is, if you haven't heard, a giant problem in our country. It has been deemed to for 91 people who had though only seven of to only have kratom in their body. There were other drugs But what we're saying here is that this can be dangerous stuff. It's not just food like The FDA urged the DEA to classify this as a schedule one drug, which is the classification for heroin, but it's a dietary supplement just down the road at the Speaking of drugs, some just like drugs in disguise. - So what we're really seeing is that in a lot of those cases they're putting in synthetic drugs, which sometimes are prescription drugs, and sometimes are products that are not approved by the FDA. - One study found that more than 750 supplements were Only half of them were ever recalled. Wait, why can they do this? Why can they just put into supplements? Ah, because of this law. This law that the industry that none of this has to get The FDA only steps in when the damage is already done. So backwards. And these companies can A few years ago, the that these supplement companies were spiking their got sued by one of these companies, a company called The company ended up losing the lawsuit, but what it revealed is that this company had been selling a product that they had been ordered and they just never did. There's so little And, again, it's a giant and a lot of products, and it's an FDA that is very and not a lot of authority to do much. And as we mentioned at the when researchers went in and just popped open some of these bottles and studied the pills, they found that a lot of these supplements don't actually have They're a totally different substance, but none of us know because you don't know what calcium tastes like. - Literally there have been studies that have shown some supplements have no detectable amount of is supposed to be in there. - No detectable amount. And then we've got good old melatonin. I love melatonin when I need it. That gummy that helps us all But it's not a sleeping pill, right? Because it's like natural. - [Reporter] Melatonin have been on the rise - Well actually melatonin it is a hormone that It helps induce sleep. And it's kind of been trending especially among children. Over the past decade, who have overdosed on causing kids to experience symptoms like vomiting and diarrhea. A lot of that is because In some cases they found that the dose is 50% higher - [Reporter] The US Food doesn't have any control or the accuracy of dosage claims. - We talked to one guy because he was taking Lions Mane, which is a mushroom supplement, and it was causing a mysterious illness. He thought it was going to give him energy and mental clarity like but instead what he experienced sleepless nights. - I couldn't sleep for By that I say one more than - When he started the subreddit, he found thousands of others who reported a whole host chronic tension headaches, One user's husband took his life after not being able to sleep, having constant panic attacks, and losing his job over it. He was 43. - I'd been to the hospital about 20 times the first two months. I have seen basically every specialist that I could get ahold of, and really nobody could - These people come to Reddit because they don't have any answers. They bought a supplement promising mental clarity, and focus and energy, and had their lives completely changed. That's because our government failed. We have a government to protect us against exactly these types of things. But instead people are turning To me this is the most atrocious We actually reached out to the FDA as a part of this story to Why is it like this? And they responded, and we scheduled an interview. We were gonna discuss dietary supplements and regulation in the United States, but then the day before the interview they canceled our meeting, and then just ghosted us. Luckily we have clips of former FDA commissioners and they all seem to agree of authority and resources. - Will the FDA ever - We tried. (gentle music) - So, what can be done here? Well, luckily we live in a system where we can make change by changing laws. Like in the 90's we almost did this. If the Congress had we would have stricter punishments for supplement companies We would have better rules and what claims they can make. - We should at least be able to agree that all the companies that they don't have bacterial that they don't have heavy metals, that they're not containing and that they do contain the product in the dose that's specified in the pills that they're putting on their label. - I would like purity, and that people know what they're getting. I mean we owe it to that if you're gonna choose to buy it you should at least know That seems like the bare minimum, and right now that's not the case. - The experts we talked to don't think that supplements should I think that makes sense. But they agree that we should start with giving the FDA the authority and the resources it needs to monitor supplements so we so that we're not of for-profit companies to obey the rules, and to actually put in these supplements what they say is in these supplements. This would mean the FDA going and conducting spot checks more often and more aggressively to make sure that this stuff is correct, and that it's being free of contamination. Congress has recently considered a bill that would help with this, including trying to create a database of all the supplements so that the FDA at least But, of course, the supplement They spend over $2 million making sure that things They make a lot of money off it. So, if you are one of the many millions who take a bunch of supplements, and are not sure if they're or if you even need them, what do you do? And the answer is go and just see if you're if you actually need a dietary supplement. And even if your blood test comes back and you don't need anything, I believe that people should be able to consume whatever they want, even if it's not scientifically proven. You know your body, you whatever vitamin or mineral I just think that when you that is free to mislead and deceive and prey on consumers, you get a bunch of bad situations like the ones we've talked about here. So until the government steps in to help us navigate this, we're kind of on our own. I'm gonna put some to third party websites that you can go to to look up your supplements, the specific supplements, and see if they've passed to know if at least you're getting what it says on the bottle. So that's where we're at with supplements. We're here waiting for and above all waiting for the regard of others' wellbeing over that seems to care more about (gentle music) Thanks for watching the video everyone. Thank you CoPilot for CoPilot found that people to stick with a workout routine if they're actually that checks in with me, That makes all of the difference. There's a link in my description, it gets you 14 days for free with your own personal So you can try it out for and cancel if it doesn't work, and stick with it if it does. Thanks to all of our supporters which is our Patreon. I deeply appreciate your For those who want to learn more, there's a link in the description. We sell LUTs and presets, which is how we color I have a poster that is a bunch and we started a new with my old colleague Sam Ellis, and it's really good. That's all, thanks for being here. See ya. (gentle music)