Imagine, for a moment, that you could travel backwards through time and of a God. Imagine placing the lives and fates of millions Would the result be a happier world, a utopia? Or would the result be catastrophe for everyone In October, 54 AD, the Roman Empire made this They elevated an emotionally unstable 16 year That boy's name? Nero. The last of the Julio-Claudian emperors, Nero had ever seen into a playground for his darkest He had his own mother murdered, ordered Christians in perversions so shocking they'd make the Yet he died beloved by Rome's commoners, had ever lived. Join us today as we investigate the life of Family Ties background of Nero, you might assume the emperor Born Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus on December dynasty: AKA the dudes who had been ruling His mother, Julia Agrippina -commonly known descendant of the first emperor, Augustus. His uncle was the current emperor, Caligula. His great-uncle was Claudius. But while that might sound like a ticket to Agrippina could have told him differently. The Julio-Claudians enjoyed nothing more than The rot had started way, way back when Agrippina brother Caligula. As you'll know if you've already watched a popular general who was in line for the So, naturally, Agrippina's adopted grandfather, 19 AD. It was just the first in a long line of Julio-Claudian Jump ahead to 37 AD. Tiberius is dead and Agrippina's brother At first, things were fine. It was during this period of calm Agrippina But then Caligula had one of his trademark to kill him. So he took all her property and banished her with her son. Dumped with a random aunt, young Nero was If that sounds actually kinda OK, jut know the lowest of the low in Roman society, no It seems likely Nero's aunt felt there was not live long anyway. Knowing Caligula's paranoia, it'd be a Thank Jupiter, that miracle happened. On 24 January, 41 AD, the elite Praetorian to death outside the Palatine Games. They then marched straight to Claudius and There was a 'blink and you'll miss it' mentioned that Claudius was Nero's great Well, that meant Agrippina was Claudius's And, unlike Tiberius or Caligula, Emperor No sooner had Claudius taken the throne then At last reunited with her son Nero, Agrippina mercy of her cruel and capricious relatives. That meant getting her wealth back. That meant building her own powerbase. But how was a penniless widow meant to do You leave that to Agrippina. First, Agrippina pressured her uncle to find to marry her. Next, Agrippina poisoned that consul and inherited Then came 48 AD, and Claudius's execution Barely was her body cold than Agrippina was him an excellent plan. Why didn't Claudius just marry Agrippina? The proposal was dressed up as a way of uniting fratricides once and for all. But really, it was just an excuse for Agrippina to live out his creepy incest fantasies. On January 1, 49 AD, Agrippina became empress. One year later, Claudius adopted her son, In ten short years, Agrippina had taken herself Rome. They had money, power. But never forget that Agrippina was from a members. And what use did empress Agrippina now have Where the Monster was Nurtured palace. That same year, Agrippina had pressured Claudius emperor's natural son Britannicus. With Nero suddenly in line for half the throne, look at him. They didn't like what they saw. By now a teenager, Nero was a sulky, spoiled to play the lyre than learning how to rule. Worse still, the boy was developing a cruel One by one, people started to wonder if they Yet they were powerless to stop Agrippina In 53 AD, Agrippina forced Nero into marriage When we say "forced", we really mean it. Claudia Octavia was being perused by another Agrippina wrecked that courtship and drove Yet even this marriage of convenience wasn't safe, that another Caligula wouldn't come The only way to do that would be to make herself On 13 October, 54 AD, Emperor Claudius suddenly Ancient sources speculate that Agrippina bribed mushrooms. Whether that's true or not, the results Control of the empire went to Claudius's Or rather, it should have. At the moment Claudius died, only Nero was Britannicus was still a child, legally incapable So when Agrippina presented Nero alone to their new emperor, there was nothing Britannicus Aged only 16, Nero was elevated to sole ruler Let's take a second to imagine how Agrippina Against all the odds, she'd overcome a childhood herself at the heart of Rome. She'd murdered her second husband. She'd manipulated and killed an emperor. And now her son was on the throne. We hope Agrippina savored that moment. Really, we do. Because it wasn't destined to last long. Just as his mother had started to wonder if Nero was starting to wonder if he really needed Before long, Agrippina found herself being Determined to fight, the wily murderess tried Nero to have his stepbrother poisoned. Not long after, Agrippina was moved out the of Rome. Even the precious marriage she'd secured as Nero took up instead with Poppaea Sabina. As a last ditch effort, Agrippina made overtures depose the teenage emperor together. But Agrippina's luck had already run out. In early 59 AD, Nero had Agrippina board a When she managed to survive the grueling swim to death. It's said that as she realized what was womb and screamed "Stab me there, where Julia Agrippina died on March 23, 59 AD. After the news leaked out, Nero half-assedly But no-one in Rome was under any illusions. The young emperor had broken the greatest Claudius's advisors had been wrong. Nero wasn't the next Caligula. He was something much, much worse. The Artistic Emperor for the rest of this video. Fiddling as Rome burns: check. Persecuting the Christians: check. Well, don't worry, we'll get to those But before we tell you about Nero the Crazy the Insanely Popular Emperor. That's right: popular. For all his name may now be synonymous with being quite a cool sorta dude. Prior to Agrippina's death, Nero had banned and handed powers back to the Senate. He also slashed taxes, banned capital punishment, bloodsports, and tried to phase out gladiatorial So popular were these measures, the great first five years the greatest reign in Roman Here we finally reach one of the contradictions Despite all the mad stuff he did, he was beloved Nero had a common touch other Roman elites After his death, a whole generation of ambitious as a shortcut to popularity. Why, then, do we only hear about the bad stuff? Maybe because the common folk didn't write Neither did the ambitious provincials, but And those guys couldn't stand the way Nero The issue was that, unlike Augustus, Tiberius, It was Agrippina who had schemed him into The other reluctant emperor, Claudius, had responsibilities of office. Nero was young enough to understand the responsibilities Not long after Agrippina's death, Nero talked a full time poet. But the power that came with being a living began to live an artist's life parallel The young emperor spent his spare time partying out with lowlifes. He liked to get drunk and appear onstage in Remember: the Romans thought artists were Seeing Nero indulge his artistic side for dance naked for cash in an Amsterdam brothel. Although given what happened next, a better In 62 AD, Nero's mistress Poppaea Sabina Since Nero was still married to the popular So Nero divorced Claudia and banished her to get even more underhanded. When the people of Rome protested her banishment, It was the second time he'd killed a close vaguely made out like it had been a suicide. In reality, it was yet another bloodstain It wouldn't be the last. Let the Mother Burn popularity was in terminal nosedive. The same year Nero had Claudia murdered, the A natural moderate, he'd kept the emperor's So what did Nero do? He replaced him with a guy called Tigellinus do with his dark desires was let them loose. That meant orgies. Bloody purges of the elite. Even fewer hecks given about respecting the Come that hot July of 64 AD, the people of to believe anything about him. Into this tinderbox of resentment came a very The causes of the Great Fire of Rome are lost All we know is that, on July 18, a conflagration At the time, Rome was a collection of wooden central plan. So when the inferno got going, it really got The fire burned for a week. By the time it fizzled, three of the city's palace itself had been damaged. And what was Emperor Nero doing while all That's absolutely... Wrong. Yep, the one thing everyone knows about Nero, to be total bunk. Nero wasn't even in the city at the time. Far from regarding the fire as a source of to the Rome and spearheaded the relief efforts. He even let hundreds of those left homeless This kinda raises the question: why do we Two reasons. One involves a building, the other a Jewish Let's tackle the building first. Once the fire was over, Nero pledged to rebuild In most respects, he succeeded, constructing future fires. However, he also decided to build a massive A palace that included a 120ft tall statue For a Roman public that was already leaning Rumors started to swirl that Nero had set build his stupid palace. Panicked, Nero decided he needed to find someone His chosen scapegoats were a Jewish sect known In 64 AD, Rome's Christians were a small and Greek-speaking outsiders. Like foreigners, refugees, and immigrants them perfect targets. On Nero's orders, prominent Christians were the fire. Nero then set about having all of them rounded Unlike the tale of the Nero fiddling, all of the Christians are true. Christians really were torn apart by wild Nero really did have them burned alive to Perhaps it's no wonder early Christians There's a theory that the Antichrist in the emperor. But it wasn't just the Christians who disliked The extreme tortures inflicted were disturbing In the Senate and the Praetorian Guard, people things were getting out of hand. That it was time to get rid of their arsonist They hadn't counted on just how hard to The Horrors of Love Nero was, they usually point to his actions actually slaughtering the Christians. Really, they should point to the emperor's If 64 AD was Nero at his most misunderstood, It started when the Senate plot against Nero What followed was a purge that saw 23 conspirators Seneca. But if 23 dead doesn't sound so bad, know In the wake of the conspiracy, Nero brought a feature of Tiberius and Caligula's rules. Kangaroo courts that convicted and executed infamous for being an underhand way for the And Nero in 65 AD had an enemies list longer Yet even this bloodshed doesn't compare At some point that summer, Nero got in a blazing Remember her? The mistress who got pregnant, causing Nero Well, Poppaea probably should have realized isn't a great sign of mental stability. According to Tacitus, Nero, mad with rage, The poor girl was pregnant at the time, and her swollen stomach. In the aftermath of this brutal double murder, He had Poppaea stuffed and embalmed and her visit it whenever he wanted. Freakier still, Nero caught sight of a 13 spitting image of his murdered wife. Known as Sporus, this unlucky boy was kidnapped Nero then forced Sporus to dress in clothes him in a bizarre service. After that, Sporus could be seen, dressed side as the deranged emperor kissed and fondled If this wasn't already creepy enough, Nero he performed onstage, embodying the girl whose Yet even as he drifted into Norman Bates territory, The next year, 66 AD, he left on a tour of himself a year's break from running the But rather than react to this creepy murderer east acted like Nero was an ancient rock star. The thing was, Nero knew how to play a crowd. In Greece, he dressed like an ascetic, with interest in the country's new religions. Wherever he went, he granted towns "free him. He was so popular that he even took part in Unsurprisingly, he won every event he entered. It seems Nero himself felt being in the east He began appearing on stage more and more, When word got back to Rome, upper society But Nero was wrong if he thought he could the hell he felt like. The emperor didn't know it yet, but his "What an Artist Dies in Me" governor of Gaul, a guy called Vindex, telling It was just one of many such orders Nero was lifestyle. But this time something was different. Nero didn't know it, but Vindex was at breaking Fed up with endlessly having to raise taxes latest demand. He took up arms and declared himself in rebellion But then he did a funny thing. He declared allegiance to the popular governor This was funny because Galba was very much When he heard of Vindex's declaration, he But just hearing Vindex mention Galba was He had both men declared enemies of Rome. Realizing he was doomed either way, Galba in rebellion after all. Unfortunately for Nero, a popular governor had been waiting for. As news of Galba's revolt hit, the Praetorian As did the Senate. As did a huge swathe of the army. As did... well, everyone. On the night of June 9, 68 AD, Nero woke up Sensing the end was near, everyone had deserted As Nero ran through the empty, cavernous rooms, to kill him. When no voices came in reply, Nero is said foe?" But the emperor was wrong. He had plenty of foes. Across the city, the Senate had called an Seeing which way the wind was blowing, they soldiers to finish him off. But Nero was no longer in his palace. Accompanied by a handful of slaves and one four miles outside the Eternal City. Had he been able to make it to the east of may have stood a chance. But that chance slipped through his fingers, end. As the soldiers closed in on his hiding place, himself "what an artist dies in me!" He demanded his slaves kill him, but to no Finally, with the soldiers right outside and from someone and plunged it deep into his The soldiers stormed in to find the emperor blood. With what we imagine must have been an unhinged one last, immortal line to the men sent to "Too late." Emperor Nero died that morning, unloved and With his death, the Julio-Claudian line that snuffed out. The fratricidal family that had given the Caligula would produce no more emperors. But if anyone was expecting Nero's death for a rude awakening. In the wake of Nero's suicide, Galba was But he ruled a mere six months before being Galba's death would plunge the empire into 69 AD would see four emperors come and go the throne. But all of that is for another video. What of Nero? What of the man we came here to discuss? Although he's infamous today as the most wasn't the worst. Sure, he did some terrible, inhuman things. But even his cruelest acts weren't the outright lashings out of an angry teenage boy who never It's true that Nero was a nasty man and But it's also true that his badness is sometimes He never fiddled while Rome burned. The first years of his rule were even something While it's fitting that we remember the remembering that history is more nuanced than Nero was deranged, but hopefully in our video than simply being Rome's crazy emperor.