The sommelier's table. It's a private room with dedicated And I have never tried it. Until today. But with a price tag of 15 thousand euros, will it be a one and done? Or my new favorite thing. Join me and find out. In this special edition, Alexander To Helene Darroze at the Connaught. To experience the luxury of the Sommelier's Table. Welcome to London. A city who does Christmas like nobody's business. It's December 2023, and the twinkling lights Today, we are going to a historic hotel The Connaught. Where the guest list is a celebrity who's who. Rumor has it, back in the day, the Prince of Wales would book the whole place and Whether that's true or not, one thing is for sure. Today we will have our own private party inside Helene Darroze. Walking in, the staff come out Almost like we are royalty. Which makes sense, because here, Even the name. When it was built in 1815, it was After some big renovations in 1897, Ever since, the layout has been the same, They called it The Connaught. It's a reference to Queen The Duke of .... you guessed it.... Connaught. So let this be a lesson. If you want royals to throw champagne you best include them in the name. The dining room is artfully designed with curved But we will not be here to enjoy it. We are just passing through. And going straight to the wine cellar. Check this out. With 30 thousand bottles in This is Mirko Benzo, Corporate From Italy, he's been working He walks us through his remarkable inventory. Including private collections and What does that mean? These days, some wines fly around the They can be passed from hand to hand, or sold at auction many times over Along the way, the bottles can be exposed to light and temperature changes, But there is one way to lower that risk. It's called ex-cellar wine. It refers to wine sold directly from the winery, where we can be more confident it's Walking around, we can see a lot of history They even have the wine list Sadly, they are not honoring these prices. This is Federico Zanardi, our He started at the Ritz, before Tonight, we are a party of four wine lovers who have agreed to split the Before arriving, we checked the wine list to I used every persuasion technique I know so that in the end, we all agreed on the 96 Krug. It's one of my personal favorites, but It was the last bottle they had in To miss this fantastic Going deeper into the cellar, Like this vintage 1952 and the ultra-rare, first ever Let's check the prices. Are you sitting down? The 1952 is almost 12 thousand euros. And the 79 Clos de Mesnil, one of the most special We all agree to pass on these. There are a lot of different The standard is seven hundred and From the Piccolo that holds just under 200 mills. All the way up to the Midas, that holds 30 liters. This one is quite rare and weighs 70 kilos, so you This one is called Jeroboam. Also known as the double magnum. It holds 3 Liters. And this one is all ours. It's the 96 vintage Krug we pre-ordered. The price is 7 thousand six hundred euro. This is my happy dance. Looking after us today is Giuseppe Molinaro. Former Assistant Restaurant Now, he has that responsibility here. He serves the first canapes. A seaweed tartlet of bluefin tuna. Crackers with turnip parfait and a fritter with smoked Together they unlock all five tastes. Sweet, salty, sour, bitter and umami. This might seem like a Right here in the wine cellar. But this is all part of the Here at the Connaught, it comes for up to 8 people with a And some personalized touches. Included in the price is a six-course The price tag is just under three thousand euro. For a normal reservation, this menu They also have a weekday lunch menu which is the For wine, there are four pairings hundred and seventy to six hundred eighty euro. Instead, I give a mission to the young sommelier. Giving him a price range and requesting Our first course comes in layers. Starting with seabream tartar Topped with krystal caviar, On the side - even more We are told there is no right or wrong way. Just dig in. Excellent textures here. The smokey cream goes so well with salty caviar. It's powerful. I really like it. Our next wine is a 2012 It's dry and fruity with nice minerality, Enter our next course. Spider Crab. At the bottom we have a brown crab bisque, with a white crab salad finished with pink This is a famous dish in Spain's basque country, And it's absolutely fantastic. The sweetness of the crab, with a bit of There was an exciting hint of spiciness as well. I really enjoyed this dish. The bitter grapefruit was so beautiful. Where I come from, we don't do much bitter, so it was great to see it Masterfully balanced. We shot this episode just before Christmas 2023, so it's been almost nine months since our visit. Yet, I still remember this The service here at the Sommelier's As Guiseppe says: "We don't want to be the best, I love it. Next is a blind tasting. The shape of the bottle gives It looks like a riesling... and it is. A bit sweet but beautifully balanced. It turns out to be a 2020 Egon Muller This release is special for The Connaught It shows you the power they have Our next course is onion soup. It's a French classic with a modern touch. On the bottom we have onion, and sourdough flower topped I loved the deep umami here. Our next wine is a 1986 Spanish Outstanding wine. Next to the table is a bread service Followed by a new server. It's the lady herself. Chef Helen Darroze. In her career she accomplished a lot. She has held the title of Became an honorary knight And was the inspiration for the character Believe it or not, she came She entered the fine dining world as an assistant to Super Chef Alain Ducasse at And worked mostly in the back office. But Ducasse learned something about Helen. That she came from a legacy of chefs. Four generations to be exact. Soon, Ducasse had her convinced They worked side by side for 3 years before Then in 1999, she opened Earning two michelin stars by 2003. In 2008, the Connaught did an And named Helene Darroze as the new chef. Soon after opening, the restaurant was with one star in 2009, the second These days, she splits her time between Her one star in the south of France, the two star in Paris, and the three star here at the Connaught. Chef Helene is tableside to introduce Scallop from Scotland. Prepared with tandoori spices carrot, coriander and chicken broth. Bright acids, popping flavors, and So far, this has been a wonderful experience. The blind tasting, the personalized service, I love it. Next is turbot, one of the kings of the sea. Served with rutabaga puree, a beurre blanc sauce The fish could not be cooked any better. The seaweed gives it a nice umami, and My only wish is that they could For the main course, we have two wines. One is As Caborcas by Spanish This is a rich, intense red. The second is another mystery. I love the beautiful color. It turns out to be a Tuscan red. Chianti Classico Il Poggio. A reserva from 1968 by Although it might be past its peak, this Perfect for the main course. And here it is - A5 wagyu beef On the side is a Wagyu beef and crispy salsify arranged between two tuilles. Beautiful main course with perfect ingredients. Then, Chef Marco Zampese rocks In January 2014, he started then to sous chef, before He is here just to say hi and check on things. Our first of the sweet courses Poached pear, biscuit and pear granita. Sheep's curd cheese chantilly cream. Finished with Black pepper I don't know what to say except it's pear-fect. Our second sweet course is a dark chocolate Tanea. Made with 70% cocoa chocolate from Madagascar. The chips and ice cream are made with sunchoke. I love chocolate but this is not Super creative and very interesting flavors. This restaurant has super As a final act we choose a heavy hitter. This is a 1999 Petrus. and is a benchmark of luxury in the world of wine. This bottle is from 1999. It was a special year for me. In 99, I moved to England to work as an au pair. The first of the petit four are finished This is a tilted mille-feuille filled with quince It's amazing. Finally a dark chocolate dessert We also have chocolate truffle filled with A chocolate bomb. I love it. And with that, we are done. The total for today, is just over So what do I think of Helen No question, they use the best quality But here's the thing. I love dishes that are bold The ones that slap you in the face. Here, with some dishes, I felt they But the crab dish pushed the boundaries and turned out to be a magical Regarding the number of courses, How about the Sommelier's table? I'm glad I had the chance to try it Butthe Krug jeroboam will remain The level of service is the best money can buy. It's consistent and high-caliber. Mirko, Federico, Giuseppe, Marius, Hospitality is in their blood, They truly talk the talk. As Giuseppe says: "We are not in the business of food and drinks, but we are in the business of emotion." And that does it for this episode. Thank you for joining me! If you like this video, hit subscribe. See you next time.