Hey Dr. Bernard here. The recommendation for caffeine is no more So don't drink more than 4 cups of regular coffee. 400 milligrams A Student Drank 2 Gallons Coffee In 3 Hours. This Is What Happened To His Kidneys. BB is a 21 year old man, presenting to the His mother Karen, tells the admitting nurse before finding her son collapsed on the floor. You see, BB was a college student, who was It was the end of the semester. His grades were OK. But he was borderline in chemistry. If I don't pass this one, there's no way he thought. I'll pull an all nighter just this one time, Someone in his class had offered him a little said no. And good call. One of his friends had taken that something Couple days later, she got a random urine It came out positive, and she was kicked out Not worth it. BB was good, he was just gonna need some coffee He had built up a healthy caffeine tolerance of it, but just one night. Just one exam. Immediately after drinking a whole pot of He was awake, alert and refreshed. But then he started crashing. Time for another pot he thought. Awake, alert, then crashed. One more pot. And another. And after 2 gallons of coffee, BB started He got the shakes. He was wired. He could feel his heart beating in his neck. His heart beat was pushing his eyes out of In the bathroom now, BB wanted to run 20 miles. He felt like he could lift mountains, but twine. He felt a burning in his chest. As the time went on, his thoughts started He was sweating, everywhere. His hands were shaking. Later in the night, his calf muscles started As he goes into the bathroom, BB noticed that Haha I drank so much coffee that it's just He laid down on the floor for a few minutes. He felt his heart beating in his eyes, before Loud noises wake up his mom. She rushes in to find her son on the floor, 911, and hes brought to the emergency room Karen and the doctors had no idea what happened He couldn't tell them either, because he They couldn't smell anything from him. In a 20 year old college guy-- alcohol could But alcohol is a depressant. BB is agitated and confused, sweating and His heart rate was fast. His pupils were big and bold. All of these together, don't usually happen These are the signs of a stimulant, which so we can narrow it down a little. Further exam finds that BB also has hyperthermia. High body temperature. This is dangerous, not only because it means the hyperthermia, but that the hyperthermia BB was shaking. This could be the cause of hyperthermia. When you move, your muscles burn energy. That releases heat. LOTS of heat in BB's case and that's why to cool him off. This brings us to the idea of "fight or When you get scared, you jump. Your heart rate immediately goes up. Your mouth dries up and your tongue feels Your muscles become really twitchy and you You start hyperventilating, because your muscles gonna run, or you're going to fight. This response is controlled by your nervous You see something, you hear something, and But if you've ever been really scared, you'll afterwards. And that's because fight or flight isn't To keep up the response, the body releases around in the blood. It lasts for a couple of minutes and it comes But BB hasn't been scared. He's been sitting there, studying. He has no reason to fight or flight. Meaning something is causing his adrenal glands But what could it be? At this point BB, was still confused and still When asked what happened, he was able to tell this gives them several clues as to what's Coffee comes from the seeds of the Coffea These seeds get called beans, they're roasted Coffee is a natural product, and inside those called caffeine. It's also naturally found in tea. It's a stimulant. In modest amounts like 1 cup of coffee, it It can help keep you alert and focused. But, your body adapts to it, so that's why if you consume it daily. If you get a headache because you didn't experiencing withdrawal, because your brain Biological dependence as we see it today is Chemicals can block things in the body, causing maintain an equilibrium. Caffeine appears to constrict the blood vessels he blood vessels are dilated and that can In huge amounts, like 2 gallons coffee in you awake it'll do many other things. And in BB, that caffeine was doing other things. When caffeine is in the blood, one place it You see, the brain uses electricity to send So to stop those signals from going off uncontrollably, Caffeine blocks these insulators. So it causes the brain to get excited. For an amount like a cup of coffee worth of focus come from. But if there's 2 gallons coffee worth of are blocked. The brain doesn't stop getting excited. Everything discharges at once, which by definition Usually hospitals don't do tests for caffeine. BB has many of the features of caffeine toxicity didn't ingest anything else. And results for others return negative. But as the nurses read the results, BB suddenly His heart isn't actually beating anymore, get to his brain. Doctors immediately rush in to do CPR. He's resuscitated. But over the next 3 hours, these cardiac arrests Medicines to try and stabilize his heart rhythm If high amounts of caffeine caused BB's it affecting his heart? Are they somehow connected? Well, this bring us back to adrenaline. Excess caffeine doesn't just go to the brain, It goes to the adrenal glands and forces them Lots of caffeine means lots of adrenaline. This explains BB's racing heart. At some point, his heart is so excited, that in place. But this wasn't BB's only problem. His urine was dark. It was the color of coffee. But no one urinates out coffee, no matter BB had complained that his right calf was Muscles can be damaged when someone has a muscles contract chaotically and breakdown. Meaning, that that's not coffee he's urinating. Those are parts his muscles that have sloughed urine. A blood test finds that BB has hypokalemia. Hypo meaning low. Kale referring to potassium or more formally table of elements. And emia meaning presence in blood. Low potassium presence in blood. If KC drank 2 gallons of coffee, but coffee Low potassium presence in blood? Well, there's a bit of basic biology to Adrenaline acts on the muscles. The muscles that move your arms and legs are In fight or flight mode, you want these to and you definitely couldn't be flighting. But there's also heart muscle, which you that those skeletal muscles get more oxygen Or wrestle a bear. But your muscles also need a way to be told, Sodium helps start a muscle contraction. Potassium promotes muscle relaxation. Lots of potassium present, means the muscles Too little present means your muscles won't If BB has low potassium presence in blood, nonstop. They can't relax because adrenaline has fight or flight mode. As BB's muscles can't stop twitching, causing his body temperature to go up. High temperatures deform proteins. Human muscles are made of proteins. Meaning for BB, those muscles starting to causing rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdo meaning striated or in this case skeletal Lysis meaning breakdown Skeletal muscle breakdown. This is life threatening. It's a medical emergency, and it's happening trying to cram for his final. The last part of this problem, is that the It takes anywhere from 3 to 10 hours for caffeine When it does get broken down, that metabolite, The thing about adrenaline is that it plays 1 molecule of adrenaline, relays the message next in line, which sends to 10 of the next to ten thousand, amplifying the effect. One adrenaline molecule, is a signal that A massive caffeine dose, will cause massive And if just 1 molecule is amplified 10,000 But it's not done here. Caffeine stops the breakdown of those in the more than 10,000 times. Signals keep getting sent. Messengers in the chain, stick around and They don't stop. When this doesn't stop, the liver doesn't The muscles don't stop contracting. The arms and legs and the rest of the body They create heat, which builds up, breaking float freely in the blood. As these muscle proteins swim through BB's They won't gather in his brain. The liver can break them down, but it takes So where collect, is in the kidneys. The kidneys filter out your blood and they're blood, putting them into the urine. Think of it like this strainer. If proteins are large, they get caught in It gunks up the kidneys, and ruptures the It's like tearing this grid apart. This is called acute Kidney Injury, is what's The reddish brown urine is because muscle iron that's responsible for making your The protein builds up in the nephron and spills tubules. BB's rhabdomyolysis is severe and he might We may be able to fix his muscle damage, but This can cause nutritional deficiencies, problems It can even cause something called uremic bones and weakens them, causing them to fracture At this point, there's a few different ways First is to block adrenaline. These medicines are very popular and are well Beta referring to a type of adrenaline receptor. These medicines are used to treat heart failure There have been other ways to successfully in literature was really high dose insulin, inside a hospital. If you'd like to hear more, it's on my below. Because BB was low on potassium, he was given Other medicines were given to stabilize his his brain "insulate" the electrical discharge, Kind of like how we wash something out when to help prevent any more kidney damage. He was started on peritoneal dialysis. That is a cleaning solution was put into the This cleaning solution is used to absorb waste removing caffeine. After monitoring and treatment, a lesson learned probably never really worth it, and a chance made a recovery. Thank you so much for watching. Take care of yourself, and be well.