The Game of Life and How to Play It&quot; by Florence Scovel Shinn, read by Sarah Partridge. Originally self-published in 1925. This recording is a production Copyright 2021, Master Key Society. Chapter one, &quot;The Game&quot;. &quot;Most people consider life a battle, but it is not a battle, it is a game. It is a game, however, which cannot be played successfully without the knowledge of spiritual law and the Old and New Testaments give the rules of the game Jesus Christ taught of giving and receiving. Whatsoever a man soweth This means that whatever or deed will return to him. What he gives, he will receive. If he gives hate, he will receive hate. If he gives love, he will receive love. If he gives criticism, he If he lies, he will be lied to. If he cheats, he will be cheated. We are taught also that plays a leading part in the game of life. 'Keep thy heart or for out of it are the issues of life.' Proverbs 4:23. This means that what man images, sooner or later I know of a man who It was a very rare disease but he pictured it until it manifested in The victim of distorted imagination. So, we see to play we must train the imaging faculty. A person with an imaging faculty trained to image only every righteous desire of his heart. Health, wealth, love, friends. Perfect self-expression The imagination has been called, &quot;The Scissors of The Mind&quot;, and it is ever cutting. Cutting day by day the and sooner or later he in his outer world. To train the imagination successfully, man must understand the The Greeks said, &quot;Know thyself.&quot; There are three departments of the mind, the subconscious, conscious The subconscious is simply It is like steam or electricity and it does what it is directed to do, it has no power of induction. Whatever man feels is impressed upon the subconscious mind and carried out in minutest detail. For example, a woman I know, when a child, always made believe she was a widow. She dressed up in black clothes and wore a long black veil and people thought she was She grew up and married a man with whom she was deeply in love. In a short time, he died and she wore black and a The picture of herself as a widow was impressed upon the subconscious mind and in due time, worked itself out, regardless of the havoc created. The conscious mind has been called mortal or carnal mind. It is the human mind and sees It sees death, disaster, sickness, poverty and limitation of every kind and it impresses the sub-conscious. The super-conscious mind is the God mind within each man and is the realm of perfect ideas. In it, is the perfect &quot;The Divine Design&quot;, for there is a divine There is a place that you are to fill and no one else can fill, something you are to do, which no one else can do. There is a perfect picture of this in the super-conscious mind. It usually flashes across the conscious as an unattainable ideal, something too good to be true. In reality, it is man's flashed to him from the which is within himself. Many people, however, are in ignorance of their true destinies and are striving for things and situations which do not belong to them and would only bring failure and dissatisfaction if attained. For example, a woman came to me and asked me to speak the word that she would marry a certain man with whom she was very much in love. She called him A. B. I replied that this would be a violation of spiritual law, but that I would speak the word for the right man, the divine selection, the man who belonged I added, 'If A. B. is the right man, you can't lose him and if he isn't, you will receive his equivalent.' She saw A. B. frequently but no headway was made One evening she called and said, 'Do you know, for the last week, A. B. hasn't seemed so wonderful to me.' I replied, 'Maybe he is Another man may be the right one.' Soon after that, she met another man who fell in love with her at once and who said she was his ideal. In fact, he said all the things that she had always wished She remarked, 'It was quite uncanny.' She soon returned his love and lost all interest in A. B. This shows the law of substitution. A right idea was therefore there was no Jesus Christ said, 'Seek and his righteousness and all these things and he said the Kingdom was within man. The Kingdom is the realm of right ideas or the divine pattern. Jesus Christ taught that man's words played a leading part in the game of life. 'By your words, ye are justified and by your words, ye are condemned.' Many people have brought disaster into their lives through idle words. For example, a woman once asked me why her life was now one Formerly, she had a home, was surrounded by beautiful things and had plenty of money. We found she had often tired of the management of her home and had said repeatedly, 'I'm sick and tired of things, I wish I lived in a trunk' and she added, 'Today I She had spoken herself into a trunk. The subconscious mind and people often joke themselves into unhappy experiences. For example, a woman who joked continually about getting In a few years, she was almost destitute, having impressed the subconscious mind with a picture of lack and limitation. Fortunately, the law works both ways and a situation of lack may be changed to one of plenty. For example, a woman came for a treatment for prosperity. She was worn out, She said she possessed I said, 'Good, we'll bless the $8 and multiply them as the loaves and the fishes,' for He taught that every and to multiply, to heal and to prosper. She said, 'What shall I do next?' I replied, 'Follow intuition. Have you a hunch to do Intuition means, intuition or to be taught from within. It is man's unerring guide and I will deal more fully with its laws in a following chapter. The woman replied, 'I don't know. I seem to have a hunch to go home, I've just enough money for carfare.' Her home was in a distant city and was one of lack and limitation and the reasoning mind or 'Stay in New York and get I replied, 'Then go home, I spoke the following words for her, 'Infinite Spirit, open the She is an irresistible magnet for all that belongs to I told her to repeat it continually also. She left for home immediately. In calling on a woman one day, she linked up with an Through this friend, she received thousands of dollars in a most miraculous way. She has said to me often, 'Tell people about the with $8 and a hunch.' There is always plenty on man's pathway, but it can only be through desire, faith or the spoken word. Jesus Christ brought out clearly that man must make the first move. 'Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you,' Matthew 7:7. In the scriptures we read, 'Concerning the works of my hands, command ye me.' Infinite intelligence, God, is ever ready to carry out man's smallest or greatest demands. Every desire, uttered or unexpressed, is a demand. We are often startled by having a wish suddenly fulfilled. For example, one Easter, having seen many beautiful rose trees in the florists' windows, I wished I would receive one and for an instant, saw it mentally being carried in the door. Easter came and with it I thanked my friend the following day and told her it was She replied, &quot;I didn't I sent you lilies!&quot; The man had mixed the order and sent me a rose-tree simply because I had and I had to have a rose-tree. Nothing stands between and every desire of his heart, but doubt and fear. When man can wish without worrying, every desire will be instantly fulfilled. I will explain more fully the scientific reason for this and how fear must be erased It is man's only enemy, fear of lack, fear of failure, fear of sickness, fear of loss and a feeling of insecurity on some plane. Jesus Christ said, &quot;Why are ye fearful, oh ye of little faith?&quot; Matthew 8:26. So, we can see we must for fear is only inverted faith, it is faith in evil instead of good. The object of the game of life is to see clearly one's good and to obliterate all This must be done by impressing with a realization of good. A very brilliant man, who told me he had suddenly erased all fear from his consciousness by reading a sign which hung in a room. He saw printed, in large 'Why worry, it will These words were stamped indelibly upon his subconscious mind and he has now a firm conviction that only good can come into his life, therefore only good can manifest. In the following chapter, I will deal with the different methods of impressing the subconscious mind. It is man's faithful servant, but one must be careful to give it the right orders. Man has ever a silent his subconscious mind. Every thought, every and carried out in amazing detail. It is like a singer making a record on the sensitive disc of Every note and tone of the singer's voice is registered. If he coughs or hesitates, So, let us break all the old bad records in the subconscious mind, the records of our lives and make new and beautiful ones. Speak these words aloud &quot;I now smash and demolish every untrue record in They shall return to the dust-heap of their native nothingness, for they came from my own vain imaginings. I now make my perfect records through the Christ within; the records of health, wealth, love and perfect self-expression.&quot; This is the square of life. The game completed. In the following chapters, I will show how man can by changing his words. Any man who does not know is behind the times. 'Death and Life are in Proverbs 18:21. Chapter two, &quot;The Law of Prosperity&quot;. &quot;Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defense and thou shalt have plenty of silver. One of the greatest through the scriptures is and that man can release, through his spoken word, all that belongs to him by divine right. He must, however, have perfect faith in his spoken word. Isaiah said, 'My word shall but shall accomplish that We know now, that words and thoughts are a tremendous vibratory force, ever moulding man's body and affairs. A woman came to me in great distress and said she was to be sued on the 15th of the month for $3,000. She knew no way of getting the money and was in despair. I told her God was her supply and that there is a So, I spoke the word! I gave thanks that the at the right time in the right way. I told her she must have perfect faith and act her perfect faith. The 15th came but no She called me on the phone and asked what she was to do. I replied, 'It is Saturday, so they won't sue you today. Your part is to act rich, thereby showing perfect faith that you will receive it by Monday.' She asked me to lunch with her to keep up her courage. When I joined her at a restaurant, I said, 'This is no time to economize. Order an expensive luncheon, act as if you have already All things whatsoever ye ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. You must act as if you The next morning she and asked me to stay I said, 'No, you are divinely protected and God is never too late.' In the evening she phoned and said, 'My dear, a I was sitting in my room this morning, when the door bell rang. I said to the maid, don't let anyone in. The maid however, looked It's your cousin with So, I said, 'Call him back, I would like to see him.' He was just turning the corner when he heard the maid's He talked for about an hour and just as he was leaving he said, 'Oh, by the way, how are finances?' I told him I needed the money and he said, 'Why, my dear, I will give you $3,000 the first of the month.' I didn't like to tell him What shall I do? I won't receive it till and I must have it tomorrow. I said, 'I'll keep on treating.' I said, 'Spirit is never too late. I give thanks she has received the money on the invisible plane and that it manifests on time.' The next morning her cousin called her up and said, 'Come to my office this morning and I will give you the money.' That afternoon, she had $3,000 to her credit in the bank and wrote checks as rapidly as her excitement would permit. If one asks for success he will get the situation For example, a man came to me asking me to speak the word that a certain debt would be wiped out. I found he spent his time planning what he would say to the man when he did not pay his bill, thereby neutralizing my words. He should have seen We have a wonderful illustration of this in the bible, relating to the three kings without water for their men and horses. They consulted the prophet Elisha, who gave them this astonishing message, 'Thus saith the Lord, neither shall ye see rain, yet make this valley full of ditches.' Man must prepare for the when there isn't the For example, a woman found it necessary to look for an apartment during the year when there was a great in New York. It was considered almost an impossibility and her friends were 'Isn't it too bad you'll and live in a hotel?' She replied, 'You needn't I'm a superman and I'll get an apartment.' She spoke the words, 'Infinite Spirit, open the way for the right apartment.' She knew there was a and that she was unconditioned, working on the spiritual plane and that one with God is a majority. She had contemplated buying new blankets, when the tempter, the adverse thought or reasoning mind suggested, 'Don't buy the blankets, perhaps, after all, you and you will have no use for them.' She promptly replied to herself, 'I'll dig my ditches by So, she prepared for the apartment, acted as though she already had it. She found one in a miraculous way and it was given to her, although there were over two The blankets showed active faith. It is needless to say that the ditches dug by the three kings in the desert were filled to over-flowing. Read II Kings. Getting into the spiritual swing of things is no easy matter for the average person. The adverse thoughts of doubt and fear surge from the subconscious. They are the army of the aliens which must be put to flight. This explains why it is so often, darkest before the dawn. A big demonstration is usually preceded by tormenting thoughts. Having made a statement one challenges the old and error is exposed to be put out. This is the time when one must make his affirmations of truth and give thanks that he 'Before ye call, I shall answer.' This means that every is already man's awaiting his recognition. Man can only receive what he sees himself receiving. The children of Israel were told that they could have all This is true of every man. He has only the land within Every great work, every has been brought into manifestation through holding to the vision and often just before the big achievement, comes apparent failure and discouragement. The children of Israel when they reached the Promised Land were afraid to go in for they said it was filled with giants who made them feel like grasshoppers. 'And there we saw the giants and we were in our own This is almost every man's experience. However, the one who knows spiritual law, is undisturbed by appearance and rejoices while he is yet in captivity. That is, he holds to his vision and gives thanks that he has received. Jesus Christ gave a He said to his disciples, 'Say not ye, there are yet four months and then cometh the harvest? Behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, for they are ripe already to harvest.' His clear vision pierced and he saw clearly the things as they really are, perfect and complete in divine mind. So, man must ever hold the vision of his journey's end and demand the manifestation of that which he has already received. It may be his perfect health, love, supply, self-expression, home or friends. They are all finished and perfect ideas registered in divine mind, man's own super-conscious mind and must come through him, not to him. For example, a man came to me asking for treatments for success. It was imperative that he raise, within a certain time, The time limit was almost up when he came to me in despair. No one wanted to invest in his enterprise and the bank had flatly refused a loan. I replied, 'I suppose you lost your temper while at the bank, therefore your power. You can control any situation if you first control yourself. Go back to the bank,' I My treatment was, 'You with the spirit of everyone connected with the bank. Let the divine idea come He replied, 'Woman, you are talking about an impossibility. Tomorrow is Saturday, and my train won't get me there until 10 and the time limit is up tomorrow and anyway they won't do it. It's too late.' I replied, 'God doesn't need any time and is never too late. With Him, all things are possible.' I added, 'I don't know but I know all about God.' He replied, 'It all sounds fine when I sit here listening to you, but when I go out, it's terrible.' He lived in a distant city and I did not hear from him for a week, then came a letter, it read, 'You were right, I raised the money and will never again doubt the truth of all that you told me.' I saw him a few weeks later and I said, 'What happened? You evidently had plenty He replied, 'My train was late and I got there just 15 minutes to 12. I walked into the bank quietly and said, I have come for the loan and they gave it to me It was the last 15 minutes of the time allotted to him and Infinite Spirit was not too late. In this instance, the man could never He needed someone to help This is what one man can do for another. Jesus Christ knew the 'If two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.' One gets too close to his own affairs and becomes doubtful and fearful. The friend or healer health or prosperity and never wavers, because he is not close to the situation. It is much easier to demonstrate for someone else than for one's self. So, a person should not if he feels himself wavering. A keen observer of life once said, 'No man can fail if some one person sees him successful.' Such is the power of the vision and many a great man has owed his success to a wife or sister or a friend who believed in him and held without wavering to the perfect pattern.&quot; Chapter three, &quot;The Power of the Word&quot;. &quot;By thy words thou shalt be justified and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. A person knowing the power of the word becomes very careful of his conversation. He has only to watch the to know that they do not return void. Through his spoken word, man is continually I knew a man who said, It invariably pulls out just as I arrive.' His daughter said, 'I always catch a car. It's sure to come just as I get there.' This occurred for years. Each had made a separate law for himself; one of failure, one of success. This is the psychology of superstitions. The horse-shoe or rabbit's but man's spoken word and belief that it will creates expectancy in and attracts a lucky situation. I find however, this will not work when man has advanced spiritually and knows a higher law. One cannot turn back and must put away graven images. For example, two men in my class had had great success in business for several months, when suddenly everything went to smash. We tried to analyze the situation and I found, instead of and looking to God for they had each bought a lucky monkey. I said, 'Oh I see, you have been trusting in the lucky monkeys instead of God. Put away the lucky monkeys and call on the law of forgiveness, for man has power to forgive or neutralize his mistakes.' They decided to throw the and all went well again. This does not mean, however, that one should throw or horse-shoe about the house, but he must recognize is the one and only power, God and that the object simply gives him a feeling of expectancy. I was with a friend one day who was in deep despair. In crossing the street, Immediately, she was She said God had sent her the horseshoe in order to keep up her courage. It was indeed, at that moment, about the only thing that in her consciousness. Her hope became faith and she ultimately made a I wish to make the point clear that the men previously mentioned were depending on the monkeys alone, while this woman recognized the power back of the horse-shoe. I know, in my own case, to get out of a belief that a certain thing If the thing happened, disappointment invariably followed. I found the only way I could make a change in the subconscious, was by asserting, 'There are not two powers, there is only one power, God, therefore, there are no disappointments and this thing means a happy surprise.' I noticed a change at once and happy surprises I have a friend who said nothing could induce her to walk under a ladder. I said, 'If you are afraid, you are giving in to a good and evil, instead of one. As God is absolute, there can be no opposing power, unless man makes the To show you believe in only one power, God and that there is no walk under the next ladder you see.' Soon after, she went to her bank. She wished to open her box and there stood a ladder on her pathway. It was impossible to reach the box without passing under the ladder. She quailed with fear and turned back. She could not face the However, when she reached the street, my words rang in her ears and she decided to It was a big moment in her life, for ladders had held her She retraced her steps to the vault and the ladder was no longer there! This so often happens! If one is willing to do a he does not have to. It is the law of non-resistance, which is so little understood. Someone has said that courage contains genius and magic. Face a situation fearlessly and there is no situation to face, it falls away of its own weight. The explanation is, that fear attracted the ladder on the woman's pathway and fearlessness removed it. Thus, the invisible for man who is always though he does not know it. Owing to the vibratory power of words, whatever man voices, he begins to attract. People who continually speak of disease, invariably attract it. After man knows the truth, he cannot be too careful of his words. For example, I have a friend who often says on the phone, 'Do come to see me and have a fine old-fashioned chat.' This old-fashioned chat means an hour of about 500 to 1,000 destructive words, the principal topics being loss, lack, failure and sickness. I reply, 'No, I thank you, I've had enough old-fashioned they are too expensive, but I will be glad to and talk about what we want, not what we don't want.' There is an old saying that man only dares use his words for three purposes; to heal, bless or prosper. What man says of others, and what he wishes for another, he is wishing for himself. Curses, like chickens, come home to roost. If a man wishes someone bad luck, he is sure to attract bad luck himself. If he wishes to aid someone to success, he is wishing and aiding The body may be renewed and transformed through the spoken word and clear vision and disease be completely wiped out of the consciousness. The metaphysician knows that all disease has a mental correspondence and in order to heal the body, one must first heal the soul. The soul is the subconscious mind and it must be saved from wrong thinking. In the 23rd Psalm, we read, 'He restoreth my soul.' This means that the must be restored with the right ideas and the mystical marriage is the marriage of the soul and the spirit or the subconscious and They must be one. When the sub-conscious is flooded with the perfect ideas God and man are one. 'I and the Father are one.' That is, he is one with the realm of perfect ideas, he is the man made in God's likeness and image, imagination and is given power and dominion over all created things; his mind, body and affairs. It is safe to say that all come from the violation A new commandment I give unto you, 'Love one another,' and in the game of life, love or goodwill takes every trick. For example, a woman I know, had for years an appearance The doctors told her it was incurable and she was in despair. She was on the stage and have to give up her profession and she had no other means of support. She, however, procured a good engagement and on the opening She received flattering and was joyful and elated. The next day she received A man in the cast had been and had caused her to be sent away. She felt hatred and resentment taking complete possession of her and she cried out, 'Oh God, don't let me hate that man.' That night she worked She said, 'I soon came I seemed to be at peace with myself, with the man and with the whole world. I continued this for two following nights and on the third day, I found I was healed completely of the skin disease.' In asking for love or good will, she had fulfilled the law, 'For love is the fulfilling of the law' and the disease, which came from subconscious resentment was wiped out. Continual criticism produces rheumatism, as critical, inharmonious thoughts cause unnatural deposits in the blood, which settle in the joints. False growths are caused unforgiveness, fear, et cetera. Every disease is caused I said once in my class, 'There is no use asking anyone, what's the matter with you?' We might just as well say, who's the matter with you?' Unforgiveness is the most It will harden arteries or liver and affect the eye-sight. In its train are endless ills. I called on a woman one day who said she was ill from having eaten a poisoned oyster. I replied, 'Oh, no, the you poisoned the oyster. What's the matter with you?' She answered, 'Oh about 19 people.' She had quarreled with 19 people and had become so inharmonious that she attracted the wrong oyster. Any inharmony on the external, indicates there is mental inharmony. As the within, so the without. Man's only enemies are within himself. And a man's foes shall be they of his own household. Personality is one of the as this planet is taking It was Christ's message, 'Peace on earth, good will towards man.' The enlightened man, therefore, endeavors to perfect His work is with himself, to send out goodwill and And the marvelous thing is, that if one blesses a man, he has no power to harm him. For example, a man came to me asking to treat for success in business. He was selling machinery and a rival appeared on the scene with what he proclaimed, and my friend feared defeat. I said, 'First of all, and know that God protects your interests and that the divine idea must come out of the situation. That is, the right machine will be sold, by the right man, to the right man.' And I added, 'Don't hold towards that man. Bless him all day and be willing not to sell your machine if it isn't the divine idea.' So, he went to the meeting, fearless and nonresistant and blessing the other man. He said the outcome was very remarkable. The other man's machine refused to work and he sold his without But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you and pray for them which spitefully use you and persecute you. Goodwill produces a about the one who sends it and no weapon that is formed In other words, love and goodwill destroy the enemies within one's self, therefore, one has no There is peace on earth for him who sends goodwill to man!&quot; Chapter four, &quot;The Law of Non-resistance&quot;. &quot;Resist not evil. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. Nothing on earth can resist an absolutely non-resistant person. The Chinese say that water is the most powerful element, because it is perfectly non-resistant. It can wear away a rock Jesus Christ said, 'Resist not evil,' for He knew in reality, there is no evil, therefore nothing to resist. Evil has come of man's vain imagination or a belief in two powers, good and evil. There is an old legend that Adam and Eve ate of maya the tree of illusion and saw two powers Therefore, evil is a false law man has made for himself through psychoma or soul sleep. Soul sleep means that man's soul has been hypnotized by the race belief of sin, sickness and death, et cetera, which is carnal or mortal thought and his affairs have We have read in a preceding chapter, that man's soul is his subconscious mind and whatever he feels deeply, good or bad, is outpictured by that faithful servant. His body and affairs show forth what he has been picturing. The sick man has pictured sickness, the poor man, poverty, the rich man, wealth. People often say, 'why does a little child attract illness, when it is too young even I answer that children are sensitive and receptive to the and often outpicture the I heard a metaphysician once say, 'If you do not run your someone else will run it for you.' Mothers often, unconsciously, attract illness and by continually holding and watching for symptoms. For example, a friend asked a woman if her little girl had had the measles. She replied promptly, 'Not yet!' This implied that she and therefore, preparing the way for what she did not want However, the man who is centered and established in right thinking, the man who sends out only and who is without fear, cannot be touched or influenced by the negative thoughts of others. In fact, he could then as he himself, sends Resistance is hell, for it places man in a state of torment. A metaphysician once gave for taking every trick it is the acme of non-resistance. He gave it in this way, 'At one time in my life, and of course, they had many names. Now I no longer baptize children, but I baptize events, but I give every event the same name. If I have a failure, I baptize it success, in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost!' In this, we see the great founded on non-resistance. Through his spoken word, every failure was transmuted into success. For example, a woman who required money and who knew the spiritual law of opulence was thrown continually in a business-way, with a man who made her feel very poor. He talked lack and limitation and she commenced to catch so she disliked him and blamed him for her failure. She knew in order to she must first feel that she had received. A feeling of opulence must precede its manifestation. It dawned upon her, one day, that she was resisting the situation and seeing two powers instead of one. So, she blessed the man and baptized the situation, success! She affirmed, 'As there this man is here for my just what he did not seem to be there for. Soon after that she met, through this man, a woman who gave her several thousand dollars and the man moved to a distant city and faded harmoniously from her life. Make the statement, 'Every in the chain of my good,' for all men are God in manifestation, awaiting the opportunity to serve the divine plan of his life. Bless your enemy and you His arrows will be This law is true of nations as well as individuals. Bless a nation, send love and goodwill to every inhabitant and it is robbed of its power to harm. Man can only get the right through spiritual understanding. My students have often said, 'I don't wanna be a door-mat.' I reply, 'When you use no one will ever be Another example, one day an important telephone call. I resisted every call that came in and made no out-going calls myself, reasoning that it might interfere with the one I was awaiting. Instead of saying, 'Divine the call will come at the right time,' leaving it to infinite I commenced to manage things myself. I made the battle mine, not God's and remained tense and anxious. The bell did not ring for about an hour and I glanced at the phone and found the receiver had been off that length of time and the phone was disconnected. My anxiety, fear and had brought on a total Realizing what I had done, I commenced blessing I baptized it, success and affirmed, 'I cannot lose any call that belongs to me by divine right. I am under grace and not under law.' A friend rushed out to to notify the company to reconnect. She entered a crowded grocery, but the proprietor left his customers and attended to the call himself. My phone was connected at once and two minutes later, I received a very important call and about an hour afterward, the one I had been awaiting. One's ships come in over a calm sea. So long as man resists a situation, he will have it with him. If he runs away from it, it will run after him. For example, I repeated and she replied, 'How true that is! I was unhappy at home, who was critical and domineering, so I ran away and was married, but I married my mother, for my husband was exactly like my mother and I had the same Agree with thine adversary quickly. That means, agree that the be undisturbed by it and it falls away of its own weight. None of these things move me, is a wonderful affirmation. The inharmonious situation comes from some inharmony within man himself. When there is in him no emotional response to an inharmonious situation, it fades away forever from his pathway. So, we see man's work People have said to me, 'Give treatments to change my husband or my brother.' I reply, 'No, I will give When you change, your husband and your One of my students was I told her it was a failure she would be lied to. She replied, 'I don't care, I can't possibly get along without lying.' One day she was speaking with whom she was very much in love. She turned to me and said, 'I don't trust him, I I replied, 'Well, you lie yourself, so someone has to lie to you and you will be sure it will be just the person you want the truth from.' Sometime after that, I 'I'm cured of lying.' I questioned, 'What cured you?' She replied, 'I have who lied worse than I did.' One is often cured of his faults by seeing them in others. Life is a mirror and we find only ourselves reflected in our associates. Living in the past is a failure method and a violation of spiritual law. Jesus Christ said, 'Behold, Now is the day of salvation.' Lot's wife looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt. The robbers of time are Man should bless the past and forget it if it keeps him in bondage and bless the future, knowing it has in store but live fully in the now. For example, a woman came to me, complaining that she had no money with which to buy Christmas gifts. She said, 'Last year was so different, I had plenty of money and this year I have scarcely a cent.' I replied, 'You will while you are pathetic Live fully in the now and get ready to give Christmas presents. Dig your ditches and the money will come.' She exclaimed, 'I know what to do! I will buy some tinsel twine, Christmas seals and wrapping paper.' I replied, 'Do that and and stick themselves to This too, was showing and faith in God, as 'Keep every cent you have, as you are not sure She bought the seals, paper and twine and a few days before Christmas, received a gift of Buying the seals and twine had impressed the and opened the way for the manifestation of the money. She purchased all the Man must live suspended in the moment. Look well, therefore, to this day! Such is the salutation of the dawn. He must be spiritually alert, ever awaiting his leads, taking advantage of every opportunity. One day, I said continually, silently, 'Infinite Spirit, don't and something very important It is most necessary to begin the day with right words. Make an affirmation For example, 'Thy will be done this day! Today is a day of completion, I give thanks for this perfect day, miracle shall follow miracle and wonders shall never cease.' Make this a habit and one will see wonders and miracles come into his life. One morning I picked up a book and read, 'Look with wonder at that It seemed to be my message for the day, so I repeated again and again, 'Look with wonder at that At about noon, a large which I had been desiring In a following chapter, that I have found most effective. However, one should unless it is absolutely satisfying and convincing to his own consciousness and often an affirmative is changed to suit different people. For example, the following 'I have a wonderful I give wonderful service, I gave the first two lines and she added the last two. It made a most powerful statement, as there should always be perfect payment for perfect service and a rhyme sinks easily She went about singing it aloud and soon did receive wonderful work in a wonderful way and gave wonderful Another student, a business man, took it and changed the word work to business. He repeated, 'I have a wonderful business, in a wonderful way and I give wonderful That afternoon he made $41,000 deal, though there had been no activity in his affairs for months. Every affirmation must be carefully worded and completely cover the ground. For example, I knew a and made a demand for work. She received a great deal of work, but was never paid anything. She now knows to add, 'Wonderful service for wonderful pay.' It is man's divine right to have plenty! More than enough. His barns should be full and his cup should flow over! This is God's idea for man and when man breaks down in his own consciousness, the golden age will be his and every righteous desire of his heart fulfilled!&quot; Chapter five, &quot;The Law of Karma and The Law of Forgiveness&quot;. &quot;Man receives only that which he gives. The game of life is a game of boomerangs. Man's thoughts, deeds and words, return to him sooner or later with astounding accuracy. This is the law of karma, which is Sanskrit for comeback. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For example, a friend told illustrating the law. She said, 'I make all my karma on my aunt, whatever I say to her, I am often irritable at home and one day, said to my aunt, who was No more talk, I wish to eat in peace.' The following day, I was with whom I wished to I was talking animatedly, when she said, 'No more talk, I wish to eat in peace!' My friend is high in consciousness, so her karma returns much more quickly than to one on the mental plane. The more man knows, the and a person with a which he does not practice, suffers greatly, in consequence. The fear of the Lord, law, is the beginning of wisdom. If we read the word Lord, law, it will make many passages 'Vengeance is mine, I will repay,' saith the Lord, law. It is the law which God sees man perfect, created in his own image, imagination and given power and dominion. This is the perfect idea of man, registered in divine mind, awaiting man's recognition, for man can only be what and only attain what he 'Nothing ever happens is an ancient saying. Man sees first his failure or success, his joy or sorrow, before it swings into visibility from the scenes set in We have observed this in the mother picturing or a woman seeing success for her husband. Jesus Christ said, 'And and the truth shall make you free.' So, we see freedom from comes through knowledge, a knowledge of spiritual law. Obedience precedes authority and the law obeys man The law of electricity must be obeyed before it becomes man's servant. When handled ignorantly, it becomes man's deadly foe. So with the laws of mind! For example, a woman with wished she owned a house which belonged to an acquaintance and she often made mental pictures of herself living in the house. In the course of time, the man died and she moved into the house. Several years afterwards, coming into the knowledge she said to me, 'Do you think I had anything to do with that man's death?' I replied, 'Yes, your everything made way for it, but you paid your karmic debt. Your husband, whom you loved devotedly, died soon after and the house was a white elephant on your hands for years.' The original owner, however, could not have been had he been positive in but they were both under karmic law. The woman should have said, feeling the great desire for the house, 'Infinite intelligence, equally as charming as this, the house which is mine by divine right.' The divine selection would have given perfect satisfaction and brought good to all. The divine pattern is to work by. Desire is a tremendous force and must be directed in the right channel or chaos ensues. In demonstrating, the most important step is the first step to ask a right. Man should always demand by divine right. To go back to the illustration, had the woman taken this attitude, 'If this house I desire is mine, I cannot lose it, if it is not, give me its equivalent,' the man might have decided had it been the divine selection for her or another house would Anything forced into manifestation through personal will, is always ill-got and Man is admonished, 'My and the curious thing is, man always gets just what he desires when he does relinquish personal will, thereby enabling infinite intelligence to work through him.' Stand ye still and see the salvation of the Lord, law. For example, a woman came Her daughter had determined to take a very hazardous trip and the mother was filled with fear. She said she had used every argument, had pointed out the and forbidden her to go, but the daughter became more and more rebellious and determined. I said to the mother, 'You are forcing your personal will upon your daughter, which you have no right to do and your fear of the trip for man attracts what he fears.' I added, 'Let go and take put it in God's hands I put this situation in the hands of infinite love and wisdom, if this trip is the divine plan, I bless it and no longer resist, but if it is not divinely planned, I give thanks that it is now A day or two after that, her daughter said to her, 'Mother, I have given up the trip' and the situation returned It is learning to stand still, which seems so difficult for man. I will deal more fully with this law in the chapter on non-resistance. I will give another example which came in the most curious way. A woman came to me saying, she had received a counterfeit $20 bill given to her at the bank. She was much disturbed for, she said, 'The people at the bank will never acknowledge their mistake.' I replied, 'Let us analyze the situation and find out why you attracted it.' She thought a few moments and exclaimed, 'I know it, I sent a friend just for a joke.' So, the law had sent her some stage money for it doesn't know anything about jokes. I said, 'Now we will call and neutralize the situation.' Christianity is founded Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the karmic law and the Christ within and salvation from all So, I said, 'Infinite Spirit, we call on the law of forgiveness and give thanks that she is under grace and not under law and which is hers by divine right.' 'Now,' I said, 'go back to the bank and tell them fearlessly that it was given you, there by mistake.' She obeyed and to her surprise, they apologized and gave her another bill, treating her most courteously. So, knowledge of the law gives man power to rub out his mistakes. Man cannot force the external to be what he is not. If he desires riches, he must be rich first in consciousness. For example, a woman came to me asking treatment for prosperity. She did not take much interest in her household affairs and her home was in great disorder. I said to her, 'If you wish to be rich, you must be orderly. All men with great wealth are orderly and order is heaven's first law.' I added, 'You will never become rich with a burnt match in the pin-cushion.' She had a good sense of humor and commenced immediately, putting her house in order. She rearranged furniture, straightened out bureau and soon made a big a gift from a relative. The woman, herself, became made over and keeps herself keyed-up financially by being ever watchful of the external and expecting prosperity, knowing God is her supply. Many people are in ignorance of the fact that gifts and that hoarding and saving invariably lead to loss. There is that scattereth and there is that withholdeth but it tendeth to poverty. For example, I knew a man who wanted to buy a fur-lined overcoat. He and his wife went to various shops, but there was none he wanted. He said they were all too cheap-looking. At last, he was shown one, the salesman said was valued at $1,000, but which the manager as it was late in the season. His financial possessions The reasoning mind would have said, 'You can't afford to spend nearly all you have on a coat,' but he was very intuitive He turned to his wife and said, 'If I get this coat, I'll So his wife consented weakly. About a month later, he received $10,000 commission. The coat made him feel so rich, it linked him with success and prosperity. Without the coat, he would not have received the commission. It was an investment If man ignores these the same amount of money will go in an uninteresting or unhappy way. For example, a woman told she informed her family that they could not afford She had the money, but decided to save it. A few days later, someone entered her room and took from the bureau drawer the exact amount the The law always stands back of the man who spends fearlessly, with wisdom. For example, one of my with her little nephew. The child clamored for a toy, which she told him she She realized suddenly and not recognizing God as her supply! So, she bought the toy picked up in the street, the exact amount of money Man's supply is inexhaustible and unfailing when fully trusted, but faith or trust must According to your faith be it unto you. Faith is the substance the evidence of things not seen for faith holds the vision steady and the adverse pictures and in due season we shall Jesus Christ brought the that there was a higher and that that law It is the law of grace or forgiveness. It is the law which frees man from the law of cause and effect, the law of consequence. Under grace and not under law. We are told that on this plane, man reaps where he has not sown, the gifts of God are All that the Kingdom affords is his. This continued state who has overcome the In the world thought there is tribulation, but Jesus Christ said, 'Be of good cheer, I The world thought is that of sin, sickness and death. He saw their absolute unreality and said sickness and and death itself, the We know now, from a scientific standpoint, that death could be overcome by stamping the subconscious mind with the conviction of eternal youth and eternal life. The subconscious, being simply carries out orders without questioning. Working under the direction the Christ or God within man, the resurrection of the Man would no longer throw it would be transformed sung by Walt Whitman, for Christianity is founded of sins and an empty tomb.&quot; Chapter six, &quot;Casting the Burden&quot;. &quot;Impressing the subconscious. When man knows his own powers and the workings of his mind, his great desire is to find an easy and quick way to impress for simply an intellectual knowledge of the truth will not bring results. In my own case, I found the easiest way is in casting the burden. A metaphysician once He said, 'The only thing weight in nature is the law of gravitation and if a boulder could be there would be no weight in that boulder.' And that is what Jesus 'My yoke is easy and my burden is light.' He had overcome the world vibration and functioned in the where there is only perfection, completion, life and joy. He said, 'Come to me all ye that labor and are heavy laden and Take my yoke upon you, for my yoke is easy and We are also told in the 55th Psalm, to cast thy burden upon the Lord. Many passages in the Bible state that the battle is God's not man's and that man is always to stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. This indicates that the or Christ within is the department which fights man's battle and relieves him of burdens. We see, therefore, that man violates law if he carries a burden and a burden is an adverse and this thought or condition has its root in the subconscious. It seems almost impossible directing the subconscious or reasoning mind, as the reasoning mind, the intellect is limited in its conceptions and filled with doubts and fears. How scientific it then is, to cast the burden upon or Christ within where it is made light or dissolved into its native nothingness. For example, a woman in made light upon the Christ within, the super-conscious, with the statement, 'I cast this burden of and I go free to have plenty!' The belief in lack was her burden and as she cast it upon with its belief of plenty, an avalanche of supply was the result. We read, 'The Christ in Another example, one of my students had been given a new piano and there was no room in her studio for it until she had moved out the old one. She was in a state of perplexity. She wanted to keep the old piano, but knew of no place to send it. She became desperate, as the new piano was in fact, was on its way She said it came to her to repeat, 'I cast this burden on the Christ within and I go free.' A few moments later, her phone rang and a woman friend asked if she might rent her old piano and it was moved out a few minutes before the new one arrived. I knew a woman, whose She said, 'I cast this on the Christ within and I go free, to be loving, harmonious and happy.' The almighty super-conscious flooded the subconscious with love and her whole life was changed. For years, resentment had held her in a state of torment the subconscious mind. The statement should be sometimes for hours at a time, silently or audibly, with quietness but determination. I have often compared it We must wind ourselves I have noticed, in casting the burden, after a little while, It is impossible to have clear vision while in the throes of carnal mind. Doubts and fear poison the mind and body and imagination runs riot, attracting disaster and disease. In steadily repeating the affirmation, 'I cast this burden on the Christ within and go free,' the vision clears and with and sooner or later, comes the manifestation of good, be it health, happiness or supply. One of my students once the darkness before the dawn. I referred in a preceding chapter to the fact that often, everything seems to go wrong and deep depression It means that out of the subconscious are rising the doubts These old derelicts of the subconscious rise to the surface, to be put out. It is then, that man like Jehoshaphat and give even though he seems the situation of lack or disease. The student continued, 'How long must one remain in the dark?' And I replied, 'Until and casting the burden enables one to see in the dark. In order to impress the subconscious, active faith is always essential. Faith without works is dead. In these chapters, I have endeavored to bring out this point. Jesus Christ showed active faith when He commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground before he gave thanks for I will give another example showing how necessary this step is. In fact, active faith is the bridge over which man passes Through misunderstanding, from her husband whom she loved deeply. He refused all offers of reconciliation and would not communicate Coming into the knowledge she denied the appearance of separation. She made this statement, 'There is no separation in divine mind, therefore, I cannot be and companionship which She showed active faith for him at the table every day, thereby impressing the subconscious with a picture of his return. Over a year passed, but she never wavered and one day he walked in. The subconscious is often Music has a fourth dimensional quality and releases the soul from imprisonment. It makes wonderful things seem possible and easy of accomplishment. I have a friend who for this purpose. It puts her in perfect harmony and releases the imagination. Another woman often dances while making her affirmations. The rhythm and harmony of music and motion carry her words forth with tremendous power. The student must remember also, not to despise the day of small things. Invariably, before a demonstration, come signs of land. Before Columbus reached America, he saw birds and twigs which showed him land was near. So it is with a demonstration, but often the student mistakes it for the demonstration For example, a woman had spoken the word for a set of dishes. Not long afterwards, a which was old and cracked. She came to me and said, 'Well, I asked for a set of dishes and all I got was a cracked plate.' I replied, 'The plate It shows your dishes are coming. Look upon it as birds and seaweed' and not long afterwards the dishes came. Continually making-believe, impresses the subconscious. If one makes believe he is rich and makes believe he is successful, in due time he will reap. Children are always making believe and except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter the Kingdom of Heaven. For example, I know of a but no one could make her feel poor. She earned a small amount of money from rich friends, who constantly reminded her of her poverty and to be careful and saving. Regardless of their admonitions, she would spend all her earnings on a hat or make someone a gift and be in a rapturous state of mind. Her thoughts were always and rings and things, but She lived in the world of the wondrous and only riches seemed real to her. Before long she married a rich man and the rings and things became visible. I do not know whether the man was the divine selection, but opulence had to manifest in her life, as she had imaged only opulence. There is no peace or happiness for man, until he has erased all Fear is misdirected energy or traflsmuced into faith. Jesus Christ said, 'Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? All things are possible I am asked, so often by my students, 'How can I get rid of fear?' I reply, 'By walking up to the thing you are afraid of.' The lion takes its Walk up to the lion and he will disappear, run away and he runs after you. I have shown in previous chapters, how the lion of lack disappeared when the individual showing faith that God was his supply and therefore, unfailing. Many of my students have come out of the bondage of poverty and are now bountifully supplied through losing all fear The subconscious is that God is the Giver and the Gift, therefore as one is one with the Giver, he is one with the Gift. A splendid statement is, 'I now thank God the Man has so long separated himself from his good and his supply through thoughts of separation and lack, that sometimes, it takes these false ideas from the subconscious and the dynamite is a big situation. We see in the foregoing illustration, how the individual was by showing fearlessness. Man should watch himself hourly to detect if his motive for Choose ye this day whom we shall serve, fear or faith. Perhaps one's fear is of personality. Then do not avoid the people feared. Be willing to meet them cheerfully and they will either prove golden links in the chain of one's good or disappear harmoniously Perhaps one's fear is of disease or germs. Then, one should be fearless and undisturbed in a germ-laden situation and he would be immune. One can only contract germs while vibrating at the and fear drags men down Of course, the disease laden germ is the product of carnal mind, as all thought must objectify. Germs do not exist in the super-conscious or divine mind, therefore are the product of man's vain imagination. In the twinkling of an eye, man's release will come when he realizes there is no power in evil. The material world will fade away and the fourth dimensional world, the world of the wondrous will swing into manifestation. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away.&quot; Chapter seven, &quot;Love&quot;. &quot;Every man on this planet is taking his initiation in love. A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another. Ouspensky states in &quot;Tertium Organum&quot;, that love is a cosmic phenomenon and opens to man the the world of the wondrous. Real love is selfless and free from fear. It pours itself out upon without demanding any return. Its joy is in the joy of giving. Love is God in manifestation and the strongest magnetic Pure, unselfish love it does not need to seek or demand. Scarcely anyone has of real love. Man is selfish, tyrannical or fearful in his affections, thereby losing the thing he loves. Jealousy is the worst enemy of love, for the imagination runs riot, seeing the loved one attracted to another and invariably these fears objectify if they are not neutralized. For example, a woman came The man she loved had and said he never intended to marry her. She was torn with jealousy and resentment and said she hoped he would suffer as he had made her suffer and added, 'How could he leave me I replied, 'You are not loving that man, you are hating him' and added, 'You can never receive Give a perfect love and you will receive a perfect love. Perfect yourself on this man. Give him a perfect, unselfish love, demanding nothing in return, do not criticize or condemn and bless him wherever he is.' She replied, 'No, I won't bless him unless I know where he is!' 'Well,' I said, 'that is not real love. When you send out real love, real love will return to you, either from this man or his equivalent, for if this man is not you will not want him. As you are one with God, you are one with the love which belongs to you by divine right.' Several months passed and matters remained about the same, but she was working I said, 'When you are no longer disturbed by his cruelty, he will cease to be cruel, as you are attracting it Then I told her of a brotherhood in India, who never said, 'Good They used these words, 'I salute the divinity in you.' They saluted the divinity in every man and in the wild animals in the jungle and they were never harmed, for they saw only God I said, 'Salute the divinity in this man' and say, 'I see your divine self only. I see you as God sees you, perfect, made in His image and likeness.' She found she was becoming more poised and gradually losing her resentment. He was a Captain, and she always called him, 'The Cap.' One day, she said, suddenly, 'God bless the Cap wherever he is.' I replied, 'Now, that is real love and when you have become a complete circle and are no longer you will have his love or I was moving at this time and did not have a telephone, so was out of touch with when one morning I 'We are married.' At the earliest opportunity, My first words were, 'What happened?' 'Oh,' she exclaimed, 'a miracle! One day I woke up and I saw him that evening and We were married in about a week and I have never seen a more devoted man.' There is an old saying, no man is your friend, So one should become impersonal and learn what each man has to teach him and soon he would learn The woman's lover was which every man, sooner Suffering is not necessary it is the result of but few people seem from their soul sleep without it. When people are happy, they usually become selfish, and automatically the law of karma is set in action. Man often suffers loss I knew a woman who had but she said often, &quot;I don't care anything but that is nothing against my husband. I'm simply not interested She had other interests and scarcely remembered she had a husband. She only thought of him when she saw him. One day her husband with another woman and left. She came to me in distress and resentment. I replied, 'It is exactly You said you didn't care anything about being married, so the subconscious worked She said, 'Oh yes, I see. People get what they want and then feel very much hurt.' She soon became in perfect and knew they were both When a woman becomes and ceases to be an he misses the stimulus of and is restless and unhappy. A man came to me dejected, His wife was interested and had had him read. It seems the report for he said, 'My wife to anything because I am a two.' I replied, 'I don't care you are a perfect idea in divine mind and we will demand the which are already planned for you by that infinite intelligence.' Within a few weeks, he and a year or two later, he achieved a brilliant No man is a success in business unless he loves his work. The picture the artist is his greatest work. The pot-boiler is always No man can attract Many people are kept in poverty by saying, 'Money means nothing to me and I have a contempt This is the reason so Their contempt for money I remember hearing one 'He's no good as an artist, he has money in the bank.' This attitude of mind, of course, separates man from his supply, he must be in harmony with a thing in order to attract it. Money is God in manifestation, as freedom from want and limitation, but it must be always kept in circulation and put to right uses. Hoarding and saving react This does not mean that and lots, stocks and bonds, for the barns of the It means man should not if an occasion arises In letting it go out he opens the way for more to come in, for God is man's unfailing This is the spiritual and the great bank of the We see an example of hoarding in the film production of &quot;Greed&quot;. The woman won $5,000 in a lottery, but would not spend it. She hoarded and saved, let her husband suffer and starve and eventually she scrubbed She loved the money itself and put it above everything and one night she was murdered and the money taken from her. This is an example of where love of money is the root of all evil. Money in itself, is good and beneficial, but used for destructive purposes, hoarded and saved or considered more important than love, brings disease and disaster and the loss of the money itself. Follow the path of love for God is love and God is supply, follow the path of selfishness and greed and the supply vanishes or man is separated from it. For example, I knew the who hoarded her income. She rarely gave anything away, but bought and bought and She was very fond of necklaces and a friend once asked She replied, '67.' She bought them and put them away, carefully wrapped in tissue paper. Had she used the necklaces, it would have been quite legitimate, but she was violating the law of use. Her closets were filled and jewels which never saw the light. The woman's arms were from holding on to things and eventually, she was of looking after her affairs and her wealth was handed So, man, in ignorance of the law, brings about his own destruction. All disease, all unhappiness, come from the violation Man's boomerangs of hate, resentment and criticism, come back laden with sickness and sorrow. Love seems almost a lost art, but the man with the knows it must be regained, for without it, he has become as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals. For example, I had a month after month to clean her consciousness of resentment. After a while, she arrived at the point where she resented only one woman, but that one woman kept her busy. Little by little she became and one day, all resentment was wiped out. She came in radiant and exclaimed, 'You can't understand how I feel! The woman said something to me and instead of being furious, I was loving and kind and she apologized and was No one can understand the marvelous lightness I feel within!' Love and goodwill are For example, a woman came to me complaining of her employer. She said she was cold and critical and knew she did not 'Well,' I replied, 'salute and send her love.' She said, 'I can't, she's a marble woman.' I answered, 'You remember who asked for a certain piece of marble. He was asked why he 'because there is an angel in the marble' and out of it he produced She said, 'Very well, I'll try it.' A week later she came back and said, 'I did what you told me to and now the woman is very kind and took me out in her car.' People are sometimes filled with remorse for having done someone an unkindness, perhaps years ago. If the wrong cannot be righted, its effect can be neutralized by doing someone a 'This one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before.' Sorrow, regret and remorse tear down the cells of the body and poison the atmosphere A woman said to me in deep sorrow, 'Treat me to be happy and joyous, for my sorrow makes me so irritable with the members of my family that I keep making more karma.' I was asked to treat a woman who was mourning for her daughter. I denied all belief in loss and separation and affirmed that God was the woman's joy, love and peace. The woman gained her poise at once, but sent word by her son because she was so happy, So, mortal mind loves to hang on to its griefs and regrets. I knew a woman who went about so, of course, she always had something to brag about. The old idea was if a woman did not worry about her children, she Now, we know that for many of the diseases and accidents which come into the lives of children. For fear pictures vividly the disease or situation feared and if not neutralized. Happy is the mother who can say sincerely, that she puts her child in God's hands and knows therefore, that She, in this way throws about him a great aura of protection. For example, a woman awoke feeling her brother was in great danger. Instead of giving in to her fears, she commenced making 'Man is a perfect idea in divine mind and is always in his right place, therefore, my brother and is divinely protected.' The next day she found that her brother had been in close proximity to an explosion in a mine, but had miraculously escaped. So, man is his brother's keeper in thought and every man should know dwells in the secret and abides under the There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague Perfect love casteth out fear. He that feareth is not and love is the fulfilling of the law.&quot; Chapter eight, &quot;Intuition or Guidance&quot;. &quot;In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths. There is nothing too for the man who knows and who follows his intuitive leads. By the word, he starts and can rebuild his body It is, therefore, of the utmost importance to choose the right words and the student carefully selects the affirmation he wishes to catapult into the invisible. He knows that God is his supply, that there is a supply for every demand and that his spoken word Ask and ye shall receive. Man must make the first move. Draw nigh to God and He I have often been asked just how to make a demonstration. I reply, 'Speak the word and then do not do anything until you get a definite lead.' Demand the lead, saying, 'Infinite Spirit, reveal to me the way, let me know if there is The answer will come a chance remark from someone or a passage in a book, The answers are sometimes quite startling in their exactness. For example, a woman desired She spoke the words, 'Infinite Spirit, open the way for my immediate supply, let all that is mine by in great avalanches of abundance.' Then she added, 'Give me a definite lead, let me know if there is The thought came quickly, 'Give a certain friend,' who had helped her spiritually, '$100.' She told her friend, who said, 'Wait and get another So she waited and that day 'I gave someone a dollar today, it was just as much for me, as it would be for you This was indeed an unmistakable lead, so she knew she was It was a gift which for shortly after that, a large sum of money came Giving opens the way for receiving. In order to create activity in finances, one should give. Tithing or giving is an old Jewish custom and is sure to bring increase. Many of the richest men in this country have been tithers and I have never known it The 10th part goes forth and returns blessed and multiplied. But the gift or tithe must be given with love and cheerfulness, for God loveth a cheerful giver. Bills should be paid cheerfully, all money should be sent forth fearlessly and with a blessing. This attitude of mind It is his to obey and his spoken word then opens vast reservoirs of wealth. Man, himself, limits his supply by his limited vision. Sometimes the student has a great realization of wealth, but is afraid to act. The vision and action as in the case of the man who bought the fur-lined overcoat. A woman came to me asking me to speak the word for a position. So I demanded, 'Infinite Spirit, open the way for this Never ask for just a position, ask for the right position, the place already planned in divine mind, as it is the only one that I then gave thanks that and that it would manifest quickly. Very soon, she had three Two in New York and one in Palm Beach and she did not know which to choose. I said, 'Ask for a definite lead.' The time was almost up when one day, she telephoned, 'When I woke up this morning, I could smell Palm Beach.' She had been there before and knew its balmy fragrance. I replied, 'Well, if you can it is certainly your lead.' She accepted the position and it proved a great success. Often, one's lead comes One day, I was walking down the street when I suddenly felt a strong urge to go to a certain bakery, The reasoning mind resisted, arguing, 'There is nothing there that you want.' However, I had learned not to reason, so I went to the bakery, and there was certainly but coming out I encountered a woman I had thought of often and who was in great need of the help which I could give her. So often, one goes for one thing and finds another. Intuition is a spiritual faculty and does not explain, but simply points the way. A person often receives a lead during a treatment. The idea that comes may but some of God's leadings are mysterious. In the class, one day, I was treating that each individual would receive a definite lead. A woman came to me afterwards and said, 'While you were treating, I got the hunch to take my and get an apartment.' The woman had come to I told her I knew in her health would improve and I added, 'I believe your trouble, has come from having things stored away. Congestion of things causes You have violated the law of use and your body is paying the penalty.' So, I gave thanks that in her mind, body and affairs. People little dream of how their affairs react on the body. There is a mental correspondence A person might receive through the realization of his body being a perfect idea in divine mind and therefore, whole and perfect, but if he continues his hoarding, hating, fearing, condemning, the disease will return. Jesus Christ knew that all but admonished the to go and sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon him. So, man's soul or subconscious mind must be washed whiter than snow for permanent healing and the metaphysician for the correspondence. Jesus Christ said, 'Condemn not lest ye also be condemned. Judge not, lest ye be judged.' Many people have attracted disease and unhappiness through What man condemns in others, he attracts to himself. For example, a friend came because her husband had deserted her for another woman. She condemned the other woman and said continually, 'She knew he was a married man and had no right to I replied, 'Stop condemning and be through with the situation, otherwise, you are attracting the same thing to yourself.' She was deaf to my words became deeply interested Man picks up a live-wire or condemns and may expect a shock. Indecision is a stumbling-block in many a pathway. In order to overcome it, make the statement, repeatedly, 'I am always under direct inspiration, I make right decisions quickly.' These words impress the subconscious and soon one finds making his right moves without hesitation. I have found it destructive to look to the psychic plane for guidance, as it is the plane of many minds and not the one mind. As man opens his mind to subjectivity, he becomes a target The psychic plane is the result of man's mortal thought and is on the plane of opposites. He may receive either The science of numbers and keep man down on the for they deal only with the karmic path. I know of a man who should according to his horoscope, but he is alive and a leader of one of the biggest for the uplift of humanity. It takes a very strong mind to neutralize a prophecy of evil. The student should declare, 'Every false prophecy every plan my Father in shall be dissolved and dissipated, the divine idea now comes to pass.' However, if any good message of coming happiness or wealth, harbor and expect it and it will manifest sooner or later through the law of expectancy. Man's will should be used I will that the will of God be done. It is God's will to give every man every righteous desire of his heart and man's will should be used to hold the perfect The prodigal son said, 'I will arise and go to my father.' It is, indeed, often an effort of the will to leave the husks and It is so much easier to have fear than faith, so faith is an effort of the will. As man becomes spiritually awakened, he recognizes that any external inharmony is the correspondence of mental inharmony. If he stumbles or falls, he may know he is stumbling or falling in consciousness. One day, a student was condemning someone in her thoughts. She was saying, mentally, 'That woman is the most when suddenly three boy and almost knocked her over. She did not condemn the boy scouts, but immediately called and saluted the divinity in the woman. Wisdom's way are ways of pleasantness and all her paths are peace. When one has made his he must be ready for surprises. Everything may seem to be going wrong, when in reality, it is going right. For example, a woman was told that there was no loss in divine mind, therefore, she could not lose anything which belonged to her. Anything lost would be returned or she would receive its equivalent. Several years previously, she had lost $2,000. She had loaned the money to a relative during her lifetime, but the relative had died, leaving no mention of it in her will. The woman was resentful and angry and as she had no written she never received the money, so she determined to deny the loss and collect the $2,000 from the bank of the universal. She had to begin by forgiving the woman, as resentment and unforgiveness close the doors of this wonderful bank. She made this statement, 'I deny loss, there is no loss in divine mind, therefore, I cannot lose the $2,000 which belong to me by divine right. As one door shuts, another door opens. She was living in an apartment house which was for sale and in stating that if the house was sold, the tenants would be required to move out within 90 days. Suddenly, the landlord broke the leases and raised the rent. Again, injustice was on her pathway, but this time she was undisturbed. She blessed the landlord and said, 'As the rent has been raised, it means that I'll be that much richer, for God is my supply.' New leases were made out but by some divine mistake, the 90 days clause had been forgotten. Soon after, the landlord to sell the house. On account of the mistake the tenants held possession The agent offered each tenant $2,000 if he would vacate. Several families moved, three remained, including the woman. A month or two passed and This time he said to the woman, 'Will you break your lease It flashed upon her, She remembered having said to friends in the house, 'We will all act together if anything more is said about leaving.' So her lead was to consult her friends. These friends said, 'Well, if they have offered you 1,500, they will certainly give 2,000.' So, she received a check for $2,000 for giving up the apartment. It was certainly a and the apparent injustice was merely opening the It proved that there is no loss and when man takes his spiritual stand, he collects all that is his from this great reservoir of good. I will restore to you the years the locusts have eaten. The locusts are the and regrets of mortal thinking. These adverse thoughts alone rob man, for no man gives to himself, but himself and no man takes away Man is here to prove God and to bear witness to the truth and he can only prove God by bringing plenty out of lack and justice out of injustice. 'Prove me now herewith,' saith the Lord of hosts, 'if I will not open you and pour out a blessing, that there shall not be Chapter nine, &quot;Perfect Self-Expression or the Divine Design&quot;. &quot;No wind can drive my bark astray nor change the tide of destiny. There is for each man, There is a place which he is to fill and no one else can fill, something which he is to do, which no one else can do, it is his destiny! This achievement is held, a perfect idea in divine mind, awaiting man's recognition. As the imaging faculty it is necessary for man to see the idea before it can manifest. So, man's highest demand is for the divine design of his life. He may not have the faintest conception of what it is, for there is, possibly, some marvelous talent His demand should be, 'Infinite Spirit, open the way for the divine design of my life to manifest, let the genius within me now be released, let me see clearly the perfect plan.' The perfect plan includes and perfect self-expression. This is the square of life, which brings perfect happiness. When one has made this demand, he may find great changes for nearly every man has wandered far from the divine design. I know, in one woman's case, it was as though a cyclone but readjustments came quickly and new and wonderful conditions took the place of old ones. Perfect self-expression but of such absorbing interest that it will seem almost like play. The student knows, also, as man comes into the world financed by God, the supply needed for his will be at hand. Many a genius has struggled for years with the problem of supply when his spoken word and faith would have released quickly, the necessary funds. For example, after the class one day, a man came to me and handed me a cent. He said, 'I have just and I'm going to give you one for I have faith in the I want you to speak the word for my perfect self-expression I spoke the word and did not see him again until a year later. He came in one day, successful and happy, with a roll of yellow bills in his pocket. He said, 'Immediately I had a position offered and am now demonstrating health, happiness and supply.' A woman's perfect self-expression may be in becoming a perfect wife, a perfect mother, a perfect home-maker and not necessarily in Demand definite leads and the way will be made One should not visualize When he demands the divine design to come into his conscious mind, he will receive flashes of inspiration and begin to see himself making some great accomplishment. This is the picture or idea he must hold without wavering. The thing man seeks is seeking him, the telephone was seeking Bell! Parents should never force careers and professions upon their children. With a knowledge of spiritual truth, the divine plan could be spoken for, early in childhood or prenatally. A prenatal treatment should be, 'Let the God in this child let the divine design of be made manifest throughout his life, throughout eternity.' God's will be done, not man's, God's pattern, not man's pattern, is the command we find running through all the scriptures and the Bible is a book dealing with the science of the mind. It is a book telling man or subconscious mind from bondage. The battles described are pictures of man waging war against mortal thoughts. A man's foes shall be Every man is Jehoshaphat who slays Goliath, mortal thinking with the little white stone, faith. So, man must be careful and slothful servant There is a terrible penalty to be paid for not using one's ability. Often, fear stands between man and his perfect self-expression. Stage-fright has hampered many a genius. This may be overcome by the The individual then loses and feels simply that he is a channel for infinite intelligence He is under direct inspiration, fearless and confident, for he feels that it is who does the work. A young boy came often to He asked me to speak the word for his coming examinations at school. I told him to make the statement, 'I am one with infinite intelligence. I know everything I should He had an excellent knowledge of history, but was not sure of his arithmetic. I saw him afterwards and he said, 'I spoke the word for my arithmetic and passed with the highest honors, but thought I could depend and got a very poor mark.' Man often receives a set-back when he is too sure of himself, which means he is trusting and not the Father within. Another one of my students She took an extended visiting many countries, where she was ignorant of the languages. She was calling for guidance and protection every minute and her affairs went Her luggage was never delayed nor lost! Accommodations were always ready for her at the best hotels and she had perfect She returned to New York. Knowing the language, she felt God was no longer necessary, so looked after her affairs Everything went wrong, her trunks delayed amid The student must form the habit of practicing the presence In all thy ways acknowledge him, nothing is too small or too great. Sometimes an insignificant incident may be the turning point in a man's life. Robert Fulton, watching some boiling water simmering in a tea I have seen a student, often, keep back his demonstration through resistance or pointing the way. He pins his faith to one channel only and dictates just the way he desires the manifestation to come, which brings things to a standstill. 'My way, not your way,' is the command of infinite intelligence. Like all power, be it it must have a non-resistant engine or instrument to work through and man is that engine or instrument. Over and over again, man 'Oh Judah, fear not, but for the Lord will be with you. You shall not need to fight this battle, set yourselves, stand ye still and see the salvation We see this in the incidents of the $2,000 coming to the woman through the landlord when she became and the woman who won the man's love after all suffering had ceased. The student's goal is poise! Poise is power, for it gives God's power a chance to rush through man, to will and to do its good pleasure. Poised, he thinks clearly and makes right decisions quickly. He never misses a trick. Anger blurs the visions, is the root of many diseases and causes wrong decision It has been named one of the worst sins as its reaction is so harmful. The student learns that in metaphysics, sin has a much broader meaning than in the old teaching. Whatsoever is not of faith is sin. He finds that fear and They are inverted faith and through distorted mental pictures, bring to pass the thing he fears. His work is to drive out these enemies from the subconscious mind. When man's fearless, he is finished. Maeterlinck says that man is God afraid. So, as we read in the previous chapters, man can only vanquish fear by walking up to the thing he is afraid of. When Jehoshaphat and his army singing 'Praise the Lord, for his mercy endureth forever,' they found their enemies and there was nothing to fight. For example, a woman asked a friend to deliver a message to another friend. The woman feared to give the message, as the reasoning mind said, 'Don't get mixed-up in this affair, don't give that message.' She was troubled in spirit for she had given her promise. At last, she determined and call on the law of divine protection. She met the friend to whom she was to deliver the message. She opened her mouth to speak it, when her friend said, This made it unnecessary as the situation depended As she was willing to do it, she was not obliged to, as she did not fear, The student often delays his demonstration through a belief in incompletion. He should make this statement, 'In divine mind there is only completion, therefore, my demonstration is completed. My perfect work, my perfect home, my perfect health.' Whatever he demands are perfect ideas registered in divine mind and must manifest under He gives thanks he has already and makes active preparation for receiving on the visible. One of my students was in need of a financial demonstration. She came to me and asked I replied, 'Perhaps, you are in the habit of leaving things unfinished and the subconscious has of not completing. As the without, so the within.' She said, 'You are right. I often begin things I'll go home and finish and I know it will be So, she sewed assiduously and the article was soon completed. Shortly after, the money came in a most curious manner. Her husband was paid his He told the people of their mistake and they sent word to keep it. When man asks, believing, he must receive, for God creates His own channels! I have been sometimes asked, 'Suppose one has several talents, how is he to know which one to choose?' Demand to be shown definitely. Say, 'Infinite Spirit, reveal to me my perfect self-expression, show me which talent I I have known people to suddenly enter a new line of work and be fully equipped, with little or no training. So make the statement, for the divine plan of my life' and be fearless in grasping opportunities. Some people are cheerful givers, but bad receivers. They refuse gifts through pride or some negative reason, thereby blocking their channels and invariably find themselves eventually with little or nothing. For example, a woman who had given away a great deal of money, had a gift offered her of She refused to take it Shortly after that, her and she found herself Man should receive gracefully the bread returning to him upon the water. Freely ye have given, There is always the perfect balance of giving and receiving and though man should give without thinking of returns, he violates law if he does which come to him, for all gifts are from God, man being merely the channel. A thought of lack should For example, when the I did not say, 'Poor man, he cannot afford to give me that.' I saw him rich and prosperous, with his supply pouring in. It was this thought which brought it. If one has been a bad receiver, he must become a good one and take even a postage and open up his channels for receiving. The Lord loveth a cheerful receiver, as well as a cheerful giver. I have often been asked why one man is born rich and healthy and another poor and sick. Where there is an effect there is no such thing as chance. This question is answered through the law of reincarnation. Man goes through many births and deaths, until he knows the truth He is drawn back to the earth plane through unsatisfied desire or to fulfill his destiny. The man born rich and healthy has had pictures in his subconscious mind, in his past life, of health and riches and the poor and sick man, Man manifests on any plane, the sum total of his subconscious beliefs. However, birth and for the wages of sin is death. The Adamic fall in consciousness through the belief in two powers. The real man, spiritual man, is birthless and deathless! He never was born and has never died. As he was in the beginning, he is now and ever shall be! So, through the truth, man is set free from the law of karma, sin and death and manifests the man made in His image and likeness. Man's freedom comes through bringing into manifestation the divine design of his life. His Lord will say unto him, 'Well done thou good and faithful servant, thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over enter thou into the joy of thy Lord, eternal life.'&quot; Chapter 10, &quot;Denial and Affirmations&quot;. &quot;Thou shalt also decree a thing and it shall be established unto thee. All the good that is to be made manifest in man's life is already in divine mind and is released through man's recognition or spoken word. So, he must be careful to decree that only the divine for often, he decrees failure or misfortune. It is, therefore, of to word one's demands correctly as stated in a previous chapter. If one desires a home, friend, position or any other good thing, make the demand for the divine selection. For example, 'Infinite for my right home, my right friend, my right position. I give thanks it now manifests under grace in a perfect way.' The latter part of the statement is most important. For example, I knew a Her daughter was injured and they received $1,000 indemnity, so it did not come in a perfect way. The demand should have 'Infinite Spirit, I give which is mine by divine and reaches me under As one grows in a financial consciousness, he should demand that the which are his by divine right, reach him under grace, in perfect ways. It is impossible for man to release more than he thinks is possible, for one is bound by the of the subconscious. He must enlarge his expectancies in order to receive in a larger way. Man so often limits For example, a student by a certain date. He did receive it, but heard afterwards, that he came very near receiving $1,000, but he was given just 600 as the result of his spoken word. They limited the Holy One of Israel. Wealth is a matter of consciousness. The French have a legend A poor man was walking along a road when he met a traveler 'My good friend, I see you are poor. Take this gold nugget, sell it and you will be rich all your days.' The man was overjoyed at his good fortune and took the nugget home. He immediately found work that he did not sell the nugget. Years passed and he One day he met a poor man on the road. He stopped him and said, 'My good friend, I will give you this gold nugget, which, if you sell, will The mendicant took the and found it was only brass. So, we see, the first man became rich through feeling rich Every man has within it is his consciousness which brings riches into his life. In making his demands, man begins at his journey's end, that is, he declares he Before ye call, I shall answer. Continually affirming, in the subconscious. It would not be necessary to make an affirmation more than once if one had perfect faith! One should not plead or supplicate, but give thanks repeatedly The desert shall rejoice This rejoicing which is yet in the desert, state of consciousness, opens the way for release. The Lord's Prayer is in the form of command and demand, 'Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts and ends in praise, 'For thine is the Kingdom and the Power and the Glory, forever. Amen.' Concerning the works of my hands, command ye me. So, prayer is command and demand, praise and thanksgiving. The student's work is in that with God all things are possible. This is easy enough to but a little more with a problem. For example, it was necessary for a woman to demonstrate a large sum of money within a stated time. She knew she must do something for realization is manifestation and she demanded a lead. She was walking through a department store when she saw a very beautiful pink enamel paper-cutter. She felt the pull towards it. The thought came, 'I haven't a paper cutter good enough to open letters containing large cheques.' So, she bought the paper-cutter, which the reasoning mind would have called an extravagance. When she held it in her hand, she had a flash of a picture of herself opening an envelope and in a few weeks, The pink paper-cutter was Many stories are told of the when directed in faith. For example, a man was spending the night in a farmhouse. The windows of the room and in the middle of the and made his way in He could not open it, so he smashed the pane with his fist, drew in draughts of fine fresh air and had a wonderful night's sleep. The next morning, he found he had smashed the glass of a bookcase and the window had remained closed during the whole night. He had supplied himself with oxygen, simply by his thought of oxygen. When a student starts out to demonstrate, he should never turn back. Let not that man who wavers think that he shall receive A student once made this 'When I asks the Father for anything, I puts my foot down and I say, Father, I'll take nothing less than I've asked for, but more!' So, man should never compromise. Having done all, stand. This is sometimes the most difficult time of demonstrating. The temptation comes to give up, to turn back, to compromise. He also serves who only stands and waits. Demonstrations often come at the 11th hour because man then lets go, that is, stops reasoning and infinite intelligence Man's dreary desires are answered drearily and his impatient desires, long delayed or violently fulfilled. For example, a woman asked me why it was she was constantly losing We found she often said to herself and others with vexation, 'I wish I could get rid of my glasses.' So, her impatient desire What she should have demanded but what she registered was simply the impatient desire to be rid of her glasses, so they were continually Two attitudes of mind as in the case of the woman who did not appreciate her husband or fear of loss, which makes a picture of When a student is able cast his burden, he will have instantaneous manifestation. For example, a woman was and her umbrella was blown inside-out. She was about to make whom she had never met to make her first appearance with a dilapidated umbrella. She could not throw it away, as it did not belong to her. So, in desperation, she exclaimed, 'Oh, God, you take I don't know what to do.' A moment later, a voice behind her said, 'Lady, do you want your umbrella mended?' There stood an umbrella mender. She replied, 'Indeed, I do.' The man mended the umbrella while she went into the and when she returned, So, there is always an on man's pathway when or situation in God's Hands. One should always follow a denial with an affirmation. For example, I was called to treat a man whom I had never seen. He was apparently very ill. I made the statement, 'I deny this appearance of disease. It is unreal, therefore cannot register in his consciousness. This man is a perfect idea in divine mind, pure substance expressing perfection. The next morning, he was much better and the following day, out attending to his business. There is no time or space in divine mind, therefore the word reaches and does not return void. I have treated patients in Europe and have found that the I am asked so often the difference between visualizing and visioning. Visualizing is a mental process governed by the reasoning visioning is a spiritual process governed by intuition or The student should train his mind to receive these flashes of inspiration and work out the divine pictures through definite leads. When a man can say, 'I God desires for me,' his false desires fade and a new set of blueprints is given him by the master architect, the God within. God's plan for each man of the reasoning mind and is always the square of life, containing health, wealth, love and perfect self-expression. Many a man is building for himself in imagination a bungalow when he should be building a palace. If a student tries to through the reasoning mind, he brings it to a standstill. 'I will hasten it,' saith the Lord. He should act only through intuition or definite leads. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently. Trust also in him and he I have seen the law work in the most astonishing manner. For example, a student for her to have $100 by the following day. It was a debt of vital importance which had to be met. I spoke the word declaring and that the supply was at hand. That evening she phoned me of the miracle. She said that the thought came to her to go to her safe-deposit box at the bank to examine some papers. She looked over the papers and at the bottom of the box, was a new $100 bill. She was astounded and said she knew she had never put it there, for she had gone through It may have been a materialization, as Jesus Christ materialized the loaves and fishes. Man will reach the stage where his word is made flesh or materialized, instantly. The fields, ripe with the harvest, will manifest immediately as in all of the miracles of Jesus Christ. There is a tremendous power alone in the name Jesus Christ. It stands for truth made manifest. He said, 'Whatsoever ye ask the Father, in my name, he will give it to you.' The power of this name raises the student into the fourth dimension, where he is freed from all astral and psychic influences and he becomes unconditioned and absolute as God Himself is I have seen many healings accomplished by using the words, 'In the name of Jesus Christ.' Christ was both person and principle and the Christ within each man is his Redeemer and salvation. The Christ within is his own fourth dimensional self, the man made in God's image and likeness. This is the self which has never failed, never known sickness or sorrow, was never born and has never died. It is the resurrection and the life of each man! 'No man cometh to the means, that God, the universal, working on the place of the particular, becomes the Christ in man and the Holy Ghost means God-in-action. So daily, man is manifesting the Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Man should make an art of thinking. The master thinker is an artist and is careful to paint upon the canvas of his mind and he paints these pictures of powder and decision, having perfect faith to mar their perfection and that they shall manifest in his life the ideal made real. All power is given man to bring his heaven upon his earth and this is the goal of the game of life. The simple rules are fearless faith, non-resistance and love! May each reader be now which has held him in standing between him and his own and know the truth which makes him free. Free to fulfill his destiny, to bring into manifestation the divine design of his life, health, wealth, love and perfect self-expression. Be ye transformed by the Denials and affirmations. For prosperity. God is my unfailing supply and large sums of money come to me quickly under grace in perfect ways. For right conditions. Every plan my Father in shall be dissolved and dissipated and the divine idea now comes to pass. For right conditions. Only that which is true for I and the Father are one. For faith. As I am one with God, I am one with my good, for God is both the Giver and the Gift. I cannot separate the Giver from the gift. For right conditions. Divine love now dissolves and dissipates every wrong condition in my mind, body and affairs. Divine love is the most powerful chemical in the universe and dissolves everything For health. Divine love floods my and every cell in my body For eyesight. My eyes are God's eyes, I see with the eyes of spirit. I see clearly the open way, there are no obstacles on my pathway. I see clearly the perfect plan. For guidance. I am divinely sensitive and give instant obedience to Thy will. For the hearing. My ears are God's ears, I hear with the ears of spirit. I am non-resistant and I hear glad tidings of great joy. For right work. I have a perfect work in a perfect way. I give a perfect service for perfect pay. For freedom from all bondage. I cast this burden on the Christ within and I go free!&quot;