On June 18th, 1815, in the middle of a field near Brussels, the Battle of Waterloo drew to a close. The outcome was more than 10,000 dead The battle was between the British, against the French soldiers For several hours, each of the camps against the enemy. After just one day of intense battle, Wellington's English troops were already celebrating their victory, meaning Waterloo Two centuries the remains of this legendary army have been the subject led by archeologists and historians. Thanks to these rare treasures experts can tell us like we've never seen before. This way, we can study the work done who are studying the layout the daily lives of these men and the strategies they used These investigations in a new light and allow us to understand what caused the fall after ten years of unrivaled domination. Napoleon Bonaparte came to power in 1799. He became the First Consul, and was named Emperor of France With its 30 million inhabitants, France, was the most populated nation It was allied with Holland, but it also had enemies including Russia, Austria, Prussia, Portugal, and especially the United Kingdom, Napoleon's sworn enemy. From the very first year of his reign, the French Emperor attacking the English. He decided to mobilize to build his army He ordered the construction all along the coast They would shelter what was known made up of thousands of soldiers to fight the ever-powerful Royal Navy. To this very day, the landscapes of these huge camps. From the sky, the lines can sometimes even be seen These are the remainders of the huts Frederic Lemaire is an archaeologist. He has been studying these camps as they are a remarkable indication Today he is evaluating the area near the village of Camiers Within this area facing the sea, separated into three regiments among which One thousand and eight hundred soldiers as this specialist will demonstrate today, This is the exact place where the front row of huts You have to imagine them lined up Dozens of huts perfectly aligned Then behind the first row of huts, there'd be a second-row all perfectly parallel. Behind the soldier's huts and behind the kitchens cooks, medical staff, and general staff. Behind that you'd have the huts the battalion commanders, Over the last few years, Frederic Lemaire and his team have carried out in Camiers and other training campsites They have revealed the foundations These semi-buried structures are buried and measure 160 At the front line, 16 troops would be packed with straw roofs and cob walls. The soldiers would go down three steps They'd have a bed on the right or left, just a raised sleeping board There would be 14 to 16 men Then the other part where the men would keep their equipment and their haversack That's it, it was all very cluttered. There are many camps spread along the coast in Boulogne, Bruges, and Saint-Omer. They sheltered almost 160,000 men, These soldiers have left countless traces which are still being uncovered Over the years, have dug up more than 10,000 objects that once belonged They are now preserved in northern France. These boxes contain fragments of swords, gun maintenance items, but also lots of personal items about the lives On the floor of the huts, archaeologists have also discovered These rare objects make it easier in their leisure time. The reality is very different from what historians It was somewhere for Napoleon but there is evidence They did very little. They didn't move much. There was hardly any direction. There was a lot of idleness in the camps, They played games but everyone played them. Alcoholism was a big problem. There were fights and duels During his research, the archeologist found who stayed in these camps. Many of them as well as the boredom They also shed immense light on the extremely harsh living conditions Officer Maurice Dupin, wrote this letter &quot;You couldn't even begin &quot;We'll be spending the winter on straw, &quot;When I see &quot;our poor soldiers are staying in, &quot;that they're sinking &quot;They're built on mud,&quot; &quot;and the number of sick soldiers How's it going, Thibault? Are you getting further Yes, they're coins... The daily lives of these men who were condemned to live were also marred by a lack of money. Thibault Cardon is a coin collector He has analyzed 600 coins made of copper These coins, are all that remains An unranked soldier Not forgetting that a large part and would never have seen For every 30 centimes, five centimes maintenance, and small equipment. Then the other 20 centimes for their everyday fare. This everyday fare would include both food and wax to light up the huts. Of the 30-centime wage they earned, The men in these training camps as they waited In order to attack the United Kingdom, the Emperor and his army defeat the English fleet, At the time, The Royal Navy Many English ships sat waiting Others were positioned one of France's allies. In order to invade England Napoleon had a plan to make the English think he was attacking According to him, they'd have no choice Once the Royal Navy had been lured over the aim would be to turn back and to help the French soldiers At the beginning of 1805, Even though some ships others weren't able The maneuver was so disorganized that the Emperor didn't know to support the troops with their landing. As far as England was aware, In order to force him the English formed a new coalition Following the failure of his plan, He decided On August 29th, 1805, 150,000-foot soldiers and stormed towards the east with guns in hand These weapons were emblematic These young conscripts had been learning and now they were ready Two centuries later, many guns, swords, and pistols have been found and restored. Somewhere in France, whose location has been kept secret some of these treasures These are the stores It is an enormous site and invaluable remains Major Jean-Marie Van Hove is an expert Today, he's examining a series of objects for many years. There are many swords and pistols that the troops especially the 1777 model of gun used Developed over former regimes, each of these huge weapons measures five feet in length, They are very tedious to use. One reload requires 12 successive steps. To load the gun, to a right angle to the gun. Then the soldier takes their cartridge, There's a small bit with a bit of powder, and then the bullet. The foot soldier would tear and put a bit of powder He'd close the lid. Then he'd pour another bit of powder and put the bullet He'd use this paper as a filler With the stick, and prepare it again, A lot of training is needed Even a very fast and experienced soldier can only shoot an average of two This is quite a slow speed for a battlefield At the time, because as the enemy arrived in rows, Worst case scenario, or the third row that's hit, To get a good firing speed, The first would be crouched down, and the other two would stand It's the officer who orders the shots. Once a soldier had fired his weapon, then another shot would be ordered. If there were three of them, In October 1815, the Great Army earned its first victory On the 2nd of December, Napoleon annihilated his enemy Then his military campaigns Victories in Iena then the Battle of Eylau, then Friedland and Wagram in 1809 against the Austrians. Napoleon gradually spread his empire and gained an unparalleled amount These achievements on the battlefield regarding troops and the French people. The Emperor bathed in the glory Today many written accounts by Napoleon and his entourage are kept here on the shelves Michel Roucaud and is an excellent advocate of the former Emperor's Napoleon loved writing He not only used language but also to justify his regime, which was a dictatorship and could only be justified by victory, victorious weapons, Among the texts that have been preserved, there's a proclamation It's just a plain white sheet with no letter heading but it's still a real treasure. The text was written and signed by Napoleon himself. Sent out to all commanding officers, this letter was then read to all soldiers who were gathered at the Battle of Austerlitz. &quot;Soldiers, I am satisfied with you.&quot; &quot;In the Battle of Austerlitz,&quot; &quot;you have justified all &quot;You have decorated your eagles &quot;My people &quot;It will be enough for one of you to say,&quot; &quot;I was at the Battle of Austerlitz&quot; &quot;for all your fellow citizens to exclaim, You can see in his writing It's about satisfying your father. It's from the Emperor to his men, and he's telling them their flags, with immortal glory. Glory justifies victory. They're fighting for glory, just honor After October 1805, there are other bulletins They are like stories of what happened at the battle. They were sent to all departments, and the French people The style of these texts so that the reader feels to the battlefield. They also try to depict the Emperor as he led them into battle. An Austrian colonel was astonished covered in mud, and just as exhausted to which the Emperor responded: &quot;Your master wanted &quot;I hope he realizes &quot;will always remind me of my main task.&quot; Napoleon was an emperor, but he was different He was close to his men. He visited the camps but he was also sometimes horrified It has to be known and he also wanted it to be known and people in society would read about him He was the emperor of the French people. At the beginning of 1812, Napoleon I was at the peak of his reign. France now had 134 departments, and its empire However, was a much crueler reality These seven years of wars and incurred tens of thousands The written traces tell of the terrible conditions on the battlefield. &quot;Penned up for the night &quot;where we bandaged up the injured.&quot; &quot;Deafened by the whining &quot;of these poor soldiers &quot;I fell into a state of stupor,&quot; &quot;which only added to my anxiety&quot; &quot;to such an extent Fear, homesickness, On top of their physical injuries, these men were also affected Francois Houdecek is a historian. For many years written by soldiers, and medical reports of the trauma The thing about the Empire is that it was all and the glorification of heroes. All the suffering disappeared During his imperial regime, Napoleon wanted the soldiers and show themselves to be brave but in actual fact, They say it in their memoirs. They're scared at night in the morning before battle, they're scared at mid-battle. They carried on anyway but they never really got used to the fear and the deafening noises. For the young conscripts, being wrenched away to come and embrace military life After leaving home, the most fragile of men which the doctors On the 24th of January 1812, 20-year-old Joseph Florkin &quot;In the night I thought of you &quot;I cry but call as I might, it's useless.&quot; &quot;I no longer live for the moment,&quot; &quot;as I no longer feel any enjoyment &quot;The hours seem like days, For those who survived returning to normal life, did not necessarily put an end Most of them were deeply traumatized Some were affected an illness that involves many symptoms, fits of dementia epilepsy, or personality disorders. In the 20th century, this disease would take on the name or PTSD, and would become the focus Two hundred years ago, hardly anyone claimed Doctors started studying aspects of it, but the only thing they didn't understand It wouldn't be another 30 years so they were missing this whole idea. They didn't quite understand the cause In 1812, soldiers from the Great Army and psychological trauma. Unfortunately for them, That very year, Napoleon came up Russia. Up to that point, but had now decided to form ties To make him see sense, the French emperor decided and gathered more than 600,000 soldiers, the largest army On the 22nd of June 1812, he sent out a proclamation &quot;Russia swore an eternal alliance &quot;It has openly violated its oath.&quot; &quot;It has placed us &quot;The choice &quot;Let us march ahead &quot;let us carry war At the end of June 1812, and entered Russian territory However, when confronted, the Russian Army refused to battle Napoleon couldn't resist He advanced deep into the country Vitebsk, and then Smolensk. The Russians were withdrawing with an aim to draw the French Wherever they arrived, the farmers would deliberately destroy and poison their wells to prevent them Having traveled many kilometers, After more than two months of walking, Napoleon's soldiers finally arrived which set off what the Russians After seven days of bloodshed, Napoleon and his 140,000 men but the Russians rather than let it fall Moscow burned for five days. Ninety percent of it would be destroyed. Despite being defeated, Without a place to hide Napoleon and his army were forced and head back home. That year, the winter Temperatures fell Equipped with only their summer uniforms, In this hellish white landscape, they had to cover more over the route by which they'd come. They crossed areas of devastation and endured constant attacks In these almost apocalyptic conditions, the amazing organization For the soldiers, and their withdrawal turned At the end of 1812, the Emperor's army arrived back in France, More than 390,000 either died, were taken as prisoners, For months, Napoleon tried that had formed allegiances against him. Finally, in April 1814, the enemies of the empire arrived and forced the Emperor to abdicate. Along with a few of his loyal supporters, Napoleon was exiled between Corsica and Tuscany. Meanwhile, in France, King Louis XVIII came to the throne, but the army's withdrawal Less than a year later, Napoleon escaped His former soldiers as he sailed from the Mediterranean coast Although the red, white, the rest of Europe was in turmoil. His former enemies to once again Upon Napoleon's return, the whole of Europe The Russians The Piedmontese tried while the Spanish attempted so Napoleon decided He sent his troops located in what is now Belgium. Two armies were positioned there, the Prussian army and the Anglo-Dutch army From the 15th of June 1815, the French soldiers and managed to force back Napoleon then decided One section would pursue Blucher's men The others would fight and go into battle in the Quatre-Bras. The mission objective was to force and push the English towards the sea. In the early hours of the morning, with only seven miles between them. At that very moment, His cannons were instrumental Inherited from the old regime, Napoleon enhanced himself The Emperor was convinced that over the vast terrain the shots from his artillery and that the soldiers would only Two centuries later, there are no traces of the battles but the topography Alain Lacroix has been a specialist guide He knows the region better than anyone, as well as each sequential minute in Ligny. The French got here On the 16th of June 1815, the French Army spread out rolling out over two and a half miles which wasn't there in 1815. There was just the village of Fleurus which was used By the end of the morning, ready for battle, in and around Fleurus, but in front of him, Blucher's headquarters were located in the Bussy windmill, where he had his lookout post. It's worth remembering that the Prussians but they also occupied the villages which they turned into strongholds. Then they waited for impact, At 3:00 in the afternoon, The assault began, and the men from both camps By the end of the day, forcing the Prussians to withdraw. Napoleon was therefore wrongly convinced, that Blucher In reality, they'd headed north and were making their way At the same moment, in Quatre-Bras, the violent battle was raging and the French soldiers. Once again, Napoleon believed as he watched them retreat, They were preparing On the 17th of June, of the movements He believed Blucher to have fled and found himself up who seemed to be alone He was therefore particularly confident this would be his final battle The Battle of Waterloo. Two hundred years later, as one of the most illustrative battles The battle site has been preserved No buildings may be built here, it is only farming land From the top of the Lion's Mound, you can see the site as a whole. A stretch of around two by one mile where 140,000 men clashed weapons This would be right in the middle just next to Wellington's line of defense, which was just under two miles long. It's very easy to distinguish. It starts about 0.6 miles over there. To the far right which is on the other side Right in the middle of the battlefield, is a La Haye Sainte. A little further was the Papelotte Farm, which was at the far left Behind D'Hougoumont, La Sainte, and Papelotte, Wellington lined up 70,000 men Wellington's idea was to place where Napoleon's men This was very worrying to Napoleon because he couldn't see All he could see at the top It was impossible to anticipate and that they were part which he was elaborating About 0.6 miles south of the plane, once again, Napoleon positioned his troops Amidst this plan, The French certainly had the upper hand The Emperor had command cavalry and artillery men, On June 18th, at 11:00 in the morning, the two camps Wellington, who had positioned his troops adopted a fairly defensive stance. Napoleon immediately launched his attack. He aimed at the La Haye Sainte Farm. First, he launched an attack toward the Chateau D'Hougoumont, to drive away Wellington's troops However, on June 18th, 1815 the weather conditions For the two days previous, The ground is very clay-ish, so after two days of rain, and that 11 inches of mud completely ruined His attack horses couldn't even gallop, they found that loads of shoes These shoes got stuck in the soil, and loads of French soldiers Another element of the war that suffered was the artillery. On the muddy earth, these deadly weapons than Napoleon had anticipated. The wooden wheel either slid or got stuck. The impassable terrain made it almost impossible Worst of all, the missiles The French artillery They would aim at a virtual point but given the rebound, or injure several dozen However, the ricochet from the muddy soil so the effectiveness and didn't have a big impact The state of the ground therefore considerably weakened This was the first hurdle and the start of a series of setbacks that would eventually At the Chateau D'Hougoumont farmhouse, the English opposition The soldiers that were there Despite everything, Napoleon decided After several advances by the cavalry, the French managed to take possession Just as Napoleon believed his army the Prussians arrived. Napoleon was taken by surprise and had to mobilize As for the English, they managed to hold their position The Great Army, whose troops had all been battling began to weaken and started retreating. For hours that followed, The French soldiers were forced to flee. On the evening of June 18th, Wellington and Blucher assembled where Napoleon had chosen and that is where they sealed As for the French Emperor, he managed to flee, As night fell, the battlefield resembled something as many as 11,000 were killed from both camps were injured. Today, many vestiges of this battle have been preserved in museums in Belgium, Swords, guns, munitions, and even this body armor pierced by a cannonball. For him, the Waterloo battle site and part of world heritage. The fortified farms still stand and have been partially kept Under the ground, forgotten by all, there still lie traces that took place here. Recently, following development work, archeologists have made They have uncovered of a soldier who died The bones and objects that lay with it were taken to the archeology center Dominique Bosquet, archeologist, are in charge of its analysis. Genevieve, is that all right? No, that's the fifth one. Oh no, I've got them the wrong way round. The position we found the bones in because he wasn't buried. I mean, He was just lying or whichever way How he came to be buried but that's another story. He remained hidden Who was this man? How old was he? What state of health was he in? Specialists have been able as they've remained preserved It's16.8 inches. Our measurements show and five foot four, Our fine analysis of his bones also shows and suffered from spina bifida, which is a deformation Dominique Bosquet and Gennevieve Yernaux His skeleton shows no obvious injury they found a bullet We found it by the right lung, which is one However, he must have been shot face-on because the back of his chest The front of his ribcage as it was probably weakened Who was this soldier who lost his life Which side did he fight for? The analysis of the bullet and other objects helped formulate certain theories. Yes, 16.2 millimeters. That's the diameter of a French bullet. The English bullets Therefore, there's no doubt During the battle, but there are other clues too, They were made out of quartz, which is dark gray and finely grained and was used by the English The size of these flints was adapted which is an emblematic weapon A French bullet, and English weapon, so this has to be a victim This man would have fought the French Army A conclusion that has been confirmed found next to the body. There are mainly French coins. We have a five-franc piece here which we're very familiar with. However, these coins don't tell us because at the time, French francs However, what we also found It's these currencies because we also found it where the Hanoverian troops There you go. It's always the way with archeology. You can never be 100 percent sure, but in this case, It all makes sense. This young, The investigation will probably or give him a name or a face. However, after two centuries he now has at least been remembered He will also become the latest witness which caused the end Four days after his crushing defeat, He was exiled in the middle of the South Atlantic. This is where he would spend until he died on May 5th, 1821. Today his body lies of the Hotel des Invalides in Paris. This monumental tomb is symbolic of the fascination since the end of his reign. The Emperor's legend is also that of the hundreds of thousands Never have so many men been mobilized to fight in a war. By studying the remains archeologists and historians They also give us another insight of these soldiers, who experienced both the glory and the fate of these men even two centuries later.