Watchmen is one of the most popular and influential wizard Alan Moore. Watchmen is a superhero story that questions by this bloody smiley face. The smiley is the ultimate simplistic cartoon, good guys fight bad guys and no one ever really blood, cause it adds flawed human characters, darkness that was unusual in comics at the Of course now, everything's a dark gritty did it before it was cool, and still holds fantasy, and giant psychic squids. So what happens in the original Watchmen, The story's set in an alternate 80s America, None of them have superpowers - they're Except for Dr. Manhattan, who has like all With Manhattan's help, America won the Vietnam - he's on his fifth term. A hero called the Comedian does dirty work he covered up the Watergate scandal, which So superheroes change the course of history, The hero Silk Spectre was a celebrity and a corporate empire selling action figures people lost interest in superhero comics, Thanks to Dr. Manhattan, technology's more and airships, and people eat genetically-modified In the 70s, heroes were outlawed, so most Comedian are allowed to keep working for the When the story starts, tension is rising in fears nuclear annihilation, the doomsday clock killed. The murder's investigated by Rorschach, On the surface, Rorschach is like Batman - he says edgy shit in a gravelly voice . But by billionaire. While Rorschach is Walter Kovacs, a greasy sign saying "The end is nigh". Cause realistically, the sort of person who a functional person - he's "a nutcase" with an extreme worldview. He thinks all of society is filthy and sinful black-and-white mask reflects his black-and-white evil, and evil must be punished . He says he's often biased - he spares people punishment the Comedian tried to rape Silk Spectre, he as a patriot , and Silk Spectre as a "whore" sex . As a kid, his mother was abusive, and reminds Rorschach of his hatred and disgust by fighting criminals . Rorschach became a a real-world murder victim in the 60s . Rorschach back then , until he discovered the savage Rorschach saw the darkest side of humanity, is random and godless and has "No meaning" The only way Rorschach could save himself brutal ideology, punishing evil no matter Which often just causes more suffering . Like, random peoples' fingers until he hears something breaks into peoples houses and eats all their Rorschach calls everyone else "parasites", . Rorschach calls everyone filth - but he's but he often does. And his obsession with punishing evil just So Watchmen goes deep into the psychology a cool hero like Batman - Rorschach is a But Rorschach does help uncover a conspiracy Dr. Manhattan explores what it means to be He can effortlessly shape the world around on the sun, sees past present and future as shitty boyfriend. Cause being superhuman makes it hard to relate or human fears, he's cold and distant, and Manhattan can see the universe, from the dance are like ants to him - their lives so small die, but he never changes. When he starts relationships, he already sees the medium of comics, we get to see the time future all visible at once, a story with a Manhattan says that free will is illusion "just a puppet who can see the strings" the universe is powerless - he can't change Manhattan's superhuman perspective makes And without human feelings, he has no desire So, Manhattan is a deconstruction of characters would actually not be a great protector of There's something existentially terrifying humans irrelevant, obsolete, like Neanderthals accused of giving people cancer, and his girlfriend So Manhattan fucks off to Mars and builds Eventually, Laurie convinces Manhattan that sheer miraculous improbability. And that, by the way, is a real actual smiley So Manhattan returns to Earth to try to prevent Nite Owl is a retired hero. Back in the day, he dressed like an owl and But now, he finds that stuff embarrassing. He realised that punching criminals doesn't the costumes and gadgets were a "childish" Dreiberg. He's in his forties, he gained weight, like Rorschach warns him of a conspiracy, and the face these dangers. He feels lonely and useless and "impotent" and unconfident . When they try to have sex, missing from his life, until Dan and Laurie They get back into costume, and spring Rorschach The power and danger and fun of it sparks an owl really gets Dan's dick hard . So still meaning there. Dan writes an essay about ornithology, the He says sometimes science loses the beauty in life if you're all sensible and rational We need wonder and romance and silliness because Dan and Laurie fall in love, and embrace their of nuclear war. Laurie is the most normal person among the wanted to be a superhero. Her mother Sally was the original Silk Spectre, II, making her train for her hero career, Laurie hates the Comedian, because he once But Laurie discovers that that later on, Sally child together - turns out the Comedian, is Laurie's father . So Laurie smashes a snow globe smashes, Manhattan's Martian she is collapses, becomes something messier her costume to something similar to the Comedian's, the upcoming Watchmen TV show, Laurie takes So this revelation is a loss of innocence, Watchmen's bloody smiley represents. Overall though, Laurie's character isn't She and her mother are largely defined by So depictions of women is one comics trope In the end, Laurie, Dan, Manhattan and Rorschach Ozymandias is Adrian Veidt, another retired . Veidt is a super ambitious super rich super the Great, and the Egyptian pharaohs . His design . Veidt realised that superheroes couldn't he hatched a crazy plan. He put a bunch of scientists and artists on a giant psychic squid monster. He kills the Comedian when the Comedian finds get rid of Manhattan , and frames Rorschach on himself to throw off suspicion, and finally three million people, to make it look like the Cold War, uniting humanity, and bringing plan, and it actually succeeds. America and Russia are so freaked out by the And Rorschach and Manhattan and Dan and Laurie of people - so much for superheroes. Ozymandias saves the world not by punching by science and determination and a psychopathic He saves the world at a terrible cost - so Throughout Watchmen, there's a comic book Freighter. It's a story about a sailor who tries to but he ends up killing innocent people, and prevent - "Noble intentions" led him plan. At the end of Watchmen, Ozymandias has a dream shows him alone, separate from the world. Like the sailor, he is "marooned from the did . But Ozymandias says that "someone crime" . This pose looks kinda like the And we later see an ad for the Tarkovsky movie he loves to prevent war. Maybe you can see Ozymandias' plan as a necessary crime so no one else had to. Or you can say he's a delusional egomaniacal of rich assholes having way too much power Does Ozymandias really care about saving people, Philosophically, Ozymandias' plan is utilitarian the entire world, so the good outweighs the But Rorschach doesn't believe in moral grey So he wants to reveal the truth of Ozymandias' the truth of his alien hoax would destroy Rorschach says he will "Never compromise", Manhattan kills Rorschach to keep the secret. In his final moment, Rorschach takes off his humanity and vulnerability in the end, cause just a broken lonely man who's craved death can't survive in a morally complex world, fails. But - we see earlier, that Rorschach wrote sent them to a journalist, who may or may The last line of Watchmen is "I leave it the comic book in your hands, you decide what Maybe Ozymandias' hoax is revealed - maybe even if it risks nuclear war. Or maybe you believe in Ozymandias' brave and lies. Or maybe you feel like Dr. Manhattan. He decides that humans are too annoying and life elsewhere - there's no place for Or maybe you relate to Dan and Laurie. They don't save the world , or die for a But they do get a happy ending - they fall life together, planning to continue being They know that being heroes doesn't achieve They know it's childish and dangerous. But they embrace the fun and romance of it. Watchmen is a criticism of the fantasy of and more complicated than we like to admit. But despite that, Dan and Laurie's story it brings joy and meaning to peoples' lives the perfume smashed, millions died. We grew up. But we can still have nostalgia for simpler In the end, Watchmen is a Rorschach test. Everyone has a different interpretation of ideas resonate with you - it's entirely Comment below if you want more Watchmen content show coming out soon. There are also adaptations of His Dark Materials, make videos about some of these series. So now's a good time to listen to these You can get any of these for free right now Members get an audiobook each month, and if You can listen in the car or the gym or in cat. All of these are classics and you won't So sign up at audible.com/asx. Thanks for watching. Thanks to Patrons Esther, Earl, andrew Bronfman, Cheers.