One o'clock in the morning We are under a bridge in Lanling Eat a commercial ghost stall that claims to be the most rampant in Guangxi It is said that most of the food here is Nanning local tyrants. So much seafood. Look at the pressure. It's the same as a big hotel. And they don't have a price tag. The boss said how much is how much A small brothel Hey, no, no, no. Xiao Qinglong is clearly marked, one hundred and thirty-one Beautiful or alive. Then the rest of the bosses to see the mood to collect money Three large oysters Two more abalone After he has chosen the materials himself. Can cook powder, can also cook noodles This shrimp is half a shrimp Today we have a seafood noodle Come on, come on, what else What else? Bamboo shengye wow yeah yeah yeah oh Good stuff. Do I come here often? Uh... Not occasionally, occasionally everyone has a good time. Come once a month After all, this may be a little bit a little bit expensive, right A little bit is OK, still OK Another piece of Guangxi pork That's it. Ask the boss. Gee How much is this dish You have so many, do you want some green vegetables? Did I come all the way to Nanning to eat green vegetables? Just kidding, add a little more. I caught sight of this kidney flower More, what is this? Yellow River? Come on, wow, it's the top This is the Yellow River, then what is this This is bovine throat Wow. And there's this, and there's eels And this is what we call the snail. Are the brothers missing the same, less turtle Is that right? Ha ha, come on, come on Add some more beef louver Wow. This dish really reached the top. Big Brother Are all the local tyrants in Nanning who come to spend money here? It used to be now. Let's look at how much we have here. Don't say, directly you see the mood is directly a look at it A look will know A look will know This 120 This plate of this 80, a total of 200 yuan Er... Didn't you just say 130 Uh, one hundred and two hundred and two Then I, then I remember wrong How much is this This 80, this 120 is two hundred and two hundred dollars. Oh. So nobody cares if you set up a stall here? Ah. Is nobody in charge? This is 1991, this is now In 1991, at this starlight Fujian intersection I have been working in this field for more than 30 years. Then nobody cares if you don't clearly mark the price. This is the one who looks at the food to fight It's not arbitrary charges Let's cook noodles Yes, yes, okay Spend 200 yuan a bowl of noodles today Wife of shop-owner, is this lobster 130 or 120 Don't ask me, I don't know Are all live little dragon The boss really depends on his mood to collect money. 120 or 130, I am a little confused When I asked him clearly just now, he said one hundred and thirty-one Now it's 120 Wife of shop-owner said it was 130 Brothers, 200 pieces of noodles What do you think of this quantity? It's too high. Don't pull it when it's lit This is too high. Ha ha, come on, come on Eat a lobster first. cut it into this piece I don't know whether he sells 130 or 120, ha ha Really charge by mood. You came before, too. Come on, come on, come on Seafood Meal Seafood Noodles His shrimp quality is also good Hot, hot, hot, hot, I'll try this soup first Wow, it's so fresh He this ah All of them are fresh materials. The turtle is very fresh and fresh. This is Guangxi's mince, right Is Nanning roadside stall spending so high? Tuhao, it's like this Uh-huh. There are also big labor to eat, bosses to eat That's all cut into eight pieces.-Yeah. There are still many local tyrants in Nanning Why do you say this shop is rampant If this were in our Jiangsu province, it would be impossible for you to put it down. He's swinging so long, wow The bright hotel with so many dishes is just like that. Come eat eat eat eat This one, oh, we stepped on it two years ago during the epidemic. He had a long rest Finally, I ate the most rampant late-night ghost stall. This is what this is Ha ha This is fish bubble, fish bubble Bright giggle crisp cut Right, absolutely. I'm telling you, it's over Let me tell you something. After eating this seafood noodle, we are expected to have rice congee tomorrow. Without the Communist Party, there would be no good life for us. Right, right, right, right. Life is getting better, isn't it? Life is getting better, getting better We 've been making this beef soup for 60 years. 60 years, 60 years Starting from the Hui people's hotel, the Hui people's hotel began to have soup It was invented by the Hui people's hotel. It's not sold. Huainan beef soup comes from Huimin Hotel, right Right We used to sell chowder soup in cattle and cattle. Chowder soup sells more than bones. When we cook and stir-fry, our nature is good. If we can't get rid of it, we can't get rid of it. Later, we will talk about our own research. You can't sell beef soup Oh. Then we sell it for only 30 cents a bowl. It's close. Okay, okay, okay. The beef raw beef is only 60 cents a kilo The 5kg spiced beef in our restaurant is only 2 yuan a kilo, and no one buys it. No money, no money to eat Hello everyone I'm Mai Dong Today I am in Tianjiaan District of Huainan This is the North Food Market on Fover Street. according to huainan natives, ah This place is surrounded by beef soup resorts. We're going to find an old altar beef soup that has been going on for a long time. Hey. In Huainan, beef soup is full every day. But every family is different Every family is delicious. There are so many people in this vegetable market. The position is just turning ahead. Grandma, you are over 80 this year. 82 Also personally rinse beef soup now ah ah, very not easy I 've been doing beef soup all my life. I haven't been born yet. I 've been doing it all my life. What year did you do it? The old three generations, the old three generations, did it all No beef. It used to be a Hui restaurant. It used to be from the Hui people hotel. from the Hui people hotel You 've seen it at the Hui Hotel, haven't you Well, I 've seen it This is called Kyung-suke, isn't it Kim-suke vermicelli vermicelli Beef bean cake bean cake full palm powder folding powder fold ah bubble Oh, yeah. You 've really been doing this all your life, ha ha Now you have a few dollars, eight dollars, eight dollars, a uniform price. Beef ah Beef, I'm beef offal Rib meat dipped in steak sausage, huh This is the new museum, the new museum, uh, uh, uh Get us a good $20 20 yuan a bowl Give a little more for 20 yuan. Give a little more You have to watch it. Beef is a little more expensive. Beef is a little more expensive, 20 yuan Our family affairs, ha ha More meat to eat, eight pieces is too little. 20 years new. 82 years old. Ha ha ha ha, it's time to retire Children can't be busy Kids are too busy. What time is this soup? My family slaughtered cattle Your family also kill cattle Our family slaughtered cattle, cattle are our family slaughtered cattle This soup is authentic 20 yuan a bowl This bowl is not enough What time will you get up and work? What time do you get up in the morning Get up at three o'clock. 3.4 powder, 03:10 open chili to 3.4 powder Put this pepper alone and slaughter the cattle early at 03:10. Uh-huh. Kill every day? Zai Tian Tian Zai Uh-huh. If you want a golden ring, let others put it in less This beautiful golden ring, good Thank you very much Let's try two bowls of two bowls of 20 Let's have another bowl You see, this old lady is really not easy What is his position in this place Fule Street in Beicai City is called Yang Xiaowu Beef Soup. Ah, yes, Yang Xiaowu This bowl is the same as before. I eat rice rolls in winter. Market North Gate Oh 82 years old should be the oldest beef soup in Huainan Yes, yes, the oldest We invented the Hui Hotel It was invented by your Hui people hotel. Elder sister, is their beef soup delicious? I just watch the tremolo You just look at the trembles I'm actually not far away I know, National Day Road I go here to buy vegetables Dog beef soup, ha ha ha I don't want to drink in the summer. This is a lot to eat in winter, isn't it? I don't put flowers in this beef soup as raw materials. Which rice do you put in? What the hell? Don't cut chemicals. If you don't drink it, it's a spice bag. Each one is really different, is it delicious? All right. The whole family is different from other steamed beef soup. Piled up with Schizonepeta His environment, you see In fact, it is a street corner selling raw beef and boiled beef soup. It's such an environment. Good North Food Market, a junction Let's try the old lady's beef soup. 82-year-old woman, this thorn mustard Maybe people in many places don't know, he is, uh Northern Anhui Then including Shangqiu old Kaifeng It seems that this piece of food There is no such thing as Schizonepeta in Jiangsu. They burn hot pot. You can cook soup It tastes very fragrant. Our bowl is 20 beef soup. The first spicy oil in Huainan Spend a lot of money to drink a bowl of beef soup And tax the old lady. In fact, business is generally Ah. Every time I eat Huainan beef soup The first bite is a shock. I'll eat him when I get home. This is also the case. In fact, the soup is clearer. He said he didn't put any of these additives, which I believe. This is really not the case with additives. Bury this alert Beef Soup with Schizonepeta Look, this bowl is full of 20 dollars. In fact, sometimes I drink Huainan beef soup Basically, there is very little soup. It's all side dishes blanch the ice leaves One more bite I can't eat this bowl. We pick some meat to eat There is a heart in the tripe. Do you think cows don't produce beef tendons? Pony Actually in Huainan Just pick a business is not bad or old shop Basically, it tastes good. There is no thunder. Mainly this place The competition is so fierce, how can you fool around If you don't taste good, I think you'll be eliminated in a week. And in fact, there are very few such new beef soup restaurants here. They are all old shops. Why can he do it? Basically, the first is that the food is good, the people recognize it. The second is good taste It's just that you cook beef in its original flavor. It can't be that delicious. It is impossible to say that I want to eat every day. Is that beef soup good? It's delicious. It's delicious. Have a good lifetime of craftsmanship, huh Huang brilliant ha, good good good Let's finish this first. Okay, uh-huh Hey. This is the fourth beef soup we ate in Huainan. Uh-huh. This Schizonepeta mustard is a bit like mint. Especially cool I was a guest at a friend's house in Fuyang. Their family eats this Schizonepeta tenuifolia soup every day This is one side of the soil and water to raise a side of the people ah Just like southwest Chongqing, Sichuan and Yunnan eat the broken ear root, one type Ah. This bowl of soup is too full Beef The beef in their house color is quite deep The beef eaten in the first two days is white. I don't quite know why Old lady yang xiaowu beef soup in beicai city, 82 years old There is no water in the beef soup. No water at all No needle, no stuffy alkali, no mammoth alkali all know no stuffy blood You Han fought Niu Niu alloy through the hole and the blood didn't reach the stream. Oh oh oh You this is called not blood After bleeding, our countryside is clean You have a red hair this feeling oh oh Yellow beef without braised beef You eat less Yes, the color is also beautiful It's delicious. How about burning their beef? It's delicious It was when he gave birth to the boss I bought beef from her when I was pregnant. How many years have you seen He, he has graduated from college now Ha ha, it's been decades. We have suffered in this life Eat less and wear nothing. I didn't have enough to eat before, eh Previously, um... Like the 23-month New Year's Day, 23-month Drink two meals of porridge a day Neither of the two meals of porridge Without the Communist Party, there would be no good life for us. Right, right, right, right Life is getting better, isn't it? Life is getting better, getting better Grandma, can I take a picture with you? Take a picture together We'll both stand there and take a picture, okay? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on Let's take a picture together He this Yang Xiaowu cattle good We're catering with the older generation, um... Here, here, here, uh-huh, okay, come on, okay I wish your business is getting better and better Long Life Good. Ready go ready go Today we have a barbecue on the railway. This is the first time I 've seen the barbecue shop do this. The new railway is built on This is an old railroad. Lanzhou Lantong Factory Railway Kebab, Come on This is very interesting Let's take a look at the skewers here today. How much is a string of Lanzhou barbecue? It is said that it is a dollar There's a house inside Barbecue with open fire This is baked potato Lanzhou barbecue ah In fact, strictly speaking, it is not the same as barbecue. Should be called Lanzhou hot skewers Below the open flame is the charcoal fire Now how to sell that mutton 121 handle, how much is 20 yuan Oh. Just one dollar a string ah ah ah This fire is terrible fire barbecue oh This is 20 yuan for a handful of 20 strings, right Then slide to a dollar a string Oh, this meat is bright Wow. This meat is fine. The shop is small, but business is pretty good The list is full. Brothers, this waist It's also a string of one dollar. This is a 20-string cow waist How much can you sell this in your hometown? Wow. Barbecue on the oven This open fire is fast. This bakes fast What's the name of your shop? Ma Zi Barbecue But I don't know the name of your store. I know you are a railway kebab, right Look at this fire, this meat string will change color in one go. Lanzhou open fire meat His ingredients are chili noodles. Cumin and white pepper noodles, right Look, the color changed immediately. Lanzhou barbecue is the art of playing with fire Pepper noodles a large amount of chili noodles What kind of oil is this, sheep oil Parents are kebab outside What are their children doing in there? Sichuan chili Children are really sensible How old is this year? 13 ah I helped my parents from childhood. What are your 13-year-olds doing? This is charcoal. The charcoal matches are hard enough. Come on, little kidney is coming Wow, except for the mutton skewers I am most interested in this small kidney It's quite tender, look this baked tofu looks good How much is tofu a string, eighty cents a string This fire is too hard Children are really capable. Help string again And help clean the table, also can order We ordered two handcuffs of meat Half a handle of roasted peppers A handful of grilled kidney Uh... half a handful of potatoes, half a handful of tofu Two oil cakes, try them The highest etiquette of Lanzhou barbecue, baked wheat cake with meat This is ours. Your business is really good. General Generally, two handcuffs of meat have come. This is still ours, theirs Ha ha Business is really good, this situation ah I may be the first one in our village to sit on the railway and string it up, haha small waist small waist He will be very tender when he is angry. It's full of popping peppers. First of all, let's talk about a shortcoming, that is, don't come during the rush hour. Business is great. Take a look at this circle. Must be wrong peak ah Otherwise, the string before is cold. Ha ha, mutton string a piece of mutton string ah Nothing, just a few. It's really good. It's really good This is roasted chili and tofu. He is a little better I need to focus on this scone. It's really an absolute son. Thief crisp outside No one who rents who rents you Lanzhou characteristic dough sheet This is the happiness of Lanzhou people Hey. I hope this kind of fireworks on the edge of the city Can you keep as much time as possible Actually, to tell the truth Not necessarily for a long time. Brothers must feel it. I think, I feel more than this taste. Although this tastes good Oh, did you hear the potato There is a train above. Below is a string of handfuls. Comfortable, comfortable, comfortable Roasted potato chips Well, this is Lanzhou soda 504 to propose a toast to Lanzhou villagers Hakka is my one My second child boss didn't come on stage Ah, this is what life should look like. There are really a lot of delicious food in Lanzhou. I have never been to Lanzhou before. They say it's a river representing Lanzhou. Ha ha There are so many people eating strings. A river, uh, a book a bowl of noodles A river is the Yellow River A book is a reader. A bowl of noodles is beef noodles In fact, this Lanzhou barbecue is also quack Absolutely can not be ignored Eating in a bowl Look at the plate I guess today we are so many It's about 100 yuan. Think about it, which city? This string is not finished yet. Which city eats so much and adds two bowls of noodles Less than 100 yuan It is estimated that it is less than 100 yuan. Talk about the location. At Lantong Factory Then you take a taxi to come in and talk to the master Try to rely on the old railway as often as possible. After that, there is a, uh, small outpatient department in front of you. You can't turn left and come in. Ask someone. Ah. Perfect 323 years old Brothers. Today we are in Chaozhou in Chaoshan area It's a Chaozhou fish master. What kind of fish is this? Grass carp, cultured grass carp in Hanjiang Hanjiang's big grass carp pair pair pair pair Let's have a look, master raw cut grass fish fillets Oh, you knife worker How many years have it been cut Cut for over 30 years Have you removed all the red meat? Ha, yes, this red meat has a fishy smell. Oh. This is shark's fin, right It's called anti-bone Must come out This can't be cut in a day or two. This is impossible. I can't cut it for a day or two. Let's take a look at 30 years of knife work. Tut. Fish Still playing knife work, the first two days We ate Heng Fish in Heng County, Nanning, Guangxi Today we have a Chaozhou fish See what's the difference with Hengxian What kind of food do you eat most locally? The most we eat locally is grass carp. I sent it with this chicken fillet fish, oh Sea fish, right? These are all sea fish. Golden Eagle Fish Oh. This fish is beautiful, yes. What kind of fish is this leopard print This is a goldbone fish Jinpu Fish Yes, the price is a little higher. This one is 380 yuan. The golden eagle below 180 block 180, oh This is a skinned fish Uh... Eight skin fish, a few tens of pieces How do lobsters sell lobsters? This lobster is Today is two hundred and eighty-one catties This is two catties and six taels. Let me take a look More than 700, let's save it Ha ha Let's eat one of these golden peppers. Is it better to get me a brighter one? Right. Every root is bright If you drain water, you must use the best bowl. Okay, yeah Beautiful, brothers. Has anyone eaten this gold standard? This is the bloodied golden snapper There are three places in Guangdong to eat raw fish. The most famous, Shunde Chaozhou and Meizhou Wuhua Get some more of this shrimp. This is prawn, right In fact, Chaozhou fish raw ah, the best food is this shrimp Put it in ice water and put it to death. A little cruel ah Let's freeze the shell inside, right? Yes Absolutely fresh. Let's take a look at the fresh shrimp meat and eat the shrimp body. A golden eagle is such a big four pieces Oh. Do you keep this red meat? Ha, yes This red meat comes with oil. Thief flavor, very delicious Then on your side, fresh water and salt water will be mixed to eat. Can the raw produce insect diseases? Certainly not. It's very demanding of the water quality we're asking for that fish. Not ordinary fish can be used to make raw Er, this fish is a bit transparent Transparent suspicion is transparent and chilled when killed, and white when killed. This sure The bottom pad is shredded radish shredded radish Pumpkin, the shrimp is cut here. I think ah In Chaozhou's fish, shrimp is the soul. Let's take a look at our fish. Golden snapper a 180 Ouch, this is the ingredient Oh, almost silly Come on, I just checked it out. Uh, celery nine-storey tower Sour carambola Uh... Chili, garlic and shredded radish Onion, Cilantro Dried Radish with Shredded Ginger Then this is a 50-dollar shrimp This is the first time I have come to Chaozhou to eat this shrimp and raw fish. Should be in 13 years Oh, I ate this shrimp at that time. Can't stop Let's start with sashimi Two slices of gold standard fish Then shredded radish Let's cut it short. Get some of this chili onion shredded ginger He's supposed to be another spoonful. This, this is peanut oil There's that Puning bean paste and ginger in it. Come on. So, boss, am I right I added a little bit of that to everything. Add a little to each one. Pears and side dishes need not be eaten separately. You don't have to separate and just eat like this. Ah, yes, yes, yes, yes Wow. Come on. This fish is covered with ice cubes. It's cold. super cool One more piece, Guangdong Yusheng He's all fillets and side dishes. Two pieces, one piece for the nine-story tower. much more The taste is too heavy, shredded radish garlic slices Jiang Mo Celery One more of this, a close-up The soul ah peanut oil Puning bean paste raw milk should have a lot of things I only eat a few of these. A big sip of hiss Come and eat the shrimp body Look crystal clear The same way of eating. Have some of this peanut butter bean paste, fire spirit watercress Ah, it's really delicious delicious Brothers, the four big fish in Guangdong and Guangxi We ate four. Shunde Fish Heng County Fish And this raw Chaozhou fish There are only five Chinese fish in Meizhou left. Welcome to my recommend We'll try it next year. Shrimp body is delicious when I go to Meizhou next year. Hiss, I'll have a big one.