The Lord of the Rings franchise is beloved video games over the years. In 2003 a studio named Inevitable Entertainment novel, "The Hobbit". It was released on GameCube, Playstation 2, In The Hobbit you play as Bilbo Baggins - a exploring different places filled with fantasy But to a lot of people's surprise the game puzzles, collectables and combat. But the game also came with quite a few bugs artstyle. Some would remember The Hobbit fondly as a forget about it. But we're not here to talk about them today. We're here to talk about the dedicated community The people that saw the game's flaws as The people that broke the game apart, optimized You'll be surprised to see how far this overlooked game. All with a single goal; to beat the game as This is the history of The Hobbit speedruns. In The Hobbit you play through 12 different In these levels you complete various quests upgrades to your attacks and health. Bilbo can long jump and combine slash attacks making for surprisingly deep movement. All levels are separated by loading screens, So the question became "How to beat every But The Hobbit wasn't very well received was actually interested in speedrunning the That was until 4 years after launch, when "PyRoTHPS" uploaded what is believed to PyRo discovered that you could go out of bounds where you would normally sneak past trolls. From there he looped back to an area behind alternate end trigger; completing the level A large discovery and it set the tone for However it would take another three years documented for the game. Someone named "Kazooie" started uploading game. Starting with a route for the second level, Kazooie found and abused a trick that would out of bounds, then went all the way around the level without completing any of the required The slope boost was a huge discovery. By jumping and performing a well timed jump certain steepness - Bilbo would boost upward This can send him large distances depending And it opened many opportunities to skip large As a matter of fact, Kazooie found out that starting in Roast Mutton to get out of bounds that PyRo had found. Kazooie also discovered a slope boost in "Troll Normally you beat Troll Hole by climbing a you could slope boost out of bounds from a From here he travelled back to the area behind Mutton, there was an alternate end trigger; The slope boost was a huge find, but if you the game let you jump attack again. Then over the next year someone named "Rocmox" and routes for the game. Starting with a skip for a gear collection A skip which was later fittingly called "Bean Later that year he had even uploaded speedrun and Spiders", with the Flies and Spiders it used many out of bounds strategies. But then, progress on routing slowed down, That was until the next new face appeared. It was someone known as "Aceprune". Someone who would soon become a legend in Seemingly out of nowhere, on February 13th, for The Clouds Burst, the 12th and final level And the day after that he posted a route for as one for "The Gathering of the Clouds". Aceprune was showing very creative routing of the game mechanics. His routes featured precise hits on invisible never been seen before. Eventually in March he uploaded an improved he found a much faster and easier route in And with that, Aceprune was ready to do what Aceprune was prepared for every single one On July 11th 2013. Aceprune completed the first ever full game Aceprune was moving around by using long jumps everywhere else, which was fittingly named Slash jumping was faster than walking, but were used often. This was because long jumping to ground that put him in a lengthy slide animation, so Aceprune downwards. Aceprune's run was starting quite strong route well. Unfortunately he had quite a sloppy Roast and needing to wait for his jump attack to But that was made up for by an excellent Troll was generally considered even harder than Unfortunately Aceprune died in Over Hill and Giants section. But he performed the rest of the level quite with the slope boost right at the end. In Riddles in the Dark - Aceprune died pretty not too long before, which led to a generally Aceprune had now completed half of the game's But the hard parts were yet to come. Aceprune performed the level "Flies and with a tricky slope boost at the end. This level actually has a set of three big This was a notoriously hard fight in a speedrun, level you up are avoided, meaning Bilbo was Aceprune did play it safe by using various end up needing any of them. "Barrels out of Bond" didn't feature perform it well. Two thirds of the levels were completed in Then, "A Warm Welcome" was looking really However as luck would have it and Aceprune section, this happened. Dying this far into the basement hurts. But this being the first ever run of the game, Unfortunately this negative momentum carried died in the section where you avoid Smaug Then before even getting back to the Smaug chandelier parkour. But finally on Aceprune's third attempt any more mistakes. Next up, The Gathering of The Clouds. The longest level in the speedrun, with a There were numerous potential time saves that But most notable was a very tight slope boost room. Aceprune was stuck on this slope boost for Enough to put any runner on a severe tilt. But aceprune persevered and cleared The Gathering Now loading into the final level; "The Clouds Despite his mistakes before. Aceprune performed his already complex route Aceprune's final time was 1 hour, 35 minutes The run was far from perfect, but what he speedruns. The flashy tricks, deep routing and interesting When progress on routing the game had slowed, finished it. And so, Aceprune was the one to kick off The Thanks to Aceprune's efforts, there was Just a day after completing his first run route by finding a new skip. By boosting up the shoulder of a Durin statue skip the lengthy block puzzle in the main Rocmox, who had now been inactive for a year, route improvements, alongside Aceprune. And after just a single day, Rocmox found first level in the game. Instead of fighting a set of enemies which around a broken wall to slope boost up it end trigger without having to lower the ladder But the momentum didn't stop here. The next day Aceprune revisited his theoretical earlier that year. He was able to go out of bounds and do a precise Where all the interiors of the different buildings Then just before hitting the ground Aceprune the moment before he hit the ground he was And there you could collect the Black Arrow, lengthy set of puzzles. The only issue was that once he got down here to do the remaining quests and to deliver But Aceprune had an Ace up his sleeve. 2 years before this, when Kazooie first started Kazooie had uploaded a video showcasing some One of the things he showed was Bilbo clipping animation, then after falling for several This turned out to be a failsafe mechanism, to be stuck. But how did the game choose where to warp? Well as it turns out, the developers figured for 2 consecutive seconds, that spot was probably and warp Bilbo back in the event he got stuck. This warping mechanism - later called "clip the basement with the black arrow. Aceprune figured out that Bilbo's "safe" level after death, so after jumping down to jumping, so he never touched the ground for Then he grabbed the black arrow and clipped His safe spot was never updated because of beginning of the level, from where he could skipping the puzzles leading up to the black This skip was mind blowing. It was extremely creative and fast. Potentially saving upwards of 7 whole minutes. While all these skips were being found, someone Hobbit. He was an established speedrunner of various at the time, his name was SimpleFlips. SimpleFlips also played on GameCube. And not long after doing his first run he of the Clouds. And well, he had a better idea. SimpleFlips first completed some puzzles to He then got on top of the big elevator motor to prepare for a clip warp. He then kept jumping all the way back to the On his way back he went through a load trigger the main hall, so when SimpleFlips got himself none of the room's walls were loaded and the Arkenstone; the level's final objective. From there he rode one of the lifts he had and finished the level. This was a super creative and smart use of level and saved around a full 5 more minutes The day after this big discovery SimpleFlips Armed with new skips and extra practice. He started his timer and hit "new game". SimpleFlips started his run fairly safely. He didn't do the new Dream World skip. And the first few levels had a couple mistakes. But he made up for it with a solid Over Hill Aceprune's run. In Riddles in the Dark, SimpleFlips used a He was able to skip the stealth section without He did this by waiting out the perfect moment up a slope, behind the final guard. From where he hit the switch that freed the He wasn't able to get this first try, but it on his second try he still saved a good Unfortunately though, SimpleFlips made a mistake even with Aceprune again. In Flies and Spiders SimpleFlips took a starting Aceprune used. Unfortunately SimpleFlips fell down in the over a minute. But he would more than make up for it by having on some saves, which brought him from being ahead. SimpleFlips had learned the new A Warm Welcome mistakes - which was impressive given the Now he was over 6 minutes ahead of Aceprune, because Aceprune had struggled a lot on this As you might recall, Aceprune had 2 major But SimpleFlips performed this level almost over Aceprune. But The Gathering of the Clouds was where He had his new skip and he was up against And SimpleFlips pulled through. This alone put him another 13 minutes ahead SimpleFlips's endgame so far was amazing. But SimpleFlips had made a crucial mistake. He hadn't prepared enough for the final Early on he got sniped by one of the Goblin amount of health you have in a speedrun. And later on SimpleFlips realized he forgot He found himself lost. Eventually falling back on doing some of the SimpleFlips did eventually recollect himself, From being 23 minutes ahead into the final seconds ahead on the final split. SimpleFlips set a new record with a time of This was still a huge improvement over Aceprune's partially because of much better execution Clouds Burst. SimpleFlips completed this run live on his There he had a small but dedicated following, community itself. This brought more eyes to the speedrun than to take shape, with new people learning the still breaking the game. Unfortunately despite the growing community, and competing. But his legend was far from over. Aceprune stuck around and he would go on to off with "Early Arkenstone". Aceprune used his block puzzle skip to get Then he travelled through the room leading He kept going until he reached the room with room. He then waited and set his safe spot on the warp. He then travelled back to the room leading on a chain. He had moved through a loading trigger and he warped back, he too - had a clear view And he was just close enough to perform a level in record time. Aceprune had done it, he had completely broken Aceprune combined SimpleFlips's idea of own block puzzle skip. Finishing The Gathering of the Clouds in only The only downside was that the block puzzle trick at this time because of how precise it was an amazing discovery nonetheless. At the same time, a new runner from The Netherlands This person also liked speedrunning various through some of them. So when he saw SimpleFlips run the game and it was no surprise that he decided to pick His name was iRule. iRule was young and enthusiastic, with a lot take him very long to complete his first run. On his first run on October 4th, 2013 he set Which he soon improved to 1 hour 25 minutes record. Then on October 20th, roughly a month after 1 hour 14 minutes and 37 seconds. Beating SimpleFlips by almost 3 minutes and However, the run was honestly not amazing. There were still a lot of mistakes and it iRule using the new Gathering of the Clouds Although the run was arguably worse overall, iRule had found a faster spot to clip warp and although the end of the video seems to that iRule's Clouds Burst took about 7 and than SimpleFlips did it. But SimpleFlips wasn't done, he knew he Gathering of Clouds skip too. So he did. Just one day after iRule's record. SimpleFlips got a run with a time of 1 hour Unfortunately the video of this run was lost early arkenstone skip and a better Clouds With the current strategies that was a very be so easy. Yet iRule wasn't sitting still. On the very same day SimpleFlips broke the iRule suddenly completely changed Riddles He found out that the area connecting to the level - and the area where you first spot next to each other. He also found that if you grab the ledges them you could clip through the cave walls From here you could jump to the area just This completely skipped the longest part of how it was done before. And to top it all off it was easier to execute A large discovery and it would motivate iRule So the very next day on October 22nd 2013, and continued doing runs. It wouldn't take him very long to get a skip, iRule was already ahead by almost 7 He would keep saving time on almost every far ahead in A Warm Welcome by avoiding mistakes It was unlikely that this run could turn sour To everyone's surprise, the run actually which would be a historic moment in The Hobbit And it ultimately came down to one last slope But iRule missed it once, unfortunately killing The final time and the new world record was This was undoubtedly a great run, but the iRule was actually playing with a considerable You see, iRule didn't own a physical copy his speedruns and unfortunately GameCube emulation as it is now, leading to significantly faster That wasn't enough to make anyone question the advantages were undeniable. Although sub 1 hour was close, something had So iRule ordered a physical copy of the game It would take a little bit of time before he still had to make up for the advantage But about a month after switching, iRule was The Clouds Burst. And after some unfortunate events; iRule was with sub 1 hour on the line for the second Unfortunately he missed it again. iRule's final time was 1 hour and 8 seconds; But if this run had been played on an emulator As such, the community had considered this world record. But iRule wasn't satisfied, not only did but twice. He knew he could do much better. So over the next two weeks he kept practicing barrier. iRule had a solid start, even getting a gold Even his "Flies and Spiders" was looking struggled on the spider boss more than other just over a minute of potential timesave. But thanks to his clean execution of the level The run was good so far but it was when going really start to live up to his name. iRule had just golded on three splits in a and his lead only grew bigger. But what awaited him was The Gathering of and had put an end to many good runs. And iRule did struggle with the block puzzle However this was to be expected given the up losing about 12 seconds over his record. That put iRule into The Clouds Burst. The final level and the one that had been two times before. But this time he had almost 3 minutes to work get a high 56 minute time. And things were going pretty well, iRule didn't all about the game's mechanics - or maybe But through what happened next, iRule couldn't You might not have been able to tell from He had broken the 1 hour mark and finished It was an amazing run with a bitter end. If you had just told someone the new world to those who witnessed the run it was clear still do better. But iRule wasn't alone because Aceprune While Aceprune wasn't doing runs of the The thing about Aceprune was that nobody in him. Aceprune didn't participate in any group the runner's stream chats. So everyone in the community eagerly anticipated findings. And Aceprune did not disappoint. On December 11th 2013, a new skip appeared It was Aceprune and he had broken the unbreakable Aceprune found out that you could clip warp them a certain way. He then figured out that by setting his safe - he could warp back up from the basement get to the end of the basement much quicker. This completely skipped some annoying jumps but making the run much more comfortable. So with that new discovery, it didn't take Just a day after the new Barrels out of Bond the way from 58:11 down to a 52:31. Even in The Clouds Burst iRule was able to him before. And he performed the final slope boost and It seemed unlikely that anyone could dethrone be the best execution of a single route that Because within the next month, the speedrun Just a day after the 52:31; Aceprune uploaded of bounds for both the beginning and ending Both more difficult to perform; but undoubtedly But that was only the start of it. Because no matter the optimizations and skips, speedruns. Occasionally when long jumping, runners would mid jump, resulting in a much shorter long This was a phenomenon the community called In a lot of places this wouldn't matter needed the full length of a long jump to make there would mean death and ultimately a run This was something runners just had to deal and too frequent to ignore. But when practicing, iRule noticed something. He long jumped around in Troll Hole and noticed the exact moment he did his long jump and "The cause was lag". That was the theory iRule came to. So iRule had an idea, he would try turning with the goal of keeping as little of the He thought that way the console had less visual And it turned out to be effective. This huge issue that runners had to deal with moving the camera. It was still hard to fully prevent long jump right camera strategies there was a very good Although there were some runners that were glitch; iRule would soon prove it the best On December 28, 2013; iRule had once again 50 minute and 35 second time. By incorporating his method of avoiding long consistently and finally managed to reach the new route discovered by Aceprune. This was a great run, yet iRule didn't consider A sub 50 time was looking very doable, but The Hobbit had a lot of difficult tricks; It would still take many attempts to get runs But worst of all was the Flies and Spiders iRule had been really vocal about his dislike tried to optimize his time, the harder the So iRule planned to take a step back from But one day the community spotted something It was a Flies and Spiders boss skip. Of course, uploaded by Aceprune. This was one of, if not the most remarkable And it had just quietly appeared, completely Skipping the spider boss was unthinkable; all of the bosses and waiting. Yet aceprune had done it. The spider boss was no more. But how? Aceprune had gone out of bounds, right before he then climbed all the way behind the big A cutscene played,, Bilbo fell and the end-of-level It was another alternate end trigger. One that didn't require the spider boss Just like Roast Mutton and Troll Hole had had one too, but it was in a ridiculous out thought of checking. Nobody, other than Aceprune. The new Flies and Spiders boss skip put iRule's There was no way he was going to leave that So on January 25th 2014; iRule once again He had actually been working on his movement was quickly gaining a lead early on. The run was looking very solid into Flies And after doing the new spider boss skip iRule But unfortunately he would struggle with the minutes. But the rest of the run actually went really in The Clouds Burst. The new world record was 47 minutes and 19 Yet, it was far from the best iRule could this record wouldn't easily be broken for So this run stayed the world record. Despite its flaws, it stayed the record for But the speedrun had been evolving so quickly, for; was actually only just under three months. In those three months, iRule had regained following month; he ascended. After three massive new times iRule had lowered and 27 seconds. This was undoubtedly the best Hobbit speedrun the tricks only getting more and more difficult. The run still wasn't perfect; but to beat great trick execution. Even the standards for slash jumps were getting The skill gap between iRule and the rest of For the first time since iRule started running decided to truly take a step back from the Maybe one day, like magic - Aceprune would be motivated again. But unfortunately that day never came. The Flies and Spider boss skip was the final And it seemed like the community might finally But there was something special about iRule's Usually when a speedrunner performs serious gameplay and tend to stay quiet during difficult he was almost purely commentating with little Not very different from a games-done-quick everything in the run. The skips, the tricks and his personal thoughts This was the record and probably the first hobbit would see. And rightfully; this run would be viewed more Where runs would previously accumulate a few thousands. And among those thousands, were new speedrunners Some of the notable speedrunners were: SilenceErupts, an older runner who held second Shockster, a friend of iRule who had really KerfMerf, a newer runner who was improving Tangrams, a slightly older runner who took came back stronger. And Dwhatever; also a friend of iRule who main game. These runners would go on to compete with The skill gap had been clear so far and real since iRule got the first sub 1 hour time. But suddenly and unprecedented in The Hobbit getting within minutes, sometimes seconds The leaderboard was getting stacked, the competition And SilenceErupts was the one leading the And finally on December 25th 2014, 8 months on pace to finally beat the world record. It was probably the pressure; SilenceErupts had been in The Clouds Burst. It was going to be extremely close, but it Ultimately SilenceErupts missed out on the iRule's 1 year streak of being the uncontested least a little longer. It had now been 8 months since iRule had last to come back. iRule started derusting. He was practicing skips, grinding individual beat his old record and keep it safe from But it was during this practice that iRule Right before the final section in The Clouds lower a bridge so Beorn - the skin changer But iRule figured out that you could throw a pillar, hitting the barrel behind it and The date now is January 27, 2015 - And once ever before; iRule went back to running. And he made a bold statement on the game's Despite the bold claim, iRule's start wasn't He was already 8 seconds behind when going But he managed to gold split it and saved This was probably because of just how movement level practice had helped. Going into Flies in Spiders iRule could potentially he had made in his record. But unfortunately he accidentally fell into going out of bounds. This clip warped back to the beginning and here. However, this mistake wasn't catastrophic And it most certainly didn't kill his momentum. An astonishingly massive new world record surprising iRule as much as everyone else. Almost all of that timesave came just from The competition that was inching their way had proven that it would take more to dethrone But iRule was still motivated and shifted see results in the coming month, where iRule First for Inside Information. Normally you have to wait for over a minute But by doing the block puzzle to plug the clip warp back up from the chasm while activating Something nobody was able to figure out how But due to the large amount of steps required a potential minute. iRule's second discovery was something huge Inspired by Aceprune's old research here, cellar key early and completely skip the basement. By setting his safe position in the stockade, it there until reaching the barrel room, then of the stockade was now unloaded. Faced with a void of what seems like nothingness, the basement cellar key before getting warped pedestal just as easily. This skip saved almost a minute and half, But iRule wasn't the only one finding skips. There was someone named Chrixiam, or Chrix Chrix had previously been working on routing switched to playing console. And soon after, Chrix found a large skip in He found out that where runners were purposefully instead avoid it and reach the end of the over a bit of void. This was another major discovery, skipping saving 50 seconds. Thanks to all of these discoveries, the world now had over two minutes of free timesave And obviously iRule couldn't let that stand. So on April 25th 2015, iRule improved the out of Bond" and "Flies and Spiders" But this run frankly didn't have the same There were many sloppy mistakes and iRule skip he was so proud of. The run was even done off stream, without It was clear that he just wanted a run with in doing runs anymore. iRule had considered quitting a few times showing again. But iRule still enjoyed breaking the game, And over the next year he would steadily optimize On Jul 10th, 2015 - iRule found a way to skip by precisely avoiding a cutscene trigger, fight from the speedrun. On Aug 28th - iRule improved the middle section of bounds later and hitting the load trigger another 14 seconds. On Aug 29th - Chrix found a faster, but much out of bounds earlier, saving about 10 seconds. On Aug 30th - iRule learned of a different community, which focused on beating the game Someone named Samwise in this community had was slightly closer by and could also be used On Aug 31st - Chrix found a new Flies and earlier and is a little easier although it But iRule then tweaked this route a bit to The potential timesaves were adding up again doable. But the gap between iRule and the rest was SilenceErupts who had 39:43 at this point But unfortunately, iRule had finally completely Yet he was prideful and stubborn when it came This eventually caused friction between him to quit for real. The 38:32 was the last time ever posted by Time passed and eventually, the world record for over a year and community activity had However, that year had not been completely At least not for Chrixiam, who had now fully competitive GameCube version. Chrix had been steadily improving his pb and While competition had stagnated, he kept grinding. Chrix didn't have the best equipment for either. Chrix was slowly pushing the community forward Finally on May 2nd 2016, 1 year and 8 days the world record with a 37:57, breaking the had then held the world record for almost Chrix had done what nobody could do for years, Interestingly, Chrix was unique in that he other runners: And that showed in his runs, Chrix would sometimes he could get more runs going and instead aimed he believed in. And it worked, by slowly implementing new them kill runs, he started improving his time 2 weeks after breaking the world record, Chrix and 44 seconds. This was a very impressive run and Chrix was This time Chrix chose to do a safer Dream Troll Hole skip that he had found three months The rest of the run was very solid; Chrix did but because of that he made way fewer lot of time. Quoting Chrix from the time: "Pretty close Not much to improve in this run, really. Just a bunch of minor mishaps here and there. Like getting two long jump glitches on the And he was right, the run was extremely solid So with that, Chrix's new world record stood But something amazing happened within those Chrix had made an insane discovery, one that The Hobbit speedruns. Chrix found out about capture cards. With Chrix's pixel count being exponentially game. And over the next year Chrix steadily improved On September 16th, 2017, after 4 new world the way down to 35 minutes and 10 seconds. He was now using most of the optimal strats. With every pb you could see his movement getting him. Chrix couldn't be stopped. His run still had mistakes in some of the compete with his movement and execution. There was once again a seemingly insurmountable and the rest and it wasn't looking like But despite the skill gap, Chrix would not That's because something had been going Someone named MD_Pi had joined the community level, unlike anyone before him. MD_Pi knew how to hack the game and explore And MD_Pi had made big discoveries in the Most notably, MD_Pi discovered how to abuse This is undoubtedly the most game breaking history. By pressing R and A on the same frame when copy of the game's start menu would be made. This copy of the menu has a very special property, you ended a level with the glitch active. MD_Pi figured out that you could abuse this Party, then continue to the next level and From there you load back into an Unexpected level. Now the "End Level" event is stored and you came from. Then all that had to be done was to find a to skip, which started the stored "End Level" And all of the sudden you skipped the level. This could be repeated for many levels, finishing require a frame perfect input. This discovery absolutely broke the speedrun 10 minutes and much more if you didn't count But it was also highly controversial. When using menu glitches, the majority of invalidated. The run would devolve into just hitting these loading screens for a good portion of the So it was no surprise that Menu Glitches became rather forget about and one that very few And the Any% category now turned into Any% And that's where we continue our story. Fortunately, not everything MD_Pi found was By exploring the PC version's memory and for glitch hunting. It was a developer menu. This was a menu used by the developers to no normal player should ever have. Like flying, visualizing triggers, showing MD_Pi was now able to glitch hunt much more And he would use it to great success. And so on October 13th, 2017, MD_Pi had found Until now almost all main objectives in the to finish it. But MD_Pi had found the one thing that could trigger. One that didn't require any of the quests just touching it. Unfortunately, this end trigger was located by an invisible floor. But when Chrix heard about this end trigger it. Chrix realized that the invisible floor covering when Bilbo entered the warehouse. Entering the warehouse still required the the thief quest with his clip warp position back. From here he jumped out of bounds and carefully end trigger; while the invisible floor was He then platformed back in bounds while jumping back to where the thief quest ends. Then he waited while jumping until the thief This set off a bunch of cutscenes during which very fast and started jumping right after to avoid his safe position from updating. From there Chrix went into the warehouse and And finally when he warped back to his safe no longer loaded and he fell straight into This was a massive skip for one of the longer and a half; and it was engineered by some history. Over the next month and a half; Chrix started A Warm Welcome skip. Chrix had made insane progress, lowering the 54 seconds on November 30th, 2017. While at first Chrix was steadily improving he had now implemented almost everything there Hole skip that Chrix had held off on using And all of that with better movement than Although funnily enough in the end Chrix lost the final barrel in The Clouds Burst. Chrix still wasn't fully satisfied, he knew to do so in the future. But for now, the world record would lay dormant There were still old and new runners improving threatened Chrix's record. But then MD_Pi made another major discovery; it's speedrunning infancy. There was one level that was longer than any been broken by iRule, through an overly complex It was Inside Information. But there was no alternate end trigger here it was blocked by an insurmountable invisible the water and helped the dwarves. Though insurmountable, one could go below By clipping out of bounds without completing yet loaded; but the invisible wall blocking However the end trigger extended further downward but just barely enough for MD_Pi. He figured out that you could perform a slash and follow it up with a tight jump attack hitting the invisible wall. This completely skipped having to do any quests to reach the out of bounds spot as quickly This turned Inside Information from a 6 minute But the Inside Information skip was extremely had ever seen. If your slash timing off the edge was too and lose your momentum and if the slash wasn't at all. On top of that you still needed to time the things weren't executed perfectly, it meant The reward was huge; yet so was the risk. And until someone performed an amazing run be a lot of time to save. Once again a discovery so big had been made runs. And so it was Chrix who continued his grind. Because of the 4 and a half potential minutes able to take many runs he normally wouldn't So he once again fell back on the older Troll going. And just a day after, Chrix managed to set This run was definitely thanks to the new into Inside Information and the new skip took Ater that The Clouds Burst had some big mistakes. But either way a record was a record and Chrix Just about a week later, Chrix was on another He was already 11 seconds ahead of his world But if and only if Chrix hit the ever so difficult And he did. Chrix was now a whopping 2 minutes and 15 This was easily on pace to sub 30. Yet there was still more time to save in The This time, it all came together and Chrix minutes and 46 seconds. An amazing run with very few mistakes, completely The Hobbit speedruns had evolved more than the forefront with no signs of giving it up. But, there was one cycle that had repeated Chrix once again chose to forego some of the to focus on optimizing his time with the new The most obvious dropped strategy being the If Chrix implemented it together with other to push the record below 28 minutes. But Chrix had seemingly grown to really dislike So instead he chose to focus on the routes Finally, two months after the 28:46. Chrix got a run that seemed like it was meant He started off with a great beginning, hitting down. As expected, the older Troll Hole strat was it was top notch. Even up to Flies and Spiders there were no Here Chrix did make some tiny mistakes like going into first person mode for a moment, Chrix even re-implemented a small timesaving and he was now ahead by 5 seconds. In Barrels out of Bond, Chrix had the chance gotten a long jump glitch on the out of bounds This time though, his Barrels out of Bond Now ahead by 18 seconds. Even A Warm Welcome went as usual, posing Finally it was time for Inside Information. In his record he had gotten this skip first This time there was no reason to save, as he had gained. And because of that Chrix could also clip saving time on skipping a savepoint, but taking It was time to execute the hardest trick in But now on a run that was near perfect. With everything on the line, Chrix went for He hit it. The run was now a massive 34 seconds ahead This pace was insane. Chrix had definitely gotten better at the guaranteed. Fortunately Chrix had no issues with it and another 3 seconds. The pressure was on. First, the slash jump into out of bounds slope you from range. Done. Next, Corwin skip. Moving just a tiny bit too far would risk death. A bit shaky, but done. Next, the slope boost off the catapult. No problem. Coming up, the precise rock throw to lower Took some time for the setup, but first try. And finally, the final out of bounds to reach before. It had been done, under the immense pressure off a very solid Clouds Burst. Ultimately setting a new world record of 28 This truly was truly an amazing time set by the community for the past 3 years. This was truly a level of optimization that This run became a highlight of the community, And it was very well deserved. Quoting Chrix himself: "This run is outstanding. There are no major mistakes anywhere and the the routes I use. I'm probably going to stop running this category perfect." So Chrix left it at that. He had pulled so far ahead of the competition that anyone would match him, even if they Chrix moved on to making community resources So the record remained at 28:12. It wasn't like nobody was trying to catch was that far ahead. Still, there was Zaltrip, a fairly new runner his pb from 50 minutes all the way down to And there was also Schneider, who had mainly lowered his GameCube personal best down to Yet Inside Information skip was still an absolute runners. But Zaltrip found a way to get very fast retries much time or saving. He found out that if you attempt the skip attack, Bilbo would go into a zombie state In this state, Bilbo's health is 0 but you while and that was just enough for the fadeout it would if the stairs were loaded. So as long as you judged your slash boost you could retry the ridiculously hard Inside This was a very nice find. Looking back to Chrix. He wasn't completely done with The Hobbit. Though Chrix had no plans of improving his invested in the game and in growing the community. And Chrix got an idea to help do just that. With some push from other community members speedrun in Summer Games Done Quick 2019. This is a huge speedrunning marathon event The event has raised millions of dollars for to watch. But it isn't easy to get a speedrun into of submissions and Chrix wasn't the first But if The Hobbit made it in, that would bring This was a chance for growth and for a great The Hobbit community had grown substantially a Games Done Quick event, so it wasn't impossible And so Chrix got back to doing some practice featured. In these practice runs Chrix started implementing before. This included the fast Troll Hole skip that Chrix even planned to use something called This is a very tricky long jump shortcut that successfully it could save around 10 seconds. Perhaps it was because these were practice So laid back that one run Chrix was non stop And in that run Chrix had hit the fast troll Hill, where he had a thought. It's clear that Chrix said this jokingly, realistic. Thanks to the fast Troll Hole skip, web skip Spiders, Chrix was now already 28 seconds The pace was insane, but now Chrix was left strats. So could he hold this lead? There was some timeloss. Mainly from struggling with the clip warp for Inside Information skip. Fortunately thanks to Zaltrip's fast retry And after a clean Gathering of the Clouds, This run had suddenly turned very serious. With a good Clouds Burst, this could be sub To achieve that Chrix chose to do active Corwin fight. This is much easier to do quickly, but if it was run over. It was up to Chrix to warp back as quickly lower Corwin's health too quickly. It was close, but the run wasn't guaranteed Unfortunately, following this Chrix made two he wanted to go. The chance of a sub 28 was almost gone. But Zaltrip had actually discovered a slightly was planning to use. This was going to be close. Chrix no less. The previous world record had stood for 13 History. Yet Chrix finally beat it, while talking about It had been 3 years since Chrix took the world And Chrix had now lowered his first world This was a massive improvement thanks to many course Chrix himself. There was still some time to save in Barrels to Chrix now implementing some of the harder so unlikely that this time would get beaten. It wouldn't be long until Chrix got some The Hobbit had been accepted into Summer Games The speedrun this community had been working to shine on the big stage and to help raise There's almost nothing better you can ask community and everyone was stoked. Finally the big day came, on June 24th 2019 world. With a crowd behind him and tens of thousands was on him and the speedrun. And Chrix brought some people along with him They were: Authorblues, KerfMerf and TinaHacks. The first 2 now being long time Hobbit speedrunning Together they were able to highlight the impressive to forget the jankiness of the game. In this marathon run, where Chrix only got one managed to get a time of 34 minutes and 6 This was solid for a marathon run and Chrix Thanks to the great performance by Chrix and some needed renewed attention. With the efforts of everyone involved, this launch, managed to slowly but steadily keep release. After Summer Games Done Quick the community As for Chrix, there was still some time to But it wasn't going to be easy. Chrix, however, still wanted something else So he kept focusing on other Hobbit related try to beat the game while doing as few of Chrix was also grinding the All Quests category, you. But here and there Chrix still did some Any% Despite Any% NMG being an afterthought for Chrix got a run going into Riddles in the Chrix had stopped doing web skip during this Yet when finishing riddles in the dark without But the next few levels weren't so clean, clip in Barrels out of Bond and some more was now 15 seconds behind going into Inside But this is where Chrix could reclaim his unless he hit Inside Information skip the After that amazing Inside Information, Chrix The Gathering of the Clouds could still make and he was now 8 seconds ahead. You might have noticed that Chrix rarely ever reached The Clouds Burst's loading screen new record. And under the pressure Chrix ended up thinking in reality he was actually still significantly So in The Clouds Burst, Chrix pulled all the stops. And there it was, Chrix set a new record of What a back and forth run. Though the start was a bit rough, Chrix more Inside Information skip first try then pulling And the only strat Chrix had skipped out on Yet he still believed there was time to be in his video description. But that wouldn't happen anytime soon, as world record in The Hobbit speedrunning history. Still the community had grown in recent times to be the second person ever to get a sub Yet, it didn't seem like any of the current who had been holding the record for over 4 But there was someone new who showed promise. In June 2020 someone going by the name of level runs on a GameCube emulator. Not just any runs, but Individual level world IceBagels quickly took the records in Troll and The Gathering of The Clouds. Yet he had never even posted a full game run. And on June 5th 2020 IceBagels posted something Together with the help of a friend he had skip. By long jumping at a specific angle and jump the same distance as the slash boost off the The difference was that a long jump always easier to pull off. That said, this was a spot that was at high still needed to be careful with your setup. Either way this made Inside Information skip to those willing to learn the setup. So with everything that IceBagels had shown, been. Finally on June 9th 2020, IceBagels submitted He had achieved a time of 29 minutes and 23 Instantly putting him second place on the third ever sub 30 in The Hobbit. This level of improvement was unseen and nobody Who was this guy? Well the community soon found out. IceBagels wasn't a new runner at all. No, IceBagels was potentially one of the most IceBagels was actually iRule, the previous iRule had come back under this username because sure if he actually wanted to commit to speedrunning But once iRule started setting competitive to compete, he revealed himself. IceBagels was just a throwaway account, but time. iRule now went by "MKarma". I, the creator of this video, am MKarma and Sorry for hiding this from you so far, I thought Anyway I'll be referring to MKarma and iRule I was going hard on grinding the game again do and provided great practice. Combined with the fact that I had the experience of the first Hobbit speedrunners, meant I But The Hobbit speedruns had certainly evolved Many new strats had been found, some of which And the standards for movement were much higher. Although I had shown potential, there was 4 year streak of holding the world record. I had a ton of catching up to do. At first I came back to speedrunning on an the GameCube controller, which caused considerable Even though modern versions of the Dolphin if I was going to be serious at running the hardware. So I got back to practicing and eventually my personal best all the way down to 28 minutes Now within 30 seconds of Chrix's world record. But at this point I had already shown I had every trick and moved like I did in practice. But in a game with this many difficult tricks much easier said than done. Just under a month later, I started getting Chrix still generally had a bit better movement compared to mine. So starting off this run I was already 8 seconds I cut out the setup for Troll Hole skip completely. But that was within expectations. Although my start was worse, I had a couple On Over Hill and Under Hill I closely matched my best I wouldn't fall behind. Then in Riddles in the Dark I managed to hit not to do in his run. But my Riddles in the Dark wasn't perfect, behind Chrix. But Flies and Spiders is where I could close Back before I quit in 2015 I had found a time it so far because of its difficulty. With Chrix going as far as to name it "stupid However, I was confident in it and when I Unfortunately during the next section where off and couldn't climb back up before the seconds. But because Chrix had a somewhat sloppy Flies to the end trigger, I still managed to save just barely behind Chrix. Then on Barrels out of Bond, which could potentially heavy the level is, I managed to keep up. Even saving 9 seconds over Chrix because I try. The run was suddenly looking very doable as performing a near perfect A Warm Welcome I But that was far from a comfortable lead. Coming up was Inside Information, where I I had discovered together with my friend Shockster. This was a lot easier than the old way, but I hit it, but my setup was slower than first So after Inside Information I was now only I was now up against Chrix's amazing endgame, I only had a small 5 second lead. I could not afford any mistakes. I had finally done it. I took the world record with a new time of Breaking Chrix's 4 year streak of holding quitting 5 years ago as iRule. I was back, better than ever. But at some points I wasn't sure if I could earlier levels in the run. There was so much I had to catch up on. But by cutting out a lot of setups, implementing many hours of individual level runs. I was back on the throne. And this time, I wasn't planning on giving During my years of absence, so much of the And so much of the community had changed. It was no longer a little group of friends a full fledged community with people all over Yet our community still wasn't done growing. Our story is far from done. After all, we've only covered the GameCube that could potentially be pushed even further. I urge you to stick around and listen as we History of The Hobbit speedruns, on PC. At the start of this video I mentioned that GameCube, Playstation 2, Xbox and PC. The console versions of The Hobbit were all a bit faster when load times are not counted. But the PC version of The Hobbit actually They were mainly control differences that for a playthrough. On PC, the camera is locked to be almost always able to move into 4 directions with the WASD This was a huge contrast to the free camera inputs. Bilbo's walking speed was also lowered on Many would argue the PC version feels less platforming. So it's probably no surprise that the console significantly more attention than the PC version. But that didn't stay true forever. We're going back to 2015, when I was known wasn't doing speedruns on console yet. Because at this time Chrix was the first to speedrunning attention. It was on September 4th 2015 that Chrix had an edited together run to prove his concept. In this concept Chrix showed a route that This first, somewhat sloppy proof of concept world record at this time. But how does that make sense, when the PC The biggest thing was that PC load times were But even without counting loads, this first route that had been optimized for years. The reason for this was that PC had insane On PC you could practically clip through any through them so quickly it felt like they This was probably a development oversight to a keyboard and mouse system and the speedrun In Chrix's first route of the PC version on Roast Mutton, wedging himself between 2 of bounds slope boost started. Then on Over Hill and Under Hill, Chrix's first gear collecting section by wedging himself And in The Gathering of The Clouds, Chrix and went around the outside out of bounds Both the Roast Mutton and Gathering of the minimums community. The rest of the levels all played out very Most things that could be done on GameCube for exclusive skips. However awkward and counterintuitive the PC actually potential for a unique speedrun on And soon after posting this proof of concept, version, the first of its kind, with a time But it was right after this that Chrix decided competition. And although PC was still just an afterthought was one person who would show its potential. This was Schneider, a new German speedrunner. And he started setting record after record, Starting off with a 32:47 on July 20th 2016. Schneider beat Chrix by almost a minute using Impressive, yet Schneider was alone and running But that didn't stop him. A little over a month later, Schneider set the record by over 2 minutes. He had adopted some of the new GameCube strategies them into PC ones. Mostly notably, the fastest Troll Hole skip than his last run. And just 7 days later on August 31st Schneider purely off better execution. But it was then, presumably because of the to playing GameCube. But fast forward to February 14 in 2018. It was around this time that speedruns on thanks to MD_Pi's efforts. And now it was actually Chrix who revisited By researching together with MD_Pi, Chrix as well as A Warm Welcome skip on the PC version. And he managed to pull off a run that got Breaking the now one and half year standing main focus still being GameCube. This marked a very significant change in PC but it's consequences. Only 10 days later, after a year and a half Schneider demolished Chrix's world record. Not just by a little bit, but by almost 4 Chrix had awakened a beast. Using the same new strategies as Chrix, Schneider the best on PC. This awakened beast rampaged for the coming Schneider had slowly cut off almost 2 minutes Now putting the new world record at 22 minutes The PC run was now almost 7 minutes faster Although it was safe to say that the execution as GameCube. Still, there was no doubt in anyone's mind were more than just impressive. Soon, about a month later it was MD_Pi who needed. While MD_Pi was busy routing A Warm Welcome PC exclusive speedrunning discovery. Runners knew that when sliding off an edge enter a slow falling state that you could this on the out of bounds invisible platform water below. Just moments later, Bilbo was slowly drifting He was floating away under the invisible floor. The same invisible floor that normally had And as luck would have it, the water's edge trigger. Over the course of about 40 seconds, Bilbo throwing mode, he fell straight into the end This meant that you no longer had to warp bounds invisible floor, instead as soon as over to the invisible floor, force yourself wait until the current carried you over the No thief quest needed. This saved close to 3 minutes over doing it And it was exclusive to PC because there you carry you, while on consoles you kept falling And of course it was MD_Pi who had found such But there was also Sillac, a new PC runner lowered his personal best to a 25:45. And Sillac actually managed to find a faster He took a sharp right soon after starting And after holding a specific angle and walking out on the other side where conveniently the jumps away. A super nice and easy timesave that allowed 20 seconds. Even for those who doubted it, the PC version business. The clunky control scheme was actually starting The 4 directional movement and the restricted more precise setups for skips and tricks. The PC version also allowed you to long jump like Riddles in Dark web skip trivially easy. Even long jump glitch was a non issue on PC And the slower walking speed on PC just meant The PC leaderboard was even serious enough final times to make sure faster loading computers And leading the PC charge was still Schneider, found in the past 5 months. On February 20th 2019, Schneider was doing A Warm Welcome only being only 12 seconds That's only 12 seconds slower than all of This added up to already being a whole 32 was just coming up. Schneider managed to execute the new A Warm 4 seconds over his gold. This put him 3 minutes and 12 seconds ahead ever sub 20 minute speedrun. And after a solid Inside Information, it was For which the route is very different from the arkenstone. Schneider played quite safely on these clips He was now 3 minutes and 8 seconds ahead going With his record having about 20 seconds of Schneider missed the timing on the early out his jump attack so not a lot of time was lost. Then Corwin skip was fine, Schneider was a Activating the catapult barrel early was no need a slope boost for this on PC. Schneider then missed one rock throw to lower rock right away, costing some extra time. Yet Schneider had no trouble going out of issues. The new PC world record and first ever sub and 39 seconds and was met with praise from With the first ever sub 20 achieved, one could Would the movement get even more optimized, found? In this case, it was the latter. There was one level that had stood strong PC. One level that when broken, was only broken One level longer than any other in the speedrun. This was how MD_Pi broke Barrels out of Bond. On March 28, 2019 MD_Pi shared a major discovery. An alternate end trigger in the form of an One that could be reached by clipping out pedestal is. Unlike the normal one, this alternate pedestal be completed. By clipping out of bounds and long jumping pedestal, you could interact with it and end Unfortunately though, the clip itself was This skip was actually not very appreciated and inconsistency and no run has ever been Because 2 months later, MD_Pi shared an even That was it. When done perfectly you could end the Barrels it. This same level took close to 6 minutes on in all of The Hobbit on PC. And it was once again thanks to MD_Pi. What you saw was another alternate end trigger, the start. But what had stopped the community from finding Well, this area behind the starting gate had huge invisible walls surround the entire area. So it was only when developer tools were discovered there and saw the alternate end trigger. Even from there it was still going to be extremely But fortunately because of PC clipping mechanics, to this tree and climb the tree by very precisely From there you could climb its branches, which walls and reach the alternate end trigger. But this trick, especially at the time, was how precise your position, how tight your for the clip, this was going to require a This time, it wasn't Schneider who would Instead, it was Sillac. And he was grinding. On July 5th 2019 Sillac posted 2 new personal The first was 20 minutes and 19 seconds, saving The next was 19 minutes and 47 seconds, achieving Sillac was now only 16 seconds behind Schneider The very next day on July 6th, Sillac set This time it wasn't just a personal best Using the new Barrels out of Bond skip and a time of 19 minutes and 20 seconds, beating Schneider was once again dethroned. But Sillac knew this new record was far from description: "Free record for anyone that Was PC finally seeing real competition? Despite being dethroned, Schneider was only Over the span of the next few days Schneider new Barrels out of Bond skip. And only three days after Sillac broke the And there it was, Schneider took back the time. Beating Sillac by over 2 minutes. If anyone still doubted it, they would now down and he would only come back stronger Schneider's run still had a number of notable Hill ending slope boost once and missing the skip twice. But as you can tell Schneider was still far And despite that competition growing, it would truly threaten Schneider's position at the Days turn into weeks and weeks turn into months. Going into 2020 there was still no sign of Enter Guigeek, a French speedrunner who had same time as the Barrels out of Bond skip Going into 2020 Guigeek's personal best been running the game on and off. But it was in late February when Guigeek started world record. And at the end of February, Guigeek lowered him in second place. This was looking doable. So he continued into March where he set another A 17:25 followed by a 17:20 when timed without He was now only 2 seconds behind Schneider. A real threat had appeared, yet there were And so on April 5th, 2020 Guigeek continued Guigeek did it. After months of grinding he earned the new loads. He was equally matched with Schneider in movement run. This made Guigeek the third person to ever the same strategies, without any advantage. This record was well deserved, but even Guigeek back to take the record at any time. And Schneider did, just a day after Guigeek's 16 minutes and 52 seconds without loads. Breaking the sub 17 mark and beating Guigeek Although Schneider had a sloppy Over Hill catch up in Flies and Spiders, where Guigeek Yet Schneider couldn't keep up with Guigeek's behind again. After this he slowly closed the gap leading managed to pull ahead by performing the level Once again Schneider came back and almost Clearly showing he was still steps ahead. Yet with all this competition, came attention Could Schneider stay ahead of the existing A couple months pass during which there isn't Yet, MD_Pi had actually found a new and faster trigger by going out of bounds much earlier the side. However this method was tricky and risky, it yet. Come October 2020, Guigeek came back stronger again. Maybe this time he could truly pull ahead And on October 5th, when Guigeek was attempting happened. Guigeek had just tied Schneider's world But it was not enough, Schneider's 16:52 This was the closest anyone had ever gotten without actually beating it. That has to be rough. But despite all odds Guigeek had not yet given Just 9 days later Guigeek managed to get an He was already ahead by 18 seconds out of coming up. That was a rough Barrels out of Bond but Guigeek knowing he had some time to save in The Clouds Guigeek managed to gold split his Clouds Burst The run was a rollercoaster of emotions. But he had done it once again. He beat Schneider for the second time with Guigeek was mixed on his opinion of this run, his big lead early on or happy that he broke But one thing was certain and that was that once again. Guigeek was looking to be the only one who Schneider had never even lost the PC world A few days passed. Eventually 10 days passed. Was Schneider having trouble beating this Did Guigeek finally get the best of him? Then, a month passes with no change. Until in November, when for the first time live with commentary instead of doing it all And after just a couple days, those livestreams and Schneider had some new tricks up his sleeve. On a run that had already missed Dream World 20 seconds over Guigeek's already solid to implementing pillar skip, which is a very waiting for the stone giants to knock the This strategy was found by Samwise and was no one had implemented it before this. And so when Schneider combined pillar skip lead. Unfortunately for Schneider, his Riddles in Schneider fell out of bounds once and had the level Schneider struggled with a shortcut Now Schneider was just under 7 seconds ahead But there was more. There was a somewhat forgotten Flies and Spiders This route had faded out of sight of the community out to show its potential. But we are now at the time soon after I returned record. And I had just recently heard about this somewhat worth going for on GameCube. And since this route translated to PC, Schneider This new route found by MD_Pi featured multiple the center of the level, making it considerably So Schneider took his time on it, but even another 9 seconds ahead. Now being 15 and a half seconds ahead of Guigeek struggled with the skip. That was huge, Schneider confidently pulled This pace was unseen. And it didn't stop there, after clean movement ahead. Yet Schneider wasn't done implementing new MD_Pi's faster PC Inside Information skip. Schneider pulled it off and that jump is much He was now an insane 1 minute and 7 second thought he would. And after a clean Gathering of the Clouds run would not just beat, but smash the world Schneider had done it once again. He once again showed complete dominance over Smashing a world record that Guigeek had worked coming back. Schneider even went as far as to implement passed up and managed to effortlessly break Setting a new world record of 15 minutes and Quoting Schneider "The ball is back in Gui's attempted to beat Schneider's new record The rivalry between Schneider and Guigeek And Schneider's absolute dominance on PC Impressive to the community, impressive to Yet I was a proud GameCube runner and I strongly a step ahead of PC runners in optimization And despite GameCube having a longer history that PC runners started getting. So I decided that I wanted to prove without runner, but the best Hobbit speedrunner, period. Problem was, I had never even touched the So on November 22nd 2020, I set out to learn I spent time practicing individual levels Just the next day, I felt I was ready to do minutes and 43 seconds. Not very impressive, so that same day, I continued This run just put me into second place on And it was a huge improvement over my first It was clear that my GameCube skill was translating I was still almost a minute behind Schneider, of learning PC, I was confident. And so on November 26th 2020 -my 4th day of that had 8 gold splits going into The Clouds Suddenly I was on world record pace. But even if I performed my best PC Clouds So I aimed to perform even better and went And a gold split it was. I just invaded the PC version and took the I had been very motivated thanks to being and because I had a clear goal. And even to my own surprise, I was not expecting On one hand I felt somewhat bad for intruding and Guigeek, but on the other hand I was enjoying But Schneider doesn't stay down for very So although I was proud of myself for achieving Momentum was still on my side and I wanted The grind A month after first claiming the pc world to a 14:06, shaving off almost a minute and the 15 minute barrier. I was on a roll and I was really enjoying What set me apart from PC runners before me from GameCube runs. I had put a lot of effort into optimizing far ahead of other runners on the longer, On top of that, my extensive game knowledge lot of tricks and I spent a lot less time I was confident, but the competition was not Be it through my own influence or the sheer a lot of eyes were now on this version. While GameCube had been a slow but steady This attracted not only new runners, but even Enter Shockster. Shockster is a long time great friend of mine I was known as iRule. Even back then he was a top 5 runner, with be higher than that. Though Shockster had quit running the game returned and theorized skips and setups with Now, this newly popularized version of The to speedrun, caught his eyes. Shockster had returned and was improving his On December 23rd 2020, just a day after I best of 14:49. Putting him solidly in second, as he was undoubtedly But something had happened behind the scenes. It would be strange to forget about a certain We weren't sure if Schneider had been planning pushed Schneider into third place, Schneider He had a personal best of 14:37, he was anything As it turned out Schneider was still second the runs he had gotten before improving even But Schneider's offline personal best was Another old GameCube titan was in on the PC It was SilenceErupts, the one who had been when I was running GameCube as iRule. SilenceErupts had followed not long after And he quickly set a personal best of 16 minutes PC was the breath of fresh air that The Hobbit more activity in these past few months than PC still had a lot of room for optimization So much so that after getting my 14:06 I set PC. And I soon saw results, on December 28th 2020 The first was a much better ending out of saving roughly 8 seconds. The second was a Flies and Spiders route improvement Fortunately both were also easier to perform With new strategies and momentum still on On January 1st, I started up my stream and On my first run of the day I got all the way ahead, partially thanks to my new discoveries. And there it was, the first ever sub 14 standing Another minute barrier broken on PC. But I was only improving this fast because threatened to beat me and I didn't want And just over two weeks after this, on January of 13 minutes and 46 seconds, only 6 seconds The threat was imminent, so I ran as fast And just the next day I improved the world This was a great run with very few mistakes Over Hill and Under Hill. But I knew that wouldn't be enough for Shockster So I continued doing even more runs and just If it wasn't for the Barrels out of Bond point that I would've thought it to be unbeatable. But time would prove that thought was incorrect. On this same day Shockster completed a new seconds. He would not let up and followed extremely Another 3 days later I managed to improve to 13 minutes and 8 seconds. The run was arguably a little bit worse overall, Surely I'd have some room to breathe now, Well, Shockster had definitely not given up, Battling for third place were Schneider and SilenceErupts would soon set a 14:38, being Shortly after, Schneider set a new personal But it wouldn't even take 2 weeks for SilenceErupts 3rd and a 13:48 on February 9th. The leaderboard had never been this stacked. During this time I was taking a small break ahead by a small margin. But I'd ruin that margin for myself, because in The Clouds Burst. Starting off I figured out a new ending route, angle you could just barely jump around an doing the jump off the catapult. This out of bounds section had a near straight had to go a bit out of your way to get here, easier. With no reason not to learn it, Shockster it into his runs. This run was actually retimed for a 13:08.95, If Shockster had just been 0.8 seconds faster, Shockster had improved leaps and bounds and strats, I felt it was inevitable that Shockster But I wouldn't go down without a fight. These past few months had been the most active and I wasn't about to let that end on me But I was also not done breaking The Clouds The new ending skip had actually opened some There was a different route that MD_Pi had Unfortunately that route wasn't faster, right after Corwin skip. This out of bounds started with tight parkour fell down it would cost a lot of time, or So on its own this route wasn't practical. But the new Clouds Burst ending I had found extra time to go out of bounds. Then I realized that MD_Pi's start on his go out of bounds in the new ending, making the two are combined. This was a high risk strategy, but at this These developments meant something big, a The last minute barrier I believed we could Shockster and I were both grinding runs. Shockster could get runs started with terrifying beating. But I was more consistent and had less trouble One of us would be the first to break the On February 18, 2021 I was the one who managed Setting a new world record of 12 minutes and thanks to being able to pull off a great Clouds I was very happy to break this barrier - but new Clouds Burst strategies, this run was But the new strategies were difficult and of my own research. I had no reason to complain. But we can't forget about Shockster, although was not. It was time for Shockster to realize his potential. Shockster took the world record. After being just the tiniest step behind for And he more than deserved it. His new world record, set on March 26th, 2021 This run was great. Shockster had taken movement to the next level Under Hill segment, which was even faster Even in most levels after that it was rare Shockster had undeniably proven his potential. Although I was beaten I wasn't giving up, - I still had my own strengths. Soon, I made 2 new discoveries - ones that but are significant for the runners themselves. First, a more consistent dream world skip So far Dream World has always been a point Second, I found a new Barrels out of Bond as ever. Both were just minor alterations in some of helped consistency a lot. But these discoveries would soon be overshadowed A notification appeared in the button challenge It was Chrixiam who had improved one of Samwise's They managed to do some really wacky stuff A presses as possible and from there they stationed at the end of one of the tracks. Just like the standard minecart, this one But wait a minute, that minecart seemed very Shockster was streaming as I had this thought, Joining us was Speedy who was a new PC runner We experimented with this invisible minecart be considerably faster for speedruns. But there was one huge hurdle, when using minecarts going around the track would keep This made them crash into us most of the time, even get close to the end. We needed to make it consistent, so we looked are only loaded once you jump down through We then saw that these minecarts were on a So we made a spreadsheet and tried all kinds if the cycle aligned. Eventually we noticed a strange interaction minecart, it could affect how the other minecarts amounts as well. After a couple of hours of testing we had You needed to get to the invisible minecart section. Then you had to make sure not to perform any the first turning sign, from where you had you would get rear ended by the minecart behind If you did it just right you would narrowly you and save around 11 seconds over the old This was tricky but a huge find when PC was And the skip is somewhat symbolic, bringing communities - with many people contributing Neither Shockster nor I could rest easy while with. Maybe if Shockster struggled to get runs going, But Shockster showed no signs of weakness. Just a day after the discovery of the new new world record of 12 minutes and 45 seconds. And he wasn't done. Three days later on April 10th, he got a 12:37, had been. And it seemed like Shockster could still go But I hadn't lost hope, I was still doing And just like how Shockster had gotten so I managed to set time that was just barely On April 15th, I got a 12:38, just a second If my Clouds Burst had just been a bit better But that was a pointless thought, because On April 20th 2021 Shockster set a new world leaving the competition in the dust and undoubtedly His movement, execution and even his consistency With such an achievement Shockster took a Meanwhile I went to translate some of the overshadowed by all the PC activity. Pillar skip, the new Riddles in the Dark and that could realistically be done on consoles And on May 5th 2021, I managed to improve and 13 seconds - a sizable 22 second improvement. With PC and GameCube now more optimized than story. Or so I thought... But Shockster had different plans. He came back to PC and set his sights on what Shockster wanted to break the 12 minute barrier. Yet it was believed to be impossible for a But Shockster put the game on another level with his skill and dedication for improvement Shockster had been chipping away at his best He was improving his movement - fitting in He was taking tighter turns even where the If anyone was going to achieve the impossible On June 28th, 2021 - Shockster set a new world improvement but he hadn't been back for Soon after that Shockster and I worked together Clouds. Clipping through the wall left of the door to reach the hallway, taking a just ever so This new clip was more consistent than the but when going for sub 12 even a small second Then 5 days later Shockster improved the world A sizable improvement and an insane run, but Could he really achieve it? What needed to be done? In his 12:14 Shockster had a 2 minute and small mistakes. This level is extremely movement heavy and difference. At his best, Shockster could save 4 seconds Flies and Spiders was similar, when done perfectly That left another 7 seconds to cut for a sub But up until the end, Shockster's run was Except for The Cloud's Burst where Shockster boost and didn't hit the corwin trigger Compared to his best segment, this added up A sub 12 was technically possible, but it on some of the most intense stages in the But the thought of the sub 12 alone was exciting. And Shockster shifted gears into a full-focus Doing runs offline instead of streaming them On July 15th 2021, Shockster showed that the A 12 minute and 2 second world record, a massive breaking the 12 minute barrier. If he had matched his best segments on any have been it. While Shockster was already leagues ahead - and stated: "I did not expect to absolutely aligned for this one. This run removed any doubt in my mind about It will happen. I won't stop until it's broken." And stop - he did not. But a sub 12 hadn't become any easier. His world record was just executed insanely To do that again and to do even better? As much as I believed in Shockster's potential, But Shockster wasn't necessarily alone. We as a community had been morally supporting a lot of time labbing together with Shockster Together, we had stumbled onto one place we barrier. It was the Over Hill and Under Hill door clip. An old PC strategy where you skip one of the to clip through the closed door. This clip required exact angles and numerous over our time playing PC. Different angles, special jump timings, strafes, We tried everything to optimize this clip to use crouched strafes against the pillar. And that was a big idea, we soon found a tricky by implementing the crouch strafes. Another crack formed in the barrier. Yet a few days later I revisited this clip When crouching and very quickly tapping the move slightly in the opposite direction. This turned out to have a weird interaction when spamming the left inverted crouch strafe without needing to spam jumps like before. I dubbed this method "Wiggle Clip" and optimization and this method was easier to All cards were on the table. We knew what had to be done and we knew someone Our eyes were on Shockster as he continued His quest to make the impossible possible. Shockster crushed it. A 12 minute and 52 second world record. On July 20th, 2021 - Shockster smashed the have imagined - all his effort had paid off. Even without the new clip he would have smashed His segment times were unbelievable all throughout This was a level of optimization that the Shockster had done the impossible and he deserved That's the end of our story. Shockster remains on top of the PC leaderboard the GameCube world record. Both platforms now completely have their own The PC run requires extremely good movement while the route on console still features brings you very far. Since then; Shockster has made some attempts had high potential. But finally he decided to step back from PC attempts, getting all the way up to 4th place And looking back at Chrixiam, he has very but he's felt burned out of that category past months. But if he returns I know that he will return Meanwhile Schneider also hasn't shown much Although he's said he hasn't been interested he'll make another grand return. As for me, I'd still like to improve my and I'd also like to break the 27 minute But my main focus has been drifting to discoveries And finally for the speedrun itself. PC almost seems to have been figured out, Some new and interesting battles have been Speedy and Sylumm all duking it out for 5th Meanwhile GameCube still has some more room hasn't been that active recently. Although Kyro - a newer runner - has put in returned to GameCube. If you made it this far. Thank you so much, it means a lot to me. This project has been way bigger than I first of parts. I know that this video is just way too long, much I hoped for you to listen to and there's I worry that the video length will turn a It's been really tough putting in more and the video less and less appealing. I've worked on this for countless hours experience writing scripts or making documentaries. I've had some severe mental dips and I'm But if you're here and you hear this, then A huge thank you - to you, to all of the hobbit To Chrixiam and MD_Pi who have been super To Dwhatever who gave me advice, feedback To SimpleFlips who was willing to record voice the world to me. There's too many people to thank and not are - thank you. But most of all I need to thank Shockster. He encouraged me, helped record background voice lines and much more. Without him this would have never happened. There's so much more I want to say but this This was the history of The Hobbit Speedruns. But our story will continue.