General Wen was hit by something Miss, miss, wake up. Are you okay? alas President, he suddenly broke out and must have touched porcelain, eh This is where Isn't General Ben on the battlefield? You say miss you Hum, is there no one in your Ye Guo A female can also fight to kill the enemy or a general. Now do you know that women can fight and kill enemies? No impression Fantastic Clothes The image just now must be your work. See ah ha ha ha ha Oh, my God. Ha His head was damaged, so he was taken to the hospital at once. Put it on. Where is your home What is Chengbei General Mansion Company? Yi Zong Let's give him glucose first. Then observe the observation Ding bold, incredibly dare to implicate this general Hey, hey, no, no, no, no, no, it's okay. You must cure him If I save him again, I'm hopeless. The president refused to operate. Hey! Li Dong If you don't get married, I'm not going into the O. R. This thing is the legendary thousand-li transmission Show it to General Ben. You can rest assured surgery I'm already married, huh General, you don't have no money. No work And no place to live I can help you solve these problems Tell me, what conditions to marry me Get a license immediately to clarify It really doesn't matter if I'm here. Penny girl muffled the pain A good man can bend and stretch. Is the marriage book here so small With it, I can eat and wrap it up. Of course, this will be your home from now on. It's Mr. Li's car. Li always came back Uh-huh. This way, please, Mr. Li, let me introduce you. This is my new wife Jiang Shuyi From now on, she will be the hostess of this house. She's my housekeeper. Okay. Your residence is comparable to a palace. Shino Deluxe President How can you look at such an unattractive woman? Where to wash your face? That's funny. You don't have eyes Well, ha ha ha ha ha This is the device for washing face You haven't even used a smart toilet, have you? Hmph. It's really fragrant Milan. The toilet of this era is so noble At this level, I still deserve to rob a son with me. This is what Yongan Jun Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, you did it on purpose Then why don't you tell Madame where the sink is You are also intentional. Madam, I won't dare next time This is a sink You can wash in this really advanced That's right. This is a beautiful dart for you. Ha ha ha You have a heart, I did not waste Invite you to go, I hum I won't let you stay with force Madam, Madam, I'm bankrupt. The debt is coming soon. The study on the second floor has the most precious thing in the whole home You must help Li always put it away Go and stop me Bring back the contents of the bag and you can live as you like. Li Zong The lady is going to run away with the most valuable thing in the house. But don't worry, I 've sent someone to get him. It's in the study. Said which country sent the traitor carefully, you didn't hurt What do you mean by stealing and getting it? Didn't you let me go with the most precious thing You admitted the most precious thing in your bag. Yi Zong please look at the marriage certificate Our marriage certificate is your most precious thing Of course, before I make a comeback With it, I can eat and live for nothing. Isn't that more important than my life? How dare you, son of a bitch, slander General Ben Do you know that once upon a time All right, ha ha ha Am I just too fierce Not scared, no more, no less When the female general crossed into the modern General Ben learned on the tremolo yesterday that this thing is a remote control. Ha ha ha ha ha Soldiers of good robbers I'm going to take you home My family brought me back. People, people It seems that madam is still not well. Why don't you give him an expert number? 17, eh? I'll take you to choose a wedding dress at night. Although we are both a flash marriage But I won't treat you badly We must make the wedding a big deal. I'll pick you up after work at night. You don't have to pick me up. General Ben is walking in the Jianghu. I have always relied on myself. So-called what Good ingenious mechanism I walked for half an hour and was still in the office. Hmmm, a redneck who hasn't even seen the revolving door. Go back to your countryside You, you, you, you and I don't know each other How dare you humiliate General Ben and wait for me to get out. alas, alas 17 17 Don't worry, you Did you walk around Brother Lidong Long time no see I especially miss you Are you all right? It's okay. Brother Lidong, he's a countryman who hasn't even passed the revolving door. Brother Lidong, leave him alone Let's go to dinner together What? Country people She's my wife Brother beginning of winter, when will you get married? Why don't I know Do I have to get married with your consent? 17, we went to try the wedding dress Okay. Is that sister's bridesmaid set? I don't have a bridesmaid Then I'll be my sister's bridesmaid. Or is my sister afraid that I am too beautiful to steal her thunder? How can it be That would be great We just happened to go to choose a wedding dress together. I'm going to choose my bridesmaid's dress You can't see he's pissing you off, can you? Hmph. I 'd like to see what tricks he can play. 17, you are so beautiful beginning of winter, brother, do you think my bridesmaid dress looks good Miss, this is a wedding dress you're wearing. This is the bridesmaid's dress, isn't it too plain? How can I bring out my beauty? You look really good in this dress But your face is ugly Sister Red Stone Creek, I'm kidding. I'll order this white woman suit. 17 wedding dress has been ordered Let's go. Hum I'll order this one. I want brother beginning of winter to know that I am younger and more beautiful than him. I am the most worthy of him alas The wedding is coming soon. Why is my face suddenly fast again? With it I'm so relieved at the wedding. Do you think Xiaomei will do anything new on the wedding day? I 'd better not let her come Hey. Don't worry, there is a sentence in the military book. Soldiers will block Water to cover the soil Chief Li, your wife is really beautiful. I'm sorry. Sister Xu Qi, I'm late Brother beginning of winter, let's take a photo Oh, this is Mrs. Li This is ouch Who can tell the difference? At first glance, I thought there were two brides, alas. This bride is really miserable On such a big day, others stole the limelight. Why are you dressed like this The size of the bridesmaid's dress previously ordered is not suitable. Let the clerk draw a picture for me. Sister Xu Qi won't mind, will she Hey. In the end, I did not lose to Jishi. It's almost here, why hasn't the newcomer come out yet? It seems that I am too strong to come out The auspicious time has come Wow. This is the dignified atmosphere of Chinese costumes, yes Western-style wedding dresses are eclipsed by comparison. How did this happen? Whatever you wear, you can't steal the limelight from me, Feng Guan Xia Pei. You you're just a flea Liang Xiaocao You ah Security dragged him out. You let me go, I'm not leaving This thing is actually quite exquisite 17 don't look at that. I want to show you something The Colorful Dragon Pattern Holding Box Senior Sister in Wanli Period You really have eyes like a torch This treasure, I was in Benjiang's residence. The president knew that his wife would appreciate the treasure. We don't have to spend 100000 yuan to ask experts to identify treasures. 100,002, crab treasure can still make money General Ben has some things to say goodbye. Ha ha ha ha ha This is General Ben's great opportunity to make a comeback. Appreciate the treasure 50 once lend me this, sir Is this your new one? What new This is our family's ancestral white marble family. Cao Cao beat his son with him Experts have never seen the world. Blind for a while, so carefully look What an old thing. see it clearly I'm talking about you, if this is true I spend 10,000,002 thinking so much This thing is worth at least 0.3 billion Hey hey, 50 owe premium didn't give Jiang 17 is so poor that he has set up a stall. I can't even earn 50 yuan a day. Who you are Don't try to be brave A quality man like me Can't be your husband Is your life's regret You must be unforgettable, oh oh oh yo People like you who have never seen the world before still appreciate treasures. What can be identified Can see you are a big force, good You're a fake 17. I wanted to give you a break. You had to hit the gun, didn't you? I tell you, I am now an expert in Nancheng Treasure Appraisal Association. There's a treasure contest tomorrow. Do you dare to compare with me? What dare not But after tomorrow The name of your treasure master may be as smelly as your mouth. On the first day of borrowing tomorrow, I met such an unlucky thing. All of a sudden, there is no expression to manage well. I'm angry with the small fine lines. I really want to take part in the treasure appraisal competition. Of course to go It's a matter of my dignity General Ben has what it takes to fight. Okay. What about this card? have 0.1 billion If you see an antique you like, wow. Just whatever Uh-huh. Then these are your investments. I'll double it tomorrow. Today's treasure appraisal contest From now on, please welcome Master Wang Qiang It seems that Zhang 17 is afraid to come today. Who said not to come Let's begin Please welcome the first treasure Green Yulong Handle Dow Feijiang 17 Is it still too late for you to leave now No. You will be the laughing stock of the whole city I give this to you intact This cup is mellow and has clear texture I identified it as Zhenjiang 17. It's your turn to identify me Correct identification, one point for each Next Qianlong enamel flower bird six-party bottle delicate and bright fetal quality The glaze is bright and layered I identified as true I am also sure it is true Two more points each I am five happy to learn from human beings. If I say it's true, you say it's true. But it's true I can't say it's fake Otherwise, how do you want to compare In that case, I'll take the third question and bring it up. Come on, Jiang 17, look Really worth more than 100000 Well, since you say it's true I'll sell you your 100000. Don't you regret it Come to Alipay to 100000 yuan, ha, ha, ha, ha Jiang 17 you really have no knowledge What you see is true. I tell you, I bought this bead for 50 yuan under the overpass. This 100000 when you pay the tuition This bead is really worthless But this box is a gold-rimmed nanmu from the Ming Dynasty. I can sell it for tens of millions as soon as I change hands. It's impossible. How can I not see this if it is gold-rimmed nanmu? Why don't we ask the master to identify it? Girl, the golden nanmu is golden This is just a moldy collar box. It's really gold-rimmed nanmu It's an old man with clumsy eyes. It's worth hundreds of millions of dollars, ah Billions back to me I do not sell ah Thank you for giving up This baby's trip is really not for nothing. I'll leave now. 17. You look good in a horse-faced skirt I will accompany you to meet South Korea clients today. Of course, we have to show our Chinese culture. Make sure they receive them well. President Kim welcomes you all the way from South Korea Li Zhenghao, is this your wife It's beautiful. It seems that you attach great importance to our cooperation The Lakers have all worn the national costumes of our country I'll talk to you about science popularization. This is a traditional Chinese Hanfu Do you know that your Hanfu can learn from our Hanfu? Bold The horse-faced skirt first appeared in the Song Dynasty It was Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang of the Ming Dynasty who gave him Gao Li to stay in South Korea. Why don't I give Jin President a Chinese history book later? Well, go in and ask Ah, the president I'm sorry There's a meeting waiting for you What's the matter with you Put the two itineraries together. Ball, hey Don't cancel. You go to the meeting and I'll receive them. President Jin, I have prepared some special Mao Xuewang sweet and sour pork fillet for everyone. There is also the top chicken in the gold list. I don't know if it is to your liking. this spice is too heavy This is too oily, oh What is this chicken head? Do you Chinese eat this too? The mountain pig ate me two bites. Please wait a moment. The waiter is thorough. Put all your free self-help snacks on it. President Jin, be calm This took out the sincerity of the tape But still a little regret No pickles in our country It seems that you still have nothing to hold. Who said no, I'll go out for a while Forget it, such a big sum of money is a credit to the country. Hey, mom, this sea of gold people is not bad. It is also very convenient to carry outside Everybody take a box I didn't expect President Jin to like our Chinese products so much. Already like to can't help but secretly use it We're all tired We're going to rest at the hotel where we're staying. Sign up tonight. Goodbye How are these conversations with customers? This person is duplicitous Eat up all the side dishes and take away all our perfect little golden needles. Maotai has several bottles, it doesn't matter. I will never see them again after the signing ceremony in the evening. Today's signing ceremony We have prepared a lion dance What's so good about this We South Korea have a lion dance. Oh, is this the ugly lion It feels like I didn't copy my homework well. Then let me show you our South Korea native taekwondo. This is our taekwondo champion To show you the momentum of South Korea Taekwondo Stop it, Mr. Li. Let's do this. You can't compare with Chinese martial arts, can you I also know some fist Let me go up there and compete with him. Losing is a disgrace to your hosts. President's wifeIsn't that too dangerous? 17 I have been practicing martial arts for many years. It is not certain who will suffer. Punk up and hold your track down Hey ah ah Ah. Chenglet didn't get started Is this the hospitality of your great nation of etiquette? You're not as good as people and you can't afford to lose. I want to cancel the cooperation This is your punishment You didn't cancel your cooperation with us. It's that we're going to kill you If you lose the Chinese market, you lose everything. We walk sea gold face Forgive me for taking the risk, give me a chance. You know there is an old saying in China that things are more than three. Now might as well remember Don't mess with China Husband You are plus 17, this is your mother-in-law You should call me auntie, mother-in-law. My aunt asked Jiang 17 to give you a 5 million to leave my son. I don't want you to be my daughter-in-law I give you 5 million, you leave your son I don't need a mother-in-law This is my money I'm really not very good at dealing with the relationship between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law. I hope you can leave your son Don't worry, I'll make it up to you This is my favorite strawberry candy. I'll give it to you. I also love strawberry candy You eat slowly I'll get you a glass of water Elder sister, you can still eat Aren't we here to get rid of this high-minded woman? But he loves strawberry candy as much as I do. People who love strawberry towers must not be bad people. You silly white sweet, later Your family and her this woman surnamed Jiang Don't blame me for not reminding you Then what to do Jiang 17 must be able to cook if he wants to be my daughter-in-law. Did you cook dinner? I can't cook But I invited the best cook to come to dinner. I'm talking about letting you cook for yourself You still dare to disobey him, don't change I immediately do it You go see, pick on him It's not good anywhere Scold directly Oh, oh, oh, oh How could you do that? Should put oil first Put some more water I didn't quite understand. Can you say it again? Forget it, I'll take a look. I'll only teach you once I have never eaten such delicious food You like it I'll go make you a specialty dish You still have to do it for him But he just said the food I cooked was delicious. Let's go. Goodbye. I bought the fireworks. People have eaten the meal you cooked, so how can it be? Your mother did it Your mother is still busy in the kitchen. The spatulas are swinging out Mars, sister. This is not my intention It's okay, son. I got it. When my mother was young, she was always bullied by her grandmother. Now you can be counted as a mother-in-law. You must have found a room on you. No wonder my mother asked me to leave you again today. Let me into the kitchen again I realized Oh, why do you call me I haven't finished my food yet. Right away. Mom. So you want to be an evil couple, you found out You said earlier I teach you ah I want to be a bad mother. The first to have momentum One-handed akimbo The second chin is raised and the eyes are fierce. The third refers to the person's nose directly to scold I 've endured you for a long time. Get out I 've endured you for a long time. Get out No, it's really exhausting to come again. I didn't expect it to be so difficult to be an evil mother-in-law. Mom, are you tired of practicing? I think your face is broken. I bought you a special New Year gift. If you like it, I'll contract it for one year. Really damned This Jiang 17 is really going to retreat into progress. I bought you off with such a small favor, your family Now he has divided half of the property. It was already half of her. I'll go and make a soup for 17 How did it make you feel so good? It seems that I have to do it myself, OK My mom is sick Let's go. Why are you suddenly sick? Can also be why I think someone is secretly doing little tricks. What do you mean? Sister Is the zombie seven disaster language This kid still has your horoscope on it. The whole of the big New Year's day this unlucky thing Look how bad this man is. This is not my irrefutable evidence, you still want to quibble First of all, I don't believe this. Secondly, I gave you the cloth on this little man You really think I'm stupid There is no grievance or enmity with you. why are you always so against him? You can't see our family like this, okay? Yes, that's right. We are sisters. Why did you sit in the family of the rich and powerful family and be at peace with each other? And our family is full of chickens and dogs all day. I just don't want to see your family Your chicken flies and dogs jump not because you like to be heaven and earth 17 Help me up Old Niang endured you for a long time, you roll for me Your aunt is not welcome in our house All right. Hmph, how did I act just now You can start directly