After four months of fulltime traveling But We will show you why Kyrgyzstan And convince you it is one of the Except for one thing... which This is Lewie and the rover This is us Patrick, Orla and Labrador Lewie Together with our old Land Rover we We drove through Greece, Turkey, "If you haven't done so, please watch our Now we arrived in Kyrgyzstan. Meet Paul and Lydie again. A French overland couple After a cold river shower We opened our trusty off-road book. because we will try and drive as many okay guys what's the plan for today? doing uh to a pass at 35,000 M so it's going to be good and is it difficult? I know it should be quite stuff no but we are too good now all right We will drive into the Tien Shan mountains is a natural hot spring where we wanted to chill. We drove on an easy piste, higher and higher. And after only two hours of driving. We have these amazing views And decided to set up camp okay so for the first time in Lewie and someone said bread!? a little disclaimer before we begin! don't know if this is going to work!? we cover it with a damp towel and it needs Because it was enough I think see yeah do it again good yes really good thing to eat this We continued our mission to reach the hot spring. Passing through a ghost village The scenery slowly changed here. The boys took a look in the old village. But we still had some kilometers And here it is, the blue clear square Finally This is going to be so relaxing!!! We set up camp close to the are you you ready for the hot springs? Lewie took his own Spa And we had a hard time keeping It was so hot you couldn't stay in for 30 seconds. I'm checking inside! Yes, no like ... come on I'm checking if it's good or not! What happened? uh I let them all fell. ]The next day we climbed in altitude! This is a staggering 3800 meters! Beautiful roads and amazing scenery! Until: the right shock absorber broke. left uh right oh pretty bad i see is broken. so luckily in Almaty, just one week ago we bought this spare shock Luckily Paul helped us change We had to stall our plans for a bit now that we had one welded shock So we drove to issy kul lake, to work everything out. We have to fix But this is not a bad place to do so. We contacted ARB if they could help. In these moments we're so thankful With Holafly eSIM we are online and For emergencies like these, but the next day we carefully drove And then we got the call we were hoping for go on for a little bit uh of time so if it's can wait a bit okay thank you very much okay we spoke with ARB a lot the last few days found the problem they think it's about the problem it is not available in Central Asia absorbers so we get a whole new system so really good um and they're flying it in at week and it will arrive in Bishkek and the meantime we're driving into the mountains an old gold mine and pray that no more shock we refueled and refilled all our supplies And rejoined for a new expedition okay Expedition leader Paul what is the we just passed this path 38,000 38 100 uh the the valley of thousand horses and forbidden and the goal is to reach cor side level four this is easy because it's go get it and to reach it but then after it's Remember that: the perfect campsite! We are already far above 3500 meters. Glaciers like these are all around us. we We passed the gold mine. Crossed a lot of rivers And reached our first campspot. At a glacier, 3800 meters above sea level. It was truly a magnificent view. And then, at the beginning of We can tell you, it was not a fun night!!! okay so Paul the plan for today is to go to start the car yes and what are we the most beautiful campsite ever right we have big expectations yeah let's TR started it's going woo perfect five cylinders And here we go, on our way to An easy but beautiful piste. This is what we had in mind, so or is this the most beautiful ever yes 10 out of 10 10 11 out of 10 yes totally we are We slowly drove further into the this 4,000 M yes sir we did it the highest I've well If you go to Kyrgyzstan and drive off-road, There's so much water coming We woke up early. Paul and Lydie were smart and slept in. But we almost woke them up. It is 0600 in the morning. After some river crossings, This is what we see! Always worth witnessing this [We drove back to the capital Bishkek. ARB flew all the new parts in And ARB Kyrgyzstan welcomed and helped We visited the garage to change everything. The wheels were so stuck, that a three But some cleaning and hammering did the trick! New mounts and shock absorbers, ready to go! so I was checking Instagram and I saw a and then I had to convince all our Expedition it was so we try and search on Google Maps here in the west of Kyrgyzstan and this is an found out that Eshenkul is somewhere around and there's one road leading to it although don't know what the condition of the track but that's going to be our Expedition right We needed to cross this bridge, but the local shepherd asked us oh the bridge doesn't really look wait and see what they do yep we had so he stopped his uh Crossing so now you don't trust the bridge we look at Gaia again is here yes but there is no start but there there to do it we have to do it the bridge there's A new obstacle. The road totally collapsed into the valley. It has been built and rebuild but First we tried the upper We tried to reinforce the side of And then we slowly started to cross it. The big 130 drifted to the side but And so we entered this oase of beauty. And found the perfect camping spot, and it's burning we have a bread homemade here we're improving our camping skills 6: in the morning 9 and 1/2 hours to go good Lewie had a lot of fun during the hike. [what's up So we have to cross the river It was freezing cold! And now get ready for the so I crushed the Drone yipp I have a very normally the sensors can you do a fine it should work on this one uh and can you there's nothing it's just done maybe are you having Luckily Patrick his mood changed Sharing tea And stories. And taste the delicious Kyrgyz melon. We entered the city of Osh. Where we stayed in a hotel for a couple of days. Preparing for the Pamir. natural reserve we have to buy so we start so Orla what do you know Highway in the world one of the highest also but first we go to Lenin Peak what is go oh yeah baby yeah it is here A beautiful track on our way to Lenin peak. A massive mountain, higher than We wanted to sleep at the foot of the mountain. And look at this. This is Kyrgyzstan! Epic wilderness, beautiful scenery everywhere. A place that constantly takes your breath away. Also quite literally. Sleeping at almost 4000 meters is no joke. You feel your body in a different way. Except for Lewie. Here, You can still experience real freedom. Being able to wild camp in such places. we met other overlanders. And concluded about Kyrgyzstan. Slowly you see tourism on the rise, what But if you still want a taste of this roughness. Go now. And Kyrgyzstan will make sure you will But so will we with our next video: Because we will drive one of the most legendary roads in the See you there! And thanks again to socia ict, rapid logistics