- Thank you for joining Founder and former CEO of AngelList, and currently doing all But Naval, the reason that I is because you've done something that I think is remarkable and unique, and it's not starting AngelList and it's not starting CoinList. It is the fact that, you had a company that you started that was doing well. You were willing to step down as CEO and watch that company do even better. And frankly, there's so many people I know who aren't enjoying their role as CEO, but they feel like they And they're just too afraid to walk away. And so they end up living these And the company doesn't And, you stepped out of that Can you tell us what actually happened? - [Naval] Yeah, so I'm going to go through the best of my recollection but I'll tell you there's pithy wisdom that I have here. There's nothing tweetable here. It's going to be a, a lot of details. And as many of them are So firstly, I think of a and those three jobs are raise money and keep cash in the bank, set and communicate the strategy and recruit and retain the team. But then on top of it, who also provide product vision. You also, Sales CEOs who also - [Naval] It's daunting. It's and you're usually bearing it alone. You can't confess to or they'll lose faith in and you can't, confess they'll stop following you. And even your co-founders but hey, you're the CEO. You're the one in It's an incredibly lonely job, and I'd done it for a long I also think, like a lot of being a CEO is frankly being the company you're always dealing with people issues. That's really what it is. you're dealing with people and good people and trying to figure out and collaborate with you, and listen to you and grow with you. But it is a heavily and I'm kind of an introvert, actually. I don't enjoy interacting with people beyond a certain point. I get burned out and I, I had been lucky or unlucky enough to have been a CEO of a company when I was 23. So this was much later in my career. So I already knew that and not something to be envied. And somewhere in the middle, I'd been Investor for a while, which is quite the retirement job. You know, you kind of just run around and bet on other people and you get a massive but you don't actually have to and you don't actually have So to me, that's a job, For me I want to use my brain, to think my way through problems and the moment I've as far as I'm concerned, it's And then I get impatient And it one of the reasons cause it's not the To me CEO was a high stress that you did because because you wanted to You wanted to have your dream come true. And so you were obsessed with it, and you couldn't trust And did it, because you had Because I didn't necessarily other than the brainstorming - [Naval] I wasn't very So I was honest with myself at the parts where I wasn't good at it. - [Naval] I didn't pretend And, and I brought in people and you were the first one - [Naval] that like, here are the things you need to do to be a CEO. You've made it as I mean, there's obviously an art to it. So when you came to me and you said, Well, here's the methodical - [Naval] and you spelled in your book, which was incredible. I looked at and I was like, Here's a really smart person, and systematize it as much as possible. And I looked at it, I was And because I don't want to do this, I'm not going to be great at it. It's not my Zone of Genius. It's going to be a slog. I And I think this is where really comes in. And it's, it's so important. If you're the founder of a company, you're probably world-class And it's sometimes going to be hard to identify what that is. You basically want to spend And everything else is a necessary evil that should be outsourced. And the beauty is there is world-class at the thing And it's their Zone of Genius. So it really ends up being not a execution problem. There's a corollary to that. Don't hire good people So very often we hire people They're in their Zone of Genius, but somehow they make us miserable. It's like a hard, hard Get rid of those people immediately, because their cost is not that, you know, there's a little bit of conflict doing them and other people. The cost is they're going For me, like figuring that out was also really, really important. And when I stepped back as is you can't imagine, somebody like you do. - [Matt] Yes. - [Naval] The reason for that is, because who else is going - [Naval] Founder mentality is someone who will just do whatever it They'll do customer service. They'll do recruit angle, stay up all night, thinking about it. - [Naval] And so they say, another founder in, to run the company? It turns out that there There are ways to do this. Now you could acquire a company. So that's a common thing. that comes with the founder But you got to make sure Cause a lot of times they cause they're burnt out as a founder. They didn't bring in a And so here they are instead But one hack that I've found that, has worked really well for me is to recruit in founders who have failed through And this is a hard one to figure out. But a lot of times you'll who will start a company in a space where the whole space doesn't work. So for example, at CoinList, - [Naval] we recruited Paul Davison. He'd done a company Highlighter was tracking your And there were a bunch of and they all failed. Because it turns out people even by their loved ones all the time. And so the whole category had failed, Paul had the best executed And even, even that failed, - [Naval] but Paul went he had a chip on his shoulder. He was now a senior guy at remnants of Highlighter, but he was looking for So we recruited him in, and he was CEO of CoinList for awhile. And he was an amazing guy. He actually left, to start Clubhouse, which obviously, huge success. So that is an example through no fault of their own. - [Naval] Avlok Kohli, who He had done a social you know, it hadn't worked. But none of these vertical And he'd done what I thought executed cleaning - [Naval] which didn't do that That whole category So when you find a founder their own, the whole category failed. You've got founder mentality, you've got a person with They have operating experience. And at the same time, you know, that, they didn't bungle And those are really good and the way to recruit those people. And it's frankly Give them an opportunity, acknowledge them as and capability equals. Be very, very generous you know, the standard VC And recognize that you're who is still very, very high energy who wants to win and can - [Matt] That is phenomenal advice. - [Naval] I had a very who took over and shepherded But what really made it happen was, we recruited in this guy, Avlok Kohli into a who turned out to be the - [Naval] And meanwhile, So I was no longer burdened - [Naval] or having to or having to solve fundraising problems or customer service problems, or even day-to-day product meetings. And I got time to think, - [Naval] and companies exist because the founder had a burst of creativity and then executed around that creativity. And that creativity started But over time, the calendar gets filled up and it gets replaced with a busy calendar. And a busy calendar is It might be good for productivity, if you're completely in exploitation mode. But no company these days, can afford to rest on it's laurels. Disruptions becoming The lifespan of the company is going down. And so it's very important that you're always being creative. You're always reinventing yourself. And companies that succeed unless they get lucky and and product market fit at the beginning. And those are largely apocryphal. They have to constantly and they have to constantly And the founder is the best So even when I was CEO, I would do this thing where week with no meetings. That was my Tuesdays and Thursdays, No meetings, no calls, And even then like one thing destroy one of those two days. So I would get reduced down to, one day per week that was free. But that day was the only day of the week, where I even had a chance to address all the actual problems facing the company in order of their actual priority, as opposed to the order in or the order in which like somebody else had decided they were urgent. It related to this as you know, the, the practice of meditation. One of the reasons why or find it hard to meditate, is because when you first sit down, - [Naval] all of your unaddressed problems that you've been ignoring to the service and assault you. And some of these have been waiting for you to address busy, busy, busy, busy. - [Naval] And I think in a business context. Like if you get busy, busy, busy, busy, what happens is the real nagging Hmm, are we actually Did I actually recruit the right team? Oh my God, I raised money and you're not addressing those problems. You're running from them. You're just hopping from So just picking the right important than how hard you work. Cause there's only 80 hours in the week. And so by stepping back, it gave me time to be creative. And it took a while. It took about a year, but then, you know, we came up with rolling funds cause I was on the beach And then I got to recruit in creative as well and kind It gave me the distance and company more objectively and And so now the partnership who's running AngelList He is also a very creative individual, but I can usually come up with the full list of creative ideas. I can turn them over in my Then I can pitch him on a bunch of them. He can push back where appropriate or accept where appropriate. And then we can think about them. And then maybe a week later, now, you know what, you've That's too much to do. Or let's just focus on And that works really well is much more in strategy and sort of high level sales and recruiting. And I get to focus on that, while I've looked at everything else and we also still have great overlap. And at the same time, like I which is incredible. So for example, in 2013, when cryptocurrencies were taking off, I knew they were going to be huge. I was mentally ready for them, but I was busy with AngelList, so I didn't even get until much later in the cycle when most of the returns were gone. And if I had been free I would have probably invested a lot more in that ecosystem at that time. Now I'm kind of playing catch up. - [Naval] So Travis Kalanick, He had this company called That was a peer-to-peer fostering network. It didn't go anywhere. He kind of sold it. Maybe he got his investors, their money back in a little - [Naval] And then he literally in Silicon Valley, talking to everybody, chatting with everybody, tinkering on side projects. And I think a lot of people were like, is this guy ever going to He always just seemed to be and he's just free. Well, I mean, to his credit, he basically kept his nose in the ground. He was always open and And because he was free when which was Uber, he kind of - [Naval] But even he how big it was going to be. Garret stayed at StumbleUpon, Travis was an advisor to the company. They hired a CEO and a CTO to run it. And it was only once it had the free time that he - [Naval] and help make And obviously earn a much and everybody else. - [Naval] Finally, I would add that, if you look at any company that really, really succeeds over the longterm, and I'm talking about over decades - [Naval] and these, these one consistent factor stayed engaged the entire time. And that doesn't necessarily but they were engaged at or they were on the ball. They were watching out for the company. And so you can very easily where you work 80, 100 and you can't step aside as CEO, you do jobs, you don't like, And then the way that manifests itself, is you completely crash and run away. Or more likely you sell the company. You exited early because you can't see doing or the next 40 years. Look at Warren Buffett. He's He's still running Berkshire Hathaway. And now he's not running a day to day, but he's still overseeing it. Why? Because it's not miserable for him. He set it up in such a way Like he says, he skips, you Because of that, he can and all the returns in or relationships or or whatever, or product development. It's compound interest, The most money you make is The biggest impact is The largest customer base So you want to go as long and that's only going to It's only sustainable if you enjoy it. So I, I don't think it's walk away as CEO. I think you just basically say, Hey, I'm going to stay on the things that I'm great at. For me, that was creativity, fundraising, high-level sales, product And I'm going to take the and I'm going to give And that way I'm going on the things that matter. And I'm going to be able to It's not going to burn me out go much further. - [Matt] Naval you just did something that no one else on this You just on one prompt, wrote a book. Mean what you just said right and it will be very popular - [Naval] Please edit it a little bit, because I think it may have. (laughing) - [Matt] Whatever part, but Now it doesn't surprise me, because I've heard you but each time I hear it, Now there is something else - [Naval] (indistinct) - [Matt] Because what you and logical justification for why someone who's should let that title go, become chairman recruit And they can still be the strategic brain and product visionary. I imagine there are many There are many people and think, yeah, but, and they're feeling fear And so I'm going to take because you also were The same fear that You talked about the but there's also your, your personal life. And you talk about what you're So I wanted to talk about Like when you were you're CEO of AngelList and not wanting to be Then we're going to talk about the fear that you felt of leaving. And now I want to talk about We know AngelList is doing even better. You've created all these other entities who have created massive but what's your personal life, like? I'm talking zero to 10, zero being, it couldn't be any worse, 10 being it couldn't be any better. So let's go through that transition. You're CEO of AngelList. You're not enjoying it zero - [Naval] 3 out of 10, - [Matt] Perfect. - [Naval] Maybe 4 on a good day. (laughing) - [Matt] Perfect. So then I remember you came to my house. We sat down, we talked for Your issue is, Matt I but I have to be. I have, who invested in me. I'm frankly, sort of the, the I'm the one that's all the deals. Without me, the whole thing And I said, whoa, whoa, whoa, That's a big assumption there. I don't agree with that assumption. And then we talked about You're like, oh my gosh, - [Matt] But still, as you mentioned, if I or even worse, if I walk - [Matt] then did I add no value? - [Naval] That second one - [Matt] Okay. - [Naval] It was more just - [Matt] Fair enough. - [Matt] My ego can take it. If, if the thing works on That means I engineered So I'll take credit anyway. - [Matt] But you did - [Naval] Yeah, I absolutely Absolutely. Because for a long time, you know, it was being held together, I felt like the force That's definitely true at earlier stages until they And it was still scary even for a year or to a year and a half after I was gone. I don't think we had much in the way of like true product market fit. Real product market fit in the last two years. And it was actually directly and creativity that I got to exercise, after I'd been out for about a year. So there was still a But I would say like today, - [Naval] if I could they would have to lock me up. Because you can't have people this happy running around in society. My life is a 10 out of 10 It is fantastic. And it's because I got to that I want to, with no compromises, none. Not in terms of who I spend time with, not in terms of where I live, not in terms of what I do, not in terms of when I wake up, not in terms of when I go to sleep. I only do things I find enjoyable And not even just I mean enjoyable in this moment. If it's not enjoyable in this And when you walk away, - [Naval] at least from a you have to something where and you have a lot of fear. It actually gives you the ability to walk away from anything. Most of us, at least in we're stuck in something we And so walking away is not - [Naval] To give you an idea I don't keep a calendar. - [Matt] Wow, I had no - [Naval] (indistinct) - [Matt] Right on. - [Naval] Yeah now I'll set for things that I want to happen And I do have an assistant reminders for things that - [Naval] I check email now I don't even check it every day anymore. That's how sort of calm my life is. That said I'm busy all day long. From the moment I got I been crazy busy. I haven't had a chance to meditate today. I skipped my workout so I grabbed a coffee on the Because I've always And there's always a but now I'm prioritizing both important and right in that moment. But you, you can't live unless you're willing initial expectations of you. I can't emphasize this enough. People don't understand for a creative and productive person. Now certainly like if you're you need to be at a, there a certain time and they need you to be But in a creative job, which which is really what These are all creative jobs. Having control of your own time, assuming yourself motivated, So at least for me, I prefer And that way, even when that are less pleasant, I'm doing them in a moment as unpleasant as if they And not keeping a calendar But people say to me like, I'm like, great. Just text - [Naval] They'll say, well, Like, I don't keep a calendar. They're like, okay, 11:00 AM. I'm like, I don't keep a calendar. (laughing) - [Naval] Feel free to It always works out. - [Matt] Yeah, I think Boredom leads to creativity. And I think that's absolutely right. You have to have - [Naval] Yeah. - [Matt] distraction-free the creative thoughts to well up. - [Naval] Creativity comes out of, you have turned some problem long, long, long time. You've seen it from every angle. You have other things and then you just wait. And then your subconscious But if your subconscious being interrupted and it's because somebody just a text message just arrive, What you'll find is most of the times when people schedule a call with you, they don't actually have an agenda. They don't, they don't It's the easiest way for them and get the current and turn into a future problem. - [Matt] Yeah. That's exactly right. I'm going to throw something at you Naval to add into your, when someone says, Hey, will you talk to me? Here's what I do. I respond back. Can you give me a little preview of what we're going to talk about? And then they send me. - [Naval] Yes. And then I just answer the question and we never have to - [Naval] Basically. (laughing) - [Naval] Yes. The preview is good. Yeah I usually, I, I guess which is I say, Hey, can we try and handle I don't do calls, long as it's urgent. - [Matt] No that's direct. That's direct. - [Naval] Yeah. No, but I like, I like, Hey can you give me a Usually there's just the preview. - [Matt] Right. Exactly. - [Naval] Another one of by the way that I've been validating in so many other contexts, when you want to find like a reason, why like this is somebody says, You're trying to recruit And you ask them the reason And then you ask them like, well, are there any other reasons, right? You kind of ask them and there are different ways to do it. But then they'll give you a second reason. The second reason is I found that to be true across the board in almost everything They're holding it back They don't want to admit it themselves. They're embarrassed, whatever it is. But usually if you want to - [Naval] in almost any context, ask it a couple of times or find out a couple of times, usually whatever the is the real truth. - [Matt] Well, as you do you took something I did. And you described it in a So I, I appreciate that. [Naval] - (indistinct) (laughing) - [Matt] And so to put a bookend on it, Naval, you share with us the If you're not enjoying CEO, you shouldn't be there in the first place. And then you went deeper and what your life like was You didn't fully say It's maybe even, 11 out And now people have your example. Again, Alex MacCaw went through about a year ago. And when I shared with him, your example, He's like, oh, but that's Naval. Naval is unique. No, you - [Naval] Yeah. - [Matt] And then finally he took the plunge and now So now we have two examples. This is a trend. I think the next person that these are unique and They're not. This is just the opportunity to go have your cake and eat it too. And of all that you've done, A yourself an incredible you've done the world in creating this example. So thank you very much. And my God, thank you for coming here and explaining it the way you do. It's just so fun to listen to your words. It just so happens that the interesting and cradle lots of learning, but just on their own, the way So thank you Naval, this was - [Naval] Thank you. - - [Naval] You're very, you're very kind. Only, you could have done this math. Because most Exec Coaches And the last thing they're the CEO to quit, or they'll never get called And they put themselves out But because of your very where you're really actually you can tell them the truth. Which is sometimes that's And they're meant for - [Matt] Thank you. Well, the reason is Naval as you know, cause I'm only doing things So I'm not doing, - [Naval] Exactly. - - [Matt] I'm doing this - [Naval] Exactly. - [Matt] And if I worked there's a hundred other people - [Naval] Yeah there is - [Naval] Yeah, you've got my number one intro request is, Hey, can you introduce me to Matt Mochary? And I'm like, no, I (laughing) - [Naval] I am trying to - [Matt] Okay, right on. Naval this was freaking awesome. Thank you, my man, that was, you know, - [Naval] Thank you. - [Matt] way more than (upbeat music)