In this video, I'm building a train for Disney characters to ride around this layout So LEGO released a new series of collectible and while they look amazing, it's all kind princesses, and whatever this thing's supposed them to live in like I did with the Muppets Instead I'm building a bunch of smaller make as unique as we want, so I got this Disney a pirate ship car, wild west car, and beach But then I realized these are way too small work. We need something a little bit BIGGER. This Disney train set from a few years ago this one just look sad, a coal car that's satisfying pattern on the roof of the tour It's based on a ride at Disneyland that Main Street Station, and this is where these multiverse were invited to take a ride on I'm designing. They each received a mysterious letter in claiming this journey was to die for. Slightly ominous, but the tickets were free, to show up anyways, where I'm customizing Prince John to ride, some of my favorites We can modify the caboose from the set into mass produce and leaves room for different-colored These guys have plush green astroturf and and while we can't fit anything too tall of home to make their ride more enjoyable. Robin gets this target he can practice his contest, a handy little hideout here, and his tail, I just gave him a tree stump to Now Prince John would much prefer to cruise ride a train with his sworn enemy, but he over the border, so I transformed his half all--it's even spilling out the back! He could just roll around in it, but I'm trusty assistant Hiss. With the roof on, it feels like something's out the top. While John is sleeping up here, Robin Hood is what I am after ordering all these pieces more from a store in Austria to build 9 additional If you want to see behind-the-scenes haul can click that join button below to become track pieces to make the ride at the end even and Ernesto de la Cruz absolutely cannot wait I'm turning their car into the stage from can have a jam session. It took a ton of different flower pieces to I decorated with candles and flags and bones... But seeing how Ernesto is technically already threatening invitation he received, all they here. *SMACK* Alright for this next one, pick a card and If you picked the Queen of Hearts, that is I also would have accepted Oswald the Rabbit, car for some reason. Teal is the closest color to match the flooring of tiny leaf pieces to add detail to this ever. Apparently she also plays croquette using cards as her soldiers, like the 3 of spades, She's forcing them to paint all the white hates the color white with a PASSION, which cartoons were all in black and white. He asked if he could just ride his own trolley, him, so I transformed his half of the car The Queen of Hearts is furious about it, but just paint the entire side red. We can gave him a TV--wait that's the wrong ears to watch one of Walt Disney's earliest Even earlier than Mickey Mouse, who's get's He's dressed in his Sorcerer's Apprentice Yensid and pours water into his bathtub. Except he's about as lazy as modern Disney arms onto his broom. Actually 4 arms is probably too many... there we go. Now Mickey can sit back and relax while AI later to see how they're doing. But for now the wind blew in another car for {MAJESTIC MONTAGE} Both these princesses have movies so I'm turning their car into a forest blossom tree on this side, and the trunk of {MAJESTIC MONTAGE}. The rest of it will actually be sticking out architecture for Mulan to change into her to Pochahonta- {MAJESTIC MONTAGE}. Ok I don't know why that's happening every her name, {MAJESTIC MONTAGE} Oh you know that's, Don't know how I didn't notice that earlier, building for the Evil Queen, and-- *gunshot*. What on earth just happened... Wait, the Queen of Hearts is missing, she Well Oswald was taken in for questioning as any of that, let's just get back to the Once again, sworn enemies sharing the same where the Queen asks her magic mirror who's Well this is awkward. She wants to put Aurora to sleep out of jealousy, Nyquil, but nothing was working. So she just tried explaining knitting to her I guess we should give her a bed so she's rest of the castle detail up on the roof. Cool. How's Micky doing? Looking good, they're gonna keep it up while You know the drill, take her in boys, let's car for Cruella de Ville, who is getting the except she only comes with 1 dalmatian, so completely fill the car. We'll need names for every single one of while we move on to the next *gunshot* Alright Now they're arresting Pochahontas {MAJESTIC going on here, this next car is going to be Tiana and Dr. Facilier are sharing this one Orleans with plants and gators and fireflies a lot. Facilier turned some guy into a frog inside change back by kissing Tiana... perfect. We only have a few more- *gunshot* ...ahem. Ok. We only have a few more cars to go, and I to hate this next one that isn't made to There aren't a lot of clocks everywhere nor is there a worktable where he makes things. I definitely didn't buy this $20 Duplo set swallow them all whole. Um... you should not subscribe if you're remakes are good- *gunshot* K well we didn't Mickey's almost abouta drown over here--literally let that stop us from finishing this last on the ride of our dreams. These two are both kind of "sci-fi-y", Hiro is hard at work making Baymax some sick This version with 4 arms is a bad guy (I think?) so we gotta capture him in this glass canister is causing all these characters to mysteriously Seriously, at this point half of the passengers the now-completed train just seems so empty But as I set up the train track for our grand dumped haphazardly around the layout. Mulan was stashed in the fake plants of the at the midway, Cruella was locked up in the was laying face down in the water at the pirate at all the white walls of the festive tunnel, Disney Castle on Main Street, along with a I'm glad they're all still alive, but Taking a look at all the clues, we can probably YOU guess who the culprit is in the comments lifetime: I had way too much fun putting this layout that our kidnapper just couldn't resist... is: DISNEY? Who could have guessed it? The company used this train ride as an excuse so it could turn them all into soulless CGI And it would have gotten away with it too thank you! With DISNEY defeated, our train's gonna to see how we made this crazy layout in more