When you start decluttering, do you For many people, They spend months, if not to their clutter and losing themselves, in the process of letting go. will overcome this but there are many struggle with this and 10 a habit of clutter Now, I can confidently tell you And if you're not sure what this it's the habit of shifting your while being organize So it's shifting boxes from shelf to shelf. And to solution many people However, the kicker is unaware of what they're glaringly obvious. But this habit is quite separate our identity Now, you might be thinking &quot;everything you just explained And if so, bingo. That's the response I was this conversation is for you. You see, in the first couple of years the feelings you're experiencing. I felt like I was losing And so I relied on other methods like And this is because my identity was that it created a took some intentional So I want to offer you a advice I wish someone overcome this obstacle progress on your Tell me if this sounds minimal. I want to hone in of the rest. I want and family time. I want to But the thing that's losing my identity. seeing &quot;me&quot; in my reflection of myself. lonely or empty if I walk into I don't want to feel like I'm Does any of this reflect how you feel or conversations Let me know down in pretty much guarantee that You see, many people face a huge Their identity and their And this fact is comfort, familiarity, and routine. We'd rather not disrupt what &quot;It's what I know,&quot; we say. relationship, regardless of an unhealthy relationship. different, healthier, than necessary. Now, causing disruption to your comfort, familiarity, and routine sometimes ensue a anxiety, sometimes thought about how to we talk about how to steps back and address many of us are facing And if this is you, to download my core crystal clear on what you value. This is because the person who understands who they are and And more importantly, what's not important to them. understanding of your identity, one that or changed by possessions. Alright, I digress. Now let's have some fun and starting with your comfort. Here's You probably feel comforted And this is because your home, you see a don't want to lose I felt comfortable with However, when I made journey, I quickly of me was going to And I wasn't wrong. your comfort and you are in your something with you. okay, right? It's And I get it. I felt the future state If you pare down your everything unnecessary, the duplicate items, that's getting in idea of what you're not using So trust yourself on that. Alright. But if you pare down limited number of display, you may find representation of state of your home, This is because those unique who you are will be between them. See, a room, your eye And there's so many things focus on anything at room or your home your favorite pieces, read and get an idea those items can be seen, For example, I have this on display behind me Not sure if you can see it. [Silence] I quit my corporate job October 2023 - to to build my business with integrity and intentionally. And The KINFOLK Entrepreneur, is a reflection of me. on display in our this Klipsch speaker that living area. And this I because it reminds at our wedding. But that we enjoy chill, jazzy music vibe to. And now that to jump around and able to create some hanging out, listening to So if you're looking consider the following your possessions. The decision-making formula. my own that I follow declutter. And it's other people here in want to check it for yourself to help rounderlbanks.com/decisions read about it there. the vision you have for your life beyond decluttering. So journey other than a clutter-free home? That's important. The showcasing pieces find beautiful and about stripping creating your life. And to be a reflection, a true And then the people's opinion. Opinions are like ears. Everybody has a couple. then your home, your clutter-free environment will start rather than you. And Okay, let's move And in my opinion, start to hesitate and including myself. to keep pushing forward and Here's the current state There are two ways And the first idea that you have of to do it. So for have all the supplies An instrument you never clothes you never wear, etc. &quot;one day...&quot; but one day never comes. And to be honest with you, But my hope is that you the same way it has the first point that with letting go as see things and them to be, instead of I shared a video a importance of breaking up And this idea has a this first struggle See, when we look at things from the perspective of what we imagine, For example, we things like, &quot;This always saw myself to wear this again.&quot; you would say without you.&quot; But the worn or used this you forgot you even you found it is because you were actually looking for something The reality is you still have you and your life regardless of See, as we're lives, physically, I want to encourage you to start looking at things and to from the perspective of are, instead of That way you can actually start The second way that we can look at Maybe you didn't stuff. And now, in this you're accumulating more to make And this behavior as a bad habit. or you have the habit of Or it could be something But I'll leave the future state that I Your self-talk and and the beliefs that is contributing to your life. And it's hard for you to let go. And so And I want to encourage you to The first thing is to write about it. Write about where you are in this and how closely they are And then use the patterns that you The second thing is to shift And this is easier But the first step is to start And you can do this by recognizing You see, developing an abundance mindset requires faith And like I said, this is hard to do And so the best proof So I want to encourage life and look for moments There may have been have been few of them, Reflect on those moments and And then begin to strengthen your And then the last thing If your self-talk is don't feel comfortable then please talk to a professional. Someone you can trust, because they have the tools and more tools, quite frankly, than Alright. Now let's talk Here's the current state Do you feel overwhelmed Do you find yourself constantly Raise your hand in the See, it can be seems never-ending Now, I'm sure you can no matter how long your to-do list grows and how stressed out all you want is the time And so here's the to consider and Imagine how different things do the laundry and fewer loads, save You would have the time to and pursue a more And so in order to have to take the your life that involves not allowing your identity to become You are not your stuff. Alright? Here's some next steps Number one is to Remember, when you it means you know who you and that can only Number two is to disrupt your You have to. Number three is to change your self-talk. Again, remember, what you and what you speak becomes your reality. Number four is to develop a new routine. I know you're tired of that long You got to make a change. And then number five is to follow a decluttering process Alright? If you need help, my door is open. Keep growing towards clarity, my friend. I'll see you in the next one. Peace.