Hello and welcome to this month's JackSucksAtGeography Every single month I'll be taking a look at what you've been posting. So click the top link in description to be one of the first 50,000 Big burger, okay. Mini burger, right. Big soda makes mini soda, Minnesota. Cool. &quot;Guys, what should I name him?&quot; Right, you've made a little They've got Chad for a head. How do you rotate the I don't get it. Right, we are gonna work it out right now. Right, India get here. How do I rotate ya? Double click? Oh, it changes colour when I double click. Oh, hang on, hang on. Is it? Oh yes! I finally worked it out. Oh, that's unreal. Let's make the Chad man talk. (speaking gibberish) The world without the Okay, that's made a pretty massive impact. Okay, can we name every We have got Canada, USA, Russia, China. Oh, that's only four. Australia. Why have I skipped me pinky? Brazil. Mexico's still there. Argentina Right, what's this African one? It's Mali, isn't it? Is it Mali? Oh, Indonesia. Oh, I dunno what the last one is. Kazakhstan, I missed Kazakhstan, okay. Oh, and it's not even Mali either. Oh, I'm an idiot. I'm a fool. It was Algeria. That's obvious as well. I dunno why I made that mistake. But yeah, move Algeria up a bit and you can see it's absolutely massive. Fair play. Let's get this post to Well that's nice. Not very geography related, but good to see support for my dog. Portugal is smaller than the Right, yeah. Guys, I could really do it so we can actually get But like, I mean they're not great, and let's be honest, if you there is not much competition here. So just whack it on the subreddit. Guess where I'm from based on how I call countries in Europe. Okay, I don't know. So you call the UK, Anglia. Russia is just Russia with one S. Belarus is still Belarus. Poland is Poland, Germania is Germany. I honestly have no idea, I'll be honest. I'm gonna guess Italy though. Why not? Okay, these names are from So he's not actually said where he's from, but they might be from Israel because that's where Hebrew's although there's a few other spots. Petition for Jack to make this the new JackSucksAtGeography Like so Jack sees this. Absolutely not. You've got bloody watermarks in it. What do you think this is? You think my official picture I'm gonna have weird little in the background? And look how you've cut around me hair. There's nothing wrong with thank you. My birthday cake. Ah, you got flags on a I like it. We got Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Where's that? Luxembourg maybe. And then India. Very nice, happy birthday. Guess what country I'm from? Some people go mental with the coronation and just general royal family stuff. It's kind of weird, you know. Flags with Estonian colours. Apparently you're starting then Lithuania, Russia. Ah, I see what you've done. 462 likes and Jack has to get this St. Lucia bandana for Kong. Ah, well as adorable as that would look, you didn't get 462 likes, What can I do? These are some very Yes, so if you take the on the USA flag and put it you accidentally end Makes you think, doesn't it? Wow. Let's appreciate this took me four days but none of my friends care. That's so sad. You've drawn the whole world and you've drawn all their But let's enhance, let's enhance. Ah, got a bit lazy You've just got these Google images. If you're gonna put them on the flag, you gotta hand draw them, I'm sorry. Overall looks pretty good. You look ah, you got lazy Just draw 50 stars, man. You can just do them as little dots. Your eagle's not great. (laughs) Why does the sun in Argentina look so much like the &quot;like a boss&quot; meme? But overall, great job, you did well. I created some UK flags Which one is your favourite? Okay, so you've added just Quite simple. Oh, it's weird when you take I'm not gonna lie. Once again, not sure about that. Oh you just put a bunch Yeah, I'll stick with that one. Flag of every country and it's just the USA flag. I think that is quite common for a lot of people in the US, to be fair. Like I've heard a lot of US people don't even have a passport. Whereas in the UK, pretty generally, unless they're But the USA is like bigger And there's so much that you can go on holiday and have a complete unique experience without actually leaving the country. So, it's really not that crazy. If you had to live in a different country to where you are now, It's an interesting question. Life in the UK, it's and a lot of people are kind of miserable and the government's rubbish. So it is the kind of thing where I could imagine Now, I've not done that much travelling, but I was lucky enough to go and I had an amazing time there. And to be honest, I would be happy living in either of those countries if I had to. Do cows moo in a different accent? So in the US they say &quot;Moo&quot; And in Sweden they say &quot;Moo.&quot; And in the UK they say Okay. Opinion on my hometown's flag, also called The City of Five Flags. Oh my god, it's kind of horrendous, but I also kind of like it in a weird way. That's a weird flag. Where is this? It's Pensacola, which is a it's actually still I always forget that Florida I always think of it as But yeah, let's be honest, This map at a restaurant Okay, so there's one and then there's one just Someone was so worried about accidentally forgetting New Zealand that they really overcompensated. Well, this is mental. Guess which country outline Well, it's Norway, right, isn't it? That looks exactly like Norway. Look at it. (laughs) Sometimes when Flossy I think &quot;That looks like Egypt.&quot; Petition for Jack to learn that Canada has Oh no. (laughs) Oh no. Got 200,000 kilometres of coastline. Whereas the USA has literally Well, this is just a disaster. So put 'em next to each other. Yeah, I can see that, fair enough. Fine, I will accept the truth if that's what you really desire. Oh, fun task. Find the country name. So the first letter. Wait, hang on, what's going on? That's Honduras. So is the first letter H? Why is first letter written there twice? I'm so confused. Okay, we'll try and work it out anyway. So first letter, H. Second letter. Where's that, Micronesia? H, M. Well that's not gonna be right. They said it's South American so I'm gonna guess that it's, I don't know. I'll take a random stab in the dark at Venezuela, why not? Chile. I don't get it. I don't understand, what? No, I still don't get it. (laughs) Flag of Cusco, Peru. Is it? Because obviously, that Yeah, this is a legit Peruvian flag. Oh god, there's another one that might make it easier. So the first letter in It starts with Q, then U. Cuba, it's gonna be Cuba. I'm stressed. Petition to have user flairs saying what country you're from. That's not a bad idea, is it? Bit of fun for the Geography subreddit. I'd be fine with that. It does mean the mods have to make 197 different flairs though. So maybe that's the impracticality. You could do consonants though. My grandma got me a flag Go on. The subdivision experiment eight hours in. I don't understand what this is. What are you doing? I see. So you've got a map that but like regions and states and you've asked people to Side door, just be careful when playing along with But it has created some interesting data. And we've got a lot of the US but that's not necessarily It's probably just that than the European regions, for example. Let's have a better look at So, this is where my audience is from. Look at that. We got quite a few bits are India. It's interesting, we've of South America, Australia too. Oh, what have we got down there? Is that someone from Lesotho? Obviously, people may just have lied, but this is still very interesting. There are more islands within this oval than everywhere else. Yes, obviously Sweden has the It's like well over 200,000. And Norway and Finland I'm pretty sure Canada Let's have a look at the data. Well look at that, the map is correct. Canada's all the way down Sweden, Norway, and Finland have got like 700,000 That is mental, you know. Why is it so much higher Guess the flag. 99% fails and I will reply to Isn't it like a Minecraft thing? Is it something related to L'Manberg? I don't know. Oh it's Amsterdam. (laughs) Oh no. I'm bringing up the Dream SMP. Some people like, &quot;What's Oh, you can see how I got mixed up. Oh no. List of countries that gained Geez, that's crazy, isn't it? So many are so recent as well. Like a lot was in the sixties. Wonder what the Worldle is today. Ooh, you got Canada 24 days ago. But I guess that brings us onto. (exciting music) Right, you can't see, but I've covered the country with my hand 'cause I wanna do it without seeing it. There we go, hide country image. Okay, we have no clues. I'm just gonna close my eyes Oh, we've gone with Greece. And, oh, it's kind of close, 94%. Says it's 1,000 kilometres away, which seems quite far for 94% but maybe 1,000 kilometres So going sort of northeast from Greece, we get to maybe Azerbaijan. We could try Azerbaijan. Let's go for it. It's actually, no, and now It's further away. So thinking about it, it's got to be in Europe And I guess we go high up. So Belarus maybe, we'll Oh, now it's- I've gone too high. 700 kilometres down. Should I try Ukraine then? I guess we'll try Ukraine. Oh my God, have I not got there, 98%, but we're very close now. So it must border Ukraine. Shall I go with Romania? I reckon it's gonna be Romania. It's not? I've only got one clue left. So let's reveal the map seeing as I have failed the challenge. Ah, it's Moldova. Makes sense. Yeah, we got there. Saw this on Twitter and I'm concerned about the level of education in America. Enhance, enhance. So, they've been given a map of Europe and they have to name what So, they said the Iceland was Ireland. They think Italy's Finland. They think the giant one's Poland. They've got China. Nah, they're messing about, they're just trying to annoy you guys. People on Twitter just and like get people to say stuff. And I'm sure there's a few like at least a handful. Guess where I'm from? I mean it looks like the Hogwarts Express travelling over that So I'm gonna assume Scotland. Well they didn't share people are saying It's not a JackSucksAtGeography Just one more episode Netflix. Just one more page when Just one more piece of chocolate. Just one more dumb mistake, Oh, for God's sake. Earlier in the video I said and everyone's gonna be like they always do. I make mistakes. I'm human, all right. I create flags of the world with 130 Rubik's cubes every day. Oh my god, okay. Oh look at the parrot. So this takes a bit of do because you've gotta in order to do this. It's very impressive to be fair. Oh my God, look at that. Wonder how big these are. Well, GG. I have made countries out Oh, interesting. I see that, I see that. That's kind of cool actually, to be fair. Oh look at it from ground levels. It's quite delightful. Finally learned all Couldn't thank Jack more for helping me find the That's epic. I'm glad that I was And it's cool knowing all the flags 'cause it comes up all POV: Jack's fans when they spot a mistake in Jack's ranking flags video. Yeah, I made quite a few mistakes when doing the T list video, didn't I? I did 197 different flags, so of course I'm gonna get That's not that many, okay. But everyone went so radgie Let's have a look. Okay, here's the dreaded video. 28 minutes, long rest for recording that, took but also Kai who had to edit it. Jack, &quot;I'm not going to get political.&quot; Also Jack, calls Armenia Azerbaijan. Oh dear. Jack corrects himself with so we can't make fun of him. But then he calls Brunei Burundi. Oh no. I called Tonga Togo, Thailand Costa Rica. I just forgot about Costa Rica. I'm not gonna lie. Micronesia, Somalia. Ah, and I mixed up Mali and Guinea. I mean that one's fair enough Jack: two years of learning flags and he has a successful Geography channel. Also Jack, calls Brunei Burundi. I swear this is a prank from Jack to try to trigger us as much as possible. Yeah, that's what it was. It was just a prank. They're all pranks just to encourage make more comments. Who else thinks the It's a nice flag. I agree with you. Did you know that 31 Nepals I know now. Guess the blurred flags. Okay, we've got Norway. We've got, ooh, Australia. Ooh, hang on, that could be New Zealand. Are those stars white or red? No, they've gotta be white, haven't they? Yeah, I'm gonna say that is Australia. Ah, no. Okay, next one. This is the medium level. That's USA, right? I'm assuming. Oh, it's Malaysia. This is really tricky. Okay and finally, that one Yes, thank God. Just finished this flag puzzle. Oh, you've done a flag jigsaw and you've got the Oh snap, my friend. Oh. Oh, another mistakes. I was playing Worldle and it was can you that border North Korea? I said maybe a bit of China. And as you can see, basically all of North (Jack laughs) I might need to start I think what's happened is I've just been looking at maps I need to keep up with my knowledge. Because there's something about that cow. What is this? - Moldova is very nice. Where do we have Andora? We had Andora in pretty cool. I think Moldova gets to because there's something about that cow. Because there's something about that cow. (distorted) - Hey, I stand by it. That's a good looking cow. I like that cow. It is a cow, right? This stone looks like the flag of Denmark. You know what? It actually does. Normally, I just skip but that does actually look And if I saw that on a Day one of making Jack notice I drew all the flags of the world. Do you know what, fair play, Jack, you should buy this. Right, okay. It's a calendar, but it makes a globe once you've finished using it. It's kinda sweet to be fair. What's the finished fella? Oh what, what's that on? I thought it had legs, but It's creeping me out. I don't like it. It's ruined by the astronaut. Get it away. Find Jack, part two. Oh, I wonder where I am in that one. What the hell? Oh, where am I? I see me, I see me. I'm right there. We have fun. We really do. We've got another person that has now learned all of the flags. Congratulations. I probably would get this wrong if I tried to do this now, wouldn't I? My girlfriend's TV has Going through the settings, I found you can set the Why can't my TV do that? Oh my God, look at that. This is the Irish flag. We got green, white, and orange. I want TV that does that. I added like an LED strip to mine, but it doesn't have a flag mode. The UK one hasn't really worked. It's all just kind of But yeah, the Czech Republic one works. The Ireland one works. Even the South Africa flag. I mean it's doing pretty stuff. I like it. India, Outdia. Okay, yeah, that that was a good post. Hey, on an unrelated note, guys. Join the the Thank you. Who named this lake in Canada? No way is that real. Big Ass Lake. (laughs) It's real. That's amazing. Do you know what? It's not even that big. The start to what made Jack So, in my original like I'm gonna start I said &quot;I like that flag. &quot;That's a cool looking flag.&quot; Oh, so wholesome. (laughs) And we've come such a long way since. Thank you very much for watching this month's JackSucksAtGeography subreddit. Remember to join so that we with more variation next month. That'll be fantastic. Subscribe to the just in case you have not already. We need to overtake Trinidad That's the goal. So subscribe ASAP. Thank you, I'll see you later.