- Thank you to Brilliant Hey, smart people. Joe, here. I need to talk to you about a bird. - Our biggest wow factor is probably this crimson topaz here and so- - That's not real. Hold on a second. Did you see that? - The camera. I also need to talk to you about a bone. - [Jeffrey] So this is from Australia that in - Every part of what you That's probably the coolest And we need to talk Turns out you can order (Joe laughs) (beetle clatters) I've been ordering a lot. All of these have one and it is nature's greatest color trick. In past videos, we've taken a deep dive into some really mind-blowing We've looked for the blackest black. We've asked why blue is but I've been saving this because, well, I think (curious music) This is a phenomenon called iridescence. It means rainbow colored. We find iridescence in loads of places. Here, here, here too. And there, also there, even in that dirty puddle But why? Now, color has many functions in nature. Sometimes it's for getting attention, sometimes for staying concealed, and sometimes for reasons But iridescence is uniquely mind-blowing because the colors that we They come from a weird trick of physics. To figure out how it works, I asked a beetle expert, a bird expert, and a rock expert to show us some of nature's most incredible It turns out if you go like the National Museum in Washington D.C., they have entire rooms full of awesome colorful We started in the bird wing. (crickets chirp) Get it? (crickets chirp) Bird wing. (crickets chirp) Okay, sure. So peacocks get all the attention when it comes to iridescent plumage, but I think that the belong to the smallest members of the living dinosaur - They're gorgeous, unbelievable. Our biggest wow factor is - That's not real. Hold on a second. - Gives you a flash at the camera. - Did you see that? That looks fake. It looks like somebody made a hummingbird in a lab and said, &quot;This would be cool.&quot; Why do hummingbirds have - So hummingbirds, we think, it's always a we think in science, right? We think that hummingbirds because largely they're picking who they might based on who is the prettiest because pretty might indicate best genes, best ability to find food, best ability to care for offspring and so- - You don't have a lot which I know- - is a big problem in dating. These look really cool. There's like purple and - These are beautiful. The different body parts of these birds have different iridescent colors on them. You get these brilliant greens on the body and these really beautiful - I mean, I can see how in the hummingbird dating community. What is happening inside of these feathers that helps create these colors? - It's just a little bit There are three things of this iridescent color Melanin, which is the same keratin, which is what and also similar to your - The way that light doesn't come from the color of the pigment in those feathers. It comes from how the feathers are built. Now, if we could shrink ourselves down to the nano scale and what we'd see is millions of in these orderly little pancake stacks all packed with tiny air bubbles. When waves of light enter the feather, they bounce off of those layers. Now, when light waves with each other in different ways, depending on the wavelength of light, the angle that it enters, the crests and valleys to dim the color or make But at certain angles for sometimes those waves line up and are added together to even more vibrant. All of the light enters, but only some light is So when you look at the different waves of light line up as they're bounced back to your eye. That is what creates the sensation of shimmering, changing color. - Yeah, that's the fundamental is that the color changes depending on the direction - Wow, that's pretty fancy. Not bad for some little dinosaurs. Okay, so hummingbirds are cool, but they aren't the iridescent royalty of the animal kingdom. That title probably belongs to beetles. Biologist J.B.S. Haldane once said that if nature did in fact have a creator, he has an inordinate fondness for beetles because beetles make up a quarter of all known animal species, and beetles themselves seem to have a particular fondness for iridescence. Not every beetle is iridescent, but the thousands that are, they have some of the most I mean, honestly, if you didn't know that some of these were real, you'd be forgiven for thinking by an artist or a YouTuber But they are real. The outer layer of a beetle's body is made of this super stiff And when light hits these layers, it bends through a Just like when we look the light waves seem to Same thing happens to light If those layers are spaced out just right, we're talking a couple hundred certain colors of reflected and only certain colors of Sometimes, those refraction reflectors are in the farthest outer or they can be buried a That's what creates the huge range of iridescence that we see in beetles. For instance, this one looks like a greenish reddish rainbow, but this one here, you hold it to light, it looks like a hologram. But being shiny and but one of the most important in biology is why Turns out, these flashy suits of armor may have some surprising functions. - You're probably thinking, &quot;Oh, how could this possibly be useful as a defense or camouflage or something?&quot; We're pretty sure that about any kind of a change And in most cases, you know, the really bright metallic greens or living places with lush green forests with a lot of residual water, so being shiny and reflective and just the right ecosystem So the same beetle, if may be really visible, but if it will start to fade into the background because of the way that the and the position you're in observing it. It's also easy for us from the standpoint of human color vision which is actually pretty good, versus say, birds, which are of insects, including beetles. And so their perception may be quite different than There's also lots of other might actually help you find mates. Depending on the color patterns, indicate that, you know, maybe so a bird would leave you alone. And in some cases, it may actually be about a non-visual thing altogether. Something like thermal in insects because they can't They are impacted by the So having an ability to so that you don't overheat, So there's lots of speculated reasons, but we still don't have definitive answers as to for one particular species of beetle why it's this way versus another species. But it obviously serves them, or it would have dropped - Now, what I think is the is how completely can sort of stumble on the This is a piece of abalone It's made of layers and layers of a different hard material called nacre. Light is bending and in almost the same way using a totally different material. And since the seashell the iridescence can even be seen after these shells fossilized. This is a fossilized ammonite, and it's at least tens and it's still iridescent. That is incredible. But I've been saving my favorite kind of iridescence for last. The beetle that I'm about to show you, I have to admit, I didn't (curious music) Come closer. It's really small. This is an actual earthling. It's a type of beetle called a weevil, and this particular one looks but this is also a form of iridescence. But to understand how this we're gonna have to go The rare minerals vault at the Smithsonian in Washington D.C. The rocks and crystals are some of the rarest and most To get in, we had to go with an actual laser palm scanner like something out of a spy movie which I was not allowed to film - So this is an opal from Australia which is where a lot of This is actually a whale bone from Australia that in (Joe laughs) - Every part of what you It's a whale bone from Australia that's- - I know. that is not just a bone anymore, but it's been turned into opal. - Yeah, and basically the bone was there. It gets saturated with water That porous material that was the bone got filled in with little - That's probably the coolest (Joe laughs) I mean, it's one of the - Yeah, that is incredible. - It is. - Every day I walk in here and I go, &quot;Something about the earth just amazed me in a different way.&quot; This is one of the most amazing opals (Joe laughs) - [Joe] This grew in the earth. - [Jeffrey] This grew in the earth. Have you ever seen an - [Joe] No, it's, I mean, it's coming from every direction. - [Joe] And they're big chunks. - You'd swear that somebody inside of there, right? - Yeah. isn't that the most amazing? - It looks like an LED toy. - [Jeffrey] Look at this one. This is also an Ethiopian opal. - [Joe] This doesn't look real. - So you've got, opals are made up with these These are spheres of They're probably formed out These little spheres of here, you know, very tiny. - Wow. are stacked together very perfectly. I mean, it's kinda like, you know, we always stack oranges - Yeah. stacked together. And so- - when the light hits and you get these great flashes of color that we love in opals. - They are amazingly orderly. - Oh. somebody went in- - with little tiny tweezers and was placing these- - one by one. - Basically these little spaces in here, these are about the right separation size to cause refraction to take place. And you get the flashes of color. - Sure. but what happens is light gets reflected off of different layers. - [Jeffrey] And then in some it combines constructively and - So some colors are taken out, some are accentuated. - Okay. the angle, that can change. Light coming in at different angles, different colors come - As you're getting different parts of it, you know. - The orientation hits your eye. I mean, those flashes are Isn't that neat? - That is incredible. - Yeah. - The ordered structures in opals are called photonic crystals, a kind of crystal where the bending and reflecting of light is happening in three dimensions in a Photonic crystals are also look like they were dipped in glitter. They're like walking opals. They are nano-sized, in the beetle's outer shell. Some of them are built like honeycombs with orderly spaced pockets of air. Others are sort of the opposite of that with stacks of evenly spaced And just like in an opal, light is bent, waves combine constructively and different flashes of color appear. All of these iridescent of physical structures that bend light, not pigments or fluorescence or any of the other ways that Just the strange and beautiful result of light waves interfering What I love most about these things, isn't that they're beautiful. It's that we can look at rocks and shells and bubbles and birds and even beetles, and despite how different they all are, they're all tied together by Kind of makes the universe feel a bit less and a bit more mysterious. (curious music) That's right, Paul. I think we should call Oh, you made yourself, you made it to the end screen. Thanks. By the way, if you haven't if you enjoyed this video, now would be a great time to do that. Hit the little bell next to it too. You get notified as soon and then you can watch it which helps other people find these videos and learn cool stuff like this. Also, wanna say a huge thank you to everyone who supports for not only helping us amass but also for helping us make these videos. If you'd like to join that esteemed club, there's a link down in the description where you can find out more, and I will see you in the next video. Cheerio. And thank you to Brilliant Brilliant is an online learning platform for STEM with hands-on Brilliant is for curious learners both young and old, Brilliant courses teach you how to think by interactive lessons and and exercises, and they with interactive lessons in STEM. For example, Brilliant offers a course on scientific thinking. Explaining the world means thinking with scientific principles, but usually they're cloaked in all these technical manipulations. Now in this course, number crunching and math more useful, physical insight. There are no prerequisites You'll explore the laws of physics and engineering principles and There'll be plenty of but by the end, you'll have and insight to look at To learn more about Brilliant, go to brilliant.org/besmart. Welcome to our show, ladies and gentleman, The Beatles. I mean, the beetles. All right, turn that away for me. I can't even look at myself. (Joe laughs)