Dr. David Spiegel: Right now, I want What does your back feel like right now? Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. Good. level right now on that zero to 10 scale? Thank you for making the time. you so much for having me, Tim. that you're a man of many talents. In addition to from your bio, you are an expert in wordplay. You before we start recording, and I had to write it with that name, there must be.&quot; So I'm going to Somebody, feel free to grab it. Tim Ferriss: And we'll start with a question, but how your father was exposed to hypnosis? Dr. David Spiegel: I'd be glad to. It's a good one, but two psychiatrists and psychoanalysts. was free to be any kind of psychiatrist I wanted analytic training just at the beginning of he was a battalion surgeon, and as he was getting to him. He said, &quot;Herb, would you like to get a &quot;What was wrong with my free associations? Is he his analyst said, &quot;No, there's a Viennese refugee, psychiatrist in Austria. He had a smallpox And he noticed that as he's interviewing these nod. They'd close their eyes and go into some hypnosis and was using it to help his prisoners. it. So my father took this course from Dr. von deal with combat stress reactions, to deal with interesting. He told me a story of one guy who couldn't use his legs. And so the guy said, &quot;They So my father asked him about the context, and and I saw my best friend lying on the ground, and do I follow orders?&quot; So I followed orders. I him. And so my father in hypnosis said, &quot;I and I want you to notice something. His boots are And the guy said, &quot;Thank you, doctor.&quot; And physiologically, &quot;I should not have moved, I helped relieve him of the guilt -- and most people than helpless. They'd rather find a way to blame and it would come out differently. And he was and there was likely nothing he could do to stop dinner table, and they were pretty interesting. who had non-epileptic seizures. Dr. David Spiegel: My father. So he's making a watch. And he had her go back in hypnosis to the to twist and shake, and she's starting to have &quot;It's a lot easier to get people to start these to stop them, it didn't work. So the way you teach bring it on.&quot; And then he had her practice and he cured her of her hysterical seizures. you're triggering these events, how do you ratchet does your father coach someone through doing that? He's basically non-verbally communicating that, misery over and over again. I'm going to try he taught her that if you can make it happen, change the way it happens, and you're not going Her husband had his workbench at his factory put he could rush out the door, and go to her panic it elicited. So he taught her that but it doesn't have to be as bad. And of de-conditioned the intensity of the seizures. pretty quickly, just in terms of what a few follow-up questions. Forensic but what is a forensic psychiatrist? my copious spare time. It's basically, in not for the patient. So you may assess the but it's for the purposes of preparing a report, was someone I was evaluating, a woman who, a fires where she's on the phone with her mother, these fires. And it turned out that the community going to be. And even worse, her boyfriend mother. So it was a very complicated emotional consequences were for her of losing her mom. in as a subject matter expert to or lack thereof of, this particular case? Okay. doing that, I like testifying in court, because -- and I'm thinking, &quot;I'm enjoying this.&quot; And then he's going after you.&quot; And I said, &quot;You know what? friend is the guy at that table, and your enemy is know where it's coming from. So this lawyer's Service, where a gunman who was an employee, gun pack, got through a metal detector. The guard was Tim Ferriss: Oh, wow. shooting nine minutes later. And I just said, going to be checking people, you ought to do to confront the guy directly, he could have called when they were called. It took the guy nine terrible thing. So the lawyer, the defense lawyer, &quot;Well, Dr. Spiegel, you're not a security expert, insecurity expert.&quot; And I could hear the judge and Tim Ferriss: That cost him a lot. I enjoy doing that on the side. was Kissinger said, &quot;I left academia because I Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah, no, he so bitterly is that the stakes are so low.&quot; low. Right, right. There we go. Thank you, mentioned this gent, I can't remember, there was Dr. David Spiegel: Von Aschaffenburg. the smallpox scar in the middle of his forehead. his patients, noticed they were nodding off or they entering that altered state? Was he doing it was conducting these sessions, that he ended up it was causal? What was actually happening? it was more at first. I mean, later on he was Tim, it's just a heightened focus of attention. a camera. You get fully absorbed in the ordinarily you'd be conscious of, noises on the outside of conscious awareness. So it's a kind of was happening at first by chance, just because and listening to his words, they just tended many hypnotic inductions involve some kind of When Andrew Huberman, my friend and colleague, the narrowing of attention, just as the lens information, you get this kind of heightened changes your state of consciousness as well. listening, and for me, I'm listening -- Tim Ferriss: -- differentiate hypnosis from say, and also from what people might consider, but when people have this focus to the exclusion or other types of contexts, if you could just Dr. David Spiegel: Sure. So hypnosis has three highly focused attention or absorption, things that are in consciousness -- right now, what I'm saying, that you're not aware of floor right now. And if you were, we could just the more things you got to put outside of The third component, and in some ways the most suggestibility. You know, &quot;You'll do anything I true, but the truth in it is that you are more Afik Faerman, my post-doc, and I did a study people who are high and low hypnotizable. you solve the problems you're solving, but who are more cognitively flexible will figure you do it. And highly hypnotizable people are of the old premise and hooking into the new one. is very valuable, and I think a key aspect and helps people just manage problems better. terms of the reason that it helps people is it because, in a sense, the errors of someone with this higher cognitive flexibility and then taking on another. But at the same time, where they're more cognitively flexible and Dr. David Spiegel: Yes, you're right. And it's That is, you don't need to watch somebody dangle forehead. People can shift into this state of one of the coolest things about the state is -- just about what's going on at that moment, but who what scares people. It's the stage show thing But there's a message there, not that hypnosis people can try out being different and see what premises. And that's where hypnosis is something Tim Ferriss: No kidding? he calls flow an autotelic experience. it feels good just to do it. And get really absorbed in experience, do movie that you forget you're watching a movie? Dr. David Spiegel: Drawing? Yeah. of vanishes when I'm in that state. a self-hypnotic state, and I'm sure you're I help athletes, for example, I was asked to they're a terrific team, a lot of the women wind they were doing better in practice than they were &quot;What the hell's going on here?&quot; Well, swimming you're really competing with is yourself. And what paying attention to the women in the lane on their own bodies, getting into a flow state, by I connect with my muscles? How do I coordinate And so I got them, in hypnosis, to get into more but the process. And that's a key thing for with hypnosis. He had a caddie who was helping him are a number of major basketball players who do whether you're going to hit the basket or not, connection, to do what you want to do. And so that you just get in it to enjoy the feeling of the way, good things can happen when you do it. a concentration practice in meditation, whether with a mantra, or thing with a candle flame, a subset of self-hypnosis, or are there Dr. David Spiegel: They're different, Tim, somewhat different practice. It's open presence. you're just letting feelings and thoughts it with great discipline over time, but yourself in it the way you lose yourself in as you know from having considerable experience Whereas, the funny thing about hypnosis is, boy, like that, even if they've never formally done it. So it's a kind of natural shift in attention, you engaged in a flow-like experience. Whereas, a body scan, you cultivate compassion. They're than doing. Whereas, hypnosis is more doing than do it to control pain, to manage stress, to get So it's more intense, it's briefer, and it does Tim Ferriss: If someone is highly hypnotizable, have the eye-roll test in my notes, which I've one of a portfolio of techniques that you use, or to what degree someone is hypnotizable? hypnotizable is a very stable trait. Most time. As you know, if you call your eight-year-old his thing, work and play are all the same train them to be little adults, because they have Piaget talked about developing formal operations reason over experience. Some of us lose some of absorbed in things. You have to think them through hypnotizability becomes as stable a trait as IQ. a 25-year blind follow-up to former psych one And the test-retest correlation was 0.7. Now something. And in general, what happens is they we call the poets, highly hypnotizable, they up in things. That's about 20 percent. About 60 have the experience and then they'll think and try it a little more, and go back and forth. who just aren't very hypnotizable. Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah, but they can benefit from to focus on what you're for and not what you're way to master it by joining it and focusing resolution of it. So hypnotizability, we know and low hypnotizables, put them in the functional that happens only in the highly hypnotizable That is when one reason is active, the other prefrontal cortex, which is part of the executive talking to you, and the dorsal anterior cingulate. ends in the middle of the brain, and the dorsal the alarm system. It's the thing that if it turns -- so the salience network is coordinated control network. And that makes sense. If yourself in an activity and not worry about We've actually found also that there's a genetic polymorphism of the gene that metabolizes And if you happen to have the methionine-valine which keeps pretty high and stable levels are more hypnotizable than those who are I had a brilliant young graduate student, Dana genetic test for hypnotizability. So you can we can tell how hypnotizable you're likely hypnotic induction profile, that my late a six-minute hypnotic experience. Have your will it float right back up? Do you experience to the signal ending that experience? Do you So you get a score from zero to 10, and that is, have used with every one of the 7,000 people it helps me have a sort of common experience but just we both can see how much they can B, it gives them useful information, and, If somebody is not hypnotizable, because most people aren't. They're paying good I'm not good at what I'm doing, because I've psychoanalytic supervisor said, &quot;Yes, you didn't treatments because you're a lousy hypnotist.&quot; because it makes it a neutral experience. It's and they learn from it, and I learn from it. stand in terms of a reliable indicator? test is like a good initial guess. It's moderately And my father discovered this. He was using eye and he noticed that the woman I mentioned he noticed that when he asked her to look up at the whites of her eyes. They stayed up. And after he had one of the most obsessional men he'd ever keep his eyes up as he was closing the eyelids. they close their eyes. So he began measuring from zero to four on how much they're able to the eye. And that is an initial interesting a quick five-second test -- Dr. David Spiegel: Here it is. Dr. David Spiegel: All right, so look up past your as you keep looking up, slowly close your eyes, a three to four. You're on the upper end, because your iris as you start to close your eyes. another option on the menu, then. Tim Ferriss: And why do you any hypothesis for why those are correlated? much related to level of consciousness. I mean, you go to sleep. Drugs that affect the eye and Your pupils get big when your sympathetic nervous for example. And the third, fourth, and in the brainstem by the reticular activating And so things that affect eye movements tend an ability to shift gears, inhibit peripheral this is just -- it's no accident that it's the same movement that are associated with this eye roll. we're going to come back to the mainstream do you have an opinion of EMDR? Tim Ferriss: And if you could just Dr. David Spiegel: Sure, I'm from Tim Ferriss: Fellow New Yorker Dr. David Spiegel: Here we go. Dr. David Spiegel: The EMDR is eye movement, Shapiro developed this, and it's a widely used with trauma, and hypnotic-like techniques are talk about that. But her idea was that somehow you if you had people their eyes back and forth while the certainly good idea in this is that we controlled conditions to traumatic memories is cognitive restructuring are two very prominent EMDR has components of that. And if you think what was the oldest way of inducing hypnosis, are your eyes doing when you're -- Dr. David Spiegel: Moving back and forth. So but to tell you the truth, every study that has that goes on in EMDR has shown that the eye toward the end of her career, Francine Shapiro eye movements and other things. But it's eye movements have anything much to do with the but I have to say that my overall it isn't new, and what's new about it isn't good. aside from discussing the traumatic or elements that contribute to outcomes has been studied in any structured way. The VA has used it extensively in helping combat fact that you summon up a traumatic event and then that come along with it, can be a component things that matter the most and what I do when the control with which you summon it. I've always why don't flashbacks cure PTSD? Flashbacks event as though it were happening again. no control. You feel re-attacked by And so I think with EMDR, like other cognitive reframing therapies, you in a memory. So it's not hitting you again from to spend some time thinking about this now.&quot; So completely absent when the trauma happened. you're doing to yourself in a controlled The second thing is cognitive restructuring new point of view. To understand it differently. I construction zone when some idiot went the wrong on his break. It was two days before his wedding. himself out of the way as the car was coming and and he just thought, why didn't I see this coming? traumatized person, either sexual assault for events they didn't control. versus helplessness, right? helplessness. That's exactly right. And I had him this.&quot; And he said, &quot;I'm sitting on the thing not going the way all the other cars were going. from a barrier next to me and fell forward. &quot;I want you to look at this. What would've &quot;Well, he would've hit me dead on.&quot; And I it's a terrible thing that happened, but it could not just from what went wrong, but from what went entirely different about the trauma after that. But it's a way of restructuring your point of view including hypnosis for trauma, can help people thing that happens in hypnosis is the more the less activity in the default mode the posterior cingulate that's involved with when you're not doing much, but thinking about activity going on in default mode. And if you being different. Instead of seeing this as just wedding and all kinds of things, you can see it as of a split second to do something that saved and who you are. And that's one of the terrific out being different, see what it feels like. but I've had a lot of involvement with say, the way through phase three trials and so on. And basic science and some clinical work related to treatment-resistant depression or major And the default mode network in this type of, I'm not sure what the proper technical term would a lot about initially, I shouldn't say initially, and then later at UCSF. And so it's striking experiences, whether it be in the MDMA-assisted MDMA a psychedelic for various reasons, the ability to take an impartial observer status The description, I'm paraphrasing here, but that reports of people who have good therapeutic exciting to me to hear you describe it in that so many people. There are quite a few people who want to talk about some of the applications, but potential impact is correlated to some type Dr. David Spiegel: There are, but before I get MDMA and psilocybin for PTSD, because a lot of although some are more hallucinogenic than dissolution. And that you seem to just suppress becomes a non-judgmental awareness, where you see breast cancer patients dying of breast cancer I've for years worked with women who are dying struck me as similar and interesting is that said that looking at death in the group is afraid of heights. You know if you fell down, it yourself because you're able to look at it. I So it's this odd detachment where you can see I still don't like the idea of dying, but what ever got to live at all. And so they see the this ability to disconnect your selfhood and in selfhood. In psychedelic work, it's more this reversible form of something similar, which is that has tremendous therapeutic possibilities. PTSD is because it's the human connection drug feel connected with people they never even know and how they connect with them. People who have And it's not because they've done anything like a thing is humiliating. And so to be feeling different about who you are is a way of shame. Just saying, &quot;Yes, it happened, I don't And that's where depression with post-traumatic it tarnishes their feelings about who they are as but disconnect it in some ways from this default you are, that can be powerfully therapeutic. are really worth highlighting here because certain is also part of the reason why I'm so interested mutual friend Nolan Williams at Stanford. Tim Ferriss: And I think we'll probably come But what are the risks, if any, with hypnosis? you, when we started Reveri about three years not have dared to put an interactive digital what happened to people. I worry that people would reactions and terrible things could happen. to have access to this and be able to try it. downloads and the number of potential problems are serious. Some of them are ecstatic, positive are periods of anxiety or stress that are easily is you can turn it on real fast, you can turn it most of the time is, sometimes it doesn't work, so side effects of drugs, like let's take opioids for of opioid overdoses, and almost all of them were of opioids. Hypnosis has not yet succeeded Tim Ferriss: And the reason you're using intersection with pain management? Tim Ferriss: Okay. So we'll also -- Tim Ferriss: Come back to that. Tim Ferriss: So adverse risk profile, pretty low. to come back to Nolan for a second because 20 percent, so a low responder. Is there -- because possibility of using something like accelerated this a type of brain stimulation to improve trait as a modifier means, but is it possible to improve their response to hypnosis? absolutely yes. And Nolan and I and Afik Faerman published a paper in Nature Mental Health in which who were less than highly hypnotizable, and we the left dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex with anterior cingulate using real versus sham TMS. TMS or not. They couldn't tell. The paddle and we were able to transiently significantly real TMS and not in the ones who got the sham. Was it one day? Was it five sessions? day. It was just one session and then we -- Dr. David Spiegel: Single session. Oh, yeah. depression or suicidal ideation. Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah. Dr. David Spiegel: So we're hoping, that's right -- Dr. David Spiegel: I can see your face lighting for people, we were studying people with enhance their hypnotizability and then use it Tim Ferriss: Okay. I'm going to get to pain different tools show their best results in like PRP, platelet rich plasma for certain better for some types of surgeries and joints MDMA-assisted psychotherapy, for instance, better others, for instance. Other things might be better hypnosis best for? Where have you seen the most Dr. David Spiegel: We've seen excellent results with Reveri that about 80 percent of people within stress levels. It helps people focus, intensify do and then do it. It's a skill that they can with pain. It's one of the oldest uses of hypnosis named Esdaile who went to India and was using would just get people drunk, have them bite on a Tim Ferriss: Frontier medicine. right? And he went to India and he reported 80 when 10 years later at Mass General -- be in the 20 percent. you don't. But it's better than being -- Dr. David Spiegel: Better than Tim Ferriss: It's better Dr. David Spiegel: Right? Exactly. And when 10 years later, the surgeon strode to the front humbug to distinguish ether from hypnosis.&quot; Well, Esdaile withdrew his paper. He said, &quot;Well there...&quot; and hypnosis was getting 80? Tim Ferriss: I got it. So he withdrew his paper? Tim Ferriss: That's too bad. a century and a half to figure out that the brain And there are studies now showing which part of hypnosis, which part of the brain is involved in in the somatosensory cortex. If you say, &quot;The hand numb; filter the hurt out of the pain,&quot; you get &quot;Well, the pain is there, but it won't bother activity in the dorsal anterior cingulate. So you pain processing and then hypnotic analgesia. Depending on the language you're using. So if you think what doctors say to patients -- Dr. David Spiegel: Right, it But no pointy hats or anything like that. levels. You've got to pay your association affect the treatment? If you're looking where different wording is affecting different does that then determine your neuro-targeting for we saw A instead of B light up. We really Dr. David Spiegel: Well, it may be for certain want to emphasize one or the other. But frankly, involve either just going somewhere else, leaving enjoying things or imagining a physical remedy ice bath or something like that. Or move the And one other technique that's very helpful is to This is mindfulness in some ways, but if your would you get frustrated and angry with it? Hell, them a hug and I'd stroke them and I'd try and language techniques we can use to get the same And we have randomized clinical trials that prove of medication too. And so it's an underutilized company that hasn't been managed well and has it's like. We just don't take advantage of it. intrepid user of self-hypnosis. So I have some low started recording. Is there a particular approach start with in a case like this? we can try it if you want. Dr. David Spiegel: You're game? Dr. David Spiegel: All right. How would you Tim Ferriss: I'd say two out of 10. Dr. David Spiegel: An annoyance, then? Dr. David Spiegel: And is there a physical Tim Ferriss: There are foam rolling, say the Using psoas release tends to help. Just laying my pelvis to take all the activity out of the like laying down on my stomach and breathing I would say is one thing that seems to help. like a vivid image. And temperature Tim Ferriss: Temperature, if I do say a cold, cold like that, that seems to help. Tim Ferriss: So that feeling of cold tissue, that type of prickly sensation of being associate, I would say with feeling better. of what you're doing is reinterpreting the So let's try it if you want and see. So please do one thing. Look up all the way up high eyes and take a deep breath. And three, do three but keep them closed and let your body float. comfortable, like a bath, a lake, a hot tub, or and stroke the back of your left hand, starting Tim Ferriss: In my lap? can put it on the table. That might be better. down along the back of your left hand, past develop a sense of tingling and numbness and the air like a balloon. Feel the tingling. That's you can rest your arm lightly on the table. you're aware of now in your left hand and arm. Dr. David Spiegel: Okay. I can feel the hair on the back of my Dr. David Spiegel: And I'm going to give you down to the table with your right hand and to the upright position to see what happens. let go. I see you smiling. What's happening? Number one. I'm also second-guessing this to conform to the exercise, if that Dr. David Spiegel: Okay. Dr. David Spiegel: And as you do upright. Later, when I ask you to touch your left sensation and control will return. But right now -- Dr. David Spiegel: When I ask you to touch your your usual sensation and control will return. Dr. David Spiegel: Right now, I want What does your back feel like right now? Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. Good. How right now on that zero to 10 scale? Dr. David Spiegel: One out of 10? 0.5 to one. able to change sensation, not just in a neutral a part that has been problematic. Now I want you maybe with a roll under you and feel a pleasant, were cooler or warmer, or you were changing tingling numbness and let it filter the hurt Now again, with your eyes closed and remaining how your body's feeling right now. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. dissociated, if that makes sense? that a little more? it's very similar to two tequilas. Tim Ferriss: Or a low dose of ketamine, which I anesthetic, I've always struggled to put words to and there's a conscious awareness of the body Dr. David Spiegel: Exactly. So you can observe it, say that it's not as annoying as it usually is? Dr. David Spiegel: Good. So notice how you're displeasure out of the usual pain situation differently. It's not a sentence you have to you that you can interpret in different ways. if this is compartmentalizing in I'm not saying that's what it is, but is this you encourage them to think about this? reinterpreting the sensations and signals that you're uncoupling them from the usual sense actually make it worse. it a hundred percent makes it worse. you're saying, &quot;Okay, it's there. I don't like it, to reprocess the signal is a powerful way of out of the pain. Now please take your right hand what happens to your left hand and arm. more forthcoming. Dr. David Spiegel: Good. Dr. David Spiegel: That's surprising, isn't it? kind of got frozen in this position, I too much out of it, but I was like -- you can let it float back down now. And Tim Ferriss: Normal. Tim Ferriss: Back to normal. to change sensation in both directions. Tim Ferriss: It feels really good, actually, yeah. Tim Ferriss: That's remarkable. Tim Ferriss: So thank you for that. till you get my bill. you have my email. &quot;What is this?&quot; Tim Ferriss: &quot;FreshBooks $6,000? What happened that's drug dealing, not hypnosis. Tim Ferriss: And if someone's inducing that let's just talk about, it could be in the context What are the steps that they take or how do they say if I wanted to do that five minutes a day. minutes a day, you could remember what I control app on Reveri and you get to hear my Tim Ferriss: Mellifluous, this dulcet tones. To teach you how to do this. And you could follow &quot;Is your hand floating?&quot; If it is, I'll tell So it's a branch chain kind of response across the table or in my office as I could. of neurobiology, but just to reinforce my neuroanatomical perspective, what is happening? got EEG studies, we've got FMRI studies, we've got think about it, pain is always a combination of tract, through the thalamus, through the cortex with input from the salience network. So going, &quot;God, you're in trouble, you better do fairly pathetic physical creatures, we have to so we have a brain that is designed to help you the pain, but for example, freeze, not necessarily So pain is a combination of those peripheral is wrong and what to do about it. And so very need to do anything about, but your brain often and so it derails you and it annoys you and it the more annoying it is, the more attention classroom. And so you can learn to modulate that. students, we gave them electric shocks, we you can see waveforms coming out up to a And in the hypnosis condition, we were able there was no response of the brain when a second. And the P200 and P300 were half as big the brain is processing the signals differently. you can turn down activity in the anterior somatosensory cortex. So the brain is saying, and I don't have to pay as much attention to it. often we amplify pain rather than diminish And another thing that we know is going on rich in GABA receptors, gamma-aminobutyric acid, hypnotizable people have more binding of GABA people. So they can use it to be their own reaction in the dorsal anterior cingulate neurophysiological ways by which the brain Tim Ferriss: Also wondering, I mean you'd have as assessed by various means, whether it's the at the genetic profile, if there might be some response, low response for psychedelic-assisted currently, there's a lot of shooting in the dark. if someone is likely to be a high responder to there seem to be a lot of parallels. Tim Ferriss: It wouldn't be that hard to test. science takes money. But I mean, there are determining the strength of a mystical experience highly correlated, it turns out, at least with the standard assessments that you might have for all of these various things. But in terms recruitment who might be a high responder, Dr. David Spiegel: I agree with you. I think it'd next, he just published a paper on using -- Dr. David Spiegel: Ibogaine Tim Ferriss: Astonishing. which I kind of expected but -- Dr. David Spiegel: TBI, traumatic brain injuries. Tim Ferriss: Yeah, it's very durable. about a lot of these psychedelic studies is that receptor and blocking serotonin and uptake and all brain is reset, it's rebooted. And that's where network activity is very interesting because I are, what they are and what their symptoms mean psychotherapeutic assistance with the psychedelic could be hypnotic instruction too. And I don't be very interesting to do, I agree with you. Yeah, there's a broad canvas still Dr. David Spiegel: I'm glad to hear that. things. First, you used wording I heard you mentioned at least twice, &quot;Filtering Dr. David Spiegel: Right. that? And then the second piece is, much earlier call them the low-hypnotizable people who fall could still use it. And I thought I heard you not against us,&quot; something like that. So could the pain and then this for us versus against us? from the pain, it sounds kind of paradoxical, the degree to which it hurts has to do with the lateral spinothalamic tract, it has to do with of somatic signals, some of which could be on the brain's job is to interpret them and decide signal that doesn't necessarily automatically It may be just an intense feeling. It's like a squeeze that hurts, and there's a line in there But there's also an area of interpretation. There are a lot of guys here who do long to shake hands and it's like a 20-second hug, Dr. David Spiegel: It gets uncomfortable, that's or two. That's right. And so the brain is doing the sensory experience. One of the other things is higher functional connectivity between the Insula is this little island, that means island in a mind-body conduit. So it's a place where the how much gastric acid you secrete, your it receives information interoception from And hypnosis intensifies this connection and executive control network and the insula. And its reading and understanding and interpretation who are pushing their bodies to do things I can't do this,&quot; are interpreting that as, &quot;I'm get what I want.&quot; And so they will interpret putting yourself through pain as training, doing in part composed of signals than many of us part of what the brain does, and that's part of how much of it is pain and how much of it is not. it has a lot to do with how much it hurts. for us versus against us? the idea there is that people who are experienced actually listen and respond to what you say, let's &quot;Don't think about purple elephants.&quot; What are change behavior is intermittent positive of change to be what Csikszentmihalyi called So an example where we do that in hypnosis and when I try to teach someone how to stop smoking, I don't say, &quot;Ugh, cigarettes taste terrible.&quot; cigarettes will taste like horse shit,&quot; and the doctor, ugh.&quot; And he got a frantic call two hours Tim Ferriss: &quot;My house smells like horse shit.&quot; are you smoking?&quot; He said, &quot;No, but I forgot to hypnotize him and say, &quot;Only your cigarette...&quot; respect and protect your body. &quot;For my body, I owe my body respect and protection.&quot; You would baby's lungs. Your body is as dependent on you as respect you'd give a child. And so you're focusing whether you feel better or on nicotine or not, protect your body. And that way you can feel good &quot;I'm being a good parent to my own body.&quot; get that concept and say, &quot;I'm not going to don't act on, I don't have to act on this one who I was trying to use that to help him stop his body is the temple of the soul?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yes, So it's a matter of finding a way to formulate feeling good from the moment you commit to stop smoking. And we're getting one out of five themselves. That's one of the things I love about at what they can do because they're trying out Tim Ferriss: What do you think is happening with alcohol, or other? Why does this work where just so you can set the table for and I'm sure it depends on the practitioner separate question I wanted to ask I don't know how standardized things are, like I'm just saying they've tried to standardize so to other types of interventions for addiction? hypnosis is about one in four, one out of cut down by about 50 percent in how much they're varenicline, bupropion, or Nicorette patches. It's but it's about as good. Is it the same people? different contexts, but it's not bad. And I have like a lever was pulled and &quot;I just don't worry Now, does it happen with everyone? No, but every the most reversible cause of cancer in the that's a good thing. And it is correlated with are more likely to stop using this approach. But because they get the concept, even if they And the other thing that keeps in mind in that it's not actually the high from the drug the catch. So you get more mesolimbic dopamine of scoring a drug than when you're actually of pleasure that really gets to people. And from ground for intervention where you just say, &quot;I the drug. I can make you feel good the way you because you're doing the same thing with your body to focus on what they're for is a crucial part Tim Ferriss: What is the oldest, of hypnosis or something resembling hypnosis? I was in Bali watching trance healers and on for thousands of years, they go into a trance go into this altered state and start chanting it's kind of hypnotic and you'll kind of go along it started in the late 18th century with Franz Tim Ferriss: Hence mesmerized. that's right. And he called it animal magnetism. the magnetic field in a patient's body. And he and he had a magnet. In fact, the magic a magnetic rod that was used -- Dr. David Spiegel: That's right, that's right. stimulation, that's right. And he was very he moved to Paris, he was outcompeting day. Voltaire wrote to his brother, &quot;We did we even sent the doctors away.&quot; And if you think it was bloodletting. France was the world's happen to have congestive heart failure -- leading exporter of leeches? because that's how they did it. And they still in blood out of certain regions in the hand and treatment, and he was so popular. And the cool it was cheerful, it was brightly lit, patients they'd done with animal magnetism. And the grim. It was dark, no decorations on the walls, I once had the opportunity to visit Anna and she asked me if I was going to become an &quot;Well, I'm not sure.&quot; She said, &quot;So you're not around. &quot;Why?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, I don't like the trying to help fix things with people.&quot; And When my father was training as a doctor, it was to a patient. Patients were there to listen to was a very good point. And she said, &quot;It's hard to your parents, and that's difficult if your parents because her father was her analyst, actually. boy, there's lots to unpack there. lot in the doctor-patient relationship in that Mesmer was talking to patients and listening to to convene a panel to investigate Mesmer. And Franklin was on it, he was having a lot of fun -- Dr. David Spiegel: Because he was French doctors, they didn't like the -- Dr. David Spiegel: The French Tim Ferriss: Pulled out the stops. was all wrong, that he wasn't really changing they concluded. And another member of the panel developed oxygen chemistry and who six months discovered the idea of the gross national product, members was a doctor named Dr. Guillotin, created the mind-body problem. Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah, what a panel. Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah, but it wasn't, was nothing but heated imagination. And you know but that was it for Mesmer. And so it set in underdeveloped resource is that people think it's neither. It's a valuable, effective treatment that Tim Ferriss: What is, if you had to pick some of the more surprising patient outcomes cases where I'm sure you could have predicted person has a three percent reduction in that really stand out to you as surprising? that got me to decide that, yes, this happens to that deter me from something I'm interested in, with, and it was on my pediatrics rotation at &quot;Spiegel, your patient is in room 342, she's in month for three months, and she's back again, and we're going to maybe give her general So I walk in the room following the sound of girl bolt upright in bed struggling for there crying. I didn't know what to do, but I would you like to learn a breathing exercise?&quot; break into a sweat and I think, &quot;Wait a minute, I said something very subtle and clever. I said, a little easier.&quot; And within five minutes, she's mother stopped crying, nurse runs out of the room. I mean, it was stunning to me, I couldn't believe trouble, she got more and more anxious, she it's very frightening. So you have her anxiety of the physical sensations. So in comes my intern, and say, &quot;Good for you.&quot; He said, &quot;The nurse has you violated Massachusetts Law by hypnotizing And Massachusetts has a lot of dumb laws, but was standing next to me when I did it. He said, And I said, &quot;Oh, really? Why?&quot; He said, &quot;Because to give her general anesthesia and put her on don't think so. So I said, &quot;Tell you what, as long I know isn't true. So take me off the case if you chief resident and the attending and they have a solution. They said, &quot;Let's ask the patient.&quot; I Tim Ferriss: Breakthrough. And she said, &quot;Oh, I like this. I want to keep after that, a month later, and went on to study anything that could help a patient that much, non-existent Massachusetts Law, had to be worth But the nice thing is you can see it in front of Just like you with your pain, it's the same thing. every part of the body to make it happen quickly. I'd say the next major patient that really I was assigned to the Palo Alto, VA Medical mustered out of the army because after 19 years Tet Offensive and he just grabbed an ambulance and shooting at what he thought were Viet Cong. And he was agitated, he was emotionally uncontrolled, being discharged from the Army and spending 11 and a social worker there interviewed him and psychotic to me. There's something wrong, but I VA and he told me that something happened during a Vietnamese child that he had informally adopted. identified with young kids. This kid had been to claim him and so, he just kind of took over and I find out in hypnosis, he comes upon the boy's reliving this in hypnosis, and he was very G-wing. Oh, my God, they ain't got to kill kids. and crying and then he's going into setting up going to be overrun by Viet Cong and he's going remarkable thing was, he was very intensely So I'd say, &quot;Okay, we're going to change times collected his body and buried him.&quot; And so he to dust. I guess that's it.&quot; And then he starts &quot;If I'd only taken you over to G-wing, man, you &quot;Tell me something. Would this boy blame you for &quot;No, no. He said, 'You're number one cook. You're was going to die. He was crippled. He looked we're going to go to his funeral now and We're going to go to a time before the funeral Because often with grief, the reason it hurts so so much. So, there's something positive behind the donut dollies brought a cake and my sister sent never seen electric train before, have you? out later that the train was actually from Spiegel &quot;He's so happy. You're my number one cook.&quot; So I as you don't want to think about now behind a you're going to remember two things about this. going to remember that birthday party. And so, and I brought him out of the hypnosis and he confused. And I said, &quot;What do you remember?&quot; cake.&quot; That was it. Grave and a cake. So, it begin to go through a process of grieving, but time with this kid. He made the boy happy, the even though he died. And he was in the hospital sitting in the ward he was doing his self-hypnosis get back in the army. He wanted to, but he'd been in Chicago, was killed in the line of duty Tim Ferriss: What does decompensated mean? all over again. Dr. David Spiegel: He started to look like But he had this control of emotion. And so I way. And he got discharged. He was spending his cycling and he was out of the hospital and doing people in these rather extreme situations come was worth pursuing. And I've been doing it a guy who was in his home for three years. He had leave his house. He was there for three years with his anxiety. And he's out in the world surprising how much it can help people in a hurry. story. Really. I want to ask you to just describe to ask, in that circumstance where you have who is getting really animated, heated, direct that environment, that person in that point where you're comfortable doing that? because the intensity of it is remarkable. We sometimes get surprised myself. I was actually even realize it at the time, but I was trying going on, he knew I was there with him. And I characteristic of highly hypnotizable people that connected and contained. That is, they're absorbed They're not just wild. And because they're but they're also able to modulate and control of being intense in reliving what happened, of the event, it isn't actually happening. the reins of the horse when you're riding listening to me. And what struck me the most could change times very easily, he could change &quot;I should have taken you over the hooch, man. to dust,&quot; was a few seconds, but he was following time on the control issue. But it's also because meaningfully working on. That is, I wasn't doing could be. I was doing it to help him cue up into much and help him to process it in a way that made something that I thought could help him. intense kinds of hypnotic therapies, I'm a little hypnotist that knows who is hypnotizing whom,&quot; &quot;What's the next step? What do we need to do and saying, &quot;Is this really the right thing? also testing his response and if I see that course. And it takes some time and training to in and why you're doing this and is it really show? And it was clear to me that's what he needed with somebody that you can feel that they can I'm trying to do and I know what he needs to do. the correspondence of trait-hypnotizability therapies. I really do, because that, what you many patient reports who exhibit strong, durable to the next very quickly, from one maybe very emotional valence and then back and forth while awareness, if that makes sense? Tim Ferriss: So very, very curious. Dr. David Spiegel: Reveri is designed for anybody If you just want to learn something about your it's useful. It's a tool. It's more like got a problem, you can try and see if it'll that's our most popular use, people getting to that Reveri wasn't quite as good as being if you wake up at 3:00 in the morning and need me in your bedroom helping you do it. be in someone's bedroom at 3:00 in the morning. right. It's very useful for dealing with phobias lovely woman who had obsessive-compulsive was diagnosed recently with cancer and had to freaked out about doing it. And I had her picture is just floating somewhere she felt comfortable. Sea,&quot; and I thought for a cancer patient, it might of the Dead Sea makes you float like a cork. And And she had a very loving sister in New York &quot;And I want you to imagine that your sister a hug and reassuring you.&quot; And she came out &quot;For the first time, I think I can do she was afraid to go in an elevator by herself, it was too scary, she'd wait in the hospital. this issue with elevators, airplanes. airplanes, I have people imagine they're floating ride, don't fight the plane, float with it and a bicycle. If you want to get somewhere faster, body. The pilot is an extension of your mind. You or she, is an extension of your mind. So concepts from point A to point B. That's good. And then for badly, you can learn to eat like a gourmet. You by using the self-hypnosis to do that. if anything, self-hypnosis for on yourself? my shoulder and I realized I needed surgery done Tim Ferriss: I've had my Dr. David Spiegel: It's a lot Tim Ferriss: Great fun. anesthesia for the surgery itself, but afterwards And I went, it was a Mass General, and I wasn't so, you know. The nurse kind of looks at me &quot;Patient using very little pain medication, we scar from here to here, I can tell you they cut body is just like a broken car, you've just got to do something to the body rather than teach all born with, this three-pound object at the part of the body and helps to control it. And why It doesn't come with a user's manual, so it makes a huge difference. And so hypnosis is not one reason, actually, it's underutilized. I don't offices telling them &quot;Use hypnosis,&quot; but drug but there are many times when doing something like Tim Ferriss: Could also be the, given something that you at least attempt before Dr. David Spiegel: That's exactly right. seven months pregnant, very bad lower back it got worse. They put in a nerve stimulator, it because she was, had it pregnant. And so I have filter the hurt out of the pain. Her pain went but she looked angry. And I said, &quot;What's the last doctor I got sent to instead of the first?&quot; It's inexpensive, it's effective, why not try do something else. And it's really a shame. It's It's excessively expensive to use medications Some do, but a lot don't. And so I would like while people are getting evaluated and getting with whatever their pain or other problem is. specialist, meaning outside of hypnosis. I have onset of, what he describes as, overwhelm bad neck injury. He was constantly in this flexed then he went to play tennis one day, went into of structural event that then precipitated this he goes into fight or flight and really can't many months to find specialists to work with just I could see something like this being incredibly Reveri at Reveri.com -- great name, by the way -- to that in the show notes as well, but Reveri.com. Tim Ferriss: And I would imagine that can be Dr. David Spiegel: Yes, it can. R-E-V-E-R-I. any resources, because I'm sure there's the hypnosis resources, whether those are books, particular resources for those who would like to Dr. David Spiegel: Well, there are a number have members who are professionally trained and Experimental Hypnosis, SCEH.us, The ASCH.net, there's an International Society of There are good textbooks on hypnosis. We've my late father and I wrote -- Dr. David Spiegel: That's available. There which is a French app that the French government help people use hypnosis. There's one called with Irritable Bowel Syndrome and hypnosis can be and more of those apps coming as well that seem hypnosis. So it's growing, the list is growing. Trance and Treatment, I must ask, since you I think what we would consider trance, types of repetitive singing, droning, do you that you find most interesting or appealing? book called Boiling Energy about the use of experience in Africa. And there's no question as a way of socially connecting and soothing in that rhythm of rate that is usually roughly that helps people. And that's why people like we coordinated social activity that gets the body so I think a lot of our healing rituals involve Tim Ferriss: David, thank you for what a And is there anything else you'd like to mention? R-E-V-E-R-I.com. Is there anything else Dr. David Spiegel: Thank you. It is from the App have Android phones. I would say, I think we've love it if people give it a try. See it as a first it integrated better with people's overall health Rodney Dangerfield of psychotherapies. Dr. David Spiegel: Yeah. He said, &quot;They asked me And after having done this my entire career, this I'm not available to keep doing this for people. I've helped more people than I used to activity. And I want people to have it as better and function better, and I think it because that's the same kind of thing you're doing Tim Ferriss: My pleasure entirely. What fun. This And to everybody listening, we will have links as per usual, at tim.blog/podcast, search it there and it'll pop right just be a little kinder than is necessary to