Hi there. Are you a parent whose child has left home for the first time? You and me need to have I mean, you spend, what, 18 years or more. You have this tiny little baby thrust into And then that's your mission You teach them how to walk, how your whole world, aren't they? You know, when they get older and the side of some kind of ball game, ballet recitals, or music recitals, away, learning to play the violin. They take over your life. They take over your home. They take over your time. They take over you. And then comes the day when they go off to for the first time, or they get married. But particularly when they leave at 18, And you wave them off and you think you've brought them up, haven't you, That's what our mission was. So why does it feel so horrible? I remember when my last child The pit in my stomach, It felt a lot like grief. And I'll be honest, when my daughter as far away around the world as she again, with her husband and my baby Well, I suppose it was It kind of broke my heart. And I didn't behave very well. I'm ashamed to say. I couldn't hide how I felt. I'd let them go. I'd let them go at 18. And my daughter, now is 36. But the thought of not being part Being able to go and see them, even they used to live up north in York. So, you know, it was a little way away. But I haven't seen them Now, luckily, I have a very And she actually said to me, mum, as I cried on her shoulder. And I thought, am I? And I think I might have said, am I? Am I really? Because that's never Because you put your own But it really took me by surprise, them go when they went off to college. But this, this was different. Now, I used to know a woman who ... we something one weekend, she said, oh, no. She said, I can't, I've got to go up I go once a fortnight I go up and I and I stock up his, you know, that I've made for him in the week. And, I clean the whole, the whole house And I kind of looked at her and I, well, teach him to, how to cook for a start? Didn't you teach him how to I mean, that's like a But you see to my friend, this in her son's life and feel wanted. And because he loved his But of course, eventually he got fed up. He didn't want his mum turning stuff and interfering in his life. He was 18. He wanted to really start his own life. And she hadn't considered that So she was clinging and Now my almost 41 year old son is moment and they just went off. They're going down to where my to check on them, you know, And as my son left the house Honestly. I actually went, Oh, sorry, sorry. Force of habit. You really would think that I But you know, we can still be in It really is different. And we have to accept that. That's what we brought them up for. They're only lent to us. They don't belong to us. You have a tracker on their phone he said he was going here, but He's not got there yet or whatever. Stop it. Take it off. I know that it's a world that I know that you worry about them, but the happening to them, are still quite low. So you have to let them go. You have to let them spread their You've spent all these years Now you have to trust And to make their mistakes because And you can be there for them My kids have been boomeranging And that's fine. But let them make their mistakes. Remember back to when you were young. Did your parents try to They couldn't do it in They couldn't keep track We had to write to them or queue up for to let them know we were still alive. I wonder how much they worried about us. I think that nowadays we keep But you have to let them go. And I know I've said that already. I can't say it enough. For their sake, But also my friend, You're gonna drive yourself crazy. If you are looking at where your you are checking that she's got home be able to move on yourself and you're of later years that you want to have children that are no longer children I hope that helps. I do feel for you, I really do. And, as I say, you know, I'm lucky a baby recently, within 20 minutes I mean, obviously it was lovely to see her and to see that she was all right. No amount of telling me she But that's her being It's not me insisting and pushing and Because of course the next thing that we they get married or, you know, they're the first person that they're going That's hard. I remember the first, child. My first daughter who got married tend to do when you get married. I didn't like that. That was, that was odd to me. And then my, one of my sons has double So their names have changed, I've still got all those wonderful young and they do still come. They still need their mum you know, when it was me that she rang to have a little So yes, you, you do still It's just not going to be So concentrate on yourself, concentrate start getting ready for that before They'll thank you for it. And you'll feel so much better. See you next time.