This one was different. That you This pretended that Antifa was of it. All of a sudden, I was people died. The world went The year is 2020, a young full of enthusiasm for her of news stories. Her name is the picture. I want to talk The story you have to tell post this moment in time. So you are What happens next? It was the dream of dream jobs, where I was going to stay my in my mind. And it went very doing big features and getting for, obviously. And I was having as 2019 and 2020, and then 2021 changed. So the first hint that you talk 2020 didn't it? It was 2019 when I first noticed it. I did a viral video maker with a campus and making viral videos things. And it was a business media company or big media about by The Times really. And I my style, which was a little bit straight news and turned it in like most of my stories had been different. And I got some notes paper. And it was that I needed disinformation. I needed to angle of PragerU. And I was sort about disinformation, of course, at PragerU was a lie, conservative, but it's not a that's not disinformation. someone who has a really you. And I found myself editors, and it was really odd like, a conservative argument is Was it a particular all the editors generally? American newsrooms there emerged disinformation teams and it was reporters. In this case, the the most was a consultant, for also disinformation reporters And they were kind of fact write stories that were like, false.&quot; And the goal of the label something 'disinfo' and because what do you do with do you do with lies? It shouldn't be on Twitter, it results. It's a movement that it's extremely political. It's goal is it wanted to get Prager Google, off YouTube, certainly. disinformation, then you can in this time, 2019, honestly, I then I went along with it. I was to add in the Southern Poverty PragerU which was basically that then be algorithmically algorithm, to more conservative see more conservative videos exposed to Right-wing lives is The Southern Poverty Law Centre, ecosystem that we need to just What was it originally and what Originally, it was an amazing going to butcher the history but that worked in the south on I was growing up, I donated to high school and college, I would PETA. I would give just like $5 thought it was so cool. And the organisation, and it has become nonprofits that had really noble become kind of like a hollowed the activism of the day is. So at that time in 2019, their that it was disinformation technology algorithms tended to content that was uncertain that roughly the logic? You be algorithmically connected to was categorised under its hate SPLC developed this hate watch you call it, but a lot of people hate groups. Relatively normal is not some radical - Prager is very different. And there was a anything conservative was like it got on A1 and I never thought of was like, 'fine'. Price of doing business? Price characters who choose to work in mentioned that quite active on of make their presence known about them, because we rarely disinformation people within all in NBC, there's, first of all, some cases, like the NBC of a star in his own right. They editor-in-chief within the guardians of what is true and reporter like myself would go in know, a little bit amoral, a mostly motivated by getting on disinformation reporter is a be shocked if there was some the left in the New York Times almost 100% of time, what anything a Republican says. There's something about the sort is also so interesting, that you editorial team. So often with seems to be like a sense of here. If you set yourself up as queen, it's a career move. So many of the censors within best reporters, they're not the universally that they aren't the best reporters. The best like this movement, and they're doing great stuff there. They slack censors running around Trump anytime is a lie, and that bad.' is basically what they I guess they do their own fact reporters. Yeah, I mean, it's hilarious because most of them at that time, who have, I'm sure good became sort of obsessed with me, in a lot of the things that were 2021, that they didn't want pretended that Antifa was fake very important within The Times involved with the BLM protests involvement with the riots and is short for Anti Fascist and is group. Is that fair? They Armed left wing group of Pacific Northwest, became a sort America over the last couple of black, where the idea of accepted. And it was very of years, to very much deny that tried to go up and report on neighbourhood in Seattle, which story. They took over the gay as a gay person, I felt I had a on. And doing that. And wanting colleagues heard I was pitching interested like okay, cool. My it became like, this crazy thing And why did I want to go up a story, and that story got openly were calling me a saying she's out of the tribe little bit of reporting that was disinformation movement. The story then, you went to the which is this section of Seattle by protesters, and there was no weird summer of 2020. And what story that they found so Well, I confirmed that there obviously, running the borders, that was really important to not mean, remember when the Tom the editors all resigned over it corrections that was given to it wasn't true, that Antifa was that was a really important lie So did anyone try to prevent you manage to get through? I actually was blessed with very actual boss of The Times was institutions, like the in Claudine Gay's case, maybe of American institutions doesn't movement that has happened over kind of caught flat footed by respond to it. And they're time I found myself on the other because I had only been on the part of cancelling people, I'd then all of a sudden, I was people I knew, people I had was a fascist, or that I was crazy. It was like my head So you found yourself on the Received wisdom? High status And very quickly, I realised, I reporting, and then I started things were over for me real Bari Weiss, your wife, and co so we again, if any of our Yeah, I'm sorry, I started dating a heterodox liberal. Their political difference within The it's all we're talking about, versus normal liberals. The so small and so petty. And a battle between left wing whatever liberals, because the this, you would never cancel a like part of the conversation. people in these newsrooms, would like these right wing extremist talking about, more moderate small minded. Now being outside prestige media, and outside of world, you realise how, kind of, and how, of course, they can't them, or might lead to a they can't imagine a world that interesting, you say you can't cancel a that's true. Partly it's the differences, isn't it? That if the right, that's where the most seems to be it's a sort of left it? It's a movement to purify the left. for purity is to get rid of the right. And so, the cancellations over the last four years, has the left and yeah, it had conservatives. At what stage did you actually the timeline right? By 2021. So I was there 2017 of the rhetoric escalated, and I embarrassing photos of me from my Facebook. It was getting like I would say it is really important happened during that period susceptibility in our society to go back to that moment. And I back to. You're sitting there in Autonomous Zone. The fact that people died. Oh, it not just allowed the She said it was like the Summer infrastructure to secure the new infrastructure to build the potties, they serviced it. And ambulances and wouldn't allow of course, people died. And it first people were shot, it stayed open. It's a very over a physical space and seeing it in these campus wrote about some other examples, become little countries of their I don't feel it was as common there's a sense of that if you you need to take a piece of the about people taking over land society and we're going to show going to show you that you don't also about how American cities think that's pretty cool. And taxpayer who pays taxes in from a city has been broken in a you're in the American West, and don't have sidewalks because blocks down the sidewalk, fully in a city like San Francisco or want that encampment there. You're smeared as a monster. The encampment. The contract of communal sidewalks or these broken, especially in the that I always love about this is is based in New York, most of writing about these issues that and the Midwest. And the New write about these homeless the book about the one in Los a gentrifying, but Latino into a very trendy encampment fentanyl addicts, plus a lot of cool, one of the socialists Beemer, he drove a BMW and would then go and like organise Coast media fetishised it and jour and to clear that violence to a more beautiful always for me is like, you go to Park, it's very clean. You Central Park for five minutes Like they live in what compared of a police state. And then kind people for not wanting to that's my east versus West rant. In the middle of all of that how few people have kind of it been held to account for it. London, I was watching it all the US who were posting things BLM marches, saying defund the defund the police. These are the entertainment business. And you mean, defund the police? question. And I think there are almost like people have sort of brains And those same people you about it or miss remembering of the crazies. They were pretty Have you observed that? That of white washing going on? Now, so much of it as being being erased. There's no with it. And I think the of the goals quietly succeeded remade this and that. And so the to be talked about anymore. This no, right now, the move is the election comes up, the move happened. And part of why I say this happened. This was world went crazy. And I think, I trying to hide that they ever viewed as nonsensical. But it apologies, or if, let's say some got their jobs back, let's say Lab leak a conspiracy. That was disinformation reporters. That lab leak was a lie and a talked about it, you were really and The Washington Post still it's I think the the funniest right wing conspiracy theory and they have a story about Tom the lab leak. These are still retracted. I've got another example of that for should go through together write about the chapter in the which is a Korean spa in Los about a trans woman with a penis changing rooms, a lot of people video that went viral. It became And I want to put up first of it. On the 28th of July 2021. &quot;A trans Instagram posts lead to first sentence there is Korean spa in Los Angeles since then, trans women in LA abuse.&quot; Now I would encourage because it is still up there. It for 3500 words. UnHerd publishes articles, but 3500 words trying conspiracy. It didn't happen. It extremists, they get a bit of Q sentence is &quot;Wi Spa represented happen when far right groups, and gender critical feminists rights&quot;, is the final sentence just before I get you to react a second piece on the screen, Guardian, the same writers, the Beckett and Sam Levin. And here indecent exposure at LA spa And here oops, it turns out it real. It did happen. And Los a 52 year old with indecent called Darren Merager. He faces was already on a list of persons kinds of offences. Yeah, so this was a great story Hispanic woman went to the front said there's a man wandering spa. And the women at the front about this. He's got a female were like but there's a man the naked spa, Korean spas, you they were like we can't do video of this interaction it these are Q anon Right-wing nuts and so yes, I mean the going to the courtroom and really interesting character. man who exposed himself? yeah. after all, or was he a man or designation? Like so many people, he's kind of an illness issues. I don't want to he identifies as a he often as a driver's licence that says as people say, he's homeless, sleep and Wi Spa that night, these spas are 24 hours. So you neatly into any of your so you know, we were laughing retrospect, it is kind of a serious story, because it ties you've got a homeless person who you've got someone walking female changing room, which concern. And then I'm just going Guardian piece. This is how they trying to belong. For trans similar establishments. The reminder of the dangers they The Guardian. It's one of the outlets. And that's how it make of that? I think that journalists became actors and could not and would situation. And to see complexity transphobic trans hate. And like in this case, it is a homeless guy who sort of identifies as a man maybe gets public spaces. Seems like it's a West Hollywood earlier. And he Charged for that as well. The if the penis was erect because intention because he has a is legally a woman. So there's the women's space, technically. guess they could argue that it so it was this funny game of the examinations of these young you were sitting here in the penis when he walked there? And edge, then you wouldn't right? And then, I mean, the interrogating this one young clear vision and clear eyesight said, &quot;I'm not sure it was the it was just this moment of like, this changing room and now being hard on or was just a flacid before. I mean, the whole thing Just even that story, like if people that need to come episode happen. It's not just a Guardian that you can kind of the court officials, the judges, machinery, needs to make that just means that the the common sense, was so wide and so terrifying. Yes. And it's helped along by writers acknowledge complexity. So talk about the complexity in this with how JK Rowling is for complexity in that in a way that's nuanced, and transphobes are arguing, comma, smeared. you wouldn't be able to newsroom. If you wrote about acknowledged the complexity. Do you feel like in retrospect, now we're now talking in 2024? Do Clearly, the media company you Free Press is flourishing and there is the beginnings of a do. And I write about in the Francisco where a lot of in the city, who got really and said enough is enough about through there. Having a district drug dealers, because he argued things like that. The new editor said he is a free press reader, our readers. And so we're there are little pockets of I think there's some window mainstream media institutions. fix things. I don't think that Times and NPR right now are though, I mean, until you see COVID was the lab leak was a retracted, then I don't really that this is happening. Although publish a opinion editorial by of the anti disinformation progress as well. Their editorial department has some they last. But I think success and growth of things this whole ecosystem of writers that the old media has most interesting stories of the advantage for us as reporters as they'll catch up on that, I people will just get more censored off the internet. I druthers, if that group had be allowed, it would be illegal Let's just pose the counter might be accused of kind of having a loving saying, aren't the opponents will say watching critique of The Free Press that form write up is that it's That under the guise of this for former people of the left to conservatives would say you to charge. It's just an observation Obviously I don't accept it. I Seattle, when I tried to do any called conservative, I was movement in mainstream not allow liberal, traditional journalistic values, to even it left is obsessed with calling right-wing. That's the biggest their greatest insult they can frequently. So yeah, of course, if you report on the Wi Spa and write about the complexity this mindset, but of course, I ridiculous. So you still think of yourself Myself personally, I think, no, part of a political movement. progressive. I think now, I feel and just more mushy, moderate, to identify so strongly with a to feel like I needed to be part important to me. And now I just writer and a reporter to to have strong politics on something mind. But no, I wouldn't can rant about why progressives. movement has taken the mantle of right now. It's not let's say It's not progressive, to argue interrupters who have no unions out to be in extreme situations involved. And of course, they're they're reporting huge amounts life. And that, to me, that's actually like, I would call that &quot;let's bust up the unions, let's this job more ad hoc&quot;, whatever progressive movement is not in arguments at all. And meanwhile there are are not interested in a liberal, say they are also increasingly it almost feels, I don't know if feels like liberals in the actually believe in a negotiated people you disagree with, are a Yeah. I think it's really hard. we're doing now with trying to disagreeing peacefully, coming moderated between two differing for humans to do. It's not into tribalism, and that they lies. It's surprising that we we do. I mean, do you think it's over? I mean, it? There's signs of some common picture, do you think a society return to a more tolerant, I do. I do. Europe, I think has is kind of a different story optimistic about the US. I'm we're just a big country. We've stranglehold on communications institutions see traffic fall. right wing TV shows see audience audiences rise and traffic rise, optimistic. Because the kind of to most people. They don't Americans are moderate and classic sense where they have a a right wing idea here. They're final question for you. And then your day. November, who you're I'm sitting it out. It's a mean, these are these are rough for a minute. Say more.. But alarming. But no, I don't feel right now. But I think that's should feel a little bit parties. Pundits take a spot, one. Okay I nearly got a new story out of you imagine if I came out as a to us this morning, your time. catch it &quot;Morning After the it's a great read on a kind of a Thank you so much for having me come on. That was Nellie Bowles, Revolution: Dispatches from the us on a bit of a trip down strange years 2020 and 2021. At remember how weird it all got that our societies did. The flip vulnerable our societies appear of whether we could repeat it her and thanks to you for tuning