Decluttering sentimental items feels nearly of memories, emotions, and stories we draw And regardless of how deeply we want to live still struggling to clear that stubborn sentimental But why? Well, maybe it's because these things are The memories are real. And we're afraid of forgetting those precious way to NEVER forget is to hold on to all the There are similar issues with things we've Or gifts we received. We're worried about how people would FEEL we just decided to let go. But see the thing is, hoarding sentimental the positive memories we THINK we're preserving. We're actually hurting ourselves and possibly The Keeper of these Things by default. So how do we let go? How do we detach gracefully and gently? And then how do we stand firm in that decision? Well, that's exactly what I plan to share to successfully declutter sentimental items. However, I do want to preface this conversation your connection to your sentimental items But you do. So take these ideas and thoughts I'm about own pace. Let's jump into it. Number one is to lift the burden of just because. I chose to start this conversation here because can take when deciding what to do with your Don't feel burdened to keep something just tied to memories you have or loved ones you Or just because it might be &quot;worth something&quot; There is no obligation to keep things you I repeat there is no obligation to keep things This is important to keep in mind because it will be nearly impossible to make intentional with the things we no longer need or use, Number two is donate in good condition. Something I've found helpful on my journey items is doing so when that item is still I don't know about you, but early on in my to things that I planned to donated but didn't condition for someone else to use. So fast-forwarding ahead, I had to learn to allowed myself to let go earlier, while these someone else could have gotten use out of And I found this to be true with sentimental If we let go, while that thing is still in cases, we might find joy in doing so as well enjoy it rather than it going to waste that from it. Number three is think in layers and stages. It's important to realize that you don't all at once. Knowing this can be a huge relief especially decision block. Do I keep it? Do I let it go? What if I'm not ready? See when it comes to decluttering sentimental things first so can you build momentum. I've learned that most of our motivation to see the progress we're making. And if you were to start with those items we're more likely to quit and give up on letting started. So divide your space and things into stages way from the easiest items towards those more Number four is determine what's worth more and I'm not talking about money. See, we have to remember things and objects They're not holding on to us. They're not emotionally attached to us. We're the one with the tight grip. We're the one that has to learn to let go. And when we can begin to understand this concept Ourselves or these sentimental things. And before you answer, let me save you some No thing or object is worth more than your So don't waste those things trying to be the Number five is ask questions. Now there are a ton of questions that we can how to deal with our sentimental clutter. Here are some of my favorites: Why am I holding things that others could Will a picture work just as well to preserve Do I feel obligated to keep this? Who will take care of this after I'm gone? What purpose is this serving in this season Is it keeping me from my why? What is my most cherished sentimental item? See I've learned over the course of my journey lead you down a path that's right for you. Now since we're on the topic of questions, to yourself or itching to scream at me is: Is it really necessary to remove my sentimental And to put it bluntly, yes. Remember, if everything holds sentimental out. It all just becomes general clutter, and those of the generic. Now, I'm not suggesting you become cold-hearted I mean I still have sentimental items that But I chose to only keep a small amount, therefore feel burdened by everything. A clear objective for you could be to let keeping you chained to the past; has become friction within your family. Number six is make firm decisions. Now let's assume that you're beginning to yet you still have an arm full of stuff that just talked through. So what do you do? Well, it's time to ask yourself one final like: How can I enjoy this item in my everyday life? If you can't answer that, then it's time the items you're trying to persuade yourself The truth is that you probably don't need Period. End of story. Sounds painful, doesn't it? But see, this is why I prefaced this conversation pace when sorting through sentimental clutter. However, I do recommend that you don't lie So you can let go when it's time to let go. Number seven is start small and start slow. While this is a great tip for decluttering we're approaching sentimental items. Remember the goal here is not for me to pressure ready. However, I am suggesting that you begin to personally, I don't want to see you trapped So when clutter is emotionally overwhelming, space to take your time. Maybe that's 10 minutes a day or one box per And eventually, as you being to make headway, you no longer need or want. Keep in mind, it gets easier when you can Number eight is ditch the guilt and embarrassment. Now let's separate these two ideas and break So what does it mean to ditch the guilt? This is all about letting go of feeling bad Maybe the guilt that's hanging over your head a gift or heirloom that you feel obligated it. Or maybe your guilt is tied to the amount item. Now regardless of which one it is, I'm here to let go. And when you do, let go of the guilt as well. Because if you don't that guilt you feel will carried and I don't want to see you crushed On the other hand, what does it mean to ditch This is all about letting go of feeling embarrassed or the fact you're struggling to let go of don't seem to struggle at all. This is also about letting go of the feeling Speaking of help, number nine is ask for help. Who says that decluttering your life, including or be something you're stuck doing alone. It doesn't. If you're struggling, looking for company, Then invite your family or your closet friend Play music, and combine laugher with letting Or just spend some time talking through your longer serving you. Number ten is enjoy the things you choose There's absolutely nothing wrong with keeping and enjoy. As I mentioned earlier, I still have a few heart. So with that said, anything that passed the ten tips can be considered a keeper. So what do you do with the sentimental items Well, you can set up a memory box, build a your items allow for that, you can even display you want you can leave it sitting on the shelf It's up to you. Just remember to be intentional and purposeful with everything else you've donated or kept Keep growing, keep learning and always stay I'll see you in the next one. Peace!