emerald mountains, Over $300 million per year. A business that has spawned The king of the emerald, it's him, the biggest producer Fifteen bodyguards around him. In recent years, the Emerald War and attracted covetousness Victor Carranza, a man in a hurry, goes to Muzo, one of many That's where he started, at the age The stones, Don Victor, Mine is life Started from nothing and classified today, among the top 20 fortunes The emerald king has only one passion, farms, herds and horses. Muzo mine, the best known Clinging to the mountains around, from the favelas of Emerald seekers. This is where Pedro lives, Last year it went well, but this year we found nothing, Two years ago, I found two small They were pretty but they Victor Carranza, Don Victor, is the owner of the Muzo mine. Almost every day, when Don Victor descends from his fortress It is in these favelas that Don Victor For him, to come down here, to the mine of 50 years ago, I was like them. Up there on Don Victor's mine everything is methodically exploited, The search is done When the tons of soil have been processed, we bulldoze them It is in this waste, that materialize or undo the On feast days, Don Victor who Made send to the valley more than to increase their chances With my older brother, and we were looking for emeralds. As he had more experience than One day, my surprise was great. Half an hour later, I saw the person who had it So I understood that to buy and sell stones So I left the shovel A well-established legend says that one day From everywhere, people arrived, who also come to get the fat Started from nothing like them, and now has Everyone's dream come true We can always dream, In life, you have to be ambitious. To succeed, you had to buy That's what we did. It took six years to find the vein. But for six years, we found nothing. Nothing. When a vein is found, Don Victor loves My life is family. But it is also extracting emeralds. I would die here. In principle, Don Victor authorizes his Bodyguards only. Beware of those who do not understand. To be a worker in the mines of Don Victor, The people below are fighting Pushes you ! But push yourself! Step back! Get out ! That's enough ! Then go to the administration. Will see At 1 p.m., a quarter of an hour At Muzo, we look above, For Don Victor, billionaire who could mine is a need. Some days there is more When a vein is spotted. It's Don Victor himself The explosion is strong. Open your mouth for decompression. Victor Carranza has for an almost infallible instinct that takes the Let's see over here, we will continue everything Maybe turning No. We're going straight. Don Victor Carranza controls today 70% of emerald mines in Colombia, the most beautiful in the world, If I succeeded, it is because sleep, work in the mine Because here, even if we pay the temptation is too strong! Out of the mine, Don Victor, man in a hurry, his mule as he calls it. The mines of Muzo are two half an hour by helicopter. That day, Don Victor came for an important negotiation. So many sacrifices for finally Gentlemen, we have prepared you But if you want, They are Colombian buyers. 23736 carats. You know, the minimum price I need an answer, fast. Yes, we offer you 5 million. No ! Are you trying to get me? We see that The minimum is $8 million. It's okay, we accept the deal. $8 million The one who buys the stones in rough. Never know what he He takes the risk of winning. Or lose. This is the stake, the wager. This is the mystery of stone. No one will crack the secret. By carving the stone, And we avoid losing too much weight. But the cut stone gains in quality. And in value. For example, this 40 carat stone. Loses 60% of its weight. So we get a stone Superior quality. The most beautiful stone of this lot, It is of excellent quality. Its crystallization is exceptional. The green is incredibly pure. Lime green as we say here. And it costs... $250,000. The most beautiful stone, It's next! We satisfy the vanity of the world. Puerto Lopez, capital of the Llanos, the second stronghold of Don Victor. Here, with silver emeralds, he buys farms Here in Colombia, whoever has money, who has succeeded, is threatened by delinquency So when I go in so as not to fall who risks kidnapping me, holding me to ransom, I move with Don Victor's protection group, It's 15 armed men, tied up But his other real passion, Here you can buy a hectare it's the price of a coca cola in Europe. I put a head of cattle It's my brand! The V of Victor, How many hacienda do you own? I have about 35. How many hectares in all? I don't know how many... 220000! Victor Carranza, starting from nothing, is now classified in by the American magazine Forbes. His only true whim, Value: 12 million francs. It's his favorite horse. This horse, Don Victor does not ride it In each of the hacienda there is a landing point These farms bring him Livestock sales whenever he can, sometimes on the map, Omnipresent, the bodyguards watch. In Bogota, while Don Victor by buying all the farms Carlos Castilla, his confidant, walks the street number thirteen, feel the market, This is also its role, even if the place This street is dangerous There are many thieves, crooks, who try to sell painted stones, There are lots of scams. The real emerald trade in buildings. Even if a lot of money Carlos Castilla is right, the real trade in emeralds is done at in places where quantity Don Carlos, this stone, we had it and now he us It's true, Don Carlos, Look at this green, this shine He's asking for $100,000. We'll try to buy it for 60,000. At Cartier, this stone is worth $250,000. I will sell them The masses of money brewed have obviously and for a long time Among others, the drug cartels for money laundering. And today the silver emeralds You can take a ticket This money is not dirty. It represents tears and sweat. They wanted to mix him up unfairly The culmination of this war, and his 18 bodyguards, Molina was Don Victor's partner. This is Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, who had Gilberto assassinated, So we all had to react. Because Gilberto was my great friend, our leader, our brother. Farming families will then engage in a merciless struggle I recognized them. The Pekingese, here it is. long opposed to Don Victor Carranza, Former enemy brothers, Victor Carranza and Luis Murcia, meet now enough in a strange climate. There was a lot of violence, So I spoke with the Pekingese. Or we continued the war. Or we made peace. Rather than continuing the parties have today joined together, and crossed their actions in a company called ****. In these curious forms of assemblies all partners share several One is missing. Recount. If Victor Carranza some member of their respective troop and enjoy sharing them, They have long since They know well that infidelities cost a few lives A few stones are better And the bigger the stones, No, 671 grams this lot. Tell us a price and we'll think about it. Between Victor Carranza and the Pekingese, this form of reasoned peace is claimed These are very beautiful! It was very hard. I don't want to remember the war. You have to live in the present He who proposed peace, Don Victor Carranza accepted it. It was village against village, Don Victor had an essential role Today Don Victor the creation of a world stock exchange Once for all, would like to make some people forget and acquire the real letters