Mario is a kind of mystery. We know very little about his background, family. There's obviously Luigi, his brother. But even that's a bit inconsistent: it used by a few years, but now they're supposed to But that's just one family member. Does Mario have any parents? Aunts, uncles, cousins? Well, in order to find out, I dug through to answer the question: Who are Mario's So, if we want to figure out the identity to the time of Mario's birth, or rather, parents. In the game Yoshi's Island, we see this their way to their parents. Except, the villain Kamek intercepts them You as Yoshi have to carry Baby Mario around If you complete the game, the stork is able waiting parents. And this is where we get our first look at Or rather, our first glimpse. As you can see, we only see the parents' so that only the lower halves of these parents But, this does confirm that Mario and Luigi They do exist! Decades later though, the game Yoshi's NEW detail. The game opens with a recap of the events in 3D. And so, here is the scene featuring Mario 3D models, not flat 2D sprites. And, that means that you can actually go into in a lot more detail. So, I did that! It was hard. I spent 3 hours navigating old forum posts TADA! I managed to extract the 3D models of both ...aaaand, they don't have heads! Yeah, so that's not exactly surprising, so why would the developers go to the trouble But, we can get a much better look at the If we focus on Mario's mother for a second, up to the door... And then there's also an animation of surprise. The father also has his own walking animation... Except, returning to Yoshi's New Island cutscene, there's actually a plot twist! It turns out that the stork made a mistake, parents after all. So, the stork continues on its way, in search And, at the very end of the game, we finally Again, they're 3D models, so we can go into at them. Except, these are actually the same models That's right, the positions of the mother it's less obvious to players, but digging only a single mother model and a single father So, it's no wonder the stork delivered the from the real family! So, that's all we get from the games. A little glimpse, and that's it really. So next, let's turn to the comics. Now, again, very little detail is given here, mother and father can be seen. ...Sort of. One of the biggest Mario comics of the '80s And there was a one-page comic published in which shows some events from the early lives Let me show you what's on this page. "Some babies are born bald... but Mario And a full face too!" "Little Mario showed a talent for plumbing Oop, pause for a second! Tada, it's Mario's mother! Yes, her face is strategically covered up her. Okay, let's continue. "...he even fixed his father's pipe!" And, there's the father! Again, this drawing is framed very carefully but this IS definitely the father. There's no more mention of the parents here, and horrific, so let's look at them too. "Mario led the neighbourhood softball league Here's a picture of Mario with his lucky "Mario's interest in plumbing grew, and he could fix almost any leak..." So, that's the whole thing. Certainly an interesting look at Mario's, at Mario's parents. Rare, but not unique to this comic. Only one year earlier, an anime short was Issun-boshi is a famous Japanese fairy tale were blessed with a son who was only one inch And Super Mario Issun-boshi is a re-telling instead of the actual ones. So, Mario is only one inch tall in this anime And, we also get just a tiny glimpse at the Here's Mama Mario's feet, as she towers Mario as he holds his son in his hands. While the feet of Mario's mother don't of Mario and his father is pretty interesting, face. It appears to be very similar to Mario's face, HowEVER, Super Mario Issun-boshi is definitely Mario is not actually 1 inch tall, and this So, whether these are canonically his real But I think it warrants mention nonetheless. So, so far we've really not seen very much. The edges of a face, a couple of silhouettes, It's all pretty unhelpful. But if we move slightly further away from finally get some more information about Mario And that comes to us courtesy of the one and So, if you've spent any time on the internet, Super Show. It was a TV programme that aired in 1989 in sections, alongside live action. Luigi was played by Canadian actor Danny Wells, Lou Albano, aka Captain Lou. A legendary cast, truly! So, Mario and Luigi make brief references nothing very major. Until that is, the live-action segment "Mama The episode opens with Mario and Luigi lounging from their mother! &quot;Mario Bros plumbing: You call 'em, we clear Mario himself steps out the back door to take Mario shows up at the door. And when the door opens... Here she is! Mama Mario! Take it all in, the clothes, the voice. In case it wasn't immediately obvious, Mama actor. Now, Mama Mario appears throughout this episode, reasons. Then at the end of the episode, she leaves, knock on the door. This time, Luigi has to go take care of something The And yes, she is indeed played by Danny Wells, From a production standpoint, I love that that would allow Mario to appear alongside room every time Mama Mario appears, and vice Now, Mama Mario appears in one other episode to Mario and Luigi's childhoods. Interestingly this time they do have her appear played by Lou Albana. It's just, they never have Mama Mario face face. She was played by a body double, and then, her lines with his own voice. This is how the illusion of Mama Mario was Very crafty... What about other family members, then? Well, we already saw Aunt Luigeena, but she's There's a whole episode featuring Mario not the same as Aunt Luigeena. Again, they're played by Captain Lou and mysteriously absent for the whole episode. The same is true for the episode featuring and Luigi's cousins. That's all the relatives who appear in the Mario, a Grandma Mia and an Uncle Tony. And then in other media, there's also a And then, finally, there's Marylin, who relative from Super Show who WAS NOT played Oh, and finally she also has a mother too! .....And there's a tray! A tray! There's a tray! Nintendo of America released an official Super And there's a painting on the wall of a and might be Mario's father. Maybe. I don't know, it's only a tray!!! It's only a tray... Uh, thanks for watching! Sorry for the chaos this descended into... If you want to hear about Peach's strange a video about that too. It's on screen right now. And I'll see you next week! Bye!