It's happening! SpaceX has announced we'll dedicate an entire episode to What will be different? Will SpaceX push and most importantly, will they My name is Felix. Welcome to What About It!? Let's dive right in! Starship Updates This week has been densely packed, and confirmed only to be a week away, we know why. SpaceX released a recap for the previous one that Because of just how incredible this flight was, we there are a few things in here that we haven't it to YouTube, it's now all in 4k! beautiful view of the ship's hot staging. sci-fi movie, with the blue glow of the engines ship away as the booster flips around. raptor movement just after hot staging. Can you This is because during hot staging so that less force and heat is applied Once that is done, the center This is a very interesting insight into And that wasn't the only amazing view! an onboard shot of the ship--only this time, it's Here, you can see just how successful rushing over the flap right in front of the The shot just shortly after shows the camera least 5 to 10 meters underwater. as flight 6 is now only days away, so you know new timeline for the next Starship flight! to! What are the changes? What's the goal? already granted by the FAA due to its similar would be a repeat of flight 5, and while it is Firstly, we now have a time. The p.m. central Starbase time on Monday the 18th. there's daylight available for another very Starting on the ground, we can see that fueling procedures for the ship and booster. to load the booster and the ship For the first three flights, the time it decreased. This has multiple purposes, the Because the longer it takes to load the without being used. Because these propellants there's inevitably boil-off, caused by to be vented to prevent an overpressure event. has ways to reduce the amount of boil-off expensive, so every second is money wasted. this amount is negligible, but as SpaceX airliners fly, it can become significant. just temporary as SpaceX expands the fuel Farm these numbers go back down for later flights. loading around a minute earlier, with the still starts at T minus 49 minutes and 50 seconds. the same: all loading is completed After that, at T minus 30 seconds, comes the final seconds later, the flame deflector activates, after, the engines start. Then, at T 0, Starship But before I tell you about that, and there are over 2 million returning We just hit half a million Subscribers. Half a further by double-checking that you've hit that While you're at it, give us a like and become a to a massive amount of extra content! Starbase photo galleries including all those and ground photos. More than 400 posts in the past week. Insights, chats with me, you name it. Flight 6, paving the way to the Stars! mark quite a few milestones, including the just one month and five days! Starship launches for the 6th time, super heavy lift rocket turnaround time ever. had this, given its quick turnaround time of just the Saturn 5 actually had a turnaround time of Apollo 9 to 10 was 2 months and 15 days, and So this will actually be the first time Starship This shows the progress that SpaceX has been quickly NASA was able to move back in the 1960s. is that the Saturn Five's sixth the first mission to land people on the moon. the two programs and just how much time SpaceX it's perfect for carrying its first payload. the real excitement happens after a liftoff! booster following, what should be an almost with the first difference coming All but the three Center engines are That's a second sooner compare to flight 5. it may be a result of reduced After all, SpaceX did remove quite a few sooner cut off could be to compensate for that. thrust from the booster, as SpaceX is known We can also see that hot staging takes place This is about 7 seconds after following lessons learned from the last flight. and then at t plus 2 minutes and 44 seconds the booster back to the pad. It appears SpaceX decided to speed as the Boost back burn begins just 5 closer to what SpaceX had before Before we continue with the flight timeline, Today's episode is brought to you by The years of CG expertise and a passion for space limited-edition prints. I am here to share as I unbox and reveal the fine details up close. series titled &quot;Occupy Mars&quot;, it is really-really only&quot; option or with a black or white frame. favored by artists and professional piece is crafted with the highest quality authentication, and there's even an option addition to your collection. production process is Carbon-Free, reflecting Whether with a visually striking image, a or an inspiring human exploration scene, of space right into your home Finally, let's See for yourself why and get one of The Mars "WAI15", for 15% off each piece. Also, remember exclusive discounts and to be the first The Mars Galley, Space in every pixel. Alright, back to Starship flight The booster then burns for 54 seconds, before cutting its engines and jettisoning the Gulf of Mexico. It will be fished out Hopefully, it didn't hit any whales or sharks. taking a slightly different reentry as the booster now reaches transonic The reasoning for this may be pretty interesting. with its outer engines, which were damaged It's possible that SpaceX found a way to fix this allowing it to shed Heat more effectively to Perhaps this is how it's being easily addressed. to start its Landing burn. In this case, it is exactly 3 minutes after the Boost-back burn now spends 8 seconds longer gliding back in, spread out its heat and reduce its speed. control and the booster itself will have a or will it splash down in the ocean? mission control feels the booster is not in good many abort scenarios, including crashing into the SpaceX even had a problem during the last scenario during Landing that would have caused the During a debrief with Elon Musk, we found determining the launch date, as teams wanted to If the booster once again receives a go, we get to to be impossible by many just a month ago. The over the launch mount and into the arms of the that Journey ends yet again with a booster If SpaceX achieves this again after only a month, anymore and that this prototype is already more Even if SpaceX decided to give up Starship would likely already dominate Of course, this is not the end goal for likely the easiest to achieve. to achieve is recovering the ship, which is which is still on its way to orbit throughout Arguably, the ship's flight is even more SpaceX has already proven that recovering However, SpaceX has now confirmed that the ship been attempted by a Ship before. After Ship 31 and 27 seconds into flight, its engines are cut, time for a toilet break during the stream. highly uneventful Coast phases as SpaceX focused that they can successfully splash down to test other things, too. So, no toilet break. yet to see on the timeline since flight 3. SpaceX will attempt a Raptor in This is where SpaceX relights one or even zero gravity to demonstrate its capability. harder than lighting one on the ground, as the around freely in the fuel tanks, meaning the fuel to where it needs to go, you're That's why this demonstration is so important, to put Starship into a full orbit yet. and then realized they couldn't relight the engine huge risk not only to other vehicles in orbit but Decay over time and are fairly hard to predict. a 1,000-ton stainless steel Starship on else. Hey, Australia, you are totally safe! as during reentry they have quite a Along with the timeline, SpaceX also provided The first of these is a new secondary thermal backup ablative thermal protective system, This backup is designed as a last resort If Unfortunately, the tiles used on Starships falling off entirely, so this backup heat shield and reliably recovered after each flight. is removing tiles. What? the past few episodes, as SpaceX removed several We theorized that this could be done were not needed and to remove tiles from the chopsticks during a catch attempt. suspicions, stating that this was a test for The third change to look forward to during the will stress the ship's aerodynamic controls to The Final thing to look forward to and it will likely be yours as well. SpaceX's compared to the morning launches we have This is important, as this afternoon launch daylight Landing in the Indian Ocean for reentry According to SpaceX, this will provide other words, it will look incredible! re-entries, we were able to see the glow of during the final stages of descent and the water especially after the engine cut off. All dark. things have been shifted around beginning at 47 minutes and 13 seconds. before becoming transonic one Hour, two This is just 22 seconds later than on by the previously mentioned higher angle At this point, the ship is quickly slowing down, Then, around 1 hour and 5 minutes into with the aft flaps folding and the forward flaps engine and begins the flip maneuver. the third successful Splashdown of a with a few incredible daytime views! that SpaceX finally rolled the hot staging ring Ship 31 has also been receiving its decided to give this ship a decal as well. banana for scale, which goes off an old banana to show the size of a vehicle or component. the heat shield for ship 31 is likely complete. booster, received a pair of road closures. It's From here, the vehicle will undergo a full wet I'm going to make a prediction here in advance. partial fill. SpaceX does this all the time now, that they need to perform a full fueling cycle. It's taking what SpaceX learned from flight 5, to push the limits with these prototypes Along with the timeline, SpaceX announced will be flying on flight 7 payload. essentially already completed, But if that means we get to watch a new a fair price to pay. only ship 33 news, as we also saw this! These are Raptor 2.5s rather than Raptor 3s. think; we know this because we've seen one of them We saw it in October of last year when a Tesla commercial. It currently Starship truly is a game changer for space flight; views space and our future among the stars. of trip planning advice for Flight 6! If you should consider one very important On the ground, that can only be Raptor Roost. where we set up our cameras. Right on the edge raptor-roost.com for more info! And if you really Book one of 5 available seats and watch Flight seat. It's not cheap, I know, but these you this view. Call 806 683 6777 for more info! and what you see now is the view you will get! the ground and 806 683 6777 for the world's best these are shout-outs for close partners from this. These are just my personal trip That's it for today! Remember to smash that fuels the Algorithm! This is how you can help favorite space nerd store! A new Raptor both up! The perfect Christmas gift! Link is in now! And if you want to train your space IQ even journey! Thank you very much for watching,