Who doesn't love a good story about a criminal and sticking it to the man? Well, for every one story of a brilliant criminal there are countless other stories of truly attempts. A homeowner in Johannesburg, South Africa and their valuables missing. They immediately called the police to report after to take the homeowner's statement. The officer settled in on the sofa, and the officer to begin recounting how they discovered Just as the homeowner started to give their of place. There, under the very sofa on which the police trying - and failing - to be invisible. He was laying flat on his stomach, half under behind the police officer's legs. It turns out that the homeowner had arrived flee, and he had been hiding under their sofa for them to arrive! He was immediately arrested, the homeowner's had a rare open and shut burglary case in If you thought hiding under the couch was Goldilocks Burglar. In 2014, Martin Holtby and Pat Dyson, a retired home from a holiday to the surprise of a lifetime. The first sign that something was amiss was the welcome mat, and their house was clean Pat clearly remembered that the house had out the door to catch their flights - the was a mess. And yet, when they arrived back home, they the dryer. Had someone cleaned up for them as a 'welcome Not exactly... The couple made their way upstairs to their was a strange man. They quietly snuck out of the house and called 28 year old Lukasz Chojnowski. He had been living in their house for days, underwear - he had even bought groceries and The couple would later learn that their window but assumed he was their grandson, since he place. The burglar admitted to his crimes, and was 200 pound fine. None of the couple's valuables were missing, had burned an old saucepan, but, she said, The Goldilocks Burglar may not have been the he was courteous! The same can't be said for these dumb criminals. In the summer of 2012, 2 drunken Welsh tourists 21 year old Rhys Owen Jones and 20 year old on Queensland's Gold Coast to another level. After indulging in quite a few drinks, they some after hours fun, and left a trail of The pair vandalized the park, jumped into set off a fire extinguisher in the shark enclosure. After having their fun, the couple decided named Dirk. When they woke up in their hotel room, hungover best to care for Dirk, putting him in the After their hangovers subsided, Rhys and Keri the penguin, so they thought that the best nearby canal, where they were spotted by locals of their vehicle. The police arrived and they were each fined disgrace. Thankfully, Dirk was rescued and returned It's never fun to hear about crimes against make you feel a bit better. This thief got more than he bargained for The amateur thief had noticed a parked car it was too tempting to pass up the opportunity He stealthily walked towards the car, and the back window and snatched a heavy tote Little did the thief know that the car belonged and that the windows had been down because while he ran some errands. The dumb criminal hadn't found an easy score snakes that Brad had just captured from an That's what you get for being greedy! If that's not enough of a reminder to be might just hit the point home. Just before Christmas in 2004, Jason Shinkarik's The thieves stole everything from clothing, They also stole every drop of liquor in the under the tree. To add insult to injury, the thieves even their haul. Jason was devastated, but the small business so the next day he went to work at his shop That very same day, 3 men in their 20s appeared items. When the men placed the bags full of goods his very own duffle bags! He confronted the men, who ran away, but when - thanks in large part to Jason's helpful with breaking into Jason's home, as well sentenced to 3 months in jail. Christmas is supposed to be a time for giving, right. This one might just be even dumber than Jason's After a 20 year old college student in Washington a lonely night in a local police cell before After his release from the drunk tank, he from under the Christmas tree in the police After he realized that one box was empty, a box of tampons, the would-be thief fled, the station parking lot. Getting caught on camera is definitely one criminal got caught will really shock you. Milton J. Hodges attempted to rob a Lowes chased out of the store by staff. The failed thief bolted through the parking fence to escape capture, but he wasn't in He had landed smack dab in the middle of the one of the only people wearing clothing, needless arrested. You almost have to feel bad for criminals thinks they are smarter than the police, like what they get. Calgary police arrived at the home of a woman She was hysterical as she showed the officers had entered, and she tearfully gave her statement electronics that she claimed had been stolen. Just as she was getting really worked up, It was her French-speaking father, and officers father in French. What she hadn't realized was that one of languages, including French, and that he could meaning he clearly heard her admit to her it was all a scam to get money from her insurance Needless to say, some "stolen" (n: sarcasm) Lying to the police is dumb enough, but some further. 25 year old Valiery Portlock thought he had new victims to rob. He had equipped his car with lights and an officer to target his victims. His "genius" (n: sarcasm) plan fell apart pull over a van in Long Island, New York. When Valiery approached the van, the occupants of the Nassau County Police Department's Realizing he was in deep trouble, Valiery time later by local highway patrol officers He was charged with criminal impersonation, Clearly pretending to be one of them is not It may not be quite as bad as impersonating what he deserved for pretending to be someone When an Iowa City man realized that his driver's frustrated. After dealing with the inconvenience of replacing more of it. That is, until a few months later, when a a bouncer, and presented him with his own It was an incredible coincidence, and a rare back. Using a fake ID is pretty stupid, but sometimes In Santa Rosa County, Florida, state troopers The car had been travelling more than 25 miles When officers searched the vehicle, they found cocaine, fentanyl and MDMA. What had prompted them to search the car in The fact that the criminals had stored their Full of Drugs". The occupants were arrested on drug charges cheek Facebook post about the drug bust, saying: narcotics in bags labeled 'Bag Full Of Drugs'. Our K-9s can read." This wasn't the first time police had taken The Winfield, Missouri police department took potential new scam in which tricky drug dealers smaller quantities than what they had paid These dealers would apparently place the drugs new scale app, when they were really just their customers. The police graciously invited the gullible drugs into the police station to be properly Anyone who falls for that one definitely deserves These stories are definitely a good reminder criminals clearly didn't get the message. At least their stories of harebrained schemes laugh! If you thought these dumb criminals were entertaining, "Dumbest Ways to Die", or you might like