- Of course, Thanksgiving But as I get more experienced I'd like to pare it down. There are only three things, The first is the turkey-- is I only have one oven so I can't let it sit I want it in and out fast. Today, we're gonna show you in and out of the oven in two hours; and the white meat and the dark So that's gonna Secondly, the mashed potatoes, You boil them, you drain them. Well, the question really is, cook the potatoes in the milk instead of adding milk later? And that makes So we're gonna do And finally, is the apple pie for me. I think apple pie It should taste like apples. Don't put too many spices in it. I won't argue about cinnamon, But we're going to give how to make pie pastry, how to form the pie And we'll talk also which is how to make the as we pare down and talk about - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned In an assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments-- some simple, some grand. The heart of your home The heart of your kitchen - A big, gorgeous bronze on the Thanksgiving table. But it comes with a host It takes up half your fridge. It then hijacks your oven, It takes like five or six hours. So we've come up And that's What that does is it takes amorphous blob like this turkey, into a two-dimensional plane that's gonna cook evenly Turkeys have what's We're gonna cut that off, And we are gonna Before I spatchcock, so it provides good grip. You don't want while you're trying to cut it. And I tend to start at the cavity end, where the backbone comes out. It gives you clear visuals. And then we're just going as close as Then I'm going It's much easier I'm keeping my fingers a little distant so Thanksgiving should not start with a trip I've had it happen in my life, And there is the backbone As you can see, there's very, You're going to save this; gonna be the base It takes a little force but I do sort of pull it out and push down with You do want Hopefully, because that's what holds And at this point, that is effectively Now what we're going to do Dried brining is every bit It also produces crisper, We're going to sprinkle of the cavity with rub it in, and just make sure We're going to flip it And we're going to finish that with one and a half tablespoons We're not going to add So this is really So I left the wingtips on. These little tips can So what we're going to tuck them I'm going to transfer this to And this turkey's So two to 18 hours Just leave it alone. In that 18 hours, and make stock So I pulled and it's rested for one hour. Instead of using a metal rack, which a lot of we're going to make a raft out of really aromatic which are going Now, we're not going We're just going to chop I do like peeling I just cut those into Add those to our pan. When you're cutting you really want to follow the so they're all the same size. So I start off with to the board, quarter-inch thick slices. And angle my knife... ...around, then when I get I'm going to flip And make sure safe, secure claw grip on that. We're gonna add a couple of It adds really nice depth, a piney flavor, So I'm just gonna break So I'm gonna put our turkey in. And spread Get it pretty even. To prevent the fat from burning in the pan, we're gonna add one cup At this point, with a little olive oil. Just about a tablespoon. So I'm just gonna rub that in. It is well-oiled. And now we're gonna finish it with just a little bit I tend to sprinkle high. Leads to more even coating. We've got a 425 degree with the rack You want it on because if it were any higher, before the meat cooks through. Now the turkey's gonna cook until an instant read the thickest part of the thigh This turkey looks gorgeous, Of note: you don't pull a turkey and carve it right away. It's gotta rest for at least Gonna let And we're gonna put this So to break the turkey down, I really recommend One, a sort of short knife, the longest, So the first I'm going to use a smaller knife And this is pretty easy because they sort of want So I'm going to cut in just small motions You can cut straight down, right through the joint. And you end up with another drumstick. And that beautiful thigh. And at this point, Now, the wings are joint. So you can just cut right and loosen it up and sort of hold it You can cut straight So we have the pieces Now comes the breast. I'm going to run that knife and cut down. And I'm using small cuts And then I'm going that meat back to open up the space without leaving meat And there you have So now we're So I'm going to hold it and then I'm going to slice of the knife, as you can see. I'm not cutting it too thin. One thing I don't carve inevitably, at the table and eat the leg like that. So let's just go ahead And the thigh, remember, has just a bone So you can just cut The beautiful dark meat. And let's see, tuck them in there, and we're gonna have a beautiful with all that beautiful That's gorgeous. That is really sort of perfect. And I am gonna go ahead, Perfectly seasoned, We didn't add a ton of herbs, or seasonings, So the flavor of the meat stands loud and clear. And it's something We're not futzing with it. We're just leaving roasting it quickly, And it is well seasoned So it really is just to match the Thanksgiving table. Mm. (phone ringing) - Hi, this is Greg. You know, I cook it for Christmas, the same couple problems. It's mostly with the gravy. Normally, I put maybe in the roux It comes out except the roux seems to overwhelm the turkey flavor. I'm not really sure - Thank you for Making gravy can be and a little hair-raising You used a roux, which is very common, cooked in the pan We prefer making a slurry out of cornstarch and water So we took our turkey, took the giblets out, the neck, and we made a nice base stock. What you want to do is measure how much stock So we're right at a quart there. And now I have also from the roasting pan. So I want to strain that and then add that to my base So now I'll have a look. I have five cups of broth here. So I need five tablespoons of cornstarch in a slurry to thicken this pot of gravy. So five cups of broth, That's gonna give me a quarter-cup plus a tablespoon. And then you want to whisk in roughly The nice thing about is you cannot taste it. You make a roux. Sometimes you can taste So I feel your pain, Greg. Okay, so once I'm going to take my slurry As the slurry heats up the cornstarch swells, and thickens the gravy. The thing about this kind with a cornstarch slurry, it's going to thicken up If it seems too thin you can very easily add another of cornstarch slurry to it to get it to where you want it. So take our advice and go to thicken your broth. It's the easiest way - Mashed potatoes are arguably the most I know that's but most people really and unfortunately, because you have to make them right before you serve them, you're covered in turkey grease, and you just We have a new approach You still have to make but we streamline the process. So to start, Potatoes-- we tried this with a Russets didn't really work, the Yukon gold; However, You can scale this up easily; Double it, triple it-- We're cutting them You want about half-inch. You can go right into the pot. The starch I know a lot of Thanksgiving You don't want to peel these Why? The water ends up The starch is really important for the creamy texture we're Okay, so we have our We're gonna add two and a half Don't skimp on the fat here. You don't want 2% We need the fat to help get the texture You also want to add in a little bit of salt, And we're going What you're to cook until the potatoes and the milk is going Again, we're not losing Just by keeping it this simple. We're getting a more streamlined You do want to keep the milk and stir it occasionally. If you don't, can scorch on the bottom. Okay, these are nice and soft. Most of the milk has as you can see. And now we just want to add This was four tablespoons This is another You don't have to get out your You just mash them directly in the pot I know I'm gonna want pepper, add a little, Right amount of black pepper, right amount of butter, Perfect-- they're velvety, and they took way less time, right before I get to serve my - So let me start with Cause I'm about Cause I've you know, And I have very strong feelings as everybody at So the basic formula for pie, is this: tablespoon of sugar, quarter We're doing a double crust pie, Two and a half cups a little bit of salt, and two tablespoons of sugar. So that's the basic I'll just pulse that. The fat-- so traditionally people used and I use that too. Actually, I have some that one of my kids made. The stuff you buy at the That is, it's fat So I don't What I do that's eight tablespoons and half vegetable shortening, preferably not hydrogenated. You want to chill the in the freezer So the reason you use the vegetable shortening, gives So put that in. And then the butter, Now, please sit down, because I'm really going Every bloody recipe not cutting the fat It's true that in there usually And people think The problem with that is to create a dough So my strong suggestion to you is cut the fat into the flour. And you can get a great So I'm gonna cut it in, So now you can really see Now some people suggest adding the water That's a mistake because you wanna get your hands on this to really feel when I see recipes that say for with three to four tablespoons so it would be six to eight Forget that; it doesn't-- So I just and I don't measure it. If you don't add enough water, you're not going It's going to fall apart, it's going to be too dry, enough water, Now you can see it's Now, what I'll add a little bit It's very malleable. So your number one is creating something You can to 12 or 14 inches, and get it into the pie pan-- you're not going to make a pie. So now I'm just going to cut it. Okay, so now we're just going or put it in a bag-- I suggest Leave it in It'll hydrate evenly, So we're going to put these let everything relax, and start rolling out. So, rolling 101. If it's really hard, ...beat it up a little, and then use a little bit of not too much. A tapered rolling pin is great if you're making circles, The objective if you're right-handed, and then roll in an arc about a 90 degree arc. Turn the dough, do it again. If you see you'd roll So now you're starting to And this is the part So you flip So if I see, for example, here, maybe I want to extend that out So it's a combination But then I'm also rolling to make sure So I'm just gonna put We'll put that in the fridge while we're preparing The whole point of And so some of the Rhode Island Greening, some of these but a lot of them They weren't just sweet. If you can find those apples, just get a whole bunch of them, throw them together in a pie. That's what The problem with apple pies now is apples are very Other thing you have to think some apples are pie apples-- they don't break down The Macintosh breaks down. The Granny Smith, which I think is the most has horrible skin, but it's great when So just as a failsafe, I usually put a fair amount Tends to keep them There are a lot of The first thing you can put I don't think We'll start with add some salt; which is kind of crazy. Flour. And that'll help So I'll just And now we get, now we get to the million which is-- ta-da-- the cinnamon. Cinnamon is probably the strongest spice in or at least for baked goods, The problem is the flavor of the apples. And hopefully you've spent time So I'll use maybe You just want a hint And, if you like, I'm just going to use my hands. Okay. So we're going obviously, the pie plate. You want to make sure Then the question is, how much dough do So I'm going to go in and get pretty close to the edge You put your fingers I can feel where the edge is. Okay. Now, I don't know if we're going in there, so I'm just going to That's about it, I think. The next question is, how much overlap do I'd leave about that much, because I'm going to take and put it underneath Hopefully, that way, we're going to seal in, the juices aren't Okay. I don't like using I like this method better. All right, that's pretty good. Vents? Yes, you need some vents. I just do one in the center, and then one each on Now, I found, oddly enough, the water gives you a nice, clean glaze with the sugar. I don't like that sort of dark yellowish color you get It looks like it's a little old By the way, this is the best part of You're just sprinkling the sugar All the anxieties It's time to sit down and relax. And then it's about Be generous with it what a really nice, with the sugar. You're going to want for 20 minutes or so. Reduce the oven to 375. With those cuts here, you want You want to see What you want to make sure is actually gets cooked through. And also that browning is going to So that doesn't look bad, I like the fact yellowish, sort of, with the egg yolk. What you want in that first bite is you want fresh apple taste. You want the citrus, You don't want it to taste old. You don't want to taste like, my mother's spice drawer, which had been around Mm. Bright, fruity, buttery, flaky pie dough. The texture of that this is nature's So this is my recipe, for a great apple pie. Please give it a shot because this style, it's clean and natural and bright, decide this will be your You can get this recipe for from this season of<i> at MilkStreetTV.com. And a very happy Thanksgiving And please, serve apple pie. - Recipes and episodes are available along with shopping lists, and step-by-step videos. Access our content anytime to change the way you cook. - The new<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> and includes every recipe From cacio e pepe to Brazilian-style carrot cake the<i> Milk Street Cookbook</i> offers bolder, fresher, Order your copy of for $27, 40% less Call 855-MILK-177 - Funding for this series - MOWI salmon comes ready to season, or pre-seasoned In an assortment of flavors MOWI Salmon. - We pass down traditions here. We create and connect. We enjoy special moments-- some simple, some grand. The heart of your home The heart of your kitchen