What if I told you there were only 4 core lines you'd ever have to learn, only 4 kinds make things easier for you? Hi I'm Luke lesson, you'll learn the 4 types and most used for and where you can use them yourself. [Video Intro] This is going to be a ton of fun! Playing tons of ways to do it, but when you break lines can be put into 4 broad categories. formulaic in the type 1s and get more and to our type 4s. As you go from type 1s to to create and usually a little bit trickier The first type of bass line - the Type 1 - I'm thousands of times before. I call these monorhythmic All they are is primarily one kind of rhythm follows the chords. Usually the rhythm is they play are usually the root. For example, was an 8th note, you'd play 8 Bs per bar line] Now this might seem simple - almost happens at the start of AC/DC's Thunderstruck. are playing, and the bass is playing this. well! It drives the song along without getting vocals and it doesn't distract from the What about an example that uses quarter notes C# minor, E major, B major, A major and we play. That'd sound like this. [plays bass but it's actually the bass line from One popular song with a very simple monorhythmic bass lines don't have to be complicated For some more examples of monorhythmic chord Stevie Wonder's Superstition - it's mostly Deep, or The Police's Every Breath You Take chords. So the next question you're probably asking line? What is it good for? Great question! want to do one of two things. Number one: a sense of forward momentum. You can even all the notes to make them feel different. bass line, check out Sly and The Family Stone's has just about the bounciest 8th notes in song he sticks to that one rhythm, and in NOTE! The 2nd thing you can do with this kind that's so repetitive can really hook your works best when the energy is a bit lower. Without You. It's super relaxed and is a with that hypnotizing kind of feel. The Type 2 bass line is similar to the Type key difference is that they follow the rhythm one rhythm and running with it. Obviously 2 types and there's nothing wrong with that These are the kind of bass lines that are If you had a chord progression that was G track] then you'd end up with a bass line line] Do you recognize this one? This is actually This is just root notes following the bass if you're playing dance heavy music. For Band's Shake Your Booty, it'll sound something that kick drum pattern along with the chords. where the bass drum and bass play exactly one person to add in a fill or play a note again - that's fine! You can begin with So when should you use the Type 2 bass line? the song to settle and you really want to lines are great because they tie together the rhythm (that comes from the kick drum). to EWF's Shining Star or Jason Mraz's approach. They're not overly glamorous; the songs they're in perfectly! Type #3 are your bass lines that mimic other instrument will be playing the exact same These are super common in rock, punk and metal exact same thing as the bass - that's one just have to be a guitar though - it can be - any time the bass is playing the same thing to you? [plays bass line] It's the Jackson It's one of my favorites in the whole world. notice that the bass is playing the same thing in the song, it's a Type #3 bass line! What classic song - Cream's Sunshine Of Your and guitar play the exact same thing. Now to tell you whether the bass player came up better when there was more than one instrument So when should you use a Type 3 bass line? already there feel POWERFUL. Having the bass also being played up higher is going to make That's why so much rock, punk and metal bigger and thicker and fatter. The one caveat you to reinforce. If there's not, then you examples of this kind of bass line, check Jovi's Living On A Prayer or Pink Floyd's along with another instrument. Type #4 - the final bass line type is possibly when the bass is its own melodic line, independent thing as the bass. A lot of the most kind because they have to be memorable and have bass line] If you know the song, then you know it's the Clash's London Calling. that line in the song and it's one of the these kind of lines so fun to play and satisfying line] Any Red Hot Chili Peppers fan knows Flea bass lines are type 4 - these independent made their name by creating these kind of Jamerson. Pretty much everything that guy and they sound amazing! The trick with this kind of bass line is that The line has to outline the harmony as well kind of a waste. Both the Clash example and yeah. So where can you use this type of bass line where there's some space for you in If you're playing a song that's super melodic bass lines, chances are, the song Think about the 2 examples we had so far. chords on the beats and the drums are quite to shine through. In the Chili Peppers example, guitar, which is playing riffy stuff up high that Flea could fill, so he does it by playing a type 2 line - playing the same rhythm as have, but the actual bass line sounds way situation. For some more examples of these type 4 bass did, the verses to Sam And Dave's Knock Together. They're all great examples of By the way, all of these types can be mixed bass lines are exclusively one type. Most walking bass line is monorhythmic and outlines ALSO an independent melodic line. It's a Jean. It's only 8ths notes that outline line as well. Some bass lines might start instrument join in on that line later on. Higher, the bass starts the song off, [plays horns start playing fragments of that first 3 bass line. Type 1 and Type 3 is a common uses this where they'll be playing a type about Blink 182's All The Small Things [plays 8th notes playing the chords, but the guitar 3. So you see, very few bass lines are exclusively this way should be a great way for you to Now if you want the tabs for the bass lines as my analysis of why they work so well, I'd bass lines is probably THE single best way take them to the next level. So to get the the link in the description, sign up on that inbox - totally free. My gift to you! To recap really quickly though, you learned need to know. Type one was the monorhythmic the song along or hypnotizing your audience. of the bass drum which was amazing for having drummer. Type 3 was where the bass was playing made whatever you were doing feel so much type 4 bass lines were your independent melodic for you in the mix to inject your personality. were a mix of the 4 different types. Thanks so much for watching - this has been too. My name's Luke McIntosh from becomeabassist.com.