Throughout history, many people have left another. From leaders of nations to military generals, Of the latter category, many from the West Polo or Christopher Columbus. But Europe wasn't the only continent to One particularly prominent explorer from outside Ibn Battuta was a man of Berber descent born dynasty in February of 1304. He's family was made up of Islamic legal tribe. Ibn Battuta himself would likely have studied job as a religious judge, but he would soon more... By the age of 21 years old, our protagonist life in Morocco and set off for a pilgrimage This trip would usually take roughly 16 months to his hometown for 24 years... &quot;I set out alone, having neither fellow-traveler nor caravan whose part I might join, but swayed a desire long-cherished in my bosom to visit So, I braced my resolution to quit my dear as birds forsake their nests. My parents being yet in the bonds of life, and both they and I were afflicted with sorrow ...&quot; As he describes in his own words, Ibn Battuta he first traveled by land across the North , and Tunis. Here, in Tunis, he stopped for a couple of He eventually arrived at the port of Alexandria two notable men who would further fuel the One of these men, Sheikh Murshidi, is said Ibn Battuta's dreams, confirming that he The other, Sheikh Burhanuddin who was believed as a world traveler as well, even telling in India, Rukonuddin in Sind and Burhanuddin Convey my greetings to them&quot; Ibn Battuta eventually did some exploring off for Cairo, where he remained for a month that he would only be able to arrive in Mecca Upon leaving Cairo, which was the capital his adventure, though he at first remained Next, hoping to continue on toward Mecca, to the port of Aydhab . Showing up in the Battuta was forced to turn back to Cairo after his journey further toward Mecca. Recalling the message relayed to him by the Ibn Battuta then headed to Damascus, stopping the way. Once in Damascus, he decided to stay for the Medina, which was another important Islamic Four days later, Ibn Battuta would finally Here, with the long-awaited completion of was given the honorific title of Hajji. With his first significant goal achieved, to Morocco. But this would not be the case for quite a Instead of going home, as 1326 neared its of fellow pilgrims on a trip elsewhere. They first passed through Najaf, where Ibn from there decided to part ways with the caravan He instead voyaged next to Wasit , then along into Iran where he stopped at the town of eventually did end up in Baghdad, but not Once he arrived at Baghdad though... the traveler ran into a pretty important person. Abu Sa'id, the final Mongol leader of the when Ibn Battuta ran into him and decided that he just couldn't pass up. But, at some point along the way, as he'd from the royal retinue and journeyed along He would soon become the guest of yet another to Mosul, where he was invited to meet with From there, Ibn Battuta left for Cizre and Mosul to once more join another caravan of The timeline of the next leg of his journey made his way back to Mecca in 1327 and likely Over the next year or so, he found himself along the Red Sea coast until he stepped foot cities and even meeting the Mujahid Nur al-Din After this, Ibn Battuta likely arrived in from Aden to Zeila. After a week in the latter, he moved on to 7 days. By 1332, he would arrive in Mogadishu where Mombasa and the Swahili Coast. He then traveled to Kilwa, back to Oman followed to Mecca. And as though he had not already traveled lives, Ibn Battuta was still far from done... His next stretch of adventure took him across Cairo again, from which he journeyed to Palestine From there, he went by ship to Alanya, then Ramadan. After its end, there's a period of Ibn Battuta's and were possibly told out of order, but according then made his way to Konya, eventually ending seems a bit jumbled and out of order, but Over the next leg of his journey, he visited Izmir, and Balikesir. Finally departing from Anatolia through Sinope, and eventually the port of Azov. From Azov, he made his way to Majar, Mount He then somehow convinced Oz Beg Khan, who to accompany Princess Bayalun, Khan's pregnant give birth. Upon their arrival, Ibn Battuta was able to before visiting the Hagia Sophia and opting Once he was ready to leave Constantinople, followed by Bukhara and Samarkand, where he latter before heading off now for Afghanistan Delhi would hold his first significant Indian Sultan of Dehli, Muhammad bin Tughluq . The and the now-seasoned explorer was given the While this was a great honor, it was a bit his position to enforce Islamic law due to of Delhi. Eventually, the adventurer would continue although it appeared that his position in the sultan's court. At some point while in India, Ibn Battuta robbed. Luckily, he would eventually be freed to return way to modern-day Pakistan where he visited way to Hansi and Sindh. After completing his exploration of India, to Mecca, but the Sultan of Delhi had other It wasn't until 1341 that Ibn Battuta would tasked with joining a Chinese embassy that temple. While traveling with the embassy, he was once from his fellow travelers. Nevertheless, the experienced adventurer would later, from which point they would make their would yet again become the guest of a local Once he was ready to leave Calicut, Ibn Battuta he and his group had taken to reach the city was taken by some of his companions without At this point, he was determined not to return in southern India as he sought the protection But, when the sultan and his sultanate as now had to leave India altogether, and he for the next 9 months after being convinced judge. His later resignation was likely a product actions as chief judge in the newly Islamic Sri Lanka, where circumstances once again nearly totaled and another vessel trying to Through all of this, Ibn Battuta was still planned to do when released by the Sultan first to the Madurai Kingdom, then back to He subsequently made his way to Sylhet where From there, the journey continue to the Samudra met the local ruler. Three days later, he departed and then finally Arriving in Quanzhou in 1345, Ibn Battuta Muslim merchants and enjoyed his stay by exploring Hermit. After wrapping up his trip in Quanzhou, Ibn now reaching Guangzhou, at which he stayed Fuzhou where he made a new friend and travel on a visit to Hangzhou; which Ibn Battuta ever stepped foot in. After then attending a banquet for a nearby arrive in Beijing where he styled himself him yet again more invitations from local He then backtracked until he reached Quanzhou and his return home, at long last, to Morocco... It was now 1346 and Ibn Battuta was homebound. He arrived in Damascus on his way back to where he was forced to take a pause due to him. Once he was able to travel again, he went Abu Sir , before returning once again to Mecca entering his hometown in Morocco in 1349... Upon his arrival back in Tangier, Ibn Battuta only a few months prior, and his father had Although understandably saddened by this news, down to Morocco, and only a few days after Now, he made his way to the Iberian Peninsula of joining a group of other Muslims who hoped Alfonso The Eleventh of Castile and Leon had Alfonso had died by the time they arrived Instead, then, Ibn Battuta simply kept traveling, The eager explorer then returned to Morocco in Marrakech where he stayed for a few months. At the start of 1352, Ibn Battuta's next After a short stay there, he left for Tasarahla water sent from Oualata to meet them. After reaching Oualata themselves, the group Nonetheless, he then journeyed through the After arriving in and departing from Gao, a message from the Sultan of Morocco, demanding The now-famous traveler agreed to do so and point he would then go on to write a travelogue detailed accounts of all that he had experienced It is thanks to his own works in The Rihla impressive life and legacy of Ibn Battuta, of the most remarkable, though maybe sadly and ride around the Earth...