Have you ever looked under your sink notice those funny shapes in the And today I'm going to show you how and make sure that all of your Thanks to this ingenious little invention, this little system that you see here around for almost 250 years. Alexander Cumming invented this He called it the S curve. It And then over a century later, modified it to become more And that was called the U curve. But in meaning it traps some water in here to from having a direct line into If it weren't for this P trap here, your house would smell like when I asked my kids what they all assume that it was called that like that. But in fact, If you take the letter P flip that's what you see right here. There's a letter P and So the P trap has been And if you understand how it works and house works, it will help you to As far as drainage and movement Now I've got a fog machine over here to through the sewer. And if your P trap Let's take a look. That's bad news. All of those vapors And they also go up through But when they come up that means that that sewage smell and home. Now you might wonder how Does this not trap the water that's it actually works just fine. So the pressure of the water And then the water goes right through We've got fumes coming but nothing can come out of this side. protecting you and those even if you have a fully functional P as it should, there are a few Number one is evaporation. If you have then eventually the water that's This will sink down below and those fumes will come up through the Now there's, what's called an and they come in all different. But the general idea is they keep these there's always some water in there another thing that could go wrong is drain or you've got strings or they create a little stream and they can actually absorb the water down the line. And that will dry out and that's another reason you want there are a few other things that experiencing any issues with drainage, And if you look at that, you can meaning it's sloping downward, The recommended amount per international for every foot of pipe. So if I from here to the other end, then that other end should be if I move this up a little bit it might drain somewhat, but And if I move it up at then it's definitely not going to You might be able to get away with it, but you definitely want to make sure pipes under your sinks in particular, And then it's going downward, just like a. Another common issue with homes is the messed up because there's no air And that's usually caused by an animal pipes on your roof. And And so you want to always check to make there because otherwise it becomes that here of the air. And so there's a vacuum and there's So be sure to check that out with On the topic of plumbing. One tool that I've found is really This is actually a thermal imaging So this will actually allow you to see around you. So here under you can easily see the and then you can barely see and you can even see how the P trap and that hot water. That's This is also super handy for things even heating along the bed and also You can switch this from and you can see on the side here, the range goes from -20 842 Fahrenheit. Now for a limited time TOPDON is actually So you can check out the link I want to thank them for this product actually also some free thermal gloves, the So you can transfer images to your So be sure to check out the links in [Inaudible]. Now, as I mentioned earlier, I think we should all be pretty It really does make our homes that Now it has not changed a which is crazy because this, this thing has been around that long However, we are starting to see some cool new this. One of them I'm testing and it's got a little trap door to clean things out to make sure not a sponsored video, just If you want to check that out, be sure as soon as that video is available. Now, if you want to learn more I've got my plumbing for homeowners and learn a whole lot more. I'm Nils And we'll see you on the next one.