- This bowling ball can get because after you bowl it, you simply lean in the direction This idea has been on my bucket so today I'm gonna tell how exactly it works, and what happens when you take it bowling but neglect to tell the about your slight advantage. - Oh. - So this trick ball looks and feels like a normal bowling ball, and that's because it's made Step one on this project Lincoln and Dan to see what's The first thing we discovered That means the center of mass isn't at the actual I won't get into physics here, but this is one factor that helps the pros curve the ball as much as they do. Next, I had my buddy Mark, hollow out the ball using a lathe. Once that was done, we and now I just needed to fill it with some engineering magic. And to do that, I need with a trustee four second travel montage. (upbeat music) And the reason I needed to get to London was because this is James And what you should know about James, aside from the fact electrical engineer genius is And I have so much because they have to come up like this guy here where you could see all of this action powered by a single spring And his super clever you could control using this puppet robot or this real life Ironman or a bunch of really cool BB-8s. I had a basic idea for and I knew I wanted the guts So I reached out to him and in the spirit of full disclosure, it was his expertise that really made this So if you enjoy seeing you really need to go check out his videos and subscribe to his channel. And so after geeking out in his house for way longer than we should have, we put the ball together and headed to a proper for the first official test. We started at pretty low speeds just to prove we had Then we started getting fancy and eventually worked Yeah. That is a cool feeling. And the reason I could is because I have this that has an inertial that can sense the orientation. So if I lean left, it sends using radio waves, and then the ball has a receiver that gets the signal to turn left. And then this Arduino, which tells the servo motor how much to rotate, which then rotates this And that radically alters and it starts turning just like if you want to turn on a bike you adjust your center of And if I want to bowl normal I can just click this limit switch and it will ignore all inputs. But as soon as I click it again, then it will once again And at first we weren't but that's because my technique was wrong. Hitting the pins dead straight on will tend to leave the To get a perfect strike, the ball needs to approach the pin somewhere between three and And that's because at that angle, the ball hits this first pin and the normal force vector takes out all of these pins in a line and then the ball contacts and it takes out all of and then the ball's momentum Professional bowlers get at this side angle by curving the ball. And you kind of have to do that because if you suck at bowling like me and you can only bowl the ball straight, if you extend that straight line out, you would need to bowl But technically that's not allowed. And so at that point, are either bad CGI or and we chose the latter. Once I got the angle right, we started locking in the strikes. In addition to testing our ball, we got to see the machine and the crazy fascinating machine that clears and resets but that's a topic for another video. And so with everything working perfectly, it was time for the final in real life. (upbeat music) So we arranged to meet at the local bowling alley. And at first I tried bowling normally with the controls turned off, but it turns out without the - Gutter ball. - I suck it bowling. - [Mark] And nobody likes me. So to get my street cred and explained I actually had Jedi powers. - [Child] Whoa. - [Mark] And then I used said get some strikes, and reclaim (upbeat music) (kids cheering) And it didn't take them long that rolling strikes was to how much you leaned. (bowling pins crashing) (upbeat music) - You cheated again Mawk Rova. (upbeat music)