Are you a fan of The Byrds? They were an American rock band formed in They were one of the pioneers of the folk-rock other popular rock groups such as The Beatles They are as much an influence on rock music music is loved by rock fans to this day. We can only hope that their music continues grow to appreciate their artistry. Sadly, some of The Byrds members have passed They left behind incredible legacies that Let's learn about all The Byrds members lives and careers... GENE CLARK Gene Clark was one of the founding members and songwriters for the band. He was born as Harold Eugene Clark on November He grew up in Kansas City, Missouri, and learned age. He was introduced to music by his father, music as a career. He helped form The Byrds in 1964. Gene Clark was instrumental in creating some These included "I'll Feel a Whole Lot Without You" "You Won't Have To Cry" He was lauded for his songwriting skills and behind the band's success. Unfortunately, this didn't always translate At times, they resented him for earning extra He also hated touring at times as he disliked to fly! Nevertheless, he even after his brief solo He's perhaps one of the underrated singer-songwriters music is unparalleled. In his later years, he began having troubles abuse. He was sadly diagnosed with throat cancer year due to a bleeding ulcer. This was a result of his alcoholism. He was 46 years old and had died in Sherman He's buried in his native town of Tipton, Before we tell you more about The Byrds who and subscribe to FactsVerse for more current Now, let's get back to the video... MIKE CLARKE Mike Clarke was born on June 3rd, 1946, in When he was 19, he was performing as a jazz around the country. He soon came across David Crosby while he Upon meeting David Crosby, he eventually met with whom he founded The Byrds. He played the drums for the band until 1968. In 1985, he got into legal trouble with the performing under the band's name - despite While he wasn't involved much in songwriting, the band's most popular songs. These included "Captain Soul" and "Artificial He had a keen interest in country and western Brothers. He also performed with Firefall and Jerry But his work with The Byrds is what he's During his later years, Mike Clarke and his He also took up oil painting as a hobby. He lived in Treasure Island, Florida during He sadly passed away in 1993 at the age of heavy drinking. KEVIN KELLEY Kevin Kelley was born on March 25, 1943, in He began studying the drums as a teenager He served in the US Marine Corps for 3 years When he returned to the United States, he Throughout the 1960s, he played the drums mainly on folk rock. He was the drummer of the band The Rising While they released music and were signed succeed as a band and soon broke up. Much of their music remained unreleased until In the late 1960s, while working at a men's Chris Hillman who was playing bass for the He played drums for the band but he sadly He was soon replaced by Clarence White and He later joined the band Fever Tree for their He later played the drums for the band Gas For the later years of his career, he served including Phil Ochs, John Fahey, and Michael He died of natural causes on April 6, 2002, GRAM PARSONS as Gram Parsons, was born on November 5, 1946, He became interested in folk rock music during and also began singing and writing songs. By 1968, he met the Byrds members and soon He first served as a jazz pianist for the the guitar and singing for them. While he contributed to a lot of the band's member of The Byrds. As a result, his stint with The Byrds was He and Chris Hillman formed The Flying Burrito band for about a year. Following his leaving The Flying Burrito Brothers, His death came too quickly and was shocking He was wandering throughout Joshua Tree National Sadly, during this time he also experimented He was found dead in his room at the inn at He had overdosed on morphine. He had spent his last few days consuming an One of the most shocking incidents following partially cremated until the perpetrators, his manager and assistant, respectively. Gram Parsons was only 26 years old when he CLARENCE WHITE Clarence Joseph LeBlanc on June 7, 1944, in He remains best known for his performances band the Kentucky Colonels as well as The He was also a notable session musician. In July 1968, The Byrds' singer and guitarist Clarence stepped in to replace him. Clarence became a full member of The Byrds to appealing to country music fans. Clarence later suggested that Kevin Kelley Clarence and Gene would later become known This accessory helps the guitar player bend steel guitar. Clarence would perform live gigs with The some of their most successful albums. He sadly died on July 15, 1973, after being materials into his car. He was only 29 years old. SKIP BATTIN Clyde "Skip" Battin was born on February He's remembered as a versatile and prolific for a variety of bands including The Flying Sage, and, of course, The Byrds. In the early 1960s, he worked as an actor films and TV shows. By the mid-1960s, he formed a folk-rock group with them. Sadly, the album didn't succeed, and the He served as the bassist for The Byrds from period as a musician. He recorded 3 albums with the band and toured He continued to perform as a session musician the early 1990s. He was diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease as a result. He died in 2003 due to complications from He was 69 years old. Are you a fan of The Byrds? What are your favorite songs of theirs? Here's what we'd like to know from you: Do you think that The Byrds are still popular Or do we need to introduce their music to We look forward to reading your comments! If you liked this story, be sure to hit the to FactsVerse for more great stories! Hit the bell icon to receive regular notifications! We'll see you in the next video!