Take a walk with me through so vivid are the colours and that it takes you an age to notice something The near absence of birds and mammals is its fate sealed by the ending of an landscape below your feet will soon be Any species able to migrate have escaped to shrinking world. Those given life by them. What is happening here? What we can melting polar ice is of vital importance, What is causing the ice caps to melt in powerful climate systems on earth? And, I'm Alex McColgan and you are watching what makes ice such an interesting and imagine a future, wetter Earth, one On Astrum, we love to explore gigantic time and space stretch almost beyond and there is our closest Galaxy, 200,000 light years from edge to edge. Yet, So it's curious to me that looking only 80 years to understand that things we do today affect At the beginning of our journey is the one that can store vast amounts of energy. As a capable of accelerating tons of metal it and you hundreds of kms, could scarcely The energy storage capacity of ice is a large part for the past 12,000 years [holocene]. The ice is rises and falls. The holocene has been a unique too -- the rise of human civilisations. (Made The Antarctic ice cap first formed around 37 as old as the light reaching us from for our stable climate to this day. Their Earth's position and tilt in the solar system, our planet receives. These movements are known a previous video. According to these cycles the be heading into an ice age, and sea levels But, instead, the polar ice is melting, massive and not only are we going in the opposite predict -- the ice loss is accelerating! 70 m sea level rise, which will flood all that degree of ice loss is exceptionally sea level rise to expect so that we ecosystems. To predict just how much, we need We know the release of greenhouse gasses overpowering the Milankovich cycles, causing the was astonished to find out this hasn't always Antarctic ice core reveal that in the past, it was levels. Cause and effect were flipped. But, actually, no! Each positively influences the We see this play out as the increased the permafrost around the Arctic circle, which in turn accelerate further global warming. The mechanism by which increased polar regions reveals a complicated Greenhouse gases trap infrared (heat) the earth. This heat is retained by the ocean (1.34 quintillion tons); around 90% ocean which is no surprise given it has So where does this extra energy go? stove or licked a ski lift chair knows, so it makes sense that it is at the cold global temperature increase - because that's the energy flows. And it's flowing there Because of its density and heat capacity, that's why water is used both as a coolant in with a low density and low heat capacity, is allows you to sit comfortably in while you'd reflexively be unable to insert past Other factors play a role in melting the ice Soot darkens the surface of the ice, causing quality measures are reducing particulates in see less melt from ice directly absorbing the in the atmosphere also blocks less sunlight accelerating the greenhouse effect. Let's explore the ways that the oceans are on the West Antarctic Ice Shelf, a particularly Sea Ice is very seasonal, and is responsible winter. This ice melts through contact with the impact of all the sea ice melting would only but its importance lies in its role as a barrier insulates the oceans from atmospheric warming, above it low. Being fresh and white, like the it also reflects a large proportion of sunlight it exposes the Ice shelf which protrudes These floating ice shelves can be gigantic, some greater in area than my home country - eats at the underside of the shelves; huge break away as it weakens and drift as far as they also contribute minimally to rising hold back that has the most potential for the main body of sheet ice that sits atop land Glaciers and ice streams. But don't be than their name would suggest! Incredibly, hundreds of kilometres long and kilometres deep streams is the colossal ice sheet itself. the mass of ice melt leads to These ice-melting processes are natural global warming. The poles take fresh which adds to the mass of the ice. And just we would witness sea ice melting, Though at this very moment, Earth's polar ice which they are losing ice is quicker than fresh Because of the extra energy in our oceans and we are already committed to Can we say how much sea levels will rise would be a simple case of calculating the volume of water in the seas, well, arrive at an accurate estimate we need We tend to think of Earth's crust as solid, but given enough force the earth will the continental plate that supports it bears less equator the coastal land sinks into the sea, But the single biggest addition to sea level was simply due to the thermal expansion of what rise we have already seen since the industrial process is easy to calculate, and we know how it However, the deluge of cold, fresh water being predictable consequences. Remember, Earth's of these dynamic systems is that they are known as tipping points. As with playing stable as we mine the lower levels for merely touching the next brick brings it crashing One tipping point that could occur within our overturning circulation (AMOC). This is an oceanic weaken or collapse completely, sea levels on the 1 m, but in Europe, coastal waters would more extreme consequences. Around the world, pushing some ecosystems to become rainforests To understand how all of that is possible let's is part of the thermohaline circulation (thermo) and salt concentration (haline).The United States and across to Europe, helping to be considering its proximity to the polar Arctic it is partially frozen into sea ice, to the bottom of the ocean where it then However, the melting of the Greenland ice the AMOC with fresh water, diluting the dense. This makes the gradient directing slowing down this part of the cycle and reducing motorway can cause a tailback stretching The slowing down of the AMOC backs up water flow to Europe meaning that sea levels would rise though that's little consolation to a way of life and food production capacity is facing an average temperature drop of 10 The melting Greenland ice sheet also contains hundreds of thousands of years. When a new to live with it, it can upset its delicate travelling through time. Most of the species only takes one 'black swan' to change everything. year than there are grains of sand on earth, A risk that increases with the further back in time a potential pathogen is from, the bigger the jump in its genome and the So, the world is changing. As we have seen, ice is an incredible Through studying its secrets, we can see Earth's ecosystem as the Bering Strait flooded, it replays many of humanity's environmental we have produced. CFCs stored in the ice can again Chlorinated pesticides, many long-banned from use, some of which will have been made even more potent the use of leaded petrol will also be re-released This chemical cocktail adds yet more stress an invisible edge. When we add all these factors how different is under our control. The current doesn't sound like much, does it. A map of the Though, it's not the averages but the floods, the heatwaves - that drive size of the US will be exposed to regular where will Earth's coastal populations move The rich diversity we see in cultures and the environment. Both humanity and life itself are irrepressibly adaptive. Humanity can and has So, there is hope. While the melting ice reminds us of the responsible for since the industrial revolution, to make a change for the better when we understood I believe we can and need to do it again. It may well be that some engineering might be in the technology that eases the pressures on our the planet might seem a tall order, something but have you considered that brilliant inventor say, "I don't have the technical skills Well, maybe that's true... but would you like them? it's possible for anyone to get a grasp at beginner, intermediate or advanced levels. been proven to be one of the most effective lessons that are 6 times better for learning than you develop skills and knowledge that can enhance of the world. Click my link brilliant.org/astrum has to offer for free, for the first 30 days, Thanks for watching and thanks to our crew make science knowledge freely available be hit or miss sometimes, so your contributions you haven't already but you want to join the get in on the party. Just sign up with the link to watch the whole video ad free, see you our team. Once again, a huge thank you from click the link to this playlist for more