This video discusses plot points For the spoiler-averse, The video is also better viewed on Nebula. The composer Pauline Oliveros, deep, experimental electronic music, died in November of 2016. But five years later, in December of 2021, I watched, in person, her last breath. Shortly before she died, Oliveros exhaled into a paper bag, the same kind of exhalation She then cinched the bag closed Rafael Lozano-Hemmer. Years later, I saw that breath, between that same paper bag endlessly recirculating A digital counter ticked up by one I watched it go from 267,301 to 267,302. The whole thing seems remarkably fragile- Transparent respiration with seemingly no more than a rubber band. And yet here, in this shuddering thing was a fraction of a person's life, still There is a you that remains, and remains. The installation, fittingly titled "Last by Lozano-Hemmer focused on the presence, It also included, for example, created by speech- de la lune," "by that also happens to be the first A piece called "Atmosphonia," playing countless field recordings was like an ever-shifting cacophony, And, both held in a glass vial of the exhibit itself, of "nanopamphlets," specks of gold 150 atoms thick, set free into the air inhaled and exhaled by each visitor Each nanopamphlet was nearly invisibly one chapter of one treatise by the mathematician Charles Babbage: "On of our Words and Actions on the Globe Calling Babbage simply a "mathematician" A more accurate term might be "polymath," father of the computer." In 1822 of a "difference engine," calculator, the first mechanical computer. For the next 20 years, one that would weigh four tons capable It was never completed, nor were any other non-prototype And yet, in 1837, ton machine, Babbage dreamed of something He imagined, as Lozano-Hemmer's exhibit "The pulsations of the air, once cease not to exist with the sounds When you speak, that continues to impact the air around "These aerial pulses, unseen ear, un-perceived by human senses, are yet demonstrated to exist by human reason." Even if we cannot see them, hear them, Every atom of the atmosphere, he wrote, is infinitesimally altered Each alteration will continue to influence through their future existence. And so what if, he theorized. What if we had the capability to sense and calculate "A being possessed of unbounded knowledge consequence of that primary impulse...such clearly to trace its future If you could see the movement he says, you could see but where it came from, and moreso and the future contained "What a strange chaos Every atom, impressed with good which philosophers and sages in ten thousand ways The air itself is one vast are for ever written all that There, in their mutable with the earliest, as well stand for ever recorded, vows unredeemed, in the united movements of each particle, changeful will." Babbage's writing about You can almost feel him the ramifications of this understanding "But if the air we breathe of the sentiments we have uttered, earth, air, and ocean, we have done...no motion or by human agency, is ever of every canoe, of every vessel the surface of the ocean, whether impelled remains of all succeeding particles God, you realize reading the chapter. To calculate every atom, every particle, is the infinite intelligence And accordingly, the end of this section, of our words and actions on the globe Babbage throwing an imprisoned slave into the sea a crime rarely witnessed But if the very atoms of the Earth record the movement derived from this crime, The soul of the drowned man of his earthly agony, Babbage says. "When man from the face of our planet, the murderer with every corporeal atom and in its still quivering movements It's electrifying reading, a united vision of the world and its constituent parts never disappears and the future all based on the compounding effects There is...a nearness, But despite the breadth of his vision, of a final judgment of a crime there's a step Babbage If, as he says, perfect would allow you to trace its "future but that the actions of everything, He's describing a deterministic universe, or will happen is the only thing Where, in this equation, is free will? Babbage is reluctant to address even though a later chapter in the book he opens said chapter by declaring of if humans have...you know, free will. His vivid picture of a crime judged long and victim have died is an odd one, long-before predetermined by the position What does guilt mean, in a world where In a world where every future crime lurks in the swirling "Cause precedes effect. Effect leads to cause. The future is fixed in exactly the same way as the past." This question, to the knowledge of a predetermined of Alex Garland's 2020 series, DEVS. Devs is the name of an ultra-secret, in the fictional tech company "Amaya," to the most hidden project of Apple In the Devs building, in a lab so removed hovers inside an unbroken vacuum seal, they build...Babbage's impossible machine. "How many qubits is it running?" "A number...that seems pointless to express The computer, extrapolating outward becomes the "being possessed a system that can trace every particle both Christ on the cross and the path It can take a bag full of breath describe the entire life of the person In one of the show's watch the machine project the exact room Each stares, horrified, unable the actions they've Conversations with the Devs like conversations who have already watched the future to those who still cling "Name a random event. Take a moment, think about it, and then name one...meteors landing, roulette wheels spinning, misfortunes suffered, they can all be unraveled. You can't name a random event because there are no random events." this view of time, as a Block Universe, motivated by impassive physics Forest, the CEO of Amaya, in a car crash, irrationally, responsible for. The guilt consumes him. Or it would, rather, unless he conceptualized all time has effectively already happened, was just as set in stone as the asteroid Unlike Babbage, who saw atmospheric memory as a way of rendering a verdict Forest views that same fatal inevitability cause precedes There is no universe in which This idea, this need for a deterministic grows from the pain of needing He creates a god in the computer as any other god: This is a special way of being afraid, Because of this, any hint of variation, is irreconcilable with Forest's He grows furious at a tech who implements interpretation of quantum mechanics, if all possible worlds exist- simply been damned to live in one If the particles projected backwards, his simulationally resurrected in which she still lives, and random and a place in some way, our own. If time is malleable, if there is a branch then he and his fellow God would not play dice with the universe. "The physical universe was a language Every physical event was an utterance different ways, one causal neither one disqualifiable A teleological understanding of the world is an understanding based on...results. It is a school of thought using the end result to understand It is, in a sense, being of infinite intelligence and move backwards, It is also the core of how Dr. Louise Banks learns to think, as described the short story eventually adapted Story of Your Life centers around Louise's species, using her skills as a linguist their written language. She's initially puzzled by why the aliens write the way they do; that they construct entire sentences But those minor challenges bely a far The aliens, she eventually realizes, as a linear progression Instead, she says, teleologically; as a sequence with a requirement "One had to know the initial one needed knowledge of the effects before the causes could be initiated." In spending more and more time Louise learns to see the universe shifting her fundamental She ceases to perceive chronology Instead she describes herself a chronicle that contains But what separates Louise from Forest She does not desire an omniscient view or the ability to rationalize She says, quite simply, creates a new sense of responsibility: "What if the experience of knowing the future What if it evoked a sense of urgency, as she knew she would?...What awareness is not just that their actions it is also that their motives coincide They act to create the future, The separation from Devs is twofold: One, the concept of free will language- they just can't Louise compares it to the illusion neither perception is wrong, Those who don't know Those who do have the knowledge can't That's because of the second difference cannot be used selfishly, coincides with a simultaneous Louise now exists to create the events In Devs, Forest into existence because he can't bear In "Story of Your Life," Louise in a sense, Why wouldn't she? Everything in her life- everything in There is an us, with a pattern But even Louise's knowledge has limits. She says her memories used to grow "like laid down by the combustion with her immersion in the alien language, like giant blocks But she still can just barely grasp half-century long ember see the moments in history the moments of the future It's probably for the best- how could that knowledge Literature's most famous non-linear unwitting lead of Kurt Vonnegut's "Listen! Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time," We already knew it would begin this way, both its first and last lines Billy Pilgrim is born in 1922. He is sent to Germany in 1944. He survives the firebombing of Dresden He returns to America, is married, He gives a speech And sometime in the middle, he is abducted by aliens Unlike the aliens of Story of Your Life the Tralfamadorians seem purpose-built They're little plunger shaped guys with one eye that's And yet they too their perspective stretching backwards and forwards Billy says that the Tralfamadorians at the different moments of the past, at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains, "It is just an illusion once a moment is gone lives in the past, In the perception of his life, Maybe most strange in comparison is that, in Slaughterhouse in time isn't because of an interaction He detaches from linear time during a particularly unpleasant march The Tralfamadorians simply help him And mostly, Death after pointless death. People killed on hunting trips, incinerated by firebombs, exploded by tanks, The book's most recurrent mantra For them, death is just one of a series of equally viable moments- They simply say, "So it goes." Billy's dad is shot by his friend, Christ dies on the cross, so it goes. A champagne bottle loses The Tralfamadorians are experimenting with new fuel sources and they accidentally blow up So it goes. Rather than expose Billy the aliens of Slaughterhouse through existence, his complete If everyone killed is still alive is still standing then there's no need to mourn or try and avoid those horrors "When a Tralfamadorian sees a corpse, that the dead person is in a bad condition but that the same person Now, when I myself and say what the Tralfamadorians say 'so it because somewhere, sometime, that person is still exhaling. For Billy, it's an understandable reaction he was exposed to - as a worldview, a ludicrously cynical way The same level of importance a bottle of champagne, the death of a hundred thousand So it goes, repeated more So it goes, often multiple times a page. There is no resistance in Billy's view. It's Forest's absolved guilt divine knowledge without responsibility This is what the abdication of the self sitting back 1000xResist, the debut title from developer Sunset between 2035 and 2047. Or maybe it's 2019. Or maybe it's the year so large it's pointless to express 1000xResist exists within and apart eras, a story Fittingly, it's hard to know In 2036, Iris and her parents In 2019, Kong police after participating In 2047, an alien life form named an "occupant" emerges at Iris' high present everyone except Iris. One thousand after every other human on Earth has died Iris- undying, immune- has deemed herself "Allmother" and presides the god of a community I told So. The Occupant, I suppose. An alien, one that, in a fundamentally different way The Occupants reference memory a shared memory When the Occupants tried to do this the resulting swell of emotion memories overwhelmed people's ability Hence, crying themselves to death. The Occupants don't really view because they absorbed the perfect memory an absolute and comprehensive record in the Occupant's view, The story of 1000xResist is experienced as a whirlwind and protagonists whisked into scenes The central hook of the game based on countless past events; to the loneliness of one girl We, the players after scene from all points the clones' power But perhaps because the human mind can't handle or perhaps are too complex time begins to fall in on itself. In 2019, Iris's parents are attacked the largest demonstrations in Hong Some thousand years later, provisional government, a lot going on in this game). And as Blue flees from the explosion, force, her reality veers never been, a city that- in Blue's The guards attack Blue and the cops attack just rhyme it folds, held by The Occupants as a simultaneous expression The machine cycles Oliveros' breath bag. Oliveros exhales into a paper bag because one day, a machine Those folds in time between Us and Them, human and Occupant. Conversations poems, started by one party, only drawn from the historical context But in these conversations, it's unclear are willing to allow anything new. How much of their existence over and over, Endlessly repeated mantras, a nearness you that remains and remains and remains, Acts of rebellion, crackdowns of violence, disappointed in their daughters sleepwalking back And how much of that cycle can truly be blamed Sure, But doesn't everything else The water, the air, How much newness will any of that memory The "resist" in 1000xResist of this seemingly-inescapable fought tooth and nail and still so often folds back in on itself. In perhaps the game's best scene, Iris's "I regret leaving Hong Kong" she says, regrets the mess they left behind. "What was the point? Fighting for freedom, the five demands. It was a mistake. All it did was expedite the end. Brought their fist down harder. Faster." A seemingly predetermined outcome, But her dad disagrees, disagrees beautifully. "The world watched it all happen. Heard our voices. Saw us bleed. If we stayed silent...they would say, this is how it always was. They would say, They can't say that. It has gone down in history, for a different future until we couldn't." If memory is what determines the future, as 1000xResist asks over and over, doesn't that make it even more vital If history is just the refreshed, then how can you let the then be defined by anyone else? There is a now and you are in it. There is a then, and you'll receive it. In the early 20th century, Werner Heisenberg and Niels Bohr shattered the idea of Babbage's Charles Babbage once believed that, particles of the universe into the future Heisenberg et. al. replaced this idea with uncertainty. Their claim was that the quantum than the rest of our world- effects ceased to be Benjamin Labatut writes: "If was the direct consequence then merely by looking at the present it would be possible to achieve These hopes were shattered what was beyond our grasp was neither but the present itself. Not even the state of one miserable ...In the deepest substrate of all things, reality...but a domain..borne of the whims of a many-armed Other physicists opposed, opposed Albert Einstein refused to believe fundamentally random. He declared, famously, that God would not He said there must be some hidden that would restore consistency And yet, in nearly a century, no true hidden variables have been found- blocks of physics remain non-deterministic. I once watched a documentary called "Geographies Island, a tiny strip of land and an environmentalist who had lived on The environmentalist, things washed up on the beach. Plastics, toys, threads. And among them, balloons. Balloons Green and red for Christmas, red Balloons celebrating that it's a boy, And more, and farther back, and stranger, and more specific, decades Balloons for bowling alleys, balloons Balloons bearing outdated She says she once found a balloon in Lafayette, Indiana, 1400 miles away. Earth, air, and ocean, the eternal Lucas has been collecting for decades. How many lungs that once filled How many people are survived painstakingly re-found their own unwitting The thing about determinism is, is a predictable event, Whether the choice truly belongs to you everything you do literally affects every moment not yet happened is supported by what's And the thing about non-determinism is, set, it gives your actions Yes, the entire history of the world when you choose something, but the unwritten history of the future because the future is a twisting, turning on every new piece of information. We cannot see the tracks our families, the people and the creatures The tracks we arrive on disappear Even the techiest of proposals for foresight and hindsight, the DEVS and the Babbages, hew much closer to wizardry than science. To imagine time as somehow "already complete" fundamentally clashes with our existence- the privilege is so often given to aliens because it is, in a way, a relinquishment of the human experience. Maybe it is also human to second guess, to doubt, to wonder time and again if we're really supposed to be on this particular track. Maybe that's why we keep telling these stories. I cannot know when, I cannot know how, but the endless cycle that contains Pauline Oliveros' last breath will someday falter. Maybe the bag will split, maybe the tubing will tear or the machine will break down. The history of her, previously encased in an exhibit, will disappear into the atmosphere. And in time, instead of a machine, it will be breathed in by me, and you, and every person on the planet. We will carry that last breath into the future.