A Bodybuilder Mistook An Supplement. This Is What Happened To His Brain. JC is a 37 year old man, presenting Paramedics tell the admitting nurse that they JC was a bodybuilder who was getting ready he had a good idea of what does and he noticed over the last couple years places he never thought about before. Every the fat put on to these places would This isnt something that's out of but JC was a competitor. He needed to be in the JC read online about a supplement called about it, including his coach. This tree bark that used to be FDA approved of that approval doesn't stop people today these online articles kept mentioning that where all his stubborn fat accumulation would not only be a great addition to his daily JC ran a small supplement business. place whereby he could get some money back He'd purchase raw powder wholesale, and he'd and his product was good. But it of his large purchases to mix his own Many bodybuilding supplements are white powders, his mix, JC got a phone call. He stepped away. and everything looked similar. He proceeded times the regular Yohimbine dose in what At the gym now, JC was training. He held off on he puts the bottle lid to his mouth, he one-shots yohimbine dose, JC didn't really feel anything within minutes, he started noticing that he was His heart started racing, and he felt a sense sensation started permeating through his jaw As he tried to continue on with his sets, he his skull, and his eyes were getting pumped out of A sensation rippled through his cheeks and liquid into the toilet in a way like never before. But losing consciousness. The gym manager hears the him on the floor. She calls for 911, and he's At examination, the medical team notes that slightly elevated, and his seizures keep inbetween each convulsion. When they look which is better than if they were different sizes would stay unconscious after each seizure. And blood pressure had doubled. All of this giving the Yohimbine is a natural product that was at one point FDA approved for not approved by any government agency, for to help burn fat in stubborn areas, but there's have leading way to some of those uses too. But Some natural products are stimulants, and others we can guess how our bodies will react under the or flight" reaction and depressants inducing blood pressure, body temperature are high, and, so as to let in more light like he's running and his brain is setting off massive amounts convulses without regaining consciousness, stimulant. Put together, everything that he's Sympatho referring to the sympathetic nervous or flight" response. Toxidrome being a word happening together, toxi from toxin, an way into the body. And mimetic meaning that the that would be caused by a massive, nonstop This brings us to the idea of transmission. of the body through nerves. Signals can be to turn of the nervous system that signals for fight rest and digest, but for example, the heart then we could guess that the transmitter from the one for rest and digest. And because the neurotransmitter responsible for related to adrenaline, all involved in The thing about fight or flight versus rest either signal can be promoted, or they turn things on or off. The words we use to and antagonist as the blocker, Take for example this commonly-known medicine. disorder ADHD. It is a stimulant by the very when excessive amounts are taken. Interestingly, of noradrenaline. In this case, we can say that JC is having a massive outflow of sympathetic We already established that there's one part or flight, and another for rest and digest. sympathetic for fight or flight, and there for rest and digest. Inside these fibers are specific to the type, to propagate the signal. receptors, labeled this way because they react to subtypes that provide different function. In these will fire off to evoke the response, but differently. Hours after being admitted into the conscious again but he's agitated, disoriented, can try some sedatives to help counter act that This brings us back to agonist and antagonist. then we know yohimbine is a stimulant. If agonists expect it to be an agonist too. But the problem blocks noradrenaline's signal in the nerve fiber. meaning that it will displace whatever's there For adrenergic receptors, there are subtypes of more subdivisions like alpha 1 and alpha 2. for blood pressure, and that refers to... beta which gives us some more clues One important tissue that nerves connect to is Alpha 1 receptors are known to be there, causing blood pressure to immediately shoot up. when the receptor is agonized, but yohimbine is Well, in normal function, the body has a way feedback. Naturally, when the body swings opposite direction. And while alpha 1 alpha 2 receptors are inside the central We know adrenaline and noradrenaline are what's in a state of fight or flight, adrenaline and or flight response normally is short lived on body performs feedback, then we can guess that built in to this sympathetic nervous system The alpha 2 adrenergic receptor and then tells the brain to stop releasing it. function. But if yohimbine is there blocking the brain is in an equilibrium, meaning there is regular daily activities. But when it doesnt the effect builds up quickly because normal The incredibly high heart rate and blood regaining consciousness. All of this normal amount of yohimbine was accidentally But this isn't his only problem. In the setting of describe what's happening isn't accurate. When alpha 2, that assumes therapeutic dose. there are so many more yohimbine molecules on alpha 2 receptors. This excess floods the This results in the blood vessels dilating, beating faster and harder, and it can do that leaving excess noradrenaline to run amok, even But there's only so many adrenergic receptors of In the brain, serotonin is another to the gut by something called the Vagus contractions all along the GI tract, and with to happen including the vomiting he experienced. there are descriptions of unconsciousness pushing forth the notion that it's something if you ignore the side effects. Yohimbine is at very large doses, all of this indicating and cardiotoxicity because his heart beat so unstable. At any minute, things can Could there be any way to directly remove of his body? No. But knowing how it works, counter act its effect. If yohimbine then the answer would be to give him an alpha Recently, there's been reports on the United especially Philadelphia, that horse tranqulizer Xylazine. It's mixed in with usually is that it agonizes, alpha 2 adrenergic forward, heavily blocking any semblance of not only in horses, but in humans too, resulting Drug Administration has an approved antidote for The news reports and videos you may have seen images of skin lesions that appear on the can fester and rot flesh and expose bone, muscle there's alpha adrenergic receptors on blood vessel and alpha causes vasoconstriction, then it's Xylazine constricting the blood vessels so hard make the most sense if they appear at the site in other places on the skin too. However at the the reality is, we still don't know much about However, there is some new information out Receptor systems can often engage in crosstalk, that could interact with adrenergic receptors are, xylazine into fentanyl is purposeful specifically there are reports of people looking just for for opioids doesnt work for just xylazine, at because just like adrenergic receptors, opioid suggests it towards one of smaller prominence. The in humans, this is what we see. We'll see the not sure how those skin lesions are happening, as an antidote in humans, despite evidence knowing what we know now, this all gives us In humans, a common alpha 2 agonist we use is should counterbalance his yohimbine dose. If blocking Beta also, would be a good and seizures are sudden chaotic discharge then giving him medicines to slow down Yohimbine passes through the body fairly quickly. the blood level of that substance to be reduced Knowing that Yohimbine is broken down by the medical team collected samples of JC's urine the Yohimbine levels cut in half, but at a rate setting of overdose, using regular function One hour after the blood pressure medicines were regain consciousness, but he might not be out to do some tests to make sure everything is they knew cognitively, he was all there, could improve his supplement business, and who reached out to me and they wanted to talk for my mother, who is almost 80 years old now. she always wanted to do arts and crafts, but she and ship these. When ShipStation reached out to test my mom's lifelong dream, and we sold these Nicklaus Children's Hospital. ShipStation made automated, and labels were quickly printed. all the people who purchased the slippers (thank and ShipStation gets discounts of up to 84% off this again because ShipStation is effortless including Amazon, Etsy, eBay, Shopify, it's shipping things out like how my mom today and sign up for your FREE 60-day Over the following 24 hours, the medical team physical and neurological exam were normal, as he was discharged from the intensive care Thanks so much for watching. Take