(upbeat music) - [Jeffreen] Augusta Savage commissioned to create an in Flushing, New York. - [Augusta] I have taken for my theme the national Negro anthem. It is the poem written by and set to the music by his The title is &quot;Lift Every Voice and Sing.&quot; Lift every voice and sing - [Jeffreen] Savage worked for over a year creating a 16-foot sculpture that paid homage to and the promise of Black youth. Harmonies Of liberty - What were the reactions - It was the most popular piece of art in the 1939 World's Fair. She was able to make souvenirs to sell. (upbeat music) - After this highly publicized display at the World's Fair, it is literally just (stones clinking) That's emblematic of the erasure of the history of African-American culture. We were there. She was there. But all that we're left with today is a small scale cast of (upbeat music) (lively jazz music) - [Jeffreen] Not only was &quot;Lift Every Voice and Sing&quot; destroyed, but some say 70 of the by Augusta Savage are I'm Jeffreen Hayes. I am the curator of the Augusta Savage Renaissance Woman Exhibition, and I'm on a search to understand why one of America's greatest sculptors seems to have been erased. (lively jazz music) (no audio) (bright upbeat music) (bright upbeat music continues) I'm in Harlem, y'all. (bright upbeat music) The first stop on my search for answers is the Schomburg Center, the research mecca of Black culture. (bright upbeat music) (door lock beeps) (bright upbeat music) - I manage a collection that document the Black Diaspora. And of course, we have of Augusta Savage work (bright upbeat music) We have about 22 pieces. (bright upbeat music) Here we have the &quot;Reclining Nude.&quot; This one is bronze. And this is &quot;The Pugilist.&quot; She was able to really You could see his musculature And then we have &quot;Laughing Boy.&quot; She did a lot of kids. - And what's the material? - It's plaster. (pulsing music) This, of course, is her bust a real renaissance man, poet, secretary general of NAACP, and a good friend of hers. And this is the original That one set her off. (soft music) - We only have two boxes of her papers. She didn't leave much behind for us. (upbeat music) - [Augusta] I was born at the dark of the moon. I was a leap year baby and it seems to me that I (upbeat music) - [Jeffreen] Born in 1892 in the seventh of 14 children, Savage resisted her of her art making. - [Augusta] Ever since I wanted to model things I could get my hands on. Dough, soap, mud, or clay. I made ducks by the and would stick them all around the yard. (upbeat music) - Augusta got recognition at and the commissioner of the fair said, &quot;Augusta, you should go to New York so that you could explore your talent, so you could be an artist.&quot; So she took him up on it and she got accepted to Cooper Union. - [Augusta] I had just arrived in New York with exactly $4 and 50 cents, a determination to become an artist and a successful one in six months. - She was a single mom. She left her daughter so she could pursue her education here and finished her degree in (cars sputtering) She did work as a laundress and things were very hard for her. She wasn't making a lot of money. (energetic music) - [Jeffreen] After getting established, Savage who was widowed brought her daughter and up from Florida to live in Her home also became a gathering place for leading artists and New Negro Movement, later known (energetic music) - Zora Neale Hurston was there, Countee Cullen was one (bright jazz music) - The Harlem Renaissance of every aspect of modern Black life that was taking shape that were as a result (upbeat jazz music) We had the founding of the as well as literature, music. This was the period when jazz (upbeat jazz music) - [Jeffreen] In 1923, to attend a prestigious (playful upbeat music) - [Augusta] Then suddenly, and about ready to sail, I got a letter from the committee saying they were awfully sorry I was colored, as they had not made arrangements (playful upbeat music) Can you imagine the headache However, it only served to fire me with more determination (playful upbeat music) - She started a letter writing campaign to let everyone know (playful upbeat music) - [Augusta] I hear so many that Negroes do not take advantage of the educational (playful upbeat music) Well, one of the reasons is gets his head above the crowd, there are millions of feet (playful upbeat music) How am I to compete with if I'm not to be given (playful upbeat music) - You know, she still of studying in Paris and then she finally got it mid 1929 when she did &quot;Gamin,&quot; and that took her to Europe to study. (playful upbeat music) So as a Black woman, she She never let it stop her. It just made her stronger. She was a way maker. She was an artist, an artist advocate, an artist educator, and a activist. (playful upbeat music) (footsteps thumping) - I'm at the location of the Savage Studio of Arts and Crafts, a space that she founded (upbeat jazz music) Here Savage hosted free art and sculpture, and printmaking. - [Augusta] We really have a I hope that I can make 'cause there is a crying need for it. We've had to turn down 60 for lack of space. (upbeat jazz music relaxes) (bright piano music) - Augusta put a little bit and I don't think that against all the odds it to keep right on working. It was because she was my mentor, and because she had done the same thing. (gentle bright music) - [Tammi] She started to hire Black artists onto projects. (slow uptempo music) - Augusta Savage was one in the Harlem community. This was one of the most When I came in contact with her. She thought it was time for me to start being paid for what I was doing. I don't know how to make a or working in the laundry but when I turned 21 in 1938, Augusta literally took me downtown and had me signed up on where was paid a tremendous of $23 and 86 cents a week. (bright jazz music) - Savage also secured government funding during the Great Depression to provide training to (bright jazz music) I'm at the location where the was established in 1937 by Augusta Savage. There were a number of who not only taught, but were (soft gentle music) The way that she was I began to really think putting the Black body at the center, creating a deeper understanding (upbeat jazz music) - [Tammi] Augusta Savage with everyday people, and she made works of everyday people. (upbeat jazz music) - [Jeffreen] Which work - Well, I have to say &quot;Gamin.&quot; That was my first encounter with her work. A sweet little boy with his cap on. He was contemporary and definitely Black. (upbeat jazz music) For me, I could tell by what they create. When they're speaking to me and they recognize Blackness And you know, for 1929, for So, I love that work. (gentle piano music) - It's a very academically of a young boy's face and compare that to the were depicted in the popular culture, that portrait was absolutely modern. It was radically modern. (lively jazz music) - Although it's no longer here, this is where Augusta Savage opened the first Black art the Salon of Contemporary Negro Arts. (lively jazz music) - [Augusta] I've long have reached the point where they should have We've made every effort to make this one of the finest a mecca for all art lovers. (melancholic music) - [Jeffreen] The opening attended by over 500 art lovers. But in the midst of the Great Depression, the artwork didn't sell. The gallery closed within three months and funding for the Harlem - She said, &quot;The community And when she told me this She was so broken. (melancholic music) (no audio) (light jazz music) - In looking for work by Augusta Savage, I was struck by how few We don't have her in our collection. Even the historically Black don't all have works by Augusta Savage. (light jazz music) The museum market, the the critical attention (light jazz music) Even today, 87% of works of are by men. (light jazz music) Augusta Savage was at the forefront of the forgotten woman artist. But she didn't have the means to ship &quot;Lift Every Voice and into a store room in Harlem or a museum and have it preserved. And it's probably the most tragic example of Black women artists to preserve their work. (light jazz music) (gentle acoustic music) - After the losses and Savage took refuge in upstate New York, a hundred miles north of Harlem, where some say she just disappeared. (gentle acoustic music) This is really a pilgrimage. (gentle acoustic music) Here we go. (gentle acoustic music) (gentle acoustic music continues) The Augusta Savage House and Studio has been listed in the National by the United States (loud knocking) Hi. - Nice meet you. - [Jeffreen] Anthony. This is so exciting. - [Anthony] Yeah, welcome (relaxing music) - [Jeffreen] So tell ended up in Saugerties. - She had friends in the Hudson Valley, and that may have been one of the reasons that she came to Saugerties specifically. It was also a lovely town near a river. - What's your connection to Augusta? - I'm related to the owners of this house, but the earlier connection who was a scientist and he met Augusta She would occasionally come over to my grandparents' home on the river and give these poetry readings. So this was her See that's where she did her writing- - [Anthony] Her stories, her poetry. - [Augusta] I've spent with the humming birds and bees. I've exchanged loves deepest secrets, with the softly sighing trees. I've discussed my pains and pleasures, I've revealed my dearest treasures. And upon life's harsh (lighthearted music) - [Jeffreen] Very few as a poet or a writer. It's wonderful to hear that - My grandfather, he would say, &quot;She's the smartest He would talk about composers and he would talk about scientists, and he'd talk about Augusta Savage. It was usually something like Beethoven, Erwin Schrodinger who came and Augusta Savage. And so, she was in that great minds. I wanna show you a few other things. - Yes, please. - It's the plastilina and This is the original one to do her sculpting. (gentle piano music) So for instance, like this is She made that while she (gentle piano music) There's a general sense but from what we understand, she had people coming here all the time. - She still had a social life. - [Anthony] She still had a social life. (gentle piano music) So tell me, what are the - In the next few years you maybe have some sort for aspiring artists and writers. - So what would be that she put out into the world to found a colony of young - I wanted to ask you if of coming here and seeing - [Jeffreen] Will probably that I'm sitting in this moment in the same kitchen as someone that I have lovingly I think that there have to erase her and downplay her importance. - [Anthony] Yeah. - I'm just really happy that she was most likely at peace here in a way that she may not (no audio) - [Augusta] I have created really lasting, but if I can inspire to develop the talent I know they possess, then my monument will be in their work. (no audio) (lively jazz music) (lively jazz music continues) (lively jazz music continues) (lively jazz music continues) (lively jazz music continues) (logo snaps) (gentle music) (lighthearted music) (lighthearted music continues) (lighthearted music fades)