Hello, it's me Austin. If you're new to my channel, I am a designer This is the 2nd episode of the Regalia series. Last week, I showed you how I created the In today's episode, I will show you how seen held in the hands of British kings an On May 6, 2023, the world witnessed the first Among the many jewels, robes and crowns worn this ancient ceremony at Westminster Abbey, Orb, which symbolises the power of the monarch. While making props is usually not my forte, that completes my Regalia ensemble, just something character, you know? First thing first, get yourself a plastic supply stores. That smaller sphere is for the St Edward's Which u will see me recreated near the end If you can find a golden sphere, that would But since this one is clear, I would have Now, when I first started making this orb, about the wonderful world of gold leaf gilding idea. So my old way of doing this was to spray paint Ignore this spray painting part completely, 2 years after it was finished, and I applied better than spray paint. I will get into more detail at the end. The nib right here is for hanging the ball, with a dremel, then I smooth the burr with While the sphere is still in 2 halves, it's half, this will be where we mount the cross. And with the dremel attached with the smallest pole. Then I make the hole larger, enough to fit You might be thinking, it seems weird that a large shiny gold ball as a part of their That shiny gold ball itself symbolises the symbolise the Christian world. The orb is divided into three segments by continents known to mediaeval Europeans. And the Brits aren't the only ones to have Bavaria, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, own orb too, in very similar fashion. This orb is often needed for an official occasion, or a royal funeral. Outside of these occasions, the orb and the at the Tower of London. So go see them if you just happen to be in Now this step is entirely optional. I stuffed the bottom hemisphere with clay, This makes the orb behave like a Roly-poly instead of rolling around like Mary Queen It also gives a hefty weight to the orb, if like to hold a sovereign's orb. Although if you're flying with this, it's it lightweight. Now for this stone that surmounts the cross. At the time I didn't know where to get my 2 years ago, now I do. Anyway, there was this resin cube lying around to this keychain my friend gave me as a gift. And I thought to myself "this will do". Now I'm making the setting that frames the sphere. I use 10-gauge aluminium wire in gold tone I bent the wire in multiple sections, following over the top, and back to the bottom. A pair of flat-nose pliers is sufficient for Then cut it with flush cutters. Now, I'm chasing the middle section of the This extends the area of the wire so I can the sphere later. Then I also chase the 2 ends of the wire, You can really tell the wire is not real gold, the bare aluminium shows through. An imposter hidden away. Sounds just like my ex. Now I wrap this modified wire back around And again with the dremel, I drilled a screw I also filed off the burr with a sanding bit. Oh and I take another piece of 10-ga wire 2 flat ends. This will cross the other wire at a 90-degree Now I can fasten this element on the pole screw and a hex nuT. I made this orb back in 2021 before every As I'm watching the footage, I realise there's a different type of material, or a different So I'm thinking about giving this orb a the future. Hopefully I won't let the footage just sit With the frame ready, I can put the 2 hemispheres So of course, this painting part is irrelevant this at night. I particularly didn't enjoy the fume at And god save Hull. Anyway if you're foil-gilding your orb, Look at the way that wobbles. Now, another history lesson! The current sovereign's orb dates back to It is a recreation of another orb used in crowns, sceptres, and many jewelries, was execution of Charles I in 1649 and the following When Charles II was restored as king, a new And so this orb, along with the iconic St of King Charles III just earlier last year, Now I move on to making the top cross. I use this template that I made in advance, and it is free for all Patreon members. I cut out the cross from this sheet of brass It was quite an arm workout. It's time to make the band that goes around Again I use sheet brass, but this time it's This sheet is only 26ga, so you can easily earlier where I had to saw off a 19-ga sheet. After cutting out the band, I flatten it with Then I curve the band around a cylinder to And I make sure to test-fit the band on the I cut out another band to form the top arch. Cut it in half and then cut out a half-circle hole when the 2 are put together. I figured it would be easier to glue the gemstones the bands. I need to mark out the position of each gemstone, maths. To save everyone from a confusing explanation, exactly how you should divide your band. Now comes the fun part. It's "BEJEWELED TIME!!!". Look at all these stones and beads! I think this is the most material that I've The majority of these stones are going to that's going to be very exciting! On the screen right now is the complete breakdown You can use this spreadsheet for reference. For the rows of pearls, I use stringed glass I tie the end of the cord into a chunky knot from falling off of the string, which would Then it's just a simple matter of binding And of course as I always remind my viewers has set for a few minutes and becomes tacky. And then it's turn for these colourful rectangle Suddenly I'm craving Fox's hard candy. I also cut up the rhinestone chain into 22 Each segment will be the rhinestone border The real orb, according to The Royal Collection with clusters of emeralds, rubies and sapphires, champleve enamel mount, between single rows On top of a large step-cut amethyst sits a on one side and a central emerald on the other. Now that the band has been bejeweled, I once And I fix it onto the equator of the orb with To keep the whole thing in place while the very aggressively! And now is a good time to go to bed, good It's the following day and the whole thing top arch to the orb. For the cross, I use these golden headpins of the cross, and on each cross-sis arm. This huge ass pearl is my favorite. And now I just cover up the bare wires by settings, in the same pattern as the real And the last thing to do is fixing the cross And as I mentioned earlier, I later returned First use a brush to apply a thin coat of Then you need to let the adhesive set for and tacky. After that, you can now apply the gold leaves. Careful because each leaf is very light and away to pieces. As long as your item is all covered, it doesn't Now is the fun but very messy part. Use a brush to burnish and remove the excess Keep doing this until the surface is reflective, of the object. Although this is a fun process, I have to entire room would be littered with flakes tidy you work. It's the same as those pesky glitters, you'll next few months. And that looks so much better than the spray-paint! It's so much more reflective and lustrous.