No one really cares about second place. And to the champion goes all of the glory If you win on Sunday, you sell on Monday. This is the mantra that entire brands have been built upon Lotus, even Ford revitalized its entire image by smacking down the prancing horse Mazda became the pride of Japan when its 787B you wear Nikes because LeBron does. You drink Red Bull and in the early nineties you bought a skyline GT-R freaking lose today the R32 GT-R is a balanced, fun little sports car capable, understated in the 1990s it was unstoppable in racing form the R32 GT-R obliterated anything Its performance was so dominating, that it sent It changed the rules. The third generation and catapulted them into one of the most universe, known only as 9 0 1 Nissan created a monster. Its name was Godzilla born. Look, You've already heard that story. There was a war crime. There was a merger. Then came the skylines. Then there were GT-Rs for a while no. Today our story begins in 1984. You see Nissan was struggling, they couldn't sell cars The Nissan The skyline hadn't been worthy the gas crisis of the seventies had changed Nissan Enter Yutaka Kume in 1985 You see Nissan was buried in bureaucracy to remember the customers and he plans to lead with Most companies in dire situations They start cutting costs. They build more mass appeal cars, **coughs** Porsche of costly enterprises like racing He knew that for Nissan to raise their reputation And there is no better way to do that Kume and Nissan form a company wide Its goal is to create cars in the world by 1990. This is the moment that changes You see in 1984 Nissan's performance division, Nismo, was born Yasuharu Namba is given the task of He had been driving and testing and under his guidance Nismo entered touring car racing in 1985 Their target was the All Japan Touring Despite its name it was actually a global So Ford, BMW, Ferrari, Porsche and for a long time Nissan dominated the series back in the sixties and in the seventies BMW and Ferrari in Group five, championing and then in 1985 the series was reborn with Group A Group A for those that are uninformed you know, those wild rally racing monsters You see the FIA organization or groups for racing cars on or off Group B was the more unlimited class and Group They were cars that closely resemble from dealerships. They had limited modifications, which means that they were a far If racing fans could see a car and it was defeating global superpowers they would sell those cars. That is, if they could win and you see, that was the problem at the time. The GT-R name was all but a distant memory The Nissan DR30 Skyline had been successful but group A meant So gone were all the wild aero parts and the DR30 could not keep pace. In the 1985 season, 6-series, Honda Civic Si, the turbo Volvos Then in 1986 Nissan debuted the R31 the first RB powered skyline. it was boxy it wasn't very inspiring and today But it did take home the top spot in its very first race of the JTTC scoring structures in the series The team at Nissan starts to feel the electricity of victory. But that moment is short lived. As the years go on the series gains popularity and competition heats up more international manufacturers The E 30 BMW M3 is released Ford fields the Sierra and begins to win The podiums of this Japanese championship to be almost completely dominated Nissan's grasp on the top spot to take a backseat in its own championship Nissan knew they needed a new car needs to show the world Thanks to the efforts of the 901 mid-eighties and it culminated Nissan's ambitious A mid engined wedge shaped sports car that might make some fans copied some of their homework off While it is a crime against humanity never made it into production Nissan had a proper all wheel drive system They even had a revolutionary four wheel And thanks to Kume's devotion to the upper echelons, not just make another skyline, all of the pieces were in place that now was the time It had been 15 years since the silver and with Group A as the target From the outset, Nissan knew They developed the RV platform it was a monster of a power plant spinning two turbos and now putting around and soaring to more like six And based on the group A class rules, was the biggest engine and weight was always in mind Nowhere was that more apparent It was Spartan. It was simple. It's well designed, but a pedestrian steering wheel, But the R32 GT-R was strictly business its body It was an improvement over the boxy and they had made panels out of aluminum But visually, Only a small wing and a couple of ducts let you know that But underneath that modest outward spinning beneath the muted gray carpets laid the secret weapon the ATTESA ET-S Nissan's engineering to what was going on To them, Porsche had built the best handling cars on the market, car ever built What they found underneath its all wheel drive system, Look, all great art is stolen in some way. If you're not taking cues from So Nissan did exactly that. They employed a similar electro but unlike the 959, which always sends giving it too much understeer the GT-R is all wheel drive When the rear wheels lost traction, it utilized computers Exactly where and when it was needed. The result was supreme power rocketing the GT-R down a front straight better driving behavior in turns, In any situation, While the RB 26 gets all the glory today, it really was this ATTESA system But not even Nissan themselves of power technology In 1990 a GT-R pulled up to the start line Its competitors are staring at its and for years In sports, and when they happen they make history Gretzky, Ali, Jordan. But you see all of them suffered losses the R 32 didn't. for years in group A in every race leaving the best of Ford, not just taking the top spot for the 29 races in 1990 to 1993, in group A driving in R 32 was practically cheating. The results cemented Nissan It fought off the foreign adversaries that had been making It rebuilt it wasn't just group A, in 1991 it took home the trophy in the Spa It dominated the Bathurst 1000 in 91 and 92. It went on to champion group in 1989 best motoring set a Nurburgring lap This was the fastest production car but it was the GT-R's performance The name Godzilla Godzilla is a funny name. It sounds menacing, brutal. Thanks to the movies. It conjures up images of entire cities but the word itself means gorilla-whale, which come to think of it, in the early 90s though, the movie a sort of mascot So when the R32 GT-R waste to everything it competed against, It was only natural gave it the nickname Godzilla the GT-R uprooted the reigning king of Australian the Sierra had just as much power but it couldn't keep up with the R 32 Thanks to the ATTESA system, Godzilla's reign was so supreme be removed from competition, which, yes, this is the key moment the Australian V8 Supercars series. The R32 GT-R was finally the true Not since the sixties had a Japanese car had become such a terrifying performer Kume and Team Nissan's plan had worked. The 901 movement had done Create a car that would win and sell, it did from the outset, Nissan knew they had to make 5000 units but not even they could predict The GT-R was back Everyone had to have one. They blew through those 5000 examples going on to sell over 40,000 Nissan's name had been revitalized. They were now the household name The 901 movement had created the new twin a luxurious rocket ship with two turbos and world beating performance. They had spawned the Nissan Silvia, a lightweight, practical sports car The Pulsar GTiR, a rally inspired hot match that never got the credit it was due. And most importantly, they had created a monster that not only rebuilt but of the Japanese automotive industry Worldwide, and that name was Godzilla. Thanks for watching. Check out my other videos, subscribe See you in the next one.