(upbeat 1950s music) - [Kevin] In 1957, a 24-year-old Australian visited the newly opened Disneyland Park in Anaheim, California. A regular viewer of the Longhurst was interested but the man who made it. The trip to Disneyland did not disappoint. Longhurst recalled, quote, &quot;It was something different There was something romantic about it.&quot; This trip began what would with both Disneyland and Walt Disney. Longhurst studied Walt He learned the story of Walt's in which Walt describes sitting watching his daughters on a carousel. - I felt that there where that the parents and the children could have fun together. - [Kevin] A few years after from his first Disneyland trip, Longhurst took his own children At one point during their visit, Longhurst's children became Shortly after arriving to see the monkeys, the animals began to urinate, and the stench was so potent, that one of the kids became ill. In an attempt to turn the day around, Longhurst took the children only to be served by a woman who was constantly scratching herself while making the drinks. Longhurst quickly left with his children, and as he drove away, he had He said to himself, quote, &quot;Somebody's got to do After selling a profitable Longhurst began to more seriously consider the prospect of building He set out to find a suitable but after repeated failed attempts, Longhurst, in his own spoke with God, asking, quote, &quot;Lord, where am I going to get According to Longhurst, &quot;10 miles out, on the Gold Coast.&quot; The area was perfect. Not only was it already a but there was land available. However, Longhurst was very selective about the land he needed for his park, requiring that the property for ideas he had. In 1974, Longhurst purchased 85 10 miles from the Gold Coast, per God's suggestion. Design and construction with Longhurst spending over by himself to construct the park's layout. Seven years and around $13 million later, the project was finished, and on December 15th, 1981, Longhurst's dream park, opened to the public. When guests entered the park, they were introduced to a world of wonder unlike they had ever seen, assuming they had not been to Disneyland. Dreamworld's entrance that appeared to be a large train station. Beyond this was a quaint main street, with buildings that resembled a turn-of-the-century American town. Guests could also find an area with a grand river around which a paddle wheeler would travel. The park was described as but it might be more fair to say that it was Australia's This is exactly what and even accounting for the similarities, the results were impressive. Dreamworld did have a namely a state-of-the-art IMAX and even the elements that were directly lifted from Disneyland were given a unique Australian identity. Rather than Mickey and Minnie Mouse, Dreamworld had Kenny Rather than the steamboat's the Rivers of America, Dreamworld's river was a hybrid of North America's and Australia's Murray River. The river was flanked by Old and Australian buildings on the other. This hybrid of Disneyland entertainment with Australian touches was a and just a few months after opening, Dreamworld had another Disney attraction with an Australian twist. In 1982, a new area named Gum Tree Gully debuted on the banks of The area was home to Gum Tree Gully Hall, where Dreamworld guests could find the Koala Country Jamboree. This was a direct ripoff of but with koalas. This elaborate animatronic of koalas singing both classic Australian and American songs. Just like the Country Bear Jamboree, the show had a host and Despite the koala focus of the attraction, many other animal musicians were featured. There is a number where a rabbit sings &quot;Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie There is a number where and sings a Confederate Army folk song, and there is even a number where a kangaroo sings and in her pouch is a baby kangaroo who comes out and sings with her. The show also featured a The bunyip is an aquatic monster that originates from aboriginal mythology. In the Koala Country Jamboree, though, the bunyip sings a love song, and wears a big cowboy hat. My baby's pretty from - [Kevin] All of the to sing Peter Allen's &quot;I before the big finale, &quot;Tie which is the most Tie me kangaroo down, sport Tie me kangaroo down All together now - [Kevin] The Koala Country Jamboree was well-received by guests, and would become a favorite As time went on, Dreamworld receiving many standard and some signature attractions. By the late 1980s, Dreamworld was Australia's Despite Longhurst originally stating that he would like to own the after consideration, he decided to sell the park and his company, Dreamco. Longhurst believed Jenkins would continue developing his dream, and provide the park Unfortunately, this was not the case. After purchasing Dreamworld in 1989, Jenkins and Dreamco were and the park was taken over by The new management was more successful, increasing visits by 51% to a total of 1.8 million The park would change hands twice more before the turn of the century. By the early 2000s, Dreamworld was still but new attractions gave A variety of wildlife and in 2002, a partnership allowed the park's kiddie land, Kennyland, to transition to Nickelodeon Central. In 2004, another Australian theme closed for good, and Dreamworld took the crown for the largest theme park in Australia. The success of Nickelodeon to seek out more partnerships and in 2005, they were able to secure perhaps their most lucrative agreement yet, and just as Longhurst had Dreamworld set out to make with a distinct Australian twist. Lucky for them, there was already an Australian that was taking the world by storm. The Wiggles are a children's music group that was founded in 1991. The group was started by Anthony Field, a member of the Australian At the time, Field was studying at Macquarie University in Sydney, alongside another Cockroaches and a guitarist, Murray Cook. Together the three combined with their interest in intending to create an album of songs that could act as an educational tool. After recruiting another keyboardist Jeff Fatt, the Over two years, the group wrote and repurposing many Cockroaches songs into more child-friendly Wiggles numbers. Ba dum ba ba ba dum ba dum It's Wiggle time - [Kevin] The band evolved adding supporting characters such as Captain Feathersword, Henry the Octopus, Wags the Dog, and Dorothy the Dinosaur. The group also began wearing brightly colored skivvies. The Wiggles worked diligently, releasing more albums, performing live, and producing music videos and tapes. In 1994, the band released featuring two massive hits for the group, &quot;Hot Potato.&quot; Hot potato, hot potato - [Kevin] And &quot;Fruit Salad.&quot; Fruit salad Yummy, yummy - [Kevin] In 1995, they released along with the accompanying This was a notable moment in Wiggles lore, as it introduced the the titular Big Red Car. At first, the car was represented with a crude cardboard cutout, and the song featured on the would not be the vehicle's Riding in a big red car Big red car - [Kevin] In 1997, the Wiggles' first and &quot;The Wiggles Movie,&quot; was This film featured the first of the Big Red Car, which The following year, in 1998, the Wiggles released their ninth which featured the hit track, &quot;Toot Toot, Chugga Chugga, Big Red Car.&quot; Toot toot, chugga chugga, big red car We'll travel near and we'll travel far - [Kevin] This would be and it would take over the world. Around this time, the Wiggles began to expand and found major success initially touring with Barney Live, before embarking on a tour of their own. This is when Wigglemania was at its peak. By 2005, the Wiggles had filmed three television series, and toured all over the world. The group was struggling and the number of performances on the health of the group, namely Anthony Field and Greg Page. This level of Wiggling was but Wigglemania was showing The Wiggles made 45 million or nearly 34 million US dollars. This made them the highest-paid beating out Nicole The Wiggles empire was an the kind that only comes and dancing with a giant octopus, and it was a machine that In an effort to maintain their health and stay closer to home, the Wiggles considered cutting down on their live performances. To supplement the lack of live shows, the group began to explore other ventures. The first was a chain of These entertainment centers were similar to those operated by Chuck The Wiggly Play Centers bouncy houses, and event spaces The Wiggly Play Centers to interact with the group without the Wiggles themselves Shortly after opening, a but this venture would than a play center. (bright music) In May of 2005, the Wiggles announced that with Dreamworld theme park. Dreamworld CEO Greg Shaw &quot;We will be talking to them about how we can develop These discussions must have occurred fast, because just two months later, it was announced that a was coming to Dreamworld. The expansion would cost 7 or around 5.2 million US dollars. The new land would include a playground, an animal nursery, and a brand new ride. The first new dark ride in nearly two decades. The new land would take the By this point, the space was far past its prime. Gum Tree Gully Hall and had already been closed for three years. Any hope for the return of the show was dashed with the announcement of the new Wiggles land, whose flagship dark ride would take the space formally occupied by the singing koalas. The new dark ride would not be unique just for its Wiggly theme, but also for its advanced technology. The planned attraction would a style of ride that was to many theme parks in the mid-2000s. Since their inception, dark rides have sent guests along a rigid, and often visible, track. This track was limiting to both the attraction's and its immersive theming. Throughout the late 20th century, ride designers experimented with ways to overcome these obstacles. Disney's Omnimover system and for the most part hid but this system was still on a track. It would not be until October 1st, 1982, that the first trackless ride with Epcot Center's Universe of Energy. Large theater seats full the attraction in unison with each other in a slow-moving dance, with However, this was not a true as a 1/8-inch guide wire was embedded into the attraction's floor, laying out the ride's path. The guide wire would to each vehicle, the strength of which would communicate the vehicle's position This ride system was a Each vehicle needed its own computer, which would then communicate with the attraction's master computer. The vehicles would also need to have their own propulsion systems, and most challenging, their own power and charging systems. The Imagineer solution to the latter was to embed charging which used a state-of-the-art inductive to charge the ride cars at two points throughout their journey. While Universe of Energy was not technically a trackless dark ride by modern standards, it did introduce multiple for later systems to succeed. The guide wire system for The Great Movie Ride, and again in 1994 for the with the system improving These attractions were all well received, obscuring the ride path, and creating a more surprising While these systems delivered of a trackless ride system, the true potential of free range of motion had yet to be achieved. This was until the year 2000, when Tokyo Disneyland named Pooh's Hunny Hunt. Pooh's Hunny Hunt was a with a rumored budget of $130 million. On top of innovative effects the attraction's most impressive element was its true trackless ride system. Rather than using guidewires, Pooh's Hunny Hunt used a in which a sensor array and the attraction's main computer. Unlike with a guide wire, this allowed for the ride Disney made great use of this technology, sending cars on different and synchronizing movements, resulting in fun choreography. This trackless ride system would be implemented and innovated in more Disney parks throughout the world, with the notable additions in Ratatouille: The Adventure, and an elevator and drop shaft in Star Wars: Rise of the Resistance. Other companies have developed their own trackless ride leading to a trackless ride renaissance in the theme park industry However, back in 2005, when the Wiggles ride was being developed, local positioning systems were both new and prohibitively expensive. So while it would be widely promoted as a trackless dark ride, the attraction would rely on by a little known company named Simtech. Simtech was a New-Zealand-based founded by set designer Marquette primarily worked on films such as &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; and small entertainment projects In 2001, the company formed a team to develop an automated for themed entertainment rides, as Marquette believed that this ride type was the future of the industry. By 2003, the company had reportedly piquing the interest of both Disney Parks To prove their ability to develop a full-scale Simtech built a proof of named The Emperor's Tomb. This shooting dark ride was built near the company's headquarters in Christchurch, New Zealand. The ride used the new AGV system, and also showcased Simtech's ability to produce animatronics It would not be long after that Dreamworld would contract Simtech to design and construct Simtech would provide the and show scenes. Arvus, a sound technology company, was also contracted to to each ride car. This included a microphone, a push button, and a speaker system. According to Arvus, this was, quote, &quot;The world's first onboard karaoke system for an amusement ride vehicle,&quot; and that, quote, &quot;Special so that there was no feedback from the speakers directly next to them.&quot; Gum Tree Gully was transformed quickly, with the new Wiggles area ready to open after just four months of construction. The new land, named Wiggles World, had its opening ceremonies with the Wiggles themselves appearing and taking a ride on the the Big Red Car ride. The ride and the land would and on September 17th, 2005, the children of Australia a brand new Wiggly world. (upbeat music) (jaunty music) Guests entered Wiggles World under a whimsical arch of all four Wiggles, Dorothy the Dinosaur, Henry the Octopus, Wags the Dog, and Captain Feathersword. Inside, families could visit for Wiggles-themed games, or visit the banks of the Murrissipi River to play on the S.S. Throughout the land, guests could meet Henry the Octopus, Wags the Dog, Dorothy the Dinosaur, and even Captain Feathersword himself. The Gum Tree Gully Farmyard petting zoo was re-themed to the The land also had a gift shop marketed as the first Wiggles merchandise store, as well as a cafe with healthy foods, appropriately named, Yummy Yummy. There was even a of the Wigglehouse, which allowed guests to with Flora Door, the Wigglehouse's sentient door. (jaunty music continues) Wiggles World's main the Big Red Car. The exterior featured a prominent into their Wiggles Adventure. Guests entered the ride's short queue with the boarding area A television mounted to the as guests waited in line. Guests watched as their own Big Red Car pulled into the loading station. The ride vehicle was perfectly themed, appearing identical to with the notable additions of and the unique karaoke system. Guests waited patiently for the ride car to which depending on how on the track, could take a while. The ride had an advertised top speed of 2 kilometers per hour, or about 1.25 miles per hour. This is slow. For comparison, The Formula Rossa rollercoaster tops out at a speed of or 149 miles per hour. That's over 100 times faster Even compared to other dark rides, the Big Red Car ride was slow. For instance, the Haunted Mansion and similar Omnimovers move twice as fast, and newer trackless dark Speed was not an advertised but it would definitely play a of the attraction. Once the car arrived guests board the Big Red The doors to the first show scene open, and it is officially time to Wiggle. As the Wiggles begin singing &quot;Toot Toot, Chugga Chugga, Big Red Car,&quot; the ride vehicles slowly move Toot toot, chugga chugga, big red car - [Kevin] Lights illuminate the space as the car turns to face a The Wiggles appear on the to the ride, and suggesting that they to sing along. They then inform riders the Wigglehouse next. - Why don't we go into the house, and we can sing some songs together. - [Kevin] &quot;Toot Toot, begins to play again, as the vehicles slowly move Toot toot, chugga chugga, big red car - [Kevin] The car turns this time featuring just Anthony, who instructs riders to sing &quot;Hot Potato.&quot; As the song begins, the open and close to the music. Potato, potato, potato - [Kevin] Next up is the &quot;Toot Toot, Chugga Chugga, as the cars slowly move into the scene. Toot toot, chugga chugga, big red car - [Kevin] On the wall, the doors to all of the an iconic set to those After entering this room, the car turns to face a third TV screen. In this video, Jeff is sleeping, and the Wiggles are They ask that you use &quot;Wake up Jeff.&quot; - One, two, three, wake up, Jeff. - Thanks for waking me up, everyone. - [Kevin] This wakes Jeff up, and the Wiggles then sing, &quot;Wake Up Jeff!&quot; The vehicles again play &quot;Toot toot, Chugga Chugga, Big Red Car,&quot; as they move into the Toot toot, chugga chugga - [Kevin] The cars then turn In this video, Greg explains that if we Wags the Dog might slide down his slide. After singing the song, Wags (no audio) Toot toot, chugga - [Kevin] The next scene is Now underwater, guests and a variety of sea creatures, including a fish playing a saxophone, and a crab playing a guitar. The room is filled with immersive lighting, and a fifth TV screen on which Murray suggests riders and sing, &quot;Move your Arms Like Henry.&quot; In response, Henry not technically moving his arms at all, but the saxophone fish which is great. Toot toot - [Kevin] The final scene Dorothy is seen rocking as the car enters the room. Dorothy greets guests, and riders encounter their sixth The Wiggles express how and remind guests to wave to the camera. After snapping a photo, guests return to the (jaunty music) (jaunty music continues) The Big Red Car ride at Dreamworld initially received For Wiggles fans, the ride allowed them to drive in the Big Red Car, and visit iconic Wiggles locations. The karaoke microphones added and the more elaborate show scenes toward the end of the ride were In many ways, the dark especially for a small However, there were that were less than great. The attraction relied heavily some of which were sloppily The walls of each room did not extend to the show building ceiling, which detracted from the theming, and looked a bit dark and unsettling. Another odd and often frightening was the lighting design and timings. There seemed to be a lack of as each ride through from the appears to have different For instance, when the Big and enters the Wiggles' kitchen, sometimes the lights are already on, sometimes the lights are and sometimes the lights until just before the video plays. This results in long stretches of guests entering a dark room with only the light of the other show scenes The reverse of this problem is also eerie. There are times when the but the lounge room lights are not, so guests can see a very darkly lit lounge as they ride through the kitchen scene. This is even more off-putting in the more elaborate For example, sometimes guests into Dorothy's garden The other negatives of are not a fault of the Dreamworld but are issues found in Both wire-guided and local have an issue with scene layouts that traditional dark rides do not, because there's a possibility that a trackless dark ride car will divert from its intended path in a way that a tracked dark ride cannot. The show elements need from the planned route to account for this extra margin of error. This can make rooms feel empty, and show scenes seem distant. Another downside of trackless dark rides is that the designers are encouraged to illuminate the floor, either to create more natural or to showcase the lack so the unpredictability is more thrilling. The negative to this lighting technique is that it draws more attention making some show scenes One thing that the Big than many trackless dark rides Many show scenes featured to account for the excessive space. One of the most glaring downsides to trackless dark ride floors was not present when the ride opened, but as with many trackless rides, it would not be long before Overall, the ride that Simtech delivered was impressive given the The Big Red Car ride, as but changes were coming sooner than anyone could have anticipated. In September of 2006, a year the Wiggles returned to for a special concert celebrating The group also dedicated a Dorothy's Rosy Teacup Ride. Fans flocked to Dreamworld but many longtime fans noticed Greg Page, the Yellow Wiggle, Instead, his understudy, Sam Moran, was performing as the Yellow Wiggle. Moran had been subbing for Page for years, but Page's absences had with compounding health Just one month after the it was announced that Moran for the rest of the Wiggles' 2006 tour, due to bouts of fainting that Page's illness had still but he expressed his determination to join the Wiggles on future tours. However, just one month Page released a video message to fans to deliver some shocking news. - For some time now, I've been suffering from a condition called orthostatic intolerance, which basically means my heart doesn't pump It means that I'll no longer the way that I want to, and as a result, I've decided to stop - [Kevin] Moran replaced Page as the Yellow Wiggle completely, in songs, on tour, in videos, and in no time at all, in Dreamworld. In 2007, Moran replaced including on the land's entrance arch in the Big Red Car ride's marquee. The Wiggles also shot new with Moran. These changes meant that the operated for less than two years before receiving this significant change. While the new footage used the even the slight adjustment began to alter the of the attraction. On top of this, effects were and maintenance seemed to struggle to keep the ride experience consistent. The door that opens in separating the loading area did not work reliably, and other times it flew open abruptly. As aforementioned, the but at certain times, they were more obviously malfunctioning. In just a few years after opening, the Big Red Car ride was that even the most expensive struggle with, visible tire It was impressive that Dreamworld received a trackless dark ride and animatronics, but maintaining show quality and only a few years into the ride experience was already suffering. In December of 2006, Dreamworld opened a neighboring that featured an area dedicated featuring four slides In 2007, Wiggles World thanks to a partnership with Six Flags. - We can't help but love you all when you make us so wiggly giggly. - [Kevin] Six Flags Great America, Six Flags Great Adventure, and Six Flags New England of their own, with many identical with similar furnishings and signage. One feature that was was the appearance of Flora Door. (whimsical music) Why is she looking at me like that? The Great Escape and would also receive Wiggles Worlds in 2008 and 2009 respectively. Some of these lands had but these were outdoor driving As with Dreamworld, the at the Six Flags Wiggles Worlds. However, while guests can Henry the Octopus, Wags the Dog, and even Captain Feathersword, no actors ever filled in likely because if they did, children would be able to tell that they were not the real Wiggles. This went against the who are used to seeing and interacting with beloved characters. Most of the time, though, guests could not meet the and without allowing local the only way to allow guests without the Wiggles themselves present, would be to create mascot that park employees could wear. This really only works with A theme park would never to represent four human men. Toot toot, toot toot, Chugga chugga, big red - [Kevin] The Six Flags Wiggles Worlds would only last until 2010, when Six Flags ended with multiple intellectual properties, including the Wiggles. The Six Flags lands were all This left only one Wiggles World, the original in Dreamworld, and more changes were coming to both the land and In January, 2012, the Wiggles announced that to don the yellow skivvy once more, replacing his replacement, Sam Moran. This made headlines around the world. It had been five years with the group, and for many children, Rumors circulated about the switch, speculating that Page's bad investments and financial troubles had necessitated his return, Many speculated of bad blood between Moran and the rest of the group, which was all but of the next couple of years. The band's manager, Paul saying, quote, &quot;If the Stones lost Mick and he came back a few years later, there wouldn't be a question.&quot; Page's return sparked controversy for the otherwise wholesome musical group, with parents especially not The Wiggles assured fans that on all of the songs that he and the band had offered him full access to the Wiggles' Hot Potato Studios. Moran would go on to have creating his own show on Nick Jr., named &quot;Play Along with Sam.&quot; Shortly after the switch, the Wiggles again re-shot footage for the Big Red Car ride with Page, which either means they lost or the band was so obsessed with the dark ride's continuity that the difference in their age would've kept them up at night. They also updated the a third time, with old Greg, which was illustrated slightly different than young Greg was years prior. The drama over Page's return and practically all for just a few months after the switch, the Wiggles announced that would be leaving the band. This was in large part due to exhaustion, and various health issues that as apparently nothing makes more than being a Wiggle. Anthony would be the only and three backup performers would be handed the iconic skivvies, Lachlan Gillespie, Simon Pryce, and the first female Wiggle, Emma Watkins. Later in 2012, Dreamworld added another the Big Red Boat ride, with the Wiggles once again present to dedicate the attraction. The new group's first performance together was at Dreamworld in 2013. That same year, the and the Big Red Car ride went the most significant in its history. Not only was a fourth round of video shot to account for the new members, but the first room was changed with music, equipment, and wallpaper featuring her soon-to-be These changes only and technical issues continued The door to the first room leaving no barrier and the rest of the ride. The cabinets in the kitchen scene continued to open and close and the ride cars were in arriving to the next show scene. Audio tracks consistently clashed, with &quot;Toot Toot, Chugga sometimes playing at the causing pure audio chaos. Chugga chugga, big red car Toot toot, chugga chugga - [Kevin] The lighting and somehow, almost impressively, the cars moved even slower and every year the ride the experience only worsened. In less than a decade, had devolved into a truly In 2015, Dreamworld announced that Wiggles World would be no more, but the Wiggles would The land would be re-themed to incorporate more properties from the Australian Broadcasting Company's popular children's franchises, including &quot;Play School,&quot; and those bananas that wear pajamas. Dorothy's Rosy Teacup Ride, the Big Red Boat ride, and the Big Red Car ride would remain, and retain their Wiggles theming. The S.S. Feathersword would be re-themed to the Giggle and Hoot pirate ship, and the Fun Spot activity center would be re-themed to the Two new attractions, the and the Bananas in Pajamas Fun Maze would be added to the area as well. The iconic Wiggles arch and was relocated closer ABC Kids World added more but the excitement would be short-lived. On October 25th, 2016, when the park's Thunder River leading to a major resulting in the death of four riders. The incident became worldwide news, and an investigation was launched into the cause of the accident. In the following years, poor maintenance would be cited and Dreamworld would pay out millions in fines and compensation Three years after the incident, in 2019, Dreamworld announced a $70 including the addition of to replace the Thunder River Rapids ride. As part of the would also receive a multimillion However, in March of 2020, Dreamworld closed due to putting the expansion project on hold. In August of 2020, it was announced that the park Before the park's reopening it was revealed that two Dreamworld rides would not reopen with the park. These were Flowrider in and the Big Red Car The attraction received no not even a true goodbye, which is a shame, because the Wiggles have about saying goodbye. One of the ride cars was placed for photos, and the loading area was boarded up. The pandemic delayed significantly. ABC Kids World continued to operate throughout 2020, 2021, and 2022, with the Big Red Car closed off to guests. Dreamworld eventually announced a children's area named Kenny would open in 2023. The kiddie land will replace and will feature many ABC Kids properties, including the Wiggles. The Wiggles will receive a Big Red Plane spinner, and a Big Red Boat coaster, but no plans for a new Big Once Kenny and Belinda's Dreamworld will finally to make room for a new Rivertown will be an homage that Longhurst built for Dreamworld all the way back in 1981, and the land will feature a new While the Wiggles will the sudden closure of the Big Red Car ride was disappointing to that would've preferred a proper sendoff. The ride was not the most impressive, and its deterioration over the years had left it in an abysmal state. Still, it had allowed children to take a trip in the sing along to classic Wiggles songs, and visit iconic Wiggles locations, even if it did all of The Wiggles have continued to evolve over the past few years, and the current band continues While the group is still popular, their presence in the might never again reach the prevalence they experienced at the For those lucky enough to experience the Wiggles' home on the there was never a better time to Wiggle. (jaunty music) (jaunty music continues) (jaunty music continues) (jaunty music continues) (jaunty music continues) (whimsical music) (whimsical music continues) (no audio)