Benny Siegel, better known as Bugsy, A charmer and a womanizer. He was also a gangster and a killer. He was a man with enemies. Late one June evening in 1947, he arrived at the Los Angeles home Siegel's mistress was away, As with most mob killings, the murder of Bugsy Siegel However, the one name is the one name that of his best friend, Meyer Lansky. Have a good week. Meyer Lansky was one of the most Little Meyer was quite tough For some, he was the Jewish mastermind pulling the strings from the shadows. He was a financial genius He was also a killer and a part of the New York Mafia, both very powerful and very successful. For others, he was little more His sinister reputation was the product The cold, hard evidence suggests everybody thought he was, A mob mastermind we unravel the enigma of Meyer Lansky. Meyer Lansky arrived in America He and his family were Jewish immigrants of their native Russia. He was scarred I think Meyer and his belief the way Jews in Russia or Poland did, A lot of what Meyer felt was not putting up with abuse His family soon settled New York's impoverished Jewish ghetto. He grew up Whatever your size was, You had to be able He was small too. At just five feet four inches, Meyer Lansky and was soon in trouble with the law. It was at this time he'd first met called Bugsy Siegel. The meeting happened when Siegel Siegel had these charismatic good looks. He got involved in a street fight and picked up a gun. He was so transfixed that he raised the gun They could hear the police It was only and pushed him away He said that was the beginning That was the nature of their relationship. Lansky was the brains, Together, the two young men You get the sense but early in the century, The gang stood up that came into their neighborhood They also engaged They were involved in what we'll call Hijacking, loan sharking, and gambling. Lansky and Siegel's big break came in 1920 The ban on the consumption of alcohol, a ban which spawned for mobsters of all ethnic groups. It was Prohibition that turned all of these low-level street into business executives, because they had to figure out distribute, sell, The Bugs and Meyer Gang in New York's brutal gang wars. It was at this time that Lansky made with Italian mobster a man whose respect Lansky first earned and Luciano tried to rob him. Famously, Luciano tried to shake him down, in no uncertain terms where he could get off. &quot;Do you think that because I'm Jewish, &quot;That's not going to happen today, buddy.&quot; It was the start in the history of organized crime and a groundbreaking Luciano really didn't like The notion A lot of the newer, about the cultural precedent It had nothing to do with Sicily. They wanted to make money, wanted to make money. With Lansky at his side, Luciano was soon shooting his way By the summer of 1931, just one man stood Salvatore Maranzano, Luciano turned to Lansky for help. One of the stereotypes is that the Jewish guys handled the money while the Italian guys It's not true. Interestingly enough, when Luciano took over it was the Jewish muscle The idea was that We get very ethnic now. If you use Jewish gunmen, the Italian criminals because they wouldn't look At Luciano's bidding, Lansky organized a gang to visit Maranzano's offices posing as tax inspectors One of the guys was known for being an Orthodox Jew However, Maranzano was so bigoted that he felt if some Jewish bean counters they couldn't harm him. Not only did they do him harm, With Maranzano dead, and set about establishing Meyer Lansky now sat at the right hand However, he knew Lansky could never be a leader He could never be a member because he wasn't of Italian He was a Jew, and he knew his place. He was highly respected as somebody who could talk to Luciano, and he was a great entrepreneur However, he was never a kingmaker From now on, Lansky's role in his various criminal enterprises, powerful but ultimately answerable By now, he'd married the oldest of whom, Buddy, Otherwise, life was good. He left the crowded tenements and took an apartment overlooking Central Park With the abolition of Prohibition in 1933, one that would dominate Meyer Lansky was brilliant mathematically, and his real interest was gambling Lansky was good with numbers, and the idea of gambling and know the odds. He could tell you the proportion for the table was 4.5, Gambling was illegal but widely tolerated. Lansky was soon running casinos and a number of other states. Paradoxically, his casinos made money The tables would not be fixed because he knew how to take his profit You don't have to be dishonest to win, Volume. As long as you keep gambling, you'll lose. By the end of the 1930s, Lansky's casinos However, the little Jewish immigrant craved something more than wealth. Right through Lansky's life, there was a wish to be respectable, and right through Lansky's life, there was a feeling that he was a citizen like any other. There is no doubt that the American people How did Joe Kennedy make his money? What was the foundation Joe Kennedy was a bootlegger, and he was able to launder his fortune to become president of the United States. Meyer Lansky and felt he was no more immoral He actually had a snobbish streak. This was somebody who studied history. This was somebody who, when his friends would hire tutors. Lansky sent his second son, Paul, to study at the Military Academy He would jot down vocabulary words You can see in his handwriting I remember one of the things he wrote was: &quot;Determine how to pronounce Thucydides.&quot; The attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941 and America's entry provided Lansky with an extraordinary to prove his patriotism In February 1942, a large troop carrier and capsized in New York Harbor. The death of a queen. Now, the $60 million luxury liner The Navy suspected sabotage. Many of the men a nation America was now at war with. When the Navy attempted to investigate, they found the waterfront The longshoremen, by nature, are not the kind of guys government uniform, coming onto the docks and saying: Roosevelt is distraught by this. Pearl Harbor has just happened. The Navy is explaining to him: &quot;Mr. President, Roosevelt says: &quot;What do you mean? &quot;Mr. President, &quot;Do you remember who ran the docks?&quot; &quot;Ah, okay.&quot; At that time, the docks in New York The FBI suddenly realized that the only way about what was going on was to come to terms like Lucky Luciano. The trouble was that Luciano was in jail. Luciano had been imprisoned in 1936 He was looking at a sentence The Navy needed a go-between. Enter Meyer Lansky, a Jew who already In the 1930s, New York's Jewish community by the rise Jewish leaders had turned to Lansky, one of the few members of their community The Bund found themselves Meyer personally went They would go and bust them up. They would hit them They terrorized those Bund members. When the Navy approached him in 1942 Lansky immediately agreed to help. He arranged for Luciano to be moved closer to New York and acted as a mediator in talks It's an extraordinary story. Lansky asks if Luciano can be moved. There was an official inquiry You see the actual documents saying: &quot;Move Luciano.&quot; &quot;Mr. Meyer Lansky &quot;Do not request Mr. Lansky's passport.&quot; &quot;Do not take Mr. Lansky's fingerprints.&quot; What then resulted was a deal where Luciano could meet He hadn't been able to do that before. He gave the order but he was also allowed It was an extraordinary deal, In June 1942, following a tip-off an event later trumpeted However, the Mafia's role The next year provided the mob to lend assistance to the war effort. The invasion of Sicily, Meyer Lansky and Lucky Luciano brought Sicilian assets to Naval intelligence, helping to design the maps, identify good invasion locations, and locate Nazi strongholds. As American troops the mob assistance proved invaluable, but the Navy knew The only thing worse as it was called, failing was what would happen You're now in business with the mob. Sicily was conquered in just six weeks, but this was not a story The mob's wartime collaboration Charlie Luciano was released from prison As for Lansky, he found that in the eyes he remained a hoodlum. His patriotism had failed and if he wanted there was another millstone Bugsy Siegel. Siegel continued killing people, even after Meyer the Bugs and Meyer Mob. Bugsy Siegel was a wacko. He was a crazy guy, I never saw any indication Siegel, on the other hand, enjoyed it, I don't know how many. It could've been 5 or 20. Siegel had moved to California by now, where his film star looks helped him However, Siegel's dreams a few hours' drive inland, There were these rundown in this desert city, Las Vegas, What Siegel realized was that these dusty, smoky, rundown places The great advantage of Las Vegas the one state in the Union Siegel set about building the Flamingo, the first in Las Vegas, with money borrowed from Lansky The project quickly ran into trouble. He never respected budgets. He thought that everything was limitless. What starts as a million dollars &quot;It's not a million, I need three.&quot; &quot;You know what? The situation was complicated the glamorous former dancer No. Her abrasive personality would later on organized crime. I never got money -None of those fellows? None of what I've read or known about. They never gave me anything. Siegel's mob backers was stealing their money. However, Bugsy Siegel of either himself or his girlfriend. He was a very arrogant guy He wasn't going to deal with them. He left it to Lansky Meyer pleaded with Ben Siegel to get things under control to start being more respectful and to stop running However, you don't tell a 41-year-old man that you're not going to go trick Eventually, the patience Just a few hours after Siegel's death, the Flamingo Hotel Two men, Moe Sedway and Gus Greenbaum, and said they were in charge then. Somebody said They said that Ben was dead. Moe Sedway and Gus Greenbaum were both business partners It is inconceivable. Lansky had been unaware of the fate Forty years later, after Lansky's death, was asked about the murder. I think he felt badly for the family. They were buddies There were reports I don't believe that. Circumstances sometimes make you think, but he would never directly have anything -Directly? Lansky may not have but he benefited. For all that he craved respectability, I suppose we could say In all my research into Lansky, I never discovered personally fingering, personally instructing However, he made his money, and he worked in an environment and where those who failed The image of Lansky as a dangerous mobster in the public consciousness. In 1950, the US Congress its first ever probe into organized crime. Do you have anything you've done If so, what are they? Paid my tax. The commission focused primarily with the result that Lansky emerged in organized crime than he actually was. Lansky was furious. In one of the breaks in the hearings, &quot;Senator, I don't know &quot;You gamble.&quot; Kefauver snapped: &quot;I just don't want You people. One of the things is that gambling will become once they run the Jewish and Italian boys, In fact, Senator Kefauver which was perfectly legal. However, for Lansky, it was another example &quot;The elite always looked upon gambling &quot;Only when they used it as a pleasure &quot;was it legitimate and not sinful.&quot; Once more, You just had to say Jewish financier, in the background, It played to so many stereotypes. It was so damning He never recovered from it. In the aftermath there was a crackdown on illegal casinos Florida, and other states. Let this be a warning that their kind For Lansky, his dream of respectability However, as one door closed, In the 1950s, Cuba and Havana was better than Las Vegas. First of all, They could quickly fly people in, and bring in the entertainers. They could have an open city girls, pornography, cockfights, Havana was the best of the best. Lansky was invited to Cuba in 1953 to help run the country's casinos. When Lansky they were welcomed Then, from Lansky's point of view, where they are not but where their skills are recognized. Lansky helped turn Havana where the elite in the newly moralistic atmosphere Among those who visited Did Meyer know John Kennedy or from trips there? Yes. What was he looking for in Havana? You said it, the second one. -A lot of people look for that in Havana. Lansky now embarked the construction on the Havana seafront. We know from the evidence by the mid-fifties, which was a lot of money in those days. He invested it all in bricks and mortar, It was a wonderful hotel It's the first to have air conditioning. You go inside the casino, it's a wonderful mosaic-tiled, Still, with all the glamour and Lauren Bacall film. That's where he put his money. It was the largest single investment I think Meyer was focusing That was going to be his Kennedy moment. Havana was legal. However, Lansky had bet wrong. By the time the Riviera opened in 1958, Fidel Castro's leftist rebels In the early hours of New Year's Day 1959, At first, the celebration was peaceful as shouting and cheering crowds Then the temper of the throng changed, its prime targets, gambling casinos, parking meters, and the homes The casinos were looted When Castro came out of the hills, Lansky lost his money, United Tobacco lost its money, All the big American corporations The world's cleverest gambler, Lansky now moved permanently to Miami. He was almost 60 and in poor health, but his return to America against organized crime. Attorney General Robert Kennedy of the rise of lawlessness This he describes as the government narcotics peddling, and controlling of certain trade unions. With Bobby Kennedy the government Lansky was still regarded and found himself Meyer is being dogged 24 hours a day, by local authorities and the FBI. I knew them by heart. They were my buddies. If I saw them at the racetrack, &quot;I'm going to report you to the FBI.&quot; &quot;You're not supposed to be gambling.&quot; His wife Teddy was once asked: She said: &quot;Yes, the FBI, Listening bugs were placed in his house but they yielded little. &quot;Spends much time read this report from July 7th, 1962. &quot;Main pursuits seem &quot;watching TV, and reading.&quot; All those wiretaps and bugs every single bug was successful good intelligence for the FBI, Lansky's was a total of zero. The bugging did yield one conversation It happened &quot;While subject and wife the FBI report read, &quot;TV panelist referred to organized crime&quot; &quot;as being second only in size &quot;Lansky remarked to his wife&quot; &quot;that organized crime Lansky's exact words and the tape was then reused, but the report By the time the movie &quot;Godfather II&quot; the scriptwriters had Hyman Roth, narrowing his eyes and murmuring: &quot;Michael, we're bigger than US Steel.&quot; In fact, the record shows he did not say: Since it's not recorded, Could he have been sardonic? Could he have been sarcastic We don't know. However, he would always say: However, it stuck to him for the rest of his life. It was finally immortalized In March 1970, police finally managed to arrest Lansky I thought the drug bust in 1970 because the basic charge to go to Mexico for a vacation, I believe, and had these drugs on him The so-called drugs were, in fact, I thought it was pure poppycock. The case was thrown out, For 40 years he had sought respectability Now, he turned his back In July 1970, he moved to Israel Throughout his life, he has had this pride He takes pride in the creation which puts into practice the toughness and courage Here's a whole country that embodies it. Lansky is living the Acadia, north of Tel Aviv. He's not exactly Lansky found himself pursued However, while in Israel, presenting himself Mr. Lansky, why don't you go back to the United States I think it would be terribly hard as much as I believe Are you a religious Jew? No, I'm not a religious Jew, but I am a Jew in my heart. I think there was probably a sense that: &quot;Of course they'll let me in, What they didn't bank on was that it would be The Americans were still pursuing Lansky The case was referred She didn't know Meyer Lansky Somebody said and she said: Another one of her advisors said Golda Meir said: &quot;Mafia, Mafia?&quot; &quot;No Mafia.&quot; Lansky's application and he was expelled from Israel. Lansky's wife, Teddy, literally spitting with fury. Go away from me! I'll kill you! Lansky himself was immediately arrested. The government had finally succeeded a case that rested on the evidence turned police informant called Fat Vinnie. Fat Vinnie was Vincent Teresa, He was a thief and an extortionist. He had been a federal witness that the Department of Justice Fat Vinnie claimed that in 1968, he'd made two deliveries of cash from the Colony Club Casino in London. It was the big break Here's a guy who was willing to testify, $150,000. That's substantial Like Al Capone 40 years before, Arriving at court, he was relaxed. Are you pleased with the way I'm sorry, but no comment. You can't blame me for asking, can you? No, I don't blame you at all. Inside, the assistant prosecutor from the one he had been expecting. He was a gentleman, not a wise guy. It was clear that he had read a lot. He was very articulate and charming. If you didn't know any better, you'd think he was an executive The prosecution was led called R.J. Campbell. We felt that we could get after him I had a mountain of material I was ready and prepared, Lansky takes a stand. He did not take the stand. What he did was put his wife on the stand. Teddy Lansky produced receipts to show her husband had been in Boston to have been handing money We were hanging by our threads, because once the witness has lied you are a gone goose. It was a very thin case. We'd have been better off Lansky was acquitted. The little man walked free. For some, it was further evidence However, for others, doubts were beginning to creep in as the government and the press claimed. Let's put it this way, We never caught him He had a nice suit. It doesn't cost much to buy a suit. He just lived modestly. Have a good week. Yes, okay. Mastermind of the mob, a retired investor Only in 1983 was the truth revealed. Lansky died in his bed from cancer. His family gathered They too were hoping They were disappointed. I do believe &quot;Boy, this reality is very different Because to my knowledge, It's not because they secretly do I don't buy it. I spent a lot of time who, after his death, something Meyer had always tried However, he couldn't leave enough money I think it defies the rules that they would go through For the sake of proving what? Meyer Lansky never was some believed. He lost the bulk of the fortune Under constant surveillance from 1960, he was effectively retired, and he spent most of what he had left How would you describe yourself? As a human being. He saw himself as a victim of hypocrisy, However, Meyer Lansky as American public believed. He shone only in comparison Mostly the organized crime guys We're not operating A guy like Lansky comes along and he stands out. He's only bright in comparison He certainly wasn't in Bill Gates The cold, hard evidence suggests that he wasn't everybody thought he was, However, the American public The great irony is that the proof you are a mastermind Everybody was running around and pawns in this vast game, When they couldn't find them, There is this belief, in the mystical power of the mob. When Meyer Lansky would walk his dog, &quot;He's just walking his dog.&quot; &quot;He's doing the whole No, he was walking his dog.