Networking security and Wireshark. If you're issues at home and are looking for a simple and quality 24x7 in order to: one, understand where and potentially switch ISPs, Net Probe was written my own home network and professionally. There are does, which is basically to monitor the internet However, I couldn't find a suitable tool that was allowed you to collect as much data as you want frames. And that's exactly what Net Probe does. install and set up Net Probe on a PC or an old GitHub for those of you who aren't really familiar how to go through each one of these metrics, and let's get started. All right, so before we get how Net Probe works. So, to get started, or Linux machine that's directly connected to your want to use wireless for this. You know, an old is good for this, an old PC you're not really always online, because you want this to be running performance. And that's also in the GitHub readme is doing is fairly simple. From that PC, where Net Probe is sending out probes, as you'd imagine, either DNS servers or public websites. So, in the quote unquote, is ICMP, it's ping, and ping allows through the ISP network, and then over the public isn't just one server obviously, we use multiple that way, you're probably looking at something destination here, destination here to different same actual networks. And the reason we do this the only common element in those connections is to the internet. Okay, so we do ping tests to a which I'll show you in the config file. We and then we average those values together. And the performance of this leg here, because if, for and you saw issues, those issues could be here, actual network that that public website is on. So, the diversity and the statistical probability within the common leg, which is my on-ramp to the Okay, so that's the first piece. With the DNS test from the same software, we send out DNS queries is not here to test your ISP unless you use your I'll show you how to do. But it's there to just compare, say, the DNS offered by your ISP to, say you, but you also want to see how that compares DNS, things like that. That's what the DNS test is a tool that is sending out on a regular basis, measuring latency and loss, the latency allows it change of latency, and we also do DNS tests. But want to have a physical connection here because problems, it's not, you minimize the possibility here, chances are you're going to see all sorts not going to be because of this leg over here, has interference, and there's microwaves in your we're sending these probes out on a regular the data, and then Net Probe, the software, database and allowing you to build nice visuals let's switch gears now to the more practical the repo, or repository, that has the code for also posted it in some previous videos as well. there's an open source license I throw in for use even if you're a small business, I don't want to modify the code, go right ahead, it's all and Git, I'm not going to cover how to clone the on YouTube on how to do that, but I'm assuming you the link, clone it, which means just copy it, or then you get all the source code downloaded. If and download the code to a zip file, and then once locally on your machine, and then you have the one, is just getting the source code downloaded because this is a containerized application in that you don't have Python installed. Now, it does files that you have something like VS Studio you don't, that's fine, it's not a big deal. You after you've downloaded the code, is Docker. Now, if you haven't used Docker before, or you hear developer jargon, speak about Docker. Docker is a to code, to deploy containerized applications. cloud applications are, or well, cloud put it that way. They're really applications environments and operating systems and things like operating system is, and that's what the benefit with Docker installed on the host machine, so the it doesn't matter if it is Linux, Windows, you can run the software, you don't need to have it's all self-contained. Okay, now installing I will post a video in the description, cuz there's probably a hundred tutorials out but so, I'm not going to cover that right now, but Docker, if you're doing it on Mac or Windows, like this. And really, what you need to understand Docker is running because it is on. I don't and we're going to show you how to do that with that Docker is installed and running successfully. 30 seconds away from actually being able to launch But before we get to it, I just want to explain bit behind the scenes. Okay, the code is here; you can open it in Notepad; I've done a lot of not really much you have to modify. Net Probe and let it run, and then collect data, and then want. But the one file I want to point out is you know that the ENV file is usually used to but in this case, I made it public because some details in here that I wanted to go over real at least in the front end. The next thing that's the initial theory section, with the ping test, we so Google, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Amazon. are highly available, meaning they're likely not very well-managed, so, and they are diverse, they're, and some of them use Google Cloud, some when you're accessing those sites from a single network they live on will be actually a diverse are used in the latency and loss and jitter test. DNS servers defined here. The purpose of the DNS a variety of different public DNS servers. So Cloudflare, they're kind of here as the controls, or Net Probe will be testing these, and showing whatever you put in here as your DNS server. Okay, here that you use at home. Right, so if you need IP config, and then go look for your Ethernet at our Ethernet adapter, and my DNS, oh, I'll and you can see my DNS servers defined in my local your own DNS servers provided here by your ISP, or that you like to use. The idea is that you plug map and see over time how well your own DNS server servers provided by the big companies. Okay, with server is lagging a little bit, you can actually DNS servers that are better for your network. Yes, the password is &quot;password&quot; for Redis. This Right, think of Docker like a virtual machine, spun up within Docker, which are the containers, Redis is one of the layers that transfers data &quot;password,&quot; but it doesn't matter because it's not we have some information here about health for Net Probe, which I'll pull up, you see here, I mentioned this before, this metric is really we pull from packet loss, latency, jitter, and with various weights, we come up with a score. This is strictly so that you can keep track of the another. Okay, so if you do want to go and tweak um, or if you want to do it, do it, try it out, breaks the application. These are the defaults those values mean. And then the last thing is just really used. So, if you are modifying this file, number one, add your own DNS server here, under if you do want to modify the sites, you can, just sites, if you break the line, it may break the to change these three kind of sample DNS servers, not really built to accommodate more, um, or feel more. Okay, so let's get to actually launching the prompt, in the folder with Net Probe Light, start up Net Probe and get it running, which is I mentioned Docker, think of Docker like, um, a like VirtualBox, right, where, within Docker, containerized applications, or basically, all working together to produce the application is all those different containers starting uh, that is really it, right, you launch it, you can actually see Net Probe Light is running usage, which is actually very, very small, right. which is nothing, and you, you can see here that that's what I mentioned before, is that there's Probe. All you really need to do now is from window for that, open up your local machine, Grafana is the container that is the visualization fancy graphs. When you first log into Grafana, Once you've set that, it'll ask you for a new demonstration, I'm just going to do &quot;admin admin&quot; home network that is more secure, and then home dashboards, Net Probe, and there you measure your internet quality score, your and your DNS response time. It's really that want to stop the application from running, uh, you if you want to get it off your computer delete it, uh, and then delete your source code, delete that. Um, that will delete all the historic that Docker may have created. Uh, but other than get into last is really just usage of Net Probe. troubleshoot the network? And for that, you can but I, I actually want to open up a version of Net same network, so you can see the IP address here it's just I've had this running for a lot longer you how Net Probe works. So, you run Net Probe, machine on 24/7, um, it's going to collect data. Net Probe by default is configured to restart Docker starts at your startup, which it should, if you restart, you can see here I had a little uh, the data is preserved, and it'll just continue how to actually use Net Probe to monitor your you've never used Grafana before, Grafana offers you can go through. You can actually change the hours versus 2 days versus 7 days. It'll really you've got collected on disk. And really, I've run um, uh, in the beta version without any issues. it'll keep collecting data. There's no issue. Um, how to use the data. Now, number one, DNS response what this is doing is doing DNS queries to the five different websites that I have mentioned, actually going to be, uh, these five sites. Okay, for the DNS test. It resolves the name of each; it get you a response. So, like, a time it takes from Google, from my home DNS, whatever you the data here, along with your average response time here is from whatever you configure in the with the idea that this allows you to keep track relative to one another, because DNS could be a DNS server that is consistently slow, every single or any of the devices in your network, are going be a lot, could be a little. So, this helps is actually click on individual servers to display do, you can get a relative sense of which one is looks like, if anything, Google DNS and Cloudflare inspection, but I can actually go back and to see which DNS servers are actually best let's go in mixed order to packet loss. So, packet ICMP pings out, uh, it's actually sending quite a time. Net Probe is sending, uh, 50 pings every is recording back the, one, the packet loss. So, going to and from those websites. Packet loss on and if it's happening once in a while. Okay, um, of traffic that's lost on the public internet. like you're seeing packet loss all day, every quiet, quiet, quiet, and all of a sudden you have and then it goes away. So, that's what this is I set a threshold at 4% for a reason, and that's protocols, when you hit 4% packet loss, uh, TCP Um, it has to do with TCP congestion control but really, if you're a network engineer, by rule loss as you can, but once you hit past this point, problem where, um, you need to get that inspected, something else going on in your modem, um, that's your network. Now, I'll see, see if I can find an in this section. With Grafana, it's quite nice, data on our time window, you can actually just a look at this. This is a short period of time and you can see that had a very negative effect because this is a calculation based on packet also had an effect on latency, right, it also had and it looks like DNS response times also went kind of drill in to different time periods, but zoom into some pieces of data, and take a look loss. Now, in this case, I'm not as worried, kind of thing, um, if it happens on a regular so let's switch back to a 24-hour view. Uh, next running to measure packet loss, we are measuring you may have the very valid question, well, how figure, because Facebook could be 50 milliseconds and Yahoo, or the other website we're testing, metric mean? And that's a very good point. Um, these various sites and average them out, um, not overall that latency increases substantially, network is that because of things like buffering, enough capacity in the ISP network, you could have websites that we're, we're probing. And this is to understand what the baseline latency is to all over and above your baseline, then you may have an be due to your actual ISP. So, if I look at the let's see here, there's some times where the have these spikes, um, and then we have this and then I actually had overall latency go up and back down to a very settled place. Um, now, I'm stable, but you may see some weird statistics and investigate and dig into a little bit. But that's jitter is the rate of change of latency, so into real-time voice and video, or if you're into lag, right, you're playing a game, you lag, uh, it you're latency to and from the server in question, uh, a server for online gaming, you could have one of your actions takes a long time to get to it could also be that your jitter is quite high, up and down a lot, it's not staying at a constant because what that's going to do is change how that server. So, say, say you're, you're playing every time you move, every time you make an or a message to and from the server, and if those like at one point it's 20 milliseconds, another that's high jitter. And what that results in is you're into, again, if you have real-time video, got to keep track of jitter because that's really or like periods where you have high jitter, um, metrics, as I mentioned, go into the internet time, um, and there are different scenarios problems that you may have on the network. But think the main thing for this is to set it up, and then observe, keep track of it. What I would on your ISP for a period of time, come into the I'd really be interested in seeing the relative because I think it's really interesting that we to see what kind of experience we're having. not really relative to everyone else, but I'd people are experiencing, and in an average 7-day and what the DNS response is like from their home please like and subscribe, and if you have please join the Discord server, where we