(gun fires) - Jesus. (camera operator laughs) - [Shooting Instructor] Your finger. - What just happened? (ambient music) I'm in Switzerland, and there's (ambient music) Everyone has the day off. They're all gathering to have (gun fires) It's a shooting competition for teenagers, and they've been doing - (speaking foreign language) - [Johnny] It used to just be boys, but now it's boys and girls, and the winner is deemed the - [Interviewer] (speaking - (speaking foreign language) - [Interviewer] (speaking - (speaking foreign language) - [Interviewer] (speaking - (speaking foreign language) (ambient music) - [Johnny] Switzerland is a and yet it is full of guns. The government gives its citizens guns and trains them how to shoot. Every village is required to have access to a shooting range. - We have almost as many guns per head or per person here as in America. - Back home in the United States, we also have a lot of guns, but the culture around - [Ronald Reagan] The right of the people to keep and bear arms - The country of Switzerland proves that there's no need for more gun rules. - Guns are the number one cause of death among children in the United States, yet we don't have the will to stop it. - Switzerland has the - That's all we have at this - I really want to get to the bottom of this gun culture thing, why these two countries relationships with guns. So I delved deeper than I usually delve and found myself digging from Scottish political philosophers and looking into the to Second Amendment experts, talking to military historians from Switzerland and it's finally all clicked for me and I want to share that with you. So buckle up for what is through history and an (ambient music) So as a side note to this of bunkers in Switzerland, which if you all remember, a year ago from right now, I of the bunkers hiding in Switzerland. And now that I'm here again, upon more and more bunkers. Anyway, I also want to to Switzerland and my ability to go around and shoot at shooting ranges into Swiss history is made possible because of our generous sponsors who come back month after month BetterHelp, who's the sponsor of today's video is a platform that is making therapy Normally what you do when you want a therapist is if like a therapist has availability. Here in the United States, if like your insurance You wait a few weeks, you schedule back and forth over the phone, and then maybe you see a therapist. And if they're not a good to do it again. With BetterHelp, you basically sign up, you fill out a survey, the with somebody in their giant network. They have a huge network of like licensed therapists. They'll connect you with one that they think is a good fit for you and you can start communicating You can talk by phone, you or you can just do like chatting back and forth over a text message. You get to decide that. If you don't like your therapist, you can change your therapist. I went to therapy not because I had a clinical or anxiety, but because I'm a human who has stressful things of inner voices telling me how and some of those voices aren't very nice, and I wanted to understand my inner self and understand my mind That's what therapy is and it has changed my life in huge ways. So I'm really grateful that BetterHelp is making to people via the internet. There's a link in the It's betterhelp.com/johnnyharris. When you click the link, that this ad is working and And if you wanna sign up for BetterHelp, you get So you can try it out at a discount, see if it works for you and yeah, Let's get back to the video. I'm in beautiful Switzerland, and learning a lot about firearms. Let's go. (intense music) There's the shooting range and Oh yeah, there's the targets. (gun fires) Oh, I hear them. Holy smoke. So they're literally shooting Oh God, those people. Geez, there are bullets flying Oh my God. That is such a weird feeling. Headed to a shooting competition right now at this shooting range surrounded by beautiful Swiss mountains. The sound of these guns. My Oh wow. - [Patrick] But this, - [Johnny] Yeah. - [Patrick] Because it's single loaded so you always have to, (gun cocks) - [Johnny] You always - [Patrick] Then you can - Yeah. (gun fires) - As I'm standing here, you realize like the cars are right there. You could easily shoot if you were standing up. Like I knew that this existed. I saw the Tom Scott I thought it was like there in Switzerland that goes over a road. I didn't realize it was common. It's a friendly competition. You see these young kids that are like keeping score, I've been hanging out of these shooting clubs trying to understand a little bit and things like this represent - The military law tells all to provide a shooting range - We got the ammo, military - [Patrick] Just try again. So you're right-handed? - Yep, I'm right-handed. Is Like how am I seeing that far down? - No, there's no telescope. Oh, that's what makes it. - You're not allowed to at any competitions in Switzerland. - Okay, so you're gonna any of these cars. - Yeah. Now you're not able - Nope, no more cars. - [Patrick] Okay, so no more cars. No more problems about that? - [Johnny] Yes. - Maybe, yeah, move a You're ready? - Yeah, I think I'm ready. (gun cocks) - Now it's loaded. It's ready to shoot. - Oh my God. Okay. - Target 19. (gun fires) - Very slow. Now you - Oh, I did. Yes. - Yes, I forgot about that. - That's why normally But you hit the target. - I hit the target, that's good. Okay. - You can actually hit the target. (gun fires) - Oh, there we go. - I'm getting better. As I shot in my first gun that my instructor kept telling me to relax, to breathe, to turn inward. (gun fires) - Yeah, that felt way more relaxed. - [Patrick] Now hit the 10. - Here we go. - Wow. I turned inward, Sharpshooter over here. Wow. This is addictive. I definitely see, I'm like, - So this is like relaxing Sometimes I feel like I'm You turn your focus from focusing outside, - Wow. This is fun. Objectively, this is just fun. And it's beautiful. I'm like looking at the Swiss My experience with guns as a kid, I would go out into the forest and like blow up like glass - [Patrick] That's what what - Wow, that was awesome. I I never thought I'd say this. I'm not a gun person, but I'm like, I kind of want to like shoot more. Like, this is so fun. I was struck by how and wholesome this all was. So much different than in the USA. So how did we get here? (ambient music) The story of Switzerland starts here. Well, actually down there at that lake in a little green valley where a group of people came together and made a promise to each other 700 years ago. And with that promise came a myth. The hero's name was William Tell and legend has it that one day he refused to bow down to the king's local leader. It was a daring act of disrespect. So as punishment, the overlord forced him to shoot an apple off his own son's head. Tell aimed his crossbow He made the perfect shot. He continued to defy the ruler and eventually inspired the tribes in this region to launch a rebellion. Tell eventually shot the ruler dead and the rebels would go on to win their independence, to start the Confederacy that They first made an agreement that they would protect one another, but instead of forming a by a king, they would arm and train ordinary people to fight. So not an army at all, I'm now going into a shooting range that is in the mountain Very Swiss. (upbeat music) It feels like the old bunker but I am in a shooting range. Mind-blowingly big. It's like a maze in the mountain with just a bunch of rooms shooting. (upbeat music) Okay, so now I'm fully loaded. Safety off. I'm gonna take safety off. - Yeah, if you are on the target. If you are on the target and you wanna shoot, you - Okay. (gun fires) Shooting in the bunker is a completely different experience. Like you feel the vibration 'cause the echo is so extreme. I'm getting better at shooting. (gun clicks) (gun fires) (gun clicks) Oh my God. (gun clicks) Oh my God. Oh yeah. (gun clicks) (gun fires) (gun clicks) (gun fires) - [Shooting Instructor] You - No. Two days ago, I started. So back to 1600s Europe, where Switzerland remained protected by its citizen militia. Meanwhile, in the rest of Europe, greedy kings were using to conquer one another while Switzerland stood by training its citizens Swiss citizens got so good at fighting that the Pope hired them Other empires would to fight their own wars. But Switzerland itself of these conflicts on the continent. Eventually, European thinkers start to notice this peculiar Alpine this place that trains and miraculously showed that you can have a republic of monarchy and kings. I've been reading a lot of like old European political literature and you start to see this phrase pop up to describe how Switzerland defends itself using a well-regulated militia. I saw this term a lot when I was looking through this old literature. Around 1610, this British and gawks at their well-regulated militia, how they can overturn their because they all know how to fight. By the way, back in like the 1600s well-regulated militia or efficiently run in the way that we think of it today, but yeah, the idea was if you and you train them, to the best defense and of freedom for the This idea of a across the ocean to a group who were secretly conspiring In 1776, they declared independence using their own well-regulated militia to fight off a tyrannical As they fought this war, a to Benjamin Franklin suggesting that this new rebel experiment should become Sister The Americans somehow won this war and got to work designing They sat down in a hot to draft the document that would be the foundation A system free of kings. The founders studied the political systems of Greece and Rome. They studied the British Magna Carta, Native American confederacies, But then there's John who was kind of obsessed with He studied their system and he was amazed at how their militia worked, how they required everyone to and they wouldn't let them He wrote all about this in like a treaties on different government systems right before he wrote the Constitution with his fellow co-founders. Switzerland was a model. It was the republic that and been able to stay free And when it came time to you can see that a militia was enshrined in the Constitution itself. In the Constitution, the to protect the government, from invasion or insurrection. And then after the Constitution, that sacred list of the that would ensure that the and full of liberty. The first of these 10 amendments and of expression, assembly, But right after that, they and it's about the well-regulated being necessary for the So to have a militia, the They must have a right to have guns. So now you have the and the Second Amendment and then a few years later, the well-regulated militia when one of the first congresses that every man doesn't just but is required to have a gun and ammo and must train to use it so on its armed citizens as This whole legal framework yes, you can have guns, to use them to defend our country from invasion or insurrection. And sure enough, George Washington There was this rebellion and George Washington to march and clamp down on these rebels and it totally worked. The militia system was to ensure its freedoms something Switzerland had Guns started out as a symbol as collective defense, to stand up to defend the country. But needless to say, when it came to guns in America. So how we got from that to this is the next part of this video. And in my mind, it's the of this story because it and the United States diverged so severely from this militia culture. Okay, but before we get to that, I want to show you more about Switzerland today. Show you what it looks to an actual militia system as their primary tool for (mellow music) To better understand gun ownership in Switzerland, I visited - Hey, how you doing? Hey, can I see your gun? - Of course. That's why you came. - That's why I'm here. - You want to play some Where's Waldo? Where's the assault rifle? - Oh my gosh, I already see it. You used to have a gun - You wanna carry it? - Okay. What's interesting to me is like for you, this is like no big deal, for me, this is a giant gun. Like this is like, I don't handle guns. Like I held a gun like this for the first time like two days ago, for the very first time in my life. - Yes, actually I'm an American. - Yeah, that's very uncliche. - Switzerland still has a militia. Every able-bodied man in and a gun and required - And this is in the constitution. It's written there that not only forced to do military service, but also forced to make more. So instead of 21 weeks, I did 37 weeks and in total, I have to do like 450 days. - Up until the nineties, if you refused to do this. Now you just have to pay 3% - I was also very against the military and I went reluctantly. - One of the first things you do in this initial training is and you learn to shoot. - It was kind of scary actually, because it's all like and just like, oh yeah, we're gonna go to shoot this gun now. And it's like, here's and now you do what you learned. - After the recruits complete back to their normal jobs, but they keep their firearm And then they're required to come to one of these private clubs every - (speaking foreign language) - It's called the obligatories. So it's obligatory or - This is my shooting book. You know, every time I shoot, there is like a little report, Of course when you go shooting, and then it's just like this. - Wow. - And you go to the public - You're just walking around - Yeah. - So it's actually similar to what the United States National in like the 1800s where every and was required to use to defend the country from - Part of this is also being able to fight if it will be necessary just to, you know, protect our country. And this, you know, of, you know, our people from Switzerland. - What Switzerland in the United States a articulated, unambiguous Instead, guns are articulated mostly as a duty to protect the country. And then secondly comes to compete with them, For them, the duty came first. - We have a tradition, more and there it's more of a - Essentially, everybody has to go. So this is kind of like one thing that unifies a lot of And it's just like you can meet a guy and if he is done military for hours and hours and hours. - And this to me, makes like these two different whether they are a right for individuals or the duty of the collective. I think this is a major factor that divides these two gun cultures. If you could describe Swiss what would those words be? - (speaking foreign language) - And this is where it all clicked for me. I had thought that Switzerland's of smart laws and gun policies. But being here, it was becoming clear that it was the militia system that was at the root of all of this. The requirement for every as the main strategy for turning guns into a symbol The center of large festivals where Swiss traditions are celebrated with firearms at the center, like that teen shooting competition in Zurich, or this important shooting festival that takes place at the foot of the Alps along a beautiful Swiss lake. The place where the founders of Switzerland formed - (speaking foreign language) - You have so many members and participating in them. You're gonna have fun. They'll have music. After you're done shooting, and it's a family affair - (speaking foreign language) - Okay, we're at yet another gun club, and once again, this gun club has a target that goes right over the top of a highway. I'm here to continue to learn what the deal is with Swiss gun culture and to see if I can get a better Okay, so this is the gun Gonna give it a go here. Oh, there's a kick. (gun cocks) Okay, here it goes. (gun fires) - Wow. Geez. Okay, man, the sound like (gun fires) Okay. (gun fires) Beginner's luck continues. Wow. (gun fires) Oh, here comes the score. My scorecard. Okay, what do we have here? - (speaking foreign language) - It's the beginner's This is my scorecard here. My moosh, what's it called? Moosh. - I got the moosh. Yes, so 300 meters away. I think that this bullet just traveled across the valley over the cars and hit a thing that's this So while I'm sitting here not only are other cars, but there's a guy just mowing the lawn. Like there's a guy mowing under the shooting range. This place is at once super buttoned up when it comes to guns and but it's not relaxed. As I visit these gun clubs, it's striking how much these feel like a magnet for community, a gathering a collective activity and competition that everyone in the community can enjoy. I'm so used to guns being and division and politics and fear, but here it just has such what I'm used to. Thank you so much. I really Thank you. This is really good. It's been a really enlightening experience visiting all these shooting ranges. And what it's taught me is that guns here in Switzerland thing than they are in America. Like they're a completely They have a very different purpose. They have a very different meaning. And that's kind of surprising to me because remember that the on a lot of the same when it came to having a militia and having firearms in society as a form of collective defense. So to understand how so greatly diverged despite to understand what happens after the Constitution, - I have the right to (gun fires) - What do you think about Like what's the view? The fact that everybody It would make me feel uneasy. And I'm used to being in the proximity of guns because I'm allowed a gun. I don't know how you guys do it. - And if he tries to take from our cold, dead hands. - There has been a - Get off of my porch right now. - Gun control, all it's of the people that obey the law. - Three people were killed in after what appears to be a - [Johnny] So after its that while a militia is and neutrality, it is not Beginning in the 19th century, the US expanded west very quickly. They fought other European colonists and Native Americans for their land. They would eventually fight These kinds of operations were too big for militias made up of everyday citizens. Instead, they needed to establish and fund a centralized, And this was just the beginning. By the time the 1900s rolled into something that Switzerland never was and probably never will using its sprawling permanent military to wield influence around the globe. By the middle of the century, and most powerful military Because the US had a huge with a lot of the original to join the militia. And now without a duty to form a militia to protect the country from invasion and insurrection like the with just the second half to bear arms and how it Guns started to become more to pursue their American dream, to hunt, to protect their family, to exterminate. - It's more like the Rambo style. It's not like, I'm going You don't go shooting or in the forest, you just don't do that. You go to a shooting range and and then your goal is not just to, you know, shoot wherever there is. So your goal is to get better. And your goal is not just to shoot around. - [Johnny] Guns continued to in the sixties and seventies when more and more Americans were losing This was also right at the time when crime was skyrocketing in America. Without this duty for collective and more a symbol of personal defense from all of this crime, personal liberty and a symbol of this growing And as a result, the number of guns in America soared. The NRA, which remember as a largely non-political to just help Americans be more responsible and better marksmen, they got by a group of hardliners who wanted to change the agenda of the NRA, turning into a political lobbying on reshaping the way Americans thought about the Second Amendment and making sure that no legislation ever made it through that curtailed gun rights. They began pushing an interpretation that was about individual so that you can protect yourself. And trying to de-emphasize the connection to a well-regulated militia as the purpose for this right to bear arms. - In the face of this relentless onslaught of gun control schemes, you're the reason the Second You're the tip of the spear. - You're the ones that make it possible for us every day to defend this freedom. - And it totally worked. The Second Amendment became that everyone can have and their family having nothing to do with protecting the country. After all, we had the biggest We didn't need a militia anymore. - [Announcer] Don't let with nothing but a phone. The NRA Political Victory for the content of this advertising, - This interpretation of guns and the Second Amendment would to four vote in the Supreme Court in 2008 when the court ruled that the Second Amendment to have guns, even when those to an armed militia. So this is why the United than any country on Earth that guns are an individual Every year, 20,000 Thousands of children and Hundreds of deaths are caused of mass shootings and of course, the leading Tens of thousands of lives taken with guns but we can't seem to do much about it because as long as guns now deeply woven into to try to pass reasonable laws, to try to limit these countless in our country will as the NRA continues to politicize guns, to use them to divide and to make us feel like - The facts are on our - And you'll never stop us - [Johnny] My last visit to this gun shop where the owner is Swiss, but is a card carrying member of the NRA and a big fan of American Gun Culture. I had to get his take on this. - These are the best - Really? - Wow. What what makes them so good? Why are they so good? - They're Swiss made. (laughs) Any questions? - Yeah, yeah, yeah. Exactly. You don't need to say anymore. What do you feel when you - It's very interesting. From the gun system, from the gun laws, I would but not with all the dumbasses around. I don't know why there are with firearms and here, nothing. I don't know why. Why all the US Citizens so stupid and let a loaded firearm with kids 1, 2, 3 years old. I don't know why. You need some rules. Our government, they They do support ammo. They support shooting ranges. They support the guys who are You need rules. You need to have it. - Yeah. (ambient music) So here's my conclusion in all of this. I went into this story thinking that I was gonna tell a policy story like how different policies and it totally took a different route because I learned sort of halfway through that guns are a symbol. They're a symbol. Yes, they're a weapon. Yes, they're a sports tool, but they're also a symbol for The way we see guns is deeply influenced by the stories and the Switzerland and the United stories and because of that, they have two very For Switzerland, having armed with weapons is what kept as a group, as a collective. The United States admired and they did for a while but soon the demands of an that vision to fade and turned the meaning of guns into something for individuals to protect themselves. Most guns in America are That's not what they're used for. They're often used at a or to end someone's life. And yet to the people who as a right, they feel like any change to that, any legislation to change or to limit those guns is a So the way I see it, as long as guns are an individual with personal protection not a lot's gonna change in America. We certainly don't stand a chance of having a culture, anything like what we've seen here in Switzerland. And that's a shame to me. That's a shame. (mellow music) Hey, before you go, I need which is that we made of the poster that I designed last year. It's a poster called All Maps Are Wrong and I'm very proud of it. It shows all the ways that and project it onto a 2D plane, which always comes with some distortion. Anyway, it's kind of a and if you're into and check it out before they're all gone. This is probably gonna be our last batch, so get 'em while they last and