Welcome to this English vocabulary master class. Today you're going to learn 101 words that you can use in your daily speech Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course, I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. The best way to expand your vocabulary is to So first, in this master class, you'll learn 12 great things that Number one, do you wanna grab a coffee after work? Do you know this phrase? This is a casual way to So I said, do you want to grab coffee after work? You could say this to your coworker because Or maybe you texted this to your friend. You're both working and you're Now in this case, grab means It's the same meaning and you can use this A bite means a meal, but careful because Do you want to grab a walk? Do you want to grab a football game? You can't say these things, but you can So you can say let's grab a coffee this weekend. You can use whatever time reference you want. We should grab a coffee this week. We need to grab coffee soon. When are you free to grab coffee? So many alternative ways to say this. Do you want to grab dinner sometime? You want to grab breakfast? You want to grab a coffee? Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the I use this expression every. Day, and now you can too. This is a casual way to affirm something. It's the same as saying definitely or absolutely. So let's say your friend texts you and You can reply back to affirm this You bet. Your friends or your sister or do you want to go shopping this weekend again? To affirm that casually, like a native speaker, Now you're affirming that So you can simply say you bet, you bet, So I can ask you, Are you ready If you are, then say you bet, I'm ready to move on. But you can just say you bet. Put that in the comments. Sure, you bet, You bet. You bet. Now let's move on #3 Keep me posted. Have you heard this one? Maybe you've heard Keep me updated. Posted means updated. It's the same thing. This is a casual way to ask someone But when it's available, So let's say you're talking to your say tomorrow I'm meeting with Zacs And Zach is this person's young son. Maybe he's 8 years old now. To say to this person that you want as it's happening, you can Keep me posted. This means after the meeting Keep me posted. Maybe your friend says I might not be able to grab So you can reply back and say keep me posted. This means let me know if you can or can't Keep me posted, keep me posted, keep me Have you heard this one? This is a casual way to So you may say, oh wow, it's I'd better leave the kids go to bed at 9:00 PM. Now notice here I'd this is a contraction of I had better so make sure you I'd I'd I'd better I'd better get going. And of course get going means leave. You can use this as a suggestion We'd better get going if we don't Or again, look at the time. This is an expression. Look at the time. This is when you want to Look at the time I. Better get going, I better get going. Well, I better get going, I better get Do you know what this means? Head out. This is a casual way to ask So head out. This is a phrasal verb. The main verb is head, and the preposition is out. And this phrasal verb means leave. You could say I'd better head out. Remember I had better, I'd better, Or you can say when do you want to get going? Get going means leave. So get going means leave, You can mix and match them. Head now. So you're heading out number This is something you can say every day This is a casual way to say you don't have In this case, time means you have a You could say I'd better I'd better head out or I'd better Time is 1 common noun that you You can also say I'm short on It means you have a limited amount of not a lot I'm a little short on cash. It's a long story, I'm short I'm here if you need me. This is a casual way to offer help or support. So remember your friend that was her son Zach to discuss his poor grades You said keep me posted, share information about So your friend replies back to And she says his teachers said he should have Now you want to show support to your friend So you can say I'm here if you need I'm here if there's anything I can do. I'm here to help in any way I can. So again, there's always multiple Start with one, learn the structure, and then see You don't have to use all of them. I'm here if you need me. I'm here if you need me. OK #8 I'm all ears. This is a casual way to let someone know you're So what about you right now? Are you all ears? Are you listening very closely to this lesson? I hope you are put you bad Now you just said to your Maybe you could add on and say if you want to So you're. Offering support to your friend by letting her Listen closely, I'm all ears. Or you could say to your brother or your But until then, I'm all ears. So I'm going to give you my full So again, if you're paying to all these amazing expressions, also I'm all ears, I'm all here Have you heard this before? A rain chunk. This is a casual way to both decline an invitation So you could say to your friend or Co worker, Meeting tomorrow, can we take a rain check? So you're letting your friend or Co worker But this is a very general expression because so you would have to arrange the specifics. Your friend could say my in laws are Can we take a rain check? Because remember previously you made plans with So now she wants to take a rain check. She wants to decline the invitation you currently Thank you. Can we take a rain check? We take a rain check. All right #10 let's play it by ear. This is an expression I use a lot This is a casual way to suggest being So if you play something by ear, it Remember your friend said I Maybe she could add on and say I'll keep you posted. I'll share that information You can reply back and say no So you're letting your friend You'll grab coffee whenever it You're being flexible. You don't need a specific time. You're just going to play it by ear. Or if you're going out for a family dinner, But then you can say, let's play Because if you make a reservation, you have to be there at a specific time and But maybe you want to be more flexible. You want to play it by ear. You're right. Let's play it by ear. Let's play that one by ear. OK, let's play this one by ear #11 hang in there. This is a casual way to encourage someone Hang in there is the same as saying This expression became very popular because of this poster with a cat hanging from a This poster is seen in office maybe even in your country and in people's homes. It's a very popular poster. So the expression is very popular as well. Maybe your friend sends you a text and Do you know that expression are driving me crazy? They are producing a lot of They're driving me crazy. But then you can reply back and say hang in there, be strong, get through this They're leaving in 2 days. But you could add on I'm here if you need I'm all ears. Do you know what to vent means? When you vent, it means you talk So you're giving your friend permission to just time just to get it out of her system. That means to vent. Hang in there, Andre, Hang in there, number 12. Take care. I'm sure you know this one, but I This is a casual way to say goodbye This is used with friends, coworkers. It's used when you leave a restaurant It's extremely common. So you can say have a great night, take care. It was great catching up, take care. So just know this can be Have a great night, see you soon. And then at the end, you can add Are you enjoying this lesson? If you are, then I want to tell you This is my premium training program where the movies, YouTube, and the news. So you can improve your listening vocabulary with natural expressions, Plus, you'll have me as your personal coach. You can look in the description or you can go to my website and Now let's continue with our lesson. Now you'll learn 21 words that you First you'll learn the word, but then you'll see a real world example so you understand how Dazzling. That's a fun word to say. Repeat after me. Dazzling. This is an adjective that means brilliant I could say you look absolutely how I added absolutely to make it even stronger. Or I could say she started her So what do you think of my smile? Is it dazzling? If it is, then put dazzling put. Dazzling in the comments. Because. Putting it in the comments. Will help you remember it. Put dazzling in the comments #2 caveat. Repeat after me. Caveat. This is a noun and it's a These words will impress native There's one warning. You need to pronounce them correctly. So repeat after me caveat. Or you could say he agreed to be interviewed Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the Repeat after me. Alleviate. This is a verb that means to make something For example, taking a walk can alleviate stress. It can make it less severe or maybe for a job interview or a presentation, It can make it less severe. So make sure you practice #4 Repeat after me conundrum. Conundrum. This is a noun and it's a confusing He faced a conundrum. So notice that verb is face. You face a conundrum. He faced a conundrum about So maybe he has this job offer, but then it's my dream job, but if I accept it, I'll And then you can reply back and That's a difficult problem Also fun to say frivolous. Repeat after me. Frivolous. This is an adjective that means not We commonly use this with money. He spends all his money on frivolous items, Or you could say they argued something meaningless, no purpose, no value. Hopefully you're thinking which means it does have purpose So this lesson isn't frivolous. Would you agree? Put that's right. Put that's right, that's right in the comments. Number six, perplex. Repeat after me. Perplex. This is a verb that means to confuse and worry For example, the patient's The doctors found the symptoms difficult. Understand and then solve. So it caused some worry or confusion. Or you could say I was perplexed by Notice that passive structure. I was perplexed by these words, but Hopefully you agree with that #7 nostalgia. Repeat after me nostalgia. This is a noun and it's a feeling of pleasure but also slight sadness when you think Some people feel nostalgia because nostalgia Some people feel nostalgia for their school days in the past, it brings some Can you relate to that? Or you could say hearing that song You can be filled with this noun. Nostalgia number 80. This is a good one. Ominous. Repeat after me. Ominous. This is an adjective, and it means giving the impression that something bad We commonly use this with the weather. You could look up and say So what's the bad thing that's going to happen? A severe storm. Or you could say he had an Something bad is going to happen. Maybe the client won't sign the contract, or Repeat after me. Acquiesce. Acquiesce. This is a verb, and it means to agree passively. So to agree, but you don't really want to. You don't want to initially, but For example, I wanted to go to Hawaii, I acquiesced. So my question for you, my smart Did I go to Hawaii or Iceland? Put your answer in the comments. Hawaii or Iceland, Put it in Repeat after me. Consensus. This is a noun and it means Remember, to have general agreement, That would be the minimum For example, we couldn't reach a consensus. So the verb you use is to reach a consensus. We couldn't reach a consensus Hawaii or Iceland, we couldn't reach a consensus. Or you could say there is a consensus So this means that the majority of people agree I'm always surprised when my students, even my advanced students, don't know Repeat after me. Itinerary. This is a noun, and it's a detailed For example, have you planned Because remember, I acquiesced, so I agreed with my husband who wanted to go to Iceland Did you understand that? Did you get that? So have you planned your So the itinerary would tell you what activities Or you could say we have a very busy Now don't confuse us with Repeat after me agenda. Most students know this, but don't an agenda is a list of items So you can ask what's the agenda for the Or In emails, it's very common to send or attach the agenda for today's conference call #13 This is an adjective and it means producing We use this specifically with money. You could say photography isn't lucrative. It doesn't produce a great deal of Or you could say there was a general consensus. Most people agree there was a general consensus would result in money, financial success. So that's a great one to have in Do you know this one? Contingency. Repeat after me. Contingency. This is a noun, and it's a future possible but cannot be predicted with certainty. So it's possible but not guaranteed. Here's how this word is most commonly used. We need a contingency plan So this is a plan about a potential And the plan, the contingency plan, will tell Or you could say we must prepare for Repeat after me. Tangible. This is a noun, and it means real. Something you can touch, show, or even experience. For example, the project I can show you the benefits on a chart. You can touch the benefits such as money, or you have an experience such as doing It's tangible. Or you might say we need tangible You need evidence that people It must be tangible. This is commonly used with tangible assets such as machinery and buildings. You can touch them, you can look at them. They're real #16 incentive. Repeat after me. Incentive. This is a noun, and it's a thing that motivates So, for example, I need to give you and all I need to encourage you to subscribe So the fact that I upload videos every So make sure you subscribe like this video. And of course, subscribe if you haven't already. I have other incentives for you. Once you subscribe #17 Metrics Metrics. This is a noun, and it's For example, the size of your vocabulary the number of words you know, which So you can improve this metric, this As you know, on your IELTS or other language Those are the different metrics. Or if you want to improve your fluency, a good question to ask is what And that will tell you what areas to focus on. Number 18, redundant. Repeat after me. Redundant. Redundant. This is a noun and it means not For example, some tasks have AI, Chachi, BT, or you could say They're no longer used, although they were once So can you think of something in today's My example was a typewriter. Share your own example in the comments below. Just for fun #19 streamline. Streamline. Repeat after me. Streamline. This is a verb, and it means to make For example, online learning It's made it faster, easier, better. Would you agree with that? Or you might ask in a meeting, how How can we make our operations Repeat after me. Glaring. This is an adjective, and it's when something For example, we can't hire her. She made glaring spelling mistakes in her CV. So when you look at the CV, the They're glaring so that CV Or you could say there was a glaring The contradiction was extremely obvious. Now do you know what a contradiction is? This is word 21 contradiction. Repeat after me contradiction. And this is a combination of words. That is nonsense because some of the words That's a confusing definition, She's an honest politician. Now some people might reply back Isn't that a contradiction? Because when you hear the word honest, an image So some people might say that the combination of Here's an everyday example. You said you hate the heat, Isn't that a contradiction? Because Hawaii is very hot, but you just said Now let's keep going and learn words and contacts. We'll read a news article together First, I'll read the headline. Combat brain fatigue with these top expert tips. We're talking about brain fatigue. When your brain feels like this, Fatigue EEG fatigue Repeat after me Fatigue. Fatigue means extreme tiredness. Notice it's a noun. Combat brain fatigue. It's a something. Tiredness is a something. Let's review these two sentences and I feel fatigue after studying English. I feel fatigued after studying English. You may notice that the pronunciation in fatigued is extremely soft and you But what is the difference in The meaning is basically This is a noun. You can feel something. I feel happiness when I look at Now I feel fatigued, This is an adjective. I feel happy when I look at a beautiful sunrise. So the meaning is the same, This is a noun and this is the adjective form. And you can feel for both of them and notice So what about you? Do you feel fatigue the noun or do you feel If you do, put. That's me. That's me in the comments, and know that as So don't feel bad if you say that's me. I certainly feel fatigued after Now notice how they say You could also say fight brain Notice all three of these have the same So you have 3 alternatives in your vocabulary. Don't worry about taking notes. I summarize everything in a free lesson PDF. You can find the link in the description. Now let's start the article and Have you heard this before? Put your thinking cap on. This is an idiom and it means get ready So if you're discussing a problem at let's put our thinking caps on So if you have more than one, Let's put our thinking caps on and figure That's the problem you want to solve. So at the beginning of this lesson, I You're going to learn a lot of new vocabulary, so get ready to think hard and don't worry if As a result. Put your thinking cap on. People often hear, so this is a common After all, that's what our brain is for. Your brain is for thinking. That's the purpose and what many are paid to do. You are paid to think at your job. That's what you're paid to do. You're paid to think, but a new study finds that Thinking can be a pain do you know what A downside is a negative So we talk about the downsides, the The. Upside. Or there can be plural, the The. Positive aspects. So you could say there are many There. I just noticed I have a typo I was thinking of writing. There can be downsides too, but there. Are downsides too. So this means there are many but there can be some negative aspects, Or. How much mental expenditure there So you can put in the comments the upside the same thing with the downside is and then you It's very common. Use the upside or the downside. Remember it can be singular, just talking The upsides and downsides, the choice An upside and a downside. Let's look at mental expenditure because I use this in my example as well Expenditures financially are things you So if it's a mental expenditure, But what are you spending? You're not spending money. You're spending your mental So mental expenditures is the Let's look at this next part. Thinking can be a pain, a pain It can be painful, meaning physical. I have all pain. Oh, I have a pain. This means my neck hurts. This area is painful, so it's physical. But we also use this to describe something as For example, maybe you agree It's annoying, it's frustrating, so Driving during rush hour is a pain. You can put that's right or that's right instead If you agree that this is a pain. So just remember, grammatically it's. To. Be and then you need this article a pain. So something that that's why Something is your verb to be a pain. Again, if you agree that this is a pain, but Such work isn't actual pain, we talked about something can be painful So the physical, the mental expenditure, such Of course, your brain has no nerve ending. So your brain does not feel pain. I didn't know that. Did you know that? So a pain in the brain is not And that's the exact example I gave before a pain. And it's interesting because this So you could say driving during is the full expression to say that But native speakers generally just leave So I expanded that with the full expression, but And honestly, it's more common to just say a pain. But the mental effort, Remember before The mental effort it takes to think hard can be so upsetting that some people will So here the article ended on instead, because Think hard. That's the alternative. So choose physical pain instead. But just remember, if you write out the full The preposition choice is of, and then your Or I could add instead of thinking hard, but you don't have to because But I just want you to remember what A 2020 study asked people difficult memory task, remembering if This is the difficult memory task. A distraction is something that causes Right now you're focusing but then if you heard a noise in the other You leave this lesson. So that noise was a distraction. It caused you to change your We use this a lot in the verb form to be Notice that's the passive form. So you have your verb to be and then distracted is always in the Ed form. You could say, sorry, I was distracted, And then you could add on, I So if your friend is telling you weren't actually focusing on your friend, you So your friend and says So what do you think? And then you say sorry I was distracted. Can you say that again or experience searing pain. So remember the choice was would you or experience searing pain from a Notice how my tone changed when I read that? Because the adjective a searing pain, So if you burn your finger, if you do it just But if you hold your finger on a heat source, then that would result in a Before we move on, notice they said Verbs of preference often use the Prefer is one of those verbs Or prefer. To do in this case they use prefer to experience searing extreme intense pain Which would you prefer #1 the difficult Put one or two put your choice in the comments. One or two put it in the comments. When the pain was minor, To me this is a slight contradiction because the so it isn't minor because a To be honest, when the pain was but that number dropped as the pain increased. So as it moved closer to being a searing pain, However, 28% of the participants still So mental strain. Strain represents the expenditure, Strain is also a noun and it has the same Personally, I hear the word A lot of people talk about eyes strain, So you might say my eyes become strained. Strained. So this is the adjective Ed My eyes become strained at the end of Or you could ask, do you know So just as they talked about combat brain fatigue, fight against or battle brain fatigue, you can You could say eye fatigue, but I hear the Is that a problem you have from So mental strain, mental fatigue, So the pain was searing and How can this be? How could 28% of people choose a After all, many do puzzles, play chess, or challenge their brains in all Notice these verbs? You do puzzles, but you play chess. So in English, you just have to memorize Sometimes the choice is between do or And of course, spare time is 1's leisure time, the time they have when they're not They get to relax and perhaps Yet even in those scenarios, the scenarios where people are doing puzzles or playing chess So those are the scenarios. Even in those scenarios, studies in the review So if you complain about something, it means you express your negative I could say some students complained. So complain is a verb. In this case, it's in the past simple Some students complained that So you can use the verb complain plus a clause. A clause is a subject. This lesson a verb was and A clause is a stand alone sentence. So if I take this lesson was too long, So you can use complain that and then But if you use about, you need a something. Some students complained about this lesson. Now this is the actual complaint. Now notice all complaint. This is the noun form. So if I saw this, this is a complaint. It's a noun. This lesson was too long. And then there's some sort you're not satisfied or happy when you complain. And of course, it's your right to complain But I certainly hope you don't have I hope you don't have any But if you do, please share them Let's continue to combat brain fatigue So now we're learning about the solution. Remember, you know this verb from before to Now notice how this sentence starts But this is short form for in order to in order to native speakers just drop the in But if you see this, you know it represents And then following you will have a clause as well. Now you know what a clause is. It's a complete sentence with the subject a You can schedule regular breaks. So this is. How you are going to combat brain interrupting your mental flow by getting especially a physical one such as a walk outside, Now, of course, all break is a period After I record this video, I'll probably make a cup of So if. Quick. 5 minute break to prevent eye strain, So notice that verb you But you can take breaks, which means multiple. But the verb we use is to take to take a break. Now to interrupt. You might know this is similar to a distraction. You are interrupted by a distraction, the. Verb to. Interrupt is when you stop something, So you're working and then a It stops your mental flow for a period of time. We commonly use the verb to interrupt when but then it causes this person to stop speaking. This is done. In a rude way, but it can A speaker could be giving a presentation, interrupt but we're almost out of So that's commonly done in formal speeches. Debates. Or even in a meeting where you're following But it's also done in a rude way. You shouldn't interrupt your teacher But a break? We know what that means, So my example was to get a cup of tea. That's not. Physical a physical. One would be such as a walk Of course, it refreshes and boosts brain power. Experts say let's practice this. When I take a break, notice this when represents whenever, whenever I take a break. When I take a break, I always, always is So your activity will be in the present simple. I shared mine. When I take a break, I always get a cup of tea. I could also say I always. Make a cup of tea or have a cup of tea. What about you? What do you do when you take a break? Put this sentence in the comments or this expression so you're Finally. So another way to combat brain fatigue. This was one way take regular breaks, and Oh, do you know what this means? This is an idiom to cut one some slack. So remember for idioms you have So you must use some slack and one something or someone is in this case Remember that cut is an irregular verb. All forms are cut the past Now this means be lenient. So be more understanding, be less So just understand that your Cut your brain some slack OK, so to physically beat someone but to beat yourself up is to So students do this all the time. My English is terrible. My accent is so thick, my grammar is horrible. They beat themselves up. They're very critical of So that's an example of beating yourself up. But in this context, to beat I've only been working for I shouldn't take a break yet. It's only been two hours. So that would be very being very critical of yourself in terms of your So cut your brain some slack. Be lenient understanding rather than notice. This is a. Gerund expression. So you need the verb in ING after rather than yourself up, rather than being very critical of a complicated mental task, recognize that And the lesson you should remember is you should You don't need to beat yourself up. Remember that. Now let's look at this last word, It's fun to say flustered, flustered. When you're flustered. In this case, it's to be flustered. So flustered is your adjective. When you're flustered, it means you're frustrated, but because you're This happens to me. I get flustered in airports, very large airports. I find them very confusing or stressful. I don't know where I am, I don't know where I So I get upset but frustrated, annoyed. I get flustered in airports now. This is the passive form. You could also say airports fluster me. So this is the active. Form airport Something to fluster someone? Airports fluster me. What about you? Is there something that flusters you? So you could say blank flusters me. Now notice I have airports because it's plural. It would be they so that's why I have fluster. But if you have one item, you could Maybe math. Math flusters me. So this is one item. So I add that as because it's it, it flusters me. They airports fluster me. So for you, thinking of the English fluster me, or idioms fluster me, But the lesson here is cut your brain Don't beat yourself up. That's normal and that's part of being human. I like this lesson at the So that's the end of the article. What I'll do now is I'll read it from you to focus on my pronunciation Combat brain fatigue with these top expert tips. Put your thinking cap on. People often hear. After all, that's what our brain is But a new study finds that people see Thinking can be a pain. Such work isn't actual pain, of course. Your brain has no nerve endings, so a pain in But the mental effort it takes to think hard can be so upsetting that some people A2020 study asked people if they would remembering if a card reappeared after a from a heat device when held against the skin. When the pain was minor, But that number dropped as the pain increased. However, 28% of the participants still even when the pain was most intense. How can this be? After all, many do puzzles, play Chaz, or challenge their brains in all Yet even in those scenarios, studies in the review To combat brain fatigue. You can schedule regular breaks. It may seem like you are interrupting middle of a task, but a break, especially refreshes and boosts brain power, experts say. Finally, cut your brain some slack. Rather than beating yourself up because complicated mental task, recognize that Now. I'm sure there. Are words you use every day Well, let's add some more advanced alternatives to these simple words to help First of all, just know there is You can and should use these The goal of this lesson is Learning these alternatives your comprehension when natives use these words. Now let's start with a word And just remember that native speakers are Our first word, our vacation was amazing. I'm sure you know the word well this is a replacement to a common word. It's a replacement to good, very good or great. And that's true. But this replacement word And I say I'm guilty of it because there are 30 or more common alternatives, Word over and over again Exist so let's review the most common So here the alternative word is incredible. Incredible. Now you can modify this to make it sound My English progress in just Astonishing now hopefully that's something you play a role in helping you get astonishing If you think so, then put that's right, that's We also use Amazing to describe scenery For example, the sunset was Amazing. Now don't worry about taking notes because You can find the link in the description. We're bringing incredible talent and tools. The story of the Lake Penyer drilling It was initially constructed in 1436, but the astonishing front facade wasn't Our next common word? The restaurant was nice. Nice. This is a positive adjective. It's a feeling of general satisfaction. Of course you can use it to describe For example, you can say what a So this is something you can use every single day. Or you can say the receptionist Instead of describing him Now that is a person. You can also describe an Our stay at the hotel was delightful, delightful. We had an enjoyable time at the park. It's been a night. It's been a pleasant surprise to And this really does have a lovely sauce to Sleeping is delightful. Here's a common word you probably use every day. The exam was easy. Easy you can say. I studied for weeks. So the exam was a piece of cake. I find that most students know The exam was a piece of cake or Jennifer makes learning English easy peasy. So you just add the word peasy here. Easy peasy. It sounds very fun, very So if you agree that Jennifer put that's right, but that's Or you could say you make speaking Look easy, look effortless. Now you could say the instructions were So you can replace easy to follow with the So you can use both or you can just use one. If it would work, we know it would work. Piece of cake. I think most people would get behind it. It's effortless. We just do it without really thinking about it. Seems pretty straightforward now. What's the opposite of easy? The exam was hard. You can say I didn't study, The exam was difficult. Or you could say we thought piece of cake or easy peasy, but it was strenuous. Strenuous. It was arduous, arduous. Both strenuous and arduous mean so they're generally used with physical tasks. You can also say I had a tough day The cosmetics were challenging. It's going to be difficult to couples avoid tough conversations How about this easy word? The traffic downtown is always bad instead of bad. You can say the traffic this morning was dreadful. Dreadful. Or I had a terrible headache last night. Instead of bad headache. The food on the plane was appalling. Appalling. This is more severe than bad. It means very bad. So often these alternatives can replace You know, they're just so earnest and dreadful. I asked my son, who is by the far terrible. Terrible, terrible athlete. Gets it from his dad. I wouldn't crave it, but it's not terrible. How about this common one? She's a happy person. I think this describes me overall. Instead, you can say she's a joyful person. She's a cheerful person. You can say he was elated. Elated. After hearing the good news, she felt ecstatic. Ecstatic. When she got the job. It was so good and I brought the joyful grains. I know that others felt devastated I was jumping up for joy. I was ecstatic, I was happy. Our next common word. That was a smart question instead of smart. You can say that was a clever question. That was a brilliant question. Brilliant sounds like very smart. Or you can say he's extremely intelligent. He's extremely bright. You don't have to use the modifier. Extremely is just an option. Just like you could say he's He gave an astute, astute, he gave That is an excellent word to use in a You can say his ingenious, ingenious. His ingenious method solved the issue quickly. There are more clever ways to Yeah, I think that that's very Well, local officials came Here's a common one that native speakers overuse. The documentary was interesting. Interesting instead of interesting. You can say the history of Fascinating. Or the speaker gave an intriguing, His captivating performance Captivating. These are great alternatives because but the three alternatives I gave you But I just think it's a fascinating idea. I think it's so captivating to see this couple I find the definition of and it's not one that I hear people talk about. Our next common word. Thanks for the beautiful flowers. Again, there is nothing but there are so many beautiful alternatives. Like the word gorgeous. Her garden is gorgeous. The colors of the leaves in Or the flower vase is exquisite. Exquisite. Now notice I said vase. Both pronunciations vase which rhymes with Both are used in American English, is the American pronunciation and and generally in American English we But for this specific word, vase or Vaz, They're a kind, loving men looking Deep sea corals actually come in a Cajal was in awe of its exquisite detail, Our next common word. I have an important meeting this afternoon. How many times do you describe I know I sure use it a lot. Instead, you can say the meeting is crucial. Crucial or this is a significant You can say it's vital, vital or it's essential But their influence is crucial in Now the site is a work in progress, but it's significant progress because it's Having these vital money talks before have them during marriage from a Our next common word. The movie was funny instead of funny. You can say the comedian is hilarious. Hilarious. This sounds like very funny Her reaction was comical. Instead of saying you're very funny, Witty. Keep in mind though, that this So it does have a slightly but it's a great alternative Gibberish is frequently hilarious. He's very keen on his his Anyway, he was a very witty, very wise man. How about this common word? I made-up a big mistake rejecting the job offer. You can say it was a substantial, Or this is an enormous, enormous. That sounds like very big, enormous project. You can use enormous to describe objects. You can also use massive. Elephants are massive. Elephants are massive. Elephants are enormous. We've come to a very substantial All these things are areas where and there have been significant payouts. These are massive machines. And what's the opposite of big? It was a small mistake. A small mistake. Let's review some common alternatives. Don't be mad. It's a tiny mistake. We can fix it. Tiny is very small. So if you want to minimize the importance of Here's a great one. I made some minor changes to the report. Minor changes. Or you could describe an object and It's an alternative to saying small cars, only compact cars can park You can say we invested a Soil is mostly made of little tiny rocks. It's texture depends on the size of those rocks. In between all these minor changes, wash You know the drill. So although the findings were pretty modest, Here's one that might apply to you. Many students are scared of You can say she became terrified. Terrified. That sounds like very scared. She became terrified when she found out she had to give a presentation or the Frightened instead of scared. Now to say extremely scared, I'm petrified of spiders. We are terrified of being wrong. What, are you frightened of He was. I was absolutely petrified of this man. Let's review this common word. It was brave of you to agree to give the Even though you were. Petrified. It was brave of you. You can say she made the It's brave, it's bold. She made the bold decision or it was courageous. It takes a lot of courage. It was courageous of you to quit your job. For the first time in my life, I So we were so proud of him because Now, that's a pretty bold statement. The one thing you talk about Now you'll learn how to talk about Let's talk about Mark's daily routine. Say hello to Mark. Mark is a manager. He's married and he has two young kids. Let me tell you about Mark's daily routine explain all the advanced vocabulary and The alarm rings at 6:30 AM, signaling With precision, he orchestrates his two energetic children are dressed and fed. As the aroma of coffee fills the air, Mark Notice how this daily routine started in The alarm rings at 6:30 AM. Most students would simply say I wake up at 6:30 But this is very beginner and boring. The alarm rings at 6:30 AM. That sounds so advanced. Why don't you try that? You can say my alarm instead of the alarm. You can make it possessive. My alarm rings present simple It my alarm rings at. Put that in the comments and which is an alternative to saying As for me, my alarm rings at 5:30 AM Notice here we have signaling in the ING form. This is a present participle. It adds description by showing the Precision means that there This is an advanced. Now you can also say with ease, with ease because you want to talk about your daily He orchestrates the morning routine again. Notice the vocabulary is that. More advanced C1 level to orchestrate and notice those verb conjugations and is being conjugated with You need to add that as with precision, ensuring Notice here another present participle. Again it describes the action ensuring and fed as the aroma of coffee fills the air. Notice here aroma is a more advanced The aroma of coffee. Mark Review use his schedule, preparing another Let's move on. At the office, Mark transitions into his His day is filled with back-to-back Mark excels in conveying intricate At the office, Mark transitions Maybe you could say after tending to my children, I have to transition into my marketing At the office, Mark transitions into his Again, the present participle. It describes the action his day is filled with. To be filled with something, Now, although contain is a more advanced phrasal verbs, idioms, and expressions is a great So to be filled with sounds more advanced than saying contains and back-to-back This means that as one meeting ends, Mark excels in explaining intricate ideas. This is AC1 or C2 sentence. A more beginner sentence would be saying Mark But notice that grammar difference? To excel in something or doing So you need a different preposition. Let's move on. As the work day concludes, Mark races against the clock to attend his children's Soccer practice, music lessons parts of their routine in the Mark cherishes the moments of connection Concludes is a more advanced way As the work day concludes, This is an expression to race against the clock. This is when you have to work quickly to complete To race against the clock, soccer practice, music lessons, and art classes become Integral means essential or necessary. It's a more advanced term. Let's look at this sentence. In the car ride between activities, Mark cherishes This is a complex sentence. The first part is a dependent clause, but if you add it to an independent Using complex sentences is an integral part Let's move on. Following dinner, the family reunites in Game a movie night. Or a stroll in the neighborhood. Mark, though weary from the demands of the day, Following dinner. This is a more way of saying after dinner This is very advanced and again almost poetic. A more B1 everyday way of saying this would One of the activities is a A stroll is a leisurely walk. So if there is a word stroll that it sounds more advanced to use the one A leisurely walk. Now, grammatically, you Following dinner, we went for The verb is go, so it's conjugated You can also take a stroll following dinner. We took the past simple of take. Following dinner we took a Both are common and equally used. Let's learn about how Mark ends his daily Mark carves out a brief period for personal As he slips into his comfortable bed, he savers the tranquility that descends upon This is very advanced. It sounds poetic as bedtime approaches, clearly the clock inches towards bedtime, Mark carves by, and then you have your activities by You could say I start my day by I start my day by working out for 30 minutes. I end my day. I conclude my day to sound more advanced. I conclude my day by meditating for 15 minutes. It's an integral part of my daily routine To slip into is a more advanced, I get into bed at 10:00. I slip into my warm and comfortable bed That sounds very advanced and poetic. He savers, he really enjoys. He savers the tranquility, the peace and quiet. He savers the tranquility that descends upon his AB One student might simply say Now let's look at this whole sentence together, which is a complex sentence and I want other part of the sentence, he as he, As I prepare my breakfast, I As I is the dependent clause, You have to connect it to an independent clause. I review my back-to-back meetings. That would be the independent clause. So this is a complex sentence. A great way to sound more advanced. Amazing job. Do you want me to make another master class? If you do, put master class, master And of course, make sure you like this lesson. Share it with your friends and subscribe to And you can get this free speaking guide where I share 6 on how to speak You can click here to download it or And you can keep expanding your Watch it right now.