Istanbul, May 2016. In a few seconds, a journalist That day, reporters comment on the trial against one of the most famous Can Dundar, when suddenly... We just attacked Can Dundar! Someone fired shots. Can Dundar, tie and gray hair, just got out of court. Another camera recorded the scene. The journalist dodges Panic in court. His wife and a deputy are trying Can Dundar flees, The man, surrounded by ends up dropping his weapon. 18 months later, we find in Paris the one Journalist Can Dundar. - Hello Can. - THANKS. At the headquarters of Reporters Without Borders, NGO activists the one who has since become, the global icon Since this assassination attempt, the Turkish journalist The memory of this day is forever anchored in his memory. A day that started very badly. Something weird happened I had a bodyguard but precisely on that day, So I asked They sent a replacement. Strangely, when I am he didn't come with me, Can Dundar now lives in Berlin. His wife is also a journalist. She remained stuck in Istanbul. His passport was confiscated They haven't seen each other since The real bodyguard it was her, his wife. The right move at the right time. I walked in front of Can. And then I saw this gun. I was right in front of the shooter. For me, it was like a reflex. I told myself that I had to And just like that, he was going to lose and that would stop him from shooting. But he still shot. I turned around and suddenly, It was very courageous of him. Your wife is very courageous. Yes, she is very brave. She really is like that. She's always been like that, whether at home or at work. In any situation, To tell you all, But I didn't think that this time, Yes, my wife saved my life! Yes, it happened like that. This is one of the saddest times Why was Can Dundar shot? For him, the troubles began The day he have decided to make public May 29, 2015, Can Dundar publish images. They show members transported by trucks intended for Islamist groups. For President Erdogan, the distribution of these images He then becomes a journalist and even threatens him For my part, I filed a complaint. The only will of these people, is to tarnish the image of Turkey. They want to obscure This is their only wish. Whoever spread this information, risks paying dearly for it. The truck affair, is a state scandal. The distribution of these images And everyone who investigated it, whether they are prosecutors, were all arrested live, on television channels All this shows you the importance And why this investigation They tried to cover up this affair They got caught they tried to punish that the military, journalists and all those who investigated That gives you an idea We tried to continue We asked questions that Where did these weapons that we see come from? Who were they intended for? Did Turkey betray in the fight against terrorism? Starting point of this investigation, the videotape revealed by Can Dundar. The scene takes place in winter 2014, a few kilometers at the time controlled by On a highway rest area, composed of three trucks A surveillance camera Affixed to the image, Camera in hand, some gendarmes film Barely the vehicles immobilized, the soldiers ask But surprisingly, the man here in black, refuses to leave his cabin. The atmosphere is tense. This driver who refuses to surrender, claims to work At the same time, in the back of the truck, other service members The police have difficulty Bunch of incompetents. You don't know The confusion is total. Weapons in hand, the soldiers Investigators will quickly discover Officially, But in reality, under a first local police several thousand mortar shells. For the Turkish journalist, the missing piece I said to myself : You know, at the time, We knew that the services supplied weapons to Syria. And it's the first time who showed it, and their cargo. At the time, Recep Erdogan For him, it's certain, is a set-up He accuses Fethullah Gulen, led by local gendarmes, Gulen is a refugee imam He is the head of a powerful throughout the administration Erdogan's opponent is in hiding compromising information This is what several experts met For journalist Can Dundar, whatever the origin, this video deserves to be carried As a journalist, I said, &quot;OK, we have proof in the Syrian conflict. And the proof of these operations by the Turkish secret services. So, I called my team. We got together and we Did Turkey betray The publication of these videos, shows Erdogan's double game On the one hand, Turkey is officially in the fight against terrorism. On the other hand, she would secretly support In 2012, Bashar al-Assad, massacre with impunity At the same time, Turkey leaves cross its border on the way Theoretically, this is one of the borders William Perrier Correspondent for several newspapers, from all over the world You were at that time Yes, I was in the area I believe that some I had done a report with Jihadists. I had found Jihadists British Jihadists they took me for one of theirs. I wasn't very well shaved. What is quite surprising is that the for them, a Jihadist was I was Western, It was really Absolutely. It was signposted. There were few obstacles it's the least we can say. These Jihadists from the four corners will find in Turkiye, a relatively warm welcome. For the Turks, these Islamist fighters They can block the Kurds for the independence of their region. What was the interest in Turkey There are several reasons. But the main objective, is to block the Kurds in Syria. Because they are afraid of the advent In the region. This is a real security issue. This investigation is difficult. Few nationals Number of our phone calls Those who speak freely, all fled the country We have an appointment in the United States Ahmed S led in the south of the country. His words are rare. He speaks in front of a camera If he chose to leave Turkey, it is precisely because to Jihadist groups in 2013 and 2014. In my time, the government asked us to ensure who were returning from combat to be - They asked you that? - Yes. And how did you react? I refused to obey And it became a source And in the end, I resigned. The former police officer says, these arms deliveries by Turkey, to Islamist rebels According to the documents the weapons were first unloaded the Turkish capital, through the same two border posts. This is what this driver says on the report. A piece which would prove, here again, according to the former police officer, the involvement of the secret services This driver explains that he carries out this type of operation. He explains that these trucks and every time it will load and then he has to drive In Paris as in Washington, putting these videos online The case is even resumed A few days later, a summit is held in the French capital. For France Turkey becomes an ally In front of us, that day, no Turkish officials, it's number two in diplomacy A few days ago, a newspaper arms delivery These images show weapons, probably coming from the services Have you taken stock and Turkish allies today? We have just told our to ensure that these transfers are stopped via the border from Turkey to Syria and from Syria to Iraq. It is an essential element and even though we did we still have a lot to do. Turkey's double game, was therefore known After months of investigation, we were able to meet The very one who supervised Turkish secret services at the time. And surprise, it's in Paris Ismail Hakki Musa was one Turkish secret services Today ambassador in Paris, the man speaks publicly According to Intelligence Online magazine, it would even have been the point within the Turkish secret services. The man to forge MIT's ties with Firstly the Jihadists Ismail Hakki Musa He promises to answer but it is above all that he wishes to highlight. You are a man of information, I am a man of diplomacy. And I also have a parenthesis, information, yes, it's true. Reading your bio, I saw within the Turkish secret services. But I have training as a diplomat. I am a civil servant and my services were called upon. I was offered to go that way, for a few years. Did Turkey deliver weapons, to Jihadist groups, to Islamist groups in Syria? No, the answer is very simple. The ambassador's response is clear. Now we show him a photo intercepted on the Syrian border Screenshots from Cumhuriyet, You have seen, I imagine, these videos. The press reported on it. And let me tell you, that the photo is not of good quality. That's not the main fault. But photography is banned in Turkiye, I think it's sure that we should lean in. There, these trucks were those of MIT, the service you led. So, we're not talking about traffic It was a clandestine mission, but it's your services No, there is no connection if you are here to do that I had the honor of directing, you have to tell me There, what we see clearly, These are mortars, what we see in the press, yes. But what we see in this photo. In the photo, yes. In any case So these weapons were These weapons were intended The former head of the secret service, formally denies any But after 40 minutes of interview, the line of defense is cracking. Hakki Musa will let go in front of the camera, size information. Annoyed by our questions, he finally admits but refuses to take responsibility alone, responsibility for this operation. In this exercise, there was... Several information services. Everyone is talking about MIT. Who tells you that the service was not involved I won't tell you serious problems Have other countries participated in this The former number two of the secret services as he will keep silent the name also to whom these weapons At that time, the border post was controlled by And among other things, an organization a Salafist group on which It is a radical Salafist group of the war in Afghanistan who have been close to Al-Qaeda. It's not a group No, not really, no. Difficult to identify precisely, the final recipients of these weapons. At the time, in Syria, is composed of several as unstable as they are unpredictable. It's very difficult to know and in whose hands The problem is that at the fighters change very often And move from an organization Turkish support for Islamist groups, he finally turned around From 2016, the entire country was hit, by a campaign of attacks Since then, Turkey seems with many of these armed groups. But remains a worrying situation for the international community. Thousands of fighters would be massaged today In July 2017, the emissary brought together cameras and journalists, to denounce this situation and firmly accuse Turkey Idlib province has become the most since September 11. I'm not sure the strategy which consisted of sending tens of thousands of weapons and was the best approach. The Al-Qaeda organization Today we have an Al-Qaeda base on the Turkish border. This is a subject that needs to be discussed. The statement of the American advisor, set fire to the powder More and more isolated, Erdogan drifted alone towards a diet Disputed with a majority the Turkish president came try to reconnect A perfect opportunity that Turkish journalists in general were never able to ask him. Hello Laurent Richard for the magazine a question for both of you, France, the European Union, can they trust you Seven years after the start do you regret providing so much ammunition for the groups And for letting it pass on the way to Syria I didn't understand. Who sent weapons to Syria? Who sent weapons to Syria? There are the trucks of your services MIT services, in December 2013 and January 2014, at a border post and inside which These images were filmed You, you speak, with their same arguments. I speak like a French journalist. Not like a journalist. Vowage, President Erdogan Our question deserves to be an organization classified as Intelligence organizations, can not... They have rights to transport weapons You ask me this question, sent 4000 trucks of weapons, in Syria, why don't I 4,000 trucks of weapons were You're a journalist, you should know that. Why don't you ask 4,000 trucks of weapons were sent Talk about this, write this, when you ask your questions, And don't talk with There is no one who will swallow you need to know that. Those are arguments and you must, please, learn not to speak with The anger of the Turkish president So the answer was no. There was none. This is what happens, when you ask a question The day after this conference, our intervention makes the headlines who accuses us in all simplicity, to be linked to an organization At the Elysee, rarely visit has never been so electric. Erdogan the authoritarian, did not get the reception he hoped for. And to tell the truth, our questions have not Mister President, can France be trusted, in your Turkish partner? Considering the double game led by the and its support for certain groups You refer to a period, Where a lot of people thinking he's smarter than the other. The cooperation we have it is of quality and it is verified Since I have been president and able The page would therefore be turned. Confidence with Turkey restored. But less than 3 weeks the Turkish leader put the community On January 20, the Kurdish forces located in Syria, forces yet sustained For this operation, on many armed groups some Jihadist groups. On these filmed images we see a convoy escorted by jihadists Here in the white pickups. At the end of this investigation, we were allowed the Western military alliance. This is where information is exchanged including Turkey. Rarely, its representative, agreed to give us an interview. We show him the images escorted by Syrian Jihadists. This information has been verified It's the first time For us, Al-Qaeda, Al Nusra They are terrorist groups. And we make no distinction Officially, therefore, no agreement Turkey pursues a single objective, block the Kurds in Syria, yet allies of the coalition She blames the United States to have armed and financed a terrorist organization. We kept putting and in particular the United States, who sent tons of weapons It is our right today, to ask our allies Because if you start supporting whatever the goal, it risks backfiring or against the alliance as a whole. In Istanbul, Dilek, still can't The authorities continue to persecute As for the one who shot Can Dundar, he was only sentenced to one sentence and he is now free What is your feeling This is their way of punishing us. They want to punish us using legal channels or simply by censoring ourselves. They use all means With more than 100 reporters incarcerated, 155 press organizations closed, 300 press cards deleted, Turkey became, the largest prison in the world