The kitting out day always makes it feel we're going to the Olympics.&quot; Like, we cool seeing that and being like, &quot;I'm really This is the outfitting of the Olympic team. because this is the first time that athletes step into our environment. They We take seven or eight people through on the kit. Make sure they look good in it, they It's like a moment of reflection as you've made it. You've earned this kit. The purpose of it really is quite simple, and what we're providing for them, in particular, the out of here. They feel excited. They feel I want to lap it up, wave to the crowd, and just really embrace every single moment. This is Izzy Thorpe, a Team GB artistic And this is Kate Shortman, the other half of Underwater, we're always counting we've got to be counting every beat so that We can hold our breath for about three then in a routine, we wouldn't hold Because you have to think you're like We do two routines, a free routine and we're probably underwater for like, a minute that much time whilst being very out of breath, It has always been on the cards. They they were really young. Everyone We have known each other for a I want to say, 16 years, 15 years, around five, maybe, and then, yeah, just I didn't really realize how good I was at and my eyes were always set on Kate. We always I don't know if it's the same for you, but I feel like you still don't realize how Stop it! It's easy for them to get completely absorbed but I also need to make sure that they're the time. They're just thinking about and then having a bit of downtime These are incredible elite sports men and the general public don't really see for the sports don't gather that much attention during front and center for the big occasion, and you they are incredibly relatable. They're like My name is Desiree Henry. I am a two-time European Olympic bronze medalist, and I am a I compete in the 100, 200 meters I literally just wanted to be like doing athletics at the time, and I was watching her win, and think, It's a sport that you're spending a lot of it how to turn up to races, how to how to stay in the game mentally. And rely on your teammates to pull you out of trouble. The race that really made me think that I It was the World Youth Championships in I got to the final of the 200 meters, and I just half of the race. &quot;Whoa, I'm in the lead. keep your arms moving, like, don't panic. still got me.&quot; And then eventually crossing It was an incredible feeling. That now what's next? I like this If there's a career that I can continue I always knew who Des was. Very talented international athletics, did exceptionally well, won a real medal in 2016, and then went through My family have been so involved in my athletics, saying to them that I want to be a sprinter. my head, just in case they were like, &quot;Oh for my mum and my dad, it was just like, What really impressed me about Dez was the fact that she reached quite high heights Like many athletes know, injuries isn't whole life. It's just a factual thing of, if but we've got to move on to the next, and not just for myself, but many athletes, because The current funding system works very well then it can really feel like a two-tier stuck on the outside. UK Sport have tried UK Sport is relatively around 30 years or so. There will never be and it shouldn't feel easy, because you that you know will have bigger effects on The financial situation is always a bugbear for us because it's frustrating. We've tried to They base the coming cycle off what So for next year, it will be based off this year. Every four years, the way that the It gets broken down all over again. Was consequences from decisions that need to be made? When the UK Sport guy came and told we both started tearing up because we were had it before. It just feels like an extra because the sport is something that we both it without money anyway, but to have that like, such a good feeling, because it We're very lucky because we're both living rent or not as much as if we were living you've still got everything, like your food, If you are fortunate enough to be on UK to be in place for you. So you will have you'll have access to strength and conditioning all sorts of different people who can help UK Sport funding is so much more important It takes that stress off. If you're you don't need money to be doing that we've been able to receive this We've only been on it for one year, and I think we upward trajectory since we've been on it. It has of trying to find a part time job or do The sport itself gets minimal funding and trying to fight for, and I'm always trying to sort help and support what we're doing, because it is then there's nothing for those athletes to There is a place for creative sports within the as an athlete, the same as a speed swimmer, or the Historically, in Britain, athletes have not been Some countries do financially reward their the International Olympic Committee, do not give World Athletics, for Paris 2024, have who have said that they're going to offer which has caused a bit of a controversy, been about striving to be the best There is a lot of unhappiness amongst compete at the Olympics, with regards receive for being the stars of the show. I would say that my journey when it been up and down. Very early on, I got even just being interested in me. As a surgeries in particular, I went from having A lot of athletes, that's all we're able to train back full time, because we the reality is that things are expensive, and For individuals to get on funding. The or who can at least get into a final at a major the hardest thing is maintaining it and securing If you are not on funding, not only you're not paid to train, so you have to you don't have access to that type of medical who might be paid by the governing body, so you I know that bills have to be paid. My coaches so I just use or took on the The world of track and field is not a of money and there isn't a lot of money to go I just don't think they've got enough to do &quot;Never sit and complain about the fact that get it yourself because you can't ever The reason I knew that Dez was going to survive season last year, we were rebuilding, we were wanted it to go. She didn't get the success home and getting a phone call from her and saying, &quot;It's going to take this, this and this.&quot; And And she said, &quot;I'll give you a call back in a and I almost couldn't believe what she's She works for a company called Domestic &amp; General. very open and honest conversation about my plans you know, all the training that I'm doing, but &quot;How is this possible?&quot; And I'm just like, &quot;The and I'm kind of making it work, sort she just kind of left and said, We attended a next generation summit to We met her there and she talked and she inspired us. I love athletics, by tick. And then we learnt a little about As many athletes I'm sure have heard, many people I'm going to get you support.&quot; And I just thought, From my perspective, was, what do we have to need it? So start with what helps them, and then We sat down and said, &quot;Okay, what do It could be an air ticket. It could could be subsidizing a particular type of particular gyms or whatever it is. When you perhaps you and I have, which we don't we're in a job, suddenly you don't and then, From having those meetings, very, go into training full time. And it went from, I'm I've really got a shot. I've been able to competing against other girls internationally We were lucky to find Desiree, but there are a lot mind me saying that, right? But there are lots of aren't getting the funding from public bodies that The Olympics overall is the biggest spectacle commands a huge amount of attention, and the from a CMO's perspective. You need to really in the Olympics? It really allows your brand to Fuse is a global sport and entertainment and we help our clients plan and execute For the Olympics, a typical campaign would do those deals for those athletes, those human stories. Then start to try to map Some of these athletes who are pretty much they're a nation's sweetheart. So I will imagine September after the Olympics as well to We've got a whole host of our partners lots and lots of different activations, so Adidas have been with us since and have just resigned to '32, up to 2032. So as an example, for Paris 2024, in the UK, Fuse a number of athletes in their above-the-line The beauty of working with athletes ahead of the If you look at the values of the Olympic it's around friendship, and Brands coming into the Olympics has changed. partners were very much an automotive, it it was a bank. So very traditional categories diversified. If you look at Team GB, actually maker, you've got a bank, you've got so many Is there a contract? Yes, there It's difficult to naturally run an ROI on an you're doing is you're inspiring your own you get better outputs from your own company. It's not so much they want me to, you obviously the ideal goal, but I think I just We've got more experience as athletes, and we're I think to really try and push for a There is a lot of excitement. We feel really We just hope that she does the very best There is a joy in thinking that even in 10 years' then, I'm still an Olympic medalist, That was my identity, for right or To have not even made the team, You've gone from being anonymous celebrity and then you go back to I was really in a tough spot. I found myself got no work experience, and I've got tons of Athletes are now more aware about planning 10-15 years ago. For me, it was always so just don't know when your sporting It doesn't matter how successful you are as an once you start, the one guarantee I'm glad I did reach that crucial moment the course of my life. Not by design