For almost the last two have dominated the consumer Now, fears of Chinese drone operators to switch to away from leading Chinese owns over 70% of the market These government bans in impacting first responders, impacting people, working So university researchers scientific research done Dji claims that its drones security evaluations as concerns are overblown. And state and local spent millions on DJI to a US produced option wasteful of previous The US government has these for approving drone these are also extremely enforcement and public they were put together by Homeland Security. Meanwhile, the war in Ukraine cheap, reliable drones such market as a key part of And even during the recent drones were used to give the Now we have small drones that dollars or $1,000, taking combat roles that we saw And although the US arguably in a military capacity, they expensive and not as easily churn of consumer drones the Ukraine-Russia conflict. So some militaries do use our disaster relief or civilian is a valid use case. But we do not want our Drones of many makes and Ukraine from small, handmade large heavy drones normally and other enterprise work. So what we're seeing right about 10,000 drones a month. Chinese companies such as DJI on cost effective and But some in the US think There's been this question, have different perspectives company compete? Like are we drones that are coming out I think it is going to be key drones produced by trusted affordable. The size of the global around $4.1 billion, and in more than $1.1 billion. And the Chinese drone maker global market. Dji drones depending on the model and They're known for being well great support in the form of We're clearly the number one drones, right? So both for the enterprise or business by a very, very wide margin. Eventually DJI was able to fact that they obviously very close to a lot of make genuinely quite high They're inexpensive, they're They're reliable Since 2016. Dji pioneered small drone and their drones continue to That first. Mover advantage is really today, that in a commitment Surprisingly enough, people assume this cheaper Chinese reliable. But in this case, There's also some market around why we don't have a European competitor in this drone market. China's Ministry of Commerce restrictions on certain long flight times or certain This effectively limits the enterprise customers on. The China export That's really focused on drones are not being used civilian products. Several states in the US have drones by state agencies fire departments over data And a federal ban has been that would restrict federal produced drones. It's genuinely worrying that where people can kind of win China. People are not would want them to. The we've been audited by US We've had other companies products as well for been no threat identified. The problem with making small Quadcopters in America is them goes up because among other things, are Around 2017, 2016, a lot of dropped out of the market. They didn't want to compete. They also didn't make some And even if a drone is made parts solely sourced in the But we've got to create the can win these contracts, government provision of procedure, drones and even infrastructure, the maintain our electrical transportation systems. I mean, DJI. Is a very impressive hardware They've been at it for a sleek, integrated systems. Our basic outlook on the very early days. Skydio recently moved to market, and they hope that be a game changer in who can The opportunity that we see customers see is much impact. And really giving a benefit from one, not just an expert pilot. Our expensive. I mean, our cost higher than our peers coming we've chosen to compete on that's got kind of a based on AI. Around 2017 again, law numbers of drones and they drones made by DJI. While some police and first based companies have also towards law enforcement, government organizations. Law enforcement using them for search and rescue, for protests. Of course, the Covid 19, law enforcement movements. I think when you when you or non law enforcement there's no immediate threat But what we have to prepare with China down the road and components, then the law application of drones in My name is Blake Resnick. I'm the founder and CEO of We basically build public Brink Drones recently signed to the New York City Police Drones aren't anything new Department, but their use technology has become more We want to utilize this crisis management team, personnel and respond respond in record time. You know, a drone could get where we're going to have are not going to be able to The impact is is already I think the potential impact like could be much, much There are certainly valid We don't want to live in a sort of proactively randomly I don't want that. I don't think most folks in and that's not the reality I think it's a possible the lookout for, and we are People weren't sure about the and micro drones. Were seeing it in spades on Ukraine-Russia conflict. The US Department of Defense initiative called things, aims to field a fairly short timeframe. I think this is a sign of a leaning, sharp folks in the seeing the trends and seeing systems that are smart the battlefield are crucial military might and making direction. I like the principle of we're going to look for and a quick experimentation unique weapon systems that cost drones and potentially think we need for a conflict We do not have the drone produce these systems in They just don't exist. And we also don't have all components that we would that production. So even if advanced drone factory, We don't have brushless We don't have sufficiently manufacturers. We don't have computers or radios at a The US is just behind in it's going to take more than replicator to Learning how to stop small important for US national Many instances, the most like Iran, Russia or China might be to insert special use small drones against us. So we need to think about terrorists or a threat or a small scale actor, but as by a near-peer adversary Fortem Technologies aims to hunter that can help defend I think it's just really these drone threats have modern conflict. They can be used everything acting terrorists, all the scale warfare, as we're And for both sides of that indispensable tools for reconnaissance, targeting. And without them, I think it these modern warfare. So modern threat profile both zones. I am hoping there will be American and European, just the space. It's not great company. It's less you know, politically relevant. This that aside, it's just not have one overwhelmingly If Replicator replicates a I think we're going to be in If it replicates the procurement model of nothing It will eventually become a event. What we've seen early on in industry is widespread So people basically buying been great. But I think industry is autonomous. Drones launching out of calls, accomplishing, you inspection in an automated defense applications. That's that's really where Any attempts to ban DJI are but damaging the entire So there's a lot at stake We really hope that the facts, actually look at the done by US government private companies that show secure. One day if China says, okay, or getting the lead in this just cut off our components So we need to think about drive an overreliance on ahead, the. Larger scale we reach, the more that we can lower our a virtuous cycle there. So I don't think it's an It is a mountain, but we're