If you've ever wanted to know what a revolution looks like, feast your eyes on Manila tonight. Marcos's regime ended in 1986 when he was toppled by what is now known as the People Power Revolution. The Filipino government has estimated that the amount the Marcos family pilfered was between $5 billion and $10 billion. So this is just graft on an absolutely massive unheard of scale. Marcos declared martial law in 1972, closed newspapers, jailed political foes, turned parliament into a rubber stamp. The Marcos regime was very so the security forces are tasked with arresting the dissidents, torturing them for information. Oftentimes, the victim A nation took to the streets tonight to celebrate its victory. A dictator had fallen. The Reagan, who was president at this time, actually offered Marcos asylum in the U.S. And so when Marcos did ultimately decide to step down in February of 1986, Reagan sent two planes to cart Marcos and 90 members of his entourage, along with millions of It is time to come to an understanding with both the government and Marcoses to compensate the human rights victims. In 1992, after years of building the case, the Marcos class action The jury in Hawaii ultimately The judgment in total which was astronomical. It's been a long fight to this point, but we're going to continue We knew at the outset that it was gonna be a very risky litigation. At that point, what they on a piece of paper and for the class was gonna be My name is Haley Cohen Gilliland, and I am an independent We cannot succeed without So Ferdinand Marcos ran the and he first blazed into He was a remarkably charismatic figure. He was a wonderful orator. He had a beautiful wife and had a gorgeous singing voice, and she would regale crowds Now everybody seems to be involved in the destiny not only of himself but of the entire content and this is what we have His first term was really promising. He invested really and urban beautification and and so his base of Then in his second term, he started to run into some problems, allegations of corruption, and simultaneously, some violent groups, started Ferdinand Marcos at this of the advent of these and essentially rule I have received hundreds and hundreds of telegrams from all congratulating you and incidentally me for the proclamation of martial law. And all the while Filipino citizens were being tortured and imprisoned, the Marcoses would spend So they amassed dozens over the Philippines and around the world. Then in 1986, Ferdinand Marcos Marcos! Marcos! By all accounts, Marcos and when that became clear, that unleashed massive Millions of Filipinos demanding that Marcos step down. And ultimately in that case, the U.S. finally said, &quot;Enough is enough,&quot; and encouraged Marcos But they didn't completely who was president at this time, actually offered Marcos asylum in the U.S. And so when Marcos did ultimately decide to step down in February of 1986, Reagan sent two planes to cart Marcos and 90 members of his entourage, along with millions of diamonds and cash, some of which they carried Reagan sent planes to cart to Honolulu where Marcos My name's Robert Swift. Most people call me Bob. I'm a litigator. I do complex litigation, and I've been doing that At the time of the revolution there was a great deal as information that have collected about human by the Marcos regime. And my initial intention was but when I learned of the I decided that it was worthwhile to try bringing a class action. And the way that he did that was using this very rarely used statute called the Alien Tort Statute, and that statute was It's only a couple of sentences, but it essentially allows for violations of About 10,000 Filipino people signed on to become a part of this class action, which is absolutely a massive class. It is time to compensate The first named plaintiff by the name of Lilioso Hilao. She had written some which were not flattering to the Marcoses or the Marcos regime. She was arrested by military, taken to a military detention center where she was interrogated. When she was uncooperative, the military poured muriatic and she died from asphyxiation. Another example is an individual by the name of Mariano Pimentel. Pimentel had been a He'd been arrested several times. He was finally released from detention after more than six months, and on his way back to his province, military members in a Jeep stopped him, took him to a sugarcane They then buried him up to his neck, and before they filled in the soil, they broke a leg and broke an arm so that he wouldn't be They then put the soil back in and they figured they would He survived because there who had been hiding in the sugarcane field who saw him and dug him to the United States where I met him. In addition, the present to uphold the need to In 1992, after years of building the case, the Marcos class action finally and the jury in Hawaii ultimately for the abuses and torture that had occurred under his regime. So in 1994, Swift asked which represented $100,000 per victim, which he felt was appropriate amount. Well, I don't know that no other lawyer had ever asked a jury However, our case is unique in that we really supported that number through the enormity of the And the amount that the to the Marcos class That was astronomical figure, an absolutely unheard of figure. It was the largest ever personal So immediately upon receiving in 1994 and 1995, Swift got to work and started assessing what This was very challenging in part because the Philippines' courts did not recognize the U.S. judgment, and so they couldn't go after They had to go after assets elsewhere. In effect, I was limited to executing on whatever Marcos' assets and of course, the to testify as to that. I took their depositions several times, and they claimed they Of course, that was false. So the turning point as it relates to collections was between 2000 and 2010. And essentially, what happened was there was an oil investor in Texas and he found some that he was interested in purchasing. But for the life of him, was he couldn't find the darn owner. And as he was doing due he remembered a rumor that he that Ferdinand Marcos had of oil producing lands in Texas. These lands proved to be very valuable and ultimately was able for $10 million. So Swift was absolutely overjoyed at the prospect of finally to distribute to the class members who had waited for so many decades to see anything after the judgements came. But the challenges were of how the money would So while I had 10,000 many of the people had died. By that, I mean more than 20%. So the process was than I would've liked, and it was also gratifying. The faces of the people were enough of a reward that I felt good about what we were doing, and I knew that it was gonna benefit them. I would often ask people &quot;How are you going to use the money?&quot; And I was told that they would use it to put a cemetery stone by the or they would send their or they would simply buy food. The older people would use the money to buy prescription drugs that they couldn't otherwise afford. 10 years, I'm starting to rise again. Now like a phoenix, from the ashes of what was done to us. Ferdinand Marcos and from the Philippines in the 1980s, but subsequent to his death, And since then, they have managed to really regain the popularity that they enjoyed during his term. Congratulations, Senator Imee Marcos. Well, it's outrageous that the nation allows this to happen. Will I say sorry for the power generation? Will I say sorry for the What am I to say sorry about? In the Philippines, as in other countries, elections are frequently won by those who can more readily distribute money during the election process. The Marcoses have had access and hidden by Ferdinand Marcos. The richest is Senator Ferdinand Marcos, Jr., who declared a net worth of Bongbong Marcos, his son, in 2022 and is polling quite well. I'm confident that some of the money that was acquired by Ferdinand to find its way into the 2022