Hey guys Dan here, and if you know me well You know that I like random video games and if you don't know me well, I like Random video games so today I have picked a few for you, and this first one is called concourse x-ray where we get to be a futuristic airport security guard xD this game and wow only we made in like 60 hours, which is absolutely crazy. Let's press space and see whats happening day one, using our x-ray glasses to find travelers carrying prohibited items. Don't let the threat level max out, okay, so. Threat level is currently low. Good:) Prohibited items are firearms, knives. I guess you know what that's understandable but Where are the people oh here? Oh! Oh My goodness why is there a pen inside your chest? What is happening here? This is so random? I love it and we can arrest them as well There's a butterfly in this woman's lungs. Oh, my goodness. What is inside you it's a grenade in you. I'm arresting you Ah! Hes Gone! My goodness you've got nunchucks. That's okay Okay, this is actually pretty difficult. There's a lot of people to get through you've got a firearm arressted! Full-on arrested. You've got some kind of brick inside you you're fine. You carry on enjoy your flight a locust a cricket a firearm I see you get out of here You got a sausage in your neck you have a lighter lighters are okay, actually not on a real plane, but I'm here It's absolutely ok knife knife this person has a knife Oh, why did it day two firearms are acceptable, but no bananas eggplants or nunchucks are permitted today? So the prohibited items are bananas Eggplants and nunchucks ok this is gonna get a little bit more difficult What does an eggplant even that! that! back there was a handgun, but I saw myself an eggplant Oh, this is so random there's a fish inside this woman What is going on is that an eggplant that might be an eggplant buddy? Oh? He's got bananas ok? That's fine either/or that means that you have been arrested That's a I don't even know what fruit that is what fruit is everyone got that's a lobster grenades Aaaah nunchuck! get out of here! Bananas Nunchucks and fruits, oh my goodness, that's that's a mouse. Okay. I was like is that a banana? No It's a mouse. That's a piece of soap. That's a lobster That's a banana sir get your butt out of here It looks like threat level is guarded now, which means that someone definitely got through That's a shame, but now I know some flights are unacceptable day three today travelers will be going both ways No snakes worms or lobsters on the planes. Oh my goodness what? Snakes worms and lobsters, that's a cricket Locust whatever you want to call it oh my goodness, there's what is Why is it hanging below you it's in your butt Why did you have a snake and a rat in your butt get out of here? You've got a snake. You're walking pretty quick. Huh, what do you got to hide? Apparently nothing oh geez this is stressful Lobster you are fish inside you as well. What else snakes worms and lobsters What's the difference between a snake and a worm right this woman has a snake? Actually, they have a snake as well and also they're bumping into each other so the busier They are the better I see a snake. I see a snake who is it is it you get out of here? Everyone's bringing snakes onto the plane. SNAKES ON A PLANE That's why you can't have snakes on a plane you guys okay? Need some help to me to arrest you for wasting time Huh is that what you want these guys aren't a little bit of a chinwag to any of you have any prohibited objects that is? Actually, I think you've both got bombs yeah, that's fine Day four: grenades and bombs are fine Don't allow eggs to be smuggled eggs. No not the eggs!. Oh wait people have started arriving already grenades absolutely fine What is this a bomb absolutely fine? You continue Princess Bubblegum enjoy your flight? That's a bomb okay bombs and eggs look very very similar Actually, they all have some kind of circular object inside them how am I supposed to tell which one's an egg you've an egg! Don't worry Just looking for eggs you have nothing to worry about unless you're this guy because you've got an egg inside your butt Oh Running quickly are we that's because you got an egg get arrested Looking for eggs any of you guys secret chickens, huh any of you guys got some eggs I think actually all of you are okay. Thank you for cooperating Really appreciate it now if you get your flight as soon as possible That would be amazing Oh almost made it there did we thank you for your egg? We did it day five rubber ducks are in smartphones are not permitted right This is our last day on the job, then it's the weekend this person with green hair looks suspicious look at these ducks Well aren't we allowed smartphones rubber duck rubber duck. That's fine Smartphone smartphone smartphone who's got the latest nokia who's got the latest iPhone? Oh, is that an iPhone? Sir do I see that next to your duck get out of here? Actually you might be a madam I'm sorry, but you're still breaking the law. Oh you have a smartphone as well You've got ducks literally coming out of your butt cheeks buddy, which is a little bit strange not gonna Lie you have also got a phone Squeezed lodged between that but there we go get out of here oh That is an iPhone get out of here. How is the threat level looking by the way everyone's trying to read its low I'm doing an amazing job I think there's only ducks around here. I think we're good Yep, ducks lots of ducks. You've got five ducks six ducks inside you you're crazy Okay, day six final day things are changing rapidly arrest everyone with a rubber duck Okay, rubber. Ducks were fine yesterday. Nope and nope nope everyone is being arrested today. If you aren't cooperating I will arrest you instantly sir come here come here. You've got a duck lodged in your esophagus I think they're gonna come from both ways as well, so we need to be arresting literally Everyone right now look how many people were arresting everyone has rubber ducks does everyone think this is some kind of joke This is not a joke rubber ducks are banned from today onwards the president has made it clear that he does not want rubber ducks Threatening our flights so all of you are gonna have to go to prison We're gonna have a big problem trying to try to get these guys into prison all at once aren't we I know people are making? It through people are making it through these guys don't have rubber ducks rubber. Duck. Do you ever rub it up? No, no alert level. I fail to catch someone someone had rubber ducks and got through who was it im mad look at that rubber duck or a shame you have got literally like six inside of you. Oh my goodness No, no, no people are making it through you need to arrest you as well you as well You little lady you're getting arrested Cheese I think we've made it though yes Yes, the airport is saved. Thanks your he wrote Eagle Eye efforts. That was awesome. It's such a fun game I've made in less than 60 hours Such a good idea. I love that following the success of my previous job I have now been allocated a brand new one the slingshots Express Basically the modern-day Delivery boy. Oh my goodness my earnings are currently up 500s. I'm in a giant slingshot How do I deliver these? Hello, what is this what? What is happening fire me fire me? Oh? Oh here? We go. I think this is it. It's going to red Kapaa. Oh? Ahh Oh. Aah Whoops first day on the job I've already splatted myself against the side of a building. This is not good news um Where should I go like here? I need to get into the colored windows. I think Kappa! No oh Close I think I'm losing $100 every time I miss a window so I need to start delivering That is not how you do it come on. This is so hard to aim oh Let's go right up top. This is the highest you can go. pow! right Right into the needle. I'm broke. I've got no money. I've got no friends, and I've died three times. This is unacceptable oh dear, I've fired ah money made -100 let's try that again, I've got this it's fine, it's just just a little Sunday job I can do this a little bit lower, and you've got this buddy Yes, I go on Seven hundred earnings ah thank goodness. This is an extremely difficult game. I want to get one of those like top right ones That is not the way to do it does it save your position as if it does that's gonna help a lot It goes like the opposite of where you need it to go like this you go left It goes right so weird is that like how a slingshot actually works? I'm learning things today god Yes, haha get the hang of this! Oh go oh So close does it actually save your progress It does okay. This is better. No no no miss the building completely Brings a whole new meaning to painting the town red right huh no ah fired again Twelve deaths two packages delivered. I think it's time to move on this is just this is just not happening I went from the best job in the world performing greatly to dying 12 times. It's not been a good day Seeing as the jobs are going too well I thought I'd take the day off and go to visit Sponge Bob Turns out it's his day of terror so this might not be so pleasant Look at SpongeBob's hand What happened to it every time I click it like stroke something right so apparently What we're supposed to do is buy a bus ticket out of here, but the bus ticket is nine dollars We currently have zero and we need to find objects to sell to be able to get a bus ticket out of this place ROCK BOTTOM safe zones are the restrooms, and is that here as well Wait who's after me? Why do I need a safe space is this a spatula? I'm gonna take it I got one point five dollars already Who was after me? I Can't run. I actually can't run. I'm gonna take this kelp bar as well three dollars. Okay. That's good. There's also a vending machine I'm really tempted to spend my money on these shiny blocks But I'm not going to it's gonna be okay you get my bus ticket. I'm gonna get out of here and *in a high pitched voice xD* Oor , Oh What is that? No, no don't touch me! What?! Just happened Who is a sausage man and why did he give me a balloon right okay? So I need to oh I've lost all my money and the objects have changed I need to not stare at the vending machine so much no no no I can't even ride. I can't even run How do I run? safe zone, safe zone, yes, you cannot touch me in here, buddy But I could stroke you if I wanted to is he here the restrooms are a safe place. Oh is right that no oh I'm just gonna watch the TV With TV's broken huh? Huh, oh No D: He got me just before I went in $9? Why can't I just use the balloon he gives me to get out of here? Huh this is so difficult. Let's go to the restrooms. We're gonna crusty crusty burger, Sir. You here, are you good then gonna make a run for it. Let's go. Let's go Let's grab the shades, and then we can just get out of here BAM. Yes, three dollars Let's go. I'm not quite sure what strategy to use. Come on, Come on. We got to go so far if you can't run How on earth am I gonna get this far and then run away from him? I'm gonna get the Kep C 4.5 dollars! Well halfway there. This is actually scary. I'm actually terrified okay It's definitely all about the music, but I can't really tell what? Music is what? Okay, I'm going for this long one. Oh, there's a spatula here as well might as well grab both of them Kabam I'm going back. I'll go back the music started Say for $6. Can you not just give me a discount please, please, please okay? I can see two more objects I think that's all I need to be able to get out of here, but they're so far away a Camera, okay, I'll take the camera can take some pictures and a kelp bar. I don't even use pay for nine I've got nine come on Go the music's getting louder please Come on SpongeBob stroke your way come on to the bus stop to the bus stop. Yes. I made it about here Let's go yes! I don't wanna go back to rock bottom ever again. Okay. Been a mixed bag today I did I got two new jobs one of them I excelled at and save many lives, and then the other one I killed myself over and over again like 14 times and finally I ended up in the rock bottom where a creepy sausage, man Attacked us well guys. I told you I liked random games, and we definitely got a random set of games today If you enjoyed this video and any of the games I played today then please leave me a big fat like, that be greatly Appreciated and maybe I'll find three more random ones to do this again It was a lot of fun and also if this happens to be the first video you see by me, Please do consider subscribing to join TeamTDM today for daily videos apart from that guys Thank you so much watching you are amazing have an awesome day, and I'll see you all next time Good Bye!