So now I'm back at Hama International Airport and ready for tonight's A380 flight to Bangkok. This is pretty cool, riding a monorail inside a building from one end to the other end of the terminal. That's a view, right? Yeah. That's a new view. Like a soup inside the airport. Yeah. Yeah. Look at this stuff. I still remember when I was a kid, we watched these VHS tapes and cassettes. Look at this picture, 1958, Sudwakie. Yeah Yeah So here I am boarding the 380 a little bit ahead of all the passengers because I want to document how the crew are preparing for the flight before everybody boards. Mr. Sam, you're welcome on board today. We're doing a flight to Bangkok. Flight time will be around 5 hours and 45 minutes. We'll be cruising at around 39,000 feet high, it's the highest. We do not expect turbulence, however, if it gets bumpy, please take your seats, put your seatbelts on and take care of yourselves and the passengers. If you think anything could affect the safety of the flight, do not hesitate, call us at any time, and we'll give you our full support. It's going to be a standard taxi time, 15 minutes or less, so give us your best from your side. I know that you have a full house today. But do you have any specials? We are not expecting for cabin wheelchair in economy class, that's all. And we have for one business class for children, so 16 in economy and also one infant in premium cabin, that's all. We just had a briefing with all the crews. How many crews are operating today? We have 25 crew. 25 crew, so what Chara, show me, what do you do exactly before the passenger arrives, while you're preparing? Right. We are here for the hospitalities, but basically we are here to save for your safety. So basically when we come on board, we do our safety checks and security search. So make sure no private items on board and not authorize people on board as well. So you can follow me in the cabin. So basically after we've done our checks, we pre-set the cabin preparation before customer boarding. So that's how we present it. We have our pillows, personal blankets, amenity kits, and personal headphones. This is the entire cabin of the economy. which has had 461 customers on board. I'm going to take you through Upperdeck, which is, we have premium economy in Upperdeck as well. So, this is the upper deck economy, however, behind the scenes, we do have catering on board as well. We have to check our toilets as well, make sure it's not probing items inside, inside the compartment or below the trash bin as well. So this is quite unique on the Qatar Airways 380. There's a small section of the economy upper deck, but they have the board from downstairs and walk from the rear staircase to come upstairs. So now the passenger are coming one by one. Behind me now, the two crew are preparing the ground service, which is for premium customer. Another thing that we do it on board, we assist the customer to put the bags in hover head pins. When the hover head pins are full, we actually close that. But we have to also make sure that the bag is fitted properly. This is the premium galley that we are calling galley or the kitchen that we are preparing the premium customer food on board Behind me is a first-class galley, right? Behind me now we have a first class suite, which is in front of the aircraft over here, which is behind me. This is the end of the aircraft of the premium cabins which is end up with the changing room which is facilitate for first-class customer Yeah, we know this. This is huge, right? Let's come have a look. Let's go inside. Have a look. Alright Once again, ladies and gentlemen, it's August and I have now voted 8-5, and the second half has now ended, so if you'd like to go back outside, the second half has now started, and it's about to end. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, a very good evening to our captain speaking, my name is Fafnagar and I'm sharing the cockpit today with my colleague Rodrigo, I'd like to welcome you all on board, I'm going to help the crew. Of Qatari flight 834 from Hamad International Airport in Doha, Qatar to Bangkok in Thailand. Flight time today will be around 5 hours and 45 minutes, cruising at a high altitude of 39,000 feet. For your safety, please keep the seatbelts on even if the seatbelt signs are switched off, just in case we go through unexpected turbulence in the flight. I'd like to thank you all for choosing Qatar Airways today. It's a pleasure to have you on board and wish you all a pleasant flight. Upper deck, forward, left, right. Sending Carl Stout. Have a good day everyone, this is Prasad. How about they get a lot to any grossed out? Yeah, that's really grossed out. All right. Thank you. Copy that, thank you. Captain, everything's all good. May I have permission to close the door? Oh, maybe. Yeah. Yeah. I still have a cargo door open. Let me just confirm that everything's OK, and then we'll close it. No ground steel on board that ship already. Emergency briefing. Animal function between 0 and 100 will stop for any relevant reason. Between 100 and V1 is master caution, master warning, flight controls, engines or windshear for the safety of the flight. The call be stopped or closed thrust levers, use max reverse, max auto brake and if required manual braking. and once we come to a complete stop I'll start the reverses, set the Parking Brake on and do the P8 Entrance for a station. Your Actions Okay, I just want to do the actions, acceleration, and once the aircraft stops, I will call the ATC that we have rejected to take off, and I will wait for your command to start any leak-time actions or any abnormal procedure using the checklist or the QRA. That's for me. So we'll get to me. Take care. Bye-bye. As-salamu alaykum. Check. Good morning again Qatari 834, super ready for taxi. Qatari 24, good day again, thank you. Taxi hold short of Charlie. I see you folks. Make it a great day. Goodbye. Okay. Shorts of Charlie, right, it's clear Thank you, ma'am. Macawar, Houston, good morning, Cessna 824 super, ready for tower 3 in sequence, we can do alpha 1 if you want. Delta 3A346, you can plan for ALPHA, taxi ALPHA holding point 34R. I'll talk only partly for right that I'm creating for. Takeoff review, please Have a three four right now is a cool Company man 7600T, call right now. Tasha's 4000 and Paxson flex. So basically no changes. Cabin. Secure it on signal. 3-4 right, full length. Take off wrongly 3, 4 right, 4 left. Park 1 at 2. Axle on. Check just completed. Line up and wait behind. Checked. And departing Airbus A380, Langenberg 34R via A35. Have a great day. Namaste. The A.C. departing, but not up behind the wing, but south-fast to correct. Get ready, more progress. Qatari 834, runway 34R via A, check off wind 320 degrees 13 knots, airborne frequency 124.775 CB834, super duper, take the runway 34R, once airborne, 124.775, CB834, thank you buddy. I'm FLEX70, SRS Runway, Autotrust Blue. Checked. 400 knots. Checked. Staten Island Approach, HMS East for Light, Alpha 5 and Dept on Bravo, and 9 o'clock. Roger, East for Bravo, good morning, Approach 1342, holding for Charlie, Alto. Approach 1342, have a good morning, HMS East for Light, Alpha 1342, good morning. That didn't go too well. And that's it, so long, so good. If you have experienced more than three hours in flight delay, flight cancellation, or denied boarding, you could get up to 600 euros in compensation by EU regulation EC261 with SkyCop for flight delay more than three hours. And if this was the airline's fault, such as operational issues or technical issues, you could get compensated. Depends on your flight distance. The same compensation also apply if your flight is cancelled within 14 days of departure date. or if you got bummed off from an oversold flight. You can go to SkyCup to claim for compensation in a simple three-step process. The good news is there is a promotion right now. If you know anyone whose travel is disrupted, encourage them to submit a claim on SkyCup. Once approved, both yourself and your friend will receive a 50 euros Math Department gift card. This video is sponsored by Skycom. We are now at 37,000 feet, or what we say is flight level 370, and we're cruising at decimal 8-3, Mach 8-3. We departed from Doha, took off about 15 minutes ago and expected to reach Bangkok in around 5 hours from now. In the beginning, I'd like to say that it's a pleasure to have you here with us. I'll give you a small peek of our operation. What we do, basically, is we meet each other in the dispatch. From there, we come to the airport. And then we introduce ourselves to our crew and we give them some details about the flight time, the flight level, if weather is expected or turbulence is expected. We also take some information from the crew as if there's any special passengers or special loads that we have that we might need to know about. Then we come here and we check first the status of the aircraft, if there's any defects. And today we had a little minor defects before departure. That's why we were having a conversation with the engineer to clarify the situation. And after clearing that up. We were on our way. What we do basically is we insert the information about the flight plan, basically it's the route, the performance. And what we're going to decide to do, like from the beginning of the flight until the end, we check everything together and we're always two because we always need someone to cross-check the information. I come from an aviation family. My uncle actually was the first Tahrani pilot. And I was always fascinated by airplanes. And I decided to be a pilot when I was five. Yeah, it was that early, but eventually I was so lucky to get a chance to study what I like and then I joined Qatar Airways as a second officer. And as well, I was blessed to fly the 330 in the beginning of my career. I was the second officer on 330. And then... I flew the 380 as well as the first officer, then I got my command on 320, flew that for another 4-5 years approximately. And I'm very glad now to be back flying the four engines. So we're still cruising at flight level 370, right now we're over the continent of India. And we just passed this waypoint, here. We still have another... Three hours for landing in Bangkok? Sunrise just broke up. and Yeah That's it. That's it. We buy for 4,000 and then revolving the cap. And then the other customer, the one who wake up, who want to have for breakfast, who want to use the washroom, that's it. I will conduct mini brief to my crew to prepare and plan what the next service we're gonna deliver to the customer. Actually, overnight flight, we have to do the wake-up drink for the customer. And we divide for four zones. Walk in the cabin using for the food trays with the drink is there and then the wake up the customer before landing into Bangkok Since inside the cabin, all the customers are still sleeping, but now we've prepared for the service, and the service is ready, I will adjust the lighting system right here. You see on here, you will see the lighting system. And now you will see all decks here, upper deck, which is only for the first class, business class. And next one, the main deck, it's here. It's due show only for economy class for the first and the aft. Back to upper deck once again, you will see first, business, lounge, and this one. Normally first class is personalized service. We don't bother them. We go one by one to the customer, to meet the customer. Business class is relaxed now, which is For breakfast it's here and now we go and check the lighting system as well. Missing, missing. We're still missing the butter. Let me not notch Basically, here in the galley, we have the galley operator and also the galley assist. So basically, we divide the job here. Kelly manager, she prepared all the food and she plated all the food for our customer in the cabin. And then when the crew came over here, we called out for the food. Here's what I prepared for, cappuccino for my customer now. Hi, welcome to the secret place, the cabin crew on Airbus A380. This is Ricardo Kuban, follow me. This is when we go down, we go the back, turn the back like this and hold the handrail when we go back to here. So now we are in the secret place for the cabin crew on Airbus A380. This is the crew bunk. It looks like this. Normally we provide two pillows here and also we have the lighting here. We have... The Airbends for that one. Next, I'm going to tell you about how many crew bunk we have on Airbus A380, which is we have a total of 12. One up, one down right here, and for the supervisor, basically, it's going to be here. Why supervisor here? Because next to the interphone. This one I also reuse only when for ultra-long-haul flights. For example, we fly to Australia, to Sydney, to Perth. Alright, I know that you want to know what it is. This is a screw changing room. When they came for the rest, change, remove the uniform, and then put the pyjama to change. Soon we'll start our descent to Bangkok. The gradual descent is starting in around 10 to 15 minutes. There's the arrow to descend. We expect to land in the next 45 minutes from now, Bangkok. And for now, the arrival runway is the northern runway, the western side. Usually, most of the time, Qatar Airways parks in this part of the airport. So expect to land, vacate on the right side, and then as per the ATC, we'll taxi the aircraft to the designated stand. Now, we expect some good weather in Bangkok today. It's clear skies, winds are easterly winds, about 10 knots. Nice weather, generally. That's it. 1, 2, 5, 1, 0, 4, alright. So tell me this one. Start with big water. 19. Two, five, one, zero. 19. 19 yeah small you don't have sparkling you don't have Ask them all I have. We will summarize what we have left from this flight to let another supervisor who take over the aircraft. To know that how many we have, for example here, the big bottle of water, still water, sparkling water and all the rest of the drinks and juices that we have. And also, how many we need to uplift from here. This is after the flight, we call cabin discrepancy lock if there is any defect and then we have to lock here to let the captain know and then the engineer will come and fix it. But if they cannot fix it, they're going to move to CDD, Cabin Defer Lock Book, that one, which the engineers have to fix when they aircraft back to Doha. Okay, thank you. Welcome to Thailand. Thank you. See you later. Have a good day. Thank you. Together on the YouTube channel. I'm going to try that. Thank you so much. Have a good day. Welcome to my country. Have a good day. Thank you. Enjoy your vacation here. Have a good day. Thanks a lot. Have a good day, sir. Thank you. Flight number registration from where to where from Doha to Bangkok here and also now I finished the flights already so entertainment system need to be off. And we check everything, what the music needs to be of also, after our customer disembark. Everything done. Now, and now I'm going to log out. Close the flight. And OK. A34 is landed to Bangkok. Thank you very much for flying with us, Kajal Arwis, see you next time.