Hey guys, here is the video of the whole self-learning Today I'm gonna share with you IN DETAIL the A1 to B1 which will be in French. In this video, I will not simply be listing learning skills. And I will also tell you how to use them, to make a perfect study plan. You may already have an A2 or B1 level. However, I still suggest you watch it from essential resources from the beginning. At the end of each level, I will also give 2-hour study plan template for more intensive If you are new to this channel, I am Zoe. I obtained the DALF C1 level after learning my master's studies in sociology in France, Germany. French is the first foreign language I learned It is now my academic and professional language. I like to learn languages, actually everything, After watching this video, I hope you can If you appreciate my efforts and find this like to support me, share it with your friends subscribe to my channel if you haven't done Vous etes prets ? C'est parti Before I start this video, I would like to say a few words about my French learning journey. I don't want to create the illusion that anyone I went to a language school with a very intensive You know that I speak 5 other foreign languages. Still, any of them could progress as quickly learning situation that was impossible for I was only studying French. I had no other studies or work at that time. I did a lot of self-learning, and this is I know It is motivating to choose an ambitious learning ability and situation, which will For this learning period, you should have a basic concept of pronunciation and grammatical structures earn some very common words and everyday conversation like greeting introducing yourself, and asking for basic information. If you are a beginner, there are 3 main resources for self-study a book, a website or an app. The goal at the beginning is to discover the language so don't rush to make a very ambitious plan if you have no experience learning a Take your time to find a preferred resource You can learn some basics and see if there or languages you know. For example, if you know English or Romance you will find a lot of similar vocabulary. If you are a native speaker of these languages, pronunciation instead of just pronouncing I will be sharing resources on pronunciation If you have little time and want to learn Here I recommend Busuu, I use this app to many of my friends learning French have used What's good about this app is that there are in a real-life context. It's more dynamic than a textbook. And it breaks the learning down into small, accessible and more motivating. You can learn for 10 minutes or 15 minutes I know many people think 10 or 15 minutes But believe me, after learning 6 foreign languages. Starting small and then growing big is the And it works! As I keep saying, language learning is all Busuu's study plan fits this study style, you when to study and setting realistic goals. If you don't know Busuu and want to use it can check out the link in the description The book can be an excellent option. Here, I recommend Assimil. Assimil : French / Francais : Debutants You guys know I like the Assimil method. It's great for self-learners. Each lesson is short and often takes less There are audio and exercises. There are versions in different languages: You can check on their website. I'll put the link in the description box. The good thing about learning with a book 1 lesson a day, every other day, or one chapter They are reliable, there are useful phrases But the disadvantages are that there are few I recommend two good websites for beginners, have lessons with dialogues, grammar points You have videos and audio. They are great and well-structured. You can follow the program like here a lesson is very short and has a specific You can do one or two or more lessons per And they are completely free compared to the Another platform is &quot;TV5 Monde apprendre le They have lessons at different levels. Under the tab &quot;Langue francaise&quot; you will exercises, and videos to help you explore But the site is a bit difficult to navigate You can learn some basics with other resources routine. I don't recommend it to someone who wants The three most essential parts for beginners: There is one thing that I used to do while I made an effort to do it from the beginning. I made a plan to do intensive pronunciation pronunciations according to my mother-tongue-Chinese, At that time, I used the book &quot;Les 500 Exercises With time, I could recognize the nuances of attention to it, and I had a fairly clear Then I discovered many valuable websites and You are so lucky, so don't waste these fantastic Firstly Episode: "Pronunciation: Top 5 French mistakes minutes&quot; good exercises" "French Pronunciation Practice (with a REAL Very cute, clear and useful it won't take long, but it will benefit your you will learn basic grammar with You can also do some extra verb conjugation Whenever I start learning a language, I often They are just so important. They provide a basis for talking about everything And it's also the most challenging part of conjugation exercise into your daily routine. Start with a verb in one tense a day, then You can use the book. "Conjugaison progressive du francais : Livre You can also use the website &quot;laconjugaison.fr&quot;. Or check with a dictionary. You can use Reverso. For the dictionary, I recommend Reverso and They are sufficient for all levels. If you want to do more grammar exercises and called: "francaisfacile " I mean the website doesn't look very fancy, learn a language, but the website style is I don't know how to describe it, vintage, But it's so practical. Usually, I'm just looking for a grammar point the future tense, le future simple, you have If you prefer a book, you can try : debutant " If you are ambitious and want to add an extra you can download the deck &quot;5000 most frequently this deck will be helpful up to B1 level playlist and get used to French songs. It's a good way to generate interest and motivation. Here are 2 templates of study plans for the You can also combine them according to your All the resources I mentioned in A1 are also From this level onwards, start watching often Many French learning channels like" Parlez-vous "Francais avec Pierre", etc. They usually speak slow French and teach basic Don't feel lost in navigation. Just make a plan like, watching one video exercises and listen to it several times. Over time, you will feel progress. If you don't know how to do shadowing exercise, If you feel you have progressed and want videos "French mornings with Elisa", "Easy There are a lot of daily life topics. Another channel I recommend is Inner French. It has interesting topics on French culture Another quick tip is to bring French into You can use a fun chrome extension, 'Readlang', while browsing the website. Another tip I mentioned in another video is I used to read the whole of 'Le petit Prince' I listen to them before I go to sleep. I used the same strategy, I did a page or it consistently and finished the books. It's still one of my favorite language-learning Podcast: start listening to the podcast as The &quot;Inner French&quot; podcast is excellent. For the speaking skill at this level, you pronunciation and grammar. I hope you are lucky and find a constant study You can watch this video if you want to know and practice the language. Here are two study plan templates. For B1 level, an important resource is the "Etudier en France : Cours de francais It is free and comes from experienced and There are course materials and homework suitable For grammar, you can try : book" Corriges" de Sorbonne for the most accurate explanation advanced shadowing material and vocabulary. All the youtube channels I mentioned before You can start watching the youtube channels One channel I recommend is &quot;COLAS BIM: animation&quot;. I really like it. It has cute content, not very fast and complicated But there are a few episodes. But it's pretty enough. And I suggest you start looking for a channel nutrition, cooking, make-up, yoga, travel more and more day-to-day French. The channel "ELLE" is great for this level. The celebrity interviews for the &quot;Festival skills. They are short and relatively easy. You can also discover a bit of French cinema There are also other contents like yoga, cooking You can also check out Nassim Sahili's channel There is another video series that I used It's &quot;Bref&quot;, an episode is very short like I used to write down every useful phrase and It can really give you a boost for colloquial But I saw that they don't update anymore. The last video was 5 years ago. Does anyone know why? If you like to watch vlogs of student life, It's also suitable for this level. Another tip is that you can watch movies on dubbing and subtitles. You can watch a film that you have already so you know the storyline, which will help Here are the study plan templates for level If you have any questions, write in the comments. If you know of better resources for these If you like this video and find it helpful, with others! Don't forget to subscribe to the channel A bientot les amis !