Welcome to Good Mythical More. We asked you to tell us what creations that you go to. And now we're going to them them and judge you for them. And fittingly, we're going to Food mascots. Hamburglar. Tony the Tiger. Jolly Green Giant. Little Debbie. Toucan Sam. The Bee from Cheerios. He has a name. The Pancake Lady. Aunt? They changed that. Oh, good, well. You know what, I'll for bringing that up. Yep. That's what, that's what the I'm glad she's, that was a I was just, I was trying to the shape of the bottle. Should have gone with That's not I would have disqualified you. Yeah, I was double Okay, what's the first Let's see the first tweet. Okay, it's this one right? Dr. Fartboi! Oh yeah, I've been to Tweeted at us, a Kit Kat crunchy into it. Dip a block of marble Oh my God. These go together, I Sorry, Dr. Fartboi. Dip a block of Not to cast aspersion. Yeah, there you go. Aspert. Aspert on him. Aspert on the fart boy. But, you said, Dr. Fartboi, Kit Kat crunchy, we we found Kit Kat Chunky. So either that means we exists, or Kit Kat crunchy you're in a certain state. And I'm not talking Well, you might. I mean, I might be. You might be that as well. So Kit Kat Chunky. They grated it into I'm with it until he cheddar into the mix. Like dipping. When he says a block. - Well, I'm going. I'm going to try to be reasonable here. Now I have been known like this and eat it. A lot of people Link might be one of them. I mean, it's not that It just needs to You know? It's like. That means you don't I know, I know I don't You don't like cheese by on things, not cheese. I can't get it to stick So it's sort of dairy It's soft. I'm sorry Dr. Fartboi. Not to question your I don't, I don't, But as someone who likes They are not It makes me think That you're just trying. You wanted to see You're baiting us You're just sitting there Also, the act of grating elevated for the ingredients Right. When you have the munchies, shovel, but you You don't want to grate. You don't want to get out that thing is called. I will say Dr. Fartboi is also known Or Dr. Iceman. Sorry, Dr. Iceman 200. Do with that I'm not gonna do This is bad, whether you're There you go, you did So we're gonna rank it, It's ranked worst. It's the lowest. I can't imagine anything Let's see the next tweeter. Matt Tinsky. Goldfish crackers. Okay, we're on Original. With Cool Whip. I know it's weird, but trust I was a kid and I'm 39. Okay. I like your, picture your doggy on your shoulder. Is that a beagle? Or some other dog? Just trying to I don't think he Here's the thing. Does he eat these Because Goldfish are, I mean, You don't just grab one. Right? I don't know Matt. But you have to only What I like to do with is I like to spoon it. And I wonder if You keep Cool Whip No, we keep Reddi Just so you can spoon it out? I squirt it into spoons. And also, we have a little we feed the dogs Reddi Wip. And it is a wonderful time. Describe that time. It is so fun. We're in the kitchen. Jessie will squirt two So first of all, as soon start sitting down cause do something to get this. They just start going smart, Sean's stupid. So like, Barbara like And she's like, I know if and I will wait until you will get to the dollop. And Sean like sits down and gets up, then sits down, he And then she puts She waits and then And then they go and they go and they lick them up. It's like what they do. It's like, the they call it. At Starbucks? Yeah. We do that at home. It's what we do It's one of the most fun See, I can't, that's okay. I'm happy for you. I think? That that's, I because anything she eats then it's like. Two days of just, like, of another type. Everywhere. Even with a cream like that? Well, I've never tried that. I think that's pretty mild. I'm afraid of it. I don't know. Yeah, we don't feed our dogs food, a little bit of cheese, A little bit of cheese? You know, a cheese treat. The cheese tax. Yeah, the cheese tax. So, you're eating fairly particular munchie that someone who's not eating it. It is good. Really? It is good. What's the, is it cause that sweet or something? Like what's the vibe? It's not that sweet, yeah. - Yeah. It's like a sour cream dip? That would be better. Type of entry point? You know what would be great? A whipped cream cheese. A whipped cream cheese. With this would be No, this is, this is Something about the coldness It's another dairy But it's a crunchy, To me it's a texture thing little bit of sweetness. That's the thing that is you Unless he did find Kat crunchy and it's way You gotta have some It, I don't think there's This is definitely number one. I'm loving it. - And. We're moving on to String cheese sticks in hot So yummy. You let them melt a little, Sweet and savory. Best of both worlds. Yours is over there Oh, oh, there's just one, and one is coffee. I was like, I guess I'll I'm such a cheese lover, Ooh, ooh, that one is. We did something like that, or like, there's something Like a cheese. A cheese tea. Tea, that's it. Cause it's supposed to be a, almost like a thing. Okay, so yes, let them melt So, we're supposed to Wow. - That is. It's so limp. I just need to come to I'm such a texture person. But I like the That's really good. Yeah. I mean, I like eating, out Is that what it's called? I think that's what I think that's what really, really floppy. Is the texture. There's a bite to gotta get through it. You could be Dr. Texture on Twitter. Dr. Texture. Oh, look at this. Text your doctor. Text your doctor, Dr. Texture. And you know, this would If you were in a Now look at this, No, no, no, don't touch I want it to go complete. I want to see I want it to see Let me try it with the over there seeing Well, the coffee was much did the number on the cheese. This is not really doing it. Look how long my cheese is. That's nice, Rhett. Dr. Long Cheese. That's me. I like the taste of It's still going! A little better. I'm moving my hand up, but the Gravity. Okay, Rhett. What? It's weird that the mass of That's what Newton thought. It's the curvature of the mass of the Earth. What? According to Einstein, cheese to get longer. - That's a cool way to. Wow, dude. That's amazing. He only tweets about gravity. This is good. This is a good one. It's not as, Goldfish and Cool Whip, so I'm I've never seen string We've had a lot of long We had like 11 foot I don't know how many feet But it wasn't string. But that was before Do you know Dr. Fartboi? Yep, yep, we actually We're in the same Yes. Dr. Long Cheese and Dr. Fartboi compete for And parking space. Oh, yes. We have to share bathrooms. You do not want to share Trust me. Okay. I mean, mine's, Wow, you got longer, you than me almost immediately. Yeah, I'm, Dr. Longer Cheese. If you want, if you want to. Hold on, maybe the gravity of your coffee is more, maybe Wow, how did your cheese I mean, I am stretching. And you should see It's longer, too. It's a very deep What medical facility, what I'm in the same one as you. You're there as well? Yeah. Dr. Longer Cheese? I just, you just, you to the back of the park. It's so big. I don't like that side. It's next to the dumpster. I've got a longer commute, - Okay, I'm gonna. Okay, Dr. Long Cheese has determined is gonna get for the day. And now he's gonna eat it. And mine. Oh. What, you gonna I'm not gonna eat it all. That was a sound. Here we go. Rhett, you stinker. Dr. Long Cheese. Dr. Cold Cheese. Needs to see, needs It stood out too long. Alright. You agree? Number two, not number one? I'll say I had a lot But I like the taste There we go. So, we agree. Next tweet. Can you do the honors? PlasmaCoin, yeah. That's a cool name. BBQ Fritos on a peanut Oh, so this is a What? Okay. This is a club. This is a club They're coin collectors. BBQ Fritos is not really So, putting that on about all the time. Dr. Long Cheese needs a break. Yeah, you, I mean, full of poppy seeds. Stevie, what is your munchie? I feel like you have to during your munchies. So, so far the Goldfish that qualifies to me. You can't just, it Like, I think what you're intriguing, but it doesn't bite, take a bite, take a So that you can then taking bites while you Or you pour yourself. Just as much as you want rest of the bag away. Then when you finish that, One more. Just a little bit more. Right. But at least you're, to the cabinet, You know, there's a little And physically putting piece Like, dipping, a plate to your mouth. I gotta keep these Yeah, you do. I hate this. I really appreciate the mix of the textures, but I don't say, I'm not but it's not my favorite. We're not a fan of, of in this world. Because we That's right. You know what the I have found, I know I've show before that Chicago popcorn, and caramel Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Cause you get both worlds. Yes, it doesn't get Well, cause you can sweet savory loop. The death loop. Right. You're like, how Exactly. And then that's when you take mouth, and then you eat. But what about the salty part? That's the cheese part of That's the savory. Well, okay. Salty, savory. I like cheesy And then I like, like some FutabaSakura_fr. Let's just say Dani, tweeted pieces of Hershey chocolate. Okay. This is a little candy heavy. Little candy heavy. Now the Hershey's, they seem to give One? One. They give you a spot Dani said one. One Sour Skittle between two You can't press And then you just And then you just eat. Hate it. It's not, it is It just messes The sour and the chocolate. I just don't, I don't like That's the worst one Yeah. Okay, so we're moving What's the next one? This is from Michael R. Harris. Donuts are life. Oreo cookies and canned What? You will thank me later. Y'all are Oreo cookies. Too sweet. You gotta have the savory. There's not enough savory. I don't understand. So, I'm trying to figure out Oreo cookies in canned So, if I really just dip Is it the peaches were in? Directions are unclear. Yeah. I would say soak it Yeah. Soak it and put a peach. Do I have to do Can I just do the This is where you Right. It's so strange. It's just, after that Long Cheese's line, Oh, this is weird. This is so weird. I feel like it's Wow. That is quite a combo. It's peachy. It's a, it's, it's It's a chocolatey peach. - It's like a. that has chocolate chips. Yes, yes, yes. Peach cobbler with chocolate And you get the crusty. Oh my goodness. It's like you get the crust of is replaced by the Oreos. Yeah, you got a nice crunch. If you were to take like a the top of a peach cobbler, chips and you put that on the the end, this is basically, - Number one! You've done it, Donuts are life! You've done something. You've created, basically. The most unexpectedly You've created an analog chocolate chips on top of it. And you know what? Without having We're gonna mail you a get a complete check up No, I don't, I'm not Long Cheese? I'm not seeing new patients. And Dr. Longer Cheese. It's gonna be two year wait. Send them to Fartboi. Say it loud and proud with Beast tee, available now with 100 percent of at OutRight International.