I guess you have never heard about the Farhud hundreds of Jews were killed. I guess you have Moroccan Jewish girl, only 17 years old, who was you have never heard about the anti-Jewish riots get the picture. You probably know nothing, or cleansing of Jews within Muslim countries. in Europe, Jews enjoy the same rights as Muslims Zionism, Jews were able to lead peaceful, happy it was better for Jews in Muslim countries than setting the bar high... The Jews were never not before colonial times and not after, not not before the state of Israel was established and I will get to that shortly. what I am about to say and will probably accuse with two comments. First of all, let's look in the 1940s, in Libya there were 35,000 Jews 85,000 and today there are three; in Tunisia I could move on to Syria, Lebanon and Iran... Jewish communities have been completely And when the numbers are as dramatic as this, it should just be ignored. Communities don't just non-Muslim countries, like the U.S., France and and a large part of these communities stayed. when the situation is unbearable or when you And my second comment: If you are not convinced then tell me this: Can you name one minority Morocco in the West to Iran in the East, south. The number of Coptic Christians in Egypt is with two million having left in recent years. Iran about: the Bahai, Zarathustras, and the Baloch of them. Independent women aren't having a good a Muslim nation, who are fighting for independence getting out onto the streets for them, by the terribly in all Muslim countries. There used to are disappearing. They get zero media coverage. oppressed people in the Middle East but now back cleansing of the Jews within Muslim countries. the most: the Jews of Yemen. Unlike other of prosperity, Yemenite Jews experienced hardship suffered under Muslim rule for hundreds of years one of which was that orphaned children had to the Jews of Yemen got engaged and married at the kids would already be part of another family. Jews had already migrated to Israel before 1948. of immigration of Yemenite Jews to Israel took of Jews came from Europe in modern times. As an 400,000 times. Never mind the fact that there has that of the British or the French, but most of the from Muslim countries. This shows how wrong, Israel of colonialism is. When a poor Russian he is a symbol of white colonialism, and when Jews reason, they are completely ignored. In 1947 there were killed, and nobody was held accountable. well in Yemen, and the Jews were blamed. They fines. They lived in constant fear and suffered Jews, about 50,000 people, migrated to Israel. about girls, and there is a nice little anecdote many of whom had never even seen a car before, which company flew the Jews from Yemen to Israel? memoir: Sometimes I drove to the airport to meet one elderly man: "Have you ever seen an airplane "Weren't you afraid to fly?" and he said: "No, You yourselves have seen what I did to wings and brought you to myself." The Jews in Iran have a very long history going root of evil in the Middle East, I must say that of them are from Iran. I hope that the good people I'm not going to try to summarize the history of Jews of the city of Mashhad. In 1839, many years was a blood libel against the Jews. 40 Jews were Muslim child brides. The community was forced to the Jews kept their identity a secret. They continued to suffer at the hands of their Muslim shops on Saturdays to prove that they didn't despite opening the doors of their shops, they did After the Islamic Revolution of 1979, they all From Iran, let's move on to the country next door Farhud and the thumbnail of this video is also for two reasons. The Farhud was the largest pogrom Terrible things were done to Jews, and many women a word about this, about what's going on here. You my video on YouTube. Now I love YouTube and I my words very carefully. I have to comply with the the YouTube rules. YouTube, stop calling them with my community, with my subscribers, and imposed American corporate, puritan, politically YouTube reduces the exposure of this video by in the last few weeks. That is why I am not saying happened. So the R-word stands for making love but actually just pure evil and violence. So hundreds The reason I chose this specific photo or even a hundred Arabs. You can see hundreds way to kill Jews. The Arab women were cheering gangs of Jews or Israelis storming into an Arab subjecting Arab women to the R-word. Never. Even never has a Jewish mob done anything like have done it, and they are still doing it to Jews Jewish community in Iraq as the Babylonian Jews, the great empires of the East, more than a 1,000 were 150,000 Babylonian Jews 80 years ago. Now let's say a word about the largest the Jews of Morocco. My family originally like all Jewish families, originally came If you speak to Jews from Morocco, many of them lives there. Lots of them will tell you that Jew will tell you that their grandfather and the you have to wonder if the Moroccan king spent 1940 till 1950. But seriously, I am here talking discrimination. So who is right? The Jews telling a few possible answers to these questions. But the Jews can be successful despite being persecuted some nice personal memories. There are plenty of one: the Jews in Germany. They saw themselves as other group, yet they were persecuted and we all migrated to Israel still had happy memories and The second answer, and it's one that many Israelis their grandparents came from Morocco or Syria history. Maybe you can name 3 or 4 different from your grandparents, but that doesn't mean you stories that your parents and grandparents didn't same way you want to protect your children The third answer has more to do with the may be part of history but they often contradict where history meets personal and collective it changes with time, it changes with collective And if you go through a traumatic experience leaving a place where you know the people and the a poor country recovering from a war, where you understand the culture and the language... All of your past. Immigration is a traumatic experience, 1950s, before 'having feelings' was invented :-). Jews in Morocco and today there are 2,000 does time there. There were pogroms against Jews in Settat (in 1907), in Tritel (the Fez riots women subjected to the R-word, girls kidnapped, property plundered. In each instance, it wasn't Muslims were active in the anti-Jewish pogroms. Muslim communities, had to pay the jizya. This is Christians, who are living in an Islamic state. the Jews. From the 15th century on, Jews had and they were not allowed to go out at night. was publicly executed in the city of Fez after her Islam. When Sol said that she was still Jewish, Islam and then denouncing it. In Muslim countries other religions. She was offered money and a but she insisted on remaining Jewish. She said Because of YouTube's community guidelines, leave some interesting links below the video. came to the Land of Israel in 1882. you will know that the founders, the first were Jewish families from North Africa: Shlush, years before the Zionist congress.There is so much enough time to go into it all here. The main goal cleansing that was going on in the 1940s. The the one that no one talks about. Huge communities a lot of brutality. Unlike the Palestinians, the Jews living in Muslim countries never The second objective of this video is to raise history of the Jewish communities. Most Israelis there is a center of Moroccan history, in Or in Rehovot, there is the house of Yemenite to do something even more important than your parents or grandparents, if you are and ask them to tell you their story. Ask them to do it now. You are not busy, you are watching In my opinion, this is my most important video. it to people who need to know about it. I will As always, I want to thank all my Ko-fi out the links below, and I'll see you next week.