I have made a lot of mistakes with my hair A lot of mistakes. A lot. Many, many, many mistakes. I have fried I've had to chop it off Being that I'm a hairdresser, And for an extremely long time, of event without wearing extensions And no matter what I did, it never looked When I started YouTube three years ago, My hair was thin. It was a horribly unflattering color. It had no glossiness. silkiness. bounce. And no matter how much I styled it, And then, of course, I wondered, Why my Hair Channel wasn't growing. Over the shiny, damage free hair And today I'm going to give you five There is also an awesome giveaway today, so that you know how to enter it Let's go. Tip number one is to avoid over processing your hair darker or within the same level, Really isn't that damaging However, going lighter is. the cuticle layer needs to be lifted in order And the only real way to do that And this process can be very damaging. Bleaching your hair does a serious, You will know because your hair will look It will be flat, dry, brittle, and you'll have loads of split ends What really sucks though, like this, the hair loses elasticity by everything else. So for example, it will likely be fine And we're going But if you have styled chemically it will get significantly more damage are just not strong enough So they'll break more. So it's this vicious cycle, right, Because the hair doesn't look good But the more you heat style it, So what do you do? If you don't want your hair to be and you don't want to go darker. That is a real question. I can relate to this because I don't like having my hair The way that I get around only on the top layers of my hair. So abolish is a hand-painted highlight which doesn't start at the root You don't have regrowth, Hardly ever. And because I don't have to maintain it over and over and over again. I also keep the light parts level to my natural color, and not a light blond, because the lighter So this gives me just enough dimension but not so much that there's If you just cannot live hair, though, I recommend Most salons will carry Olaplex which acts It gets put into the bowl of lightner the olaplex reforms the disulfide bonds So basically it allows you to bleach Tip number two is to do regular hair any of this damage that you've done Not all treatments are the same. Not all of them are the same. So you really need to know you even waste your time using it. There are some that work really well, that coat the hair shafts but it's not actually doing anything. So you want to stay away from those low and you want to invest in products and that actually deliver result or else I just discovered a really awesome I've been using so many of their products L'ador's whole mission is to offer and honestly they deliver They are amazing. When I got them in the mail, Oh, wow, these are really like, Trust me, you guys won't be disappointed These products are seriously, There is one product in particular This is called the perfect hair fill up that delivers nutrients, proteins, It is an amazing intensive treatment and people love this product. L'Ador has sold over 1 billion ampoules globally and I can definitely see why You want to mix with perfect hair, in a 1 to 1 ratio and stir it This process here is called Hydrolyzing a product is releasing fresh proteins After you shampoo your hair, you towel put on a hair cap or I personally and then you wait 10 to 15 minutes After doing this treatment, and soft. It is amazing. Doing this regularly your hair does have the power over time. It is 100% worth doing. Just so you guys know, or you can buy ampoules. The ampoules The box of four currently which is great If you really want to give it a shot for repeated deliveries and then you get an extra 10% off, So if you end up trying this or have Let me know in the comments I would love to read and how it's worked out for you. It's really made such a difference Tip number three is to maintain Everything starts at the scalp it's unlikely I feel like as children, to properly shampoo When you are shampooing, you need to first make sure that your hair Shampoo needs water to work, separate it in the shower every strand, then focus your shampoo The first shampoo will pick up oil won't lather a lot. The second shampoo will actually be able and you'll notice If you are only shampooing once, It will make a huge difference and also to the overall If you have issues with dry scalp, brush into your routine to exfoliate I made an entire video about common hair so I will leave a link to that video comment below If you are still struggling and you are properly shampooing that is targeted towards alleviating scalp itchiness, removing dandruff It comes in this bottle into the scalp two or three times This is really good. If you are the type of person with those scalp issues, You can't get around it. Adding something like a tonic to your routine If you want more than this, if you want or even as well to use together, That's really cool. This one is specifically made and for people who have weak thinning hair it has six types of peptides, Plant based oil for hydration. And it also has menthol, which is so cool You just apply it after shampooing on in while focusing on the damaged areas I am actually going to be giving away both of these products So in the comments section, tell me what is the biggest issue What is your biggest struggle? I will be announcing the winners board so come back and check that So tip number four is to heat style the amount of heat that you need This doesn't I heat style my hair every time I wash it. And it's in great shape now, you use, at the lowest possible heat setting. I have a friend who has super fine hair. It's relatively straight the other day and I noticed that she was that is so unnecessary. She was literally causing damage She would have gotten the exact same So next time you're doing your hair, and see if you still get There are very few hair types probably not one of those people. You also want a barrier and the hair, and that's L'Ador also has an awesome, The reason that I love this one is because it can be used on So when I'm blowing my hair out, and then if I'm doing curls or waves or or whatever, I apply it on my dry hair My favorite thing about this one is that it doesn't leave It reduces static for sure, but it's completely weightless. I love that that have left a weird, sticky And it's very annoying. It's especially annoying Tip number five wet or putting it up in a tight elastic when your hair is what it is The cuticles naturally lift up, making the hair So putting it up in a tight elastic in that state If you do this all the time these tiny short That is why sleeping with it wet The wetness of the hair and a damp pillow for yeast to flourish, including the yeast This environment can also lead to unwanted skin irritations, itchiness and dryness. If you regularly sleep with your hair wet this could very much be the reason why. So stop doing it immediately. That's it. Videos over.