So when it comes to improving productivity at combinations play a role. Now, what if you applications on your device, so they aren't to you. So, for example, I have the shortcut in whichever application I'm in. I use it in File Word, Excel, or Google Sheets. Every time I use there is a specific text, address or bank account you can create a shortcut text for it. This and it will automatically replace it with your repetitive typing or sending canned email or It's a free application and is something I've benefit you as well. It's called AutoHotkey. It's can be used to launch applications, run a specific most common use and probably the easiest way to your own abbreviations to auto-replace lots of to help you get started. Remember, it's you think can help you, just download it and You can install the AutoHotkey app directly from here, click on download and then you can download this from the Microsoft Store. Just open up the it pop up here and then just click on Get. Now, you are going to end up on this page. Now, this is the documentation here. Now, on the welcome right do anything, you need to write a script telling hotkeys, run the script. So, you can go ahead and it works. Check out all the documentation. In this and share with you some of scripts that might come this together, which means that we don't need this AutoHotkey, you should be able to right-mouse and find the AutoHotkey script. That's what we I'll call mine &quot;favorite shortcuts&quot; and enter. So, Don't double-click it because double-clicking it's going to add it to your tray here, meaning we don't have any scripts yet because we haven't we have to right-mouse click and open this in I can open it directly like this. If you don't see your choice. You're going to see some lines that improve the overall script performance. The Now, there are two main types of scripts: they're Well, to quote the official tutorial, &quot;a Obviously, they're kidding unless you knocked usually a combination of keys on the keyboard that they're your own custom shortcuts that can run first shortcut that we want to create is to launch most is Excel. So, the way this works is that combination, and I want to use &quot;Control+E&quot;. The symbol (^), this stands for Control, and then This is followed by two columns. The two from the action that it's going to trigger. Now, &quot;Excel&quot;, because Excel is a Windows application. The action is also followed by a comma to tell the &quot;return&quot; statement. This stops the code from do a few more so we can run them all together. If it's the &quot;#&quot; sign. So let's say I want to add a happen is a &quot;message box&quot; to appear. The code in the message that you want. I'll just type with &quot;return&quot;. Now, just in case you want to use the exclamation mark for Alt or &quot;+&quot; for Shift. documentation. Okay, so we did two here. Let's do This is to add the current date. I'm gonna assign is to define the format. So, I'm going to go and then &quot;,,&quot;, and define the type of format Then we have to go with &quot;SendInput,&quot; and we want memorize any of the stuff that I'm doing. You just little bit to go in the format that you want and the documentation. So, for example, if you're you'll find it in the documentation. So, remember go to &quot;String Format Time,&quot; you can find all the with lots of examples. So, you can just feel own code. Okay, so now we have three hotkeys. we're definitely going to save. Now, to run this, and it's the first time you are running If you make changes to it and you double-click, older instance and if you want to replace that, things out. I have the shortcut key, Control+E, Ctrl + E, and we should see Excel pop up, and it Windows + J combination. Why you're amazing. Next day. Now, for that, let's just go anywhere here. create a new folder, and I'll type a name Windows + X, and I get the current year, month, and application. Let's take a look at something else, let me tell you about another tool that's hot on platform or a community. You get to learn be in the area of personal improvement, it can of pure interest. The platform I'm referring to to sponsor this video. What I like about the condensed classes. I usually don't have big chunks can use whatever time I have and learn something one of my favorite YouTubers in Skillshare. So, of know him, it's Marques Brownlee. The class is If you've ever seen a video by him, you're going quality of his videos. Some great tips there the videos. I have a long way to go in comparison, it can be gradual. Right, everyone goes at their you improve your skills. You can get the knowledge you want to do right now or pivot your career. so there's always something new to discover. And the first 1000 people to use the link on my will get a one-month free trial of Skillshare. Skillshare for sponsoring this video and let's to go back and edit the script. I'm going to are used mainly to auto-replace abbreviations as an email and instead of typing out your entire you press space or tab, you want it to convert to you just have to define the abbreviation and then side. Now, the way AutoHotkeys knows that this is double colon before and we keep that double colon check this out, I'm going to close this, save it, and run it. Now, let's assume I'm typing an email in &quot;lgh&quot; space and then I'm going to get my full You could, for example, create a hot string the &quot;@&quot; sign, I'm just going to use a double &quot;@&quot; every time I want to log into different email address out, I can just use this hot string, right? So, if you, for example, use some special copying and pasting, you could create a hotkey for I'm just going to paste it in here and I could use go and find the keyboard shortcut for it or copy of code windows, so let's say you're a programmer, type some comments or some description inside in that application, you could put some of the it's going to auto-correct them as you're typing if that's a word that you use often, you could have to be careful that you don't use words that Another great use case for this is to create &quot;tfq,&quot; so let's say &quot;Thanks for your query&quot; and is something that I usually need to type out or I I create a hot string for it, I have it available any app that I'm in. Now, remember for this one defined a hotkey for it, but we could also define paste it here and for the hot string, I'm going to I don't just want to put in this, but I also want to this, I want to add the time for that. We're Instead, I'm going to define another variable, ZED So, minute is with small 'm', month is with 'tt' for 'AM' and 'PM'. Now I want it in my '%zz' and '%' right?' So update these, and to find the formats that you Okay, so these are our different ones. Let's go save, let's say double click to run this. Now I'm string that was 'tfq' space and I get my template had 'ENTER' inside the script. It was surrounded Let's go with 'copyright'. I think that was like symbol. And if I type 'lgreview' and Space, I minute, seconds, and 'AM' or 'PM', and the text editor. So, here I'm in the VBA editor, and let's it auto corrects it to 'maintenance'. I and I get the 'copyright' symbol. If I want to I can use my hotkey '@@' and then I get my can get more complicated than what we covered They can have custom functions and subroutines. gave you an idea on how you can make your So if you enjoyed this video, please give it subscribed yet. Thank you for watching