I don't like having a boring desk. I tried surrounding myself with houseplants, but I So I built a little ecosystem right next to me; that way I could watch it the whole time while it evolved. I got this tank for free on Facebook Marketplace (as you do) and I decided it'd look better if I cut it in half. It was about time I put a tank on my computer desk, so I flipped it over and set it up for cutting some glass. The plan was just to take some cutting oil and a cutting tool, score a line along each of the faces, So I flipped it over and I did the same thing on each side. But very early in the process something went really wrong. I was slicing off the old silicone seal but because I'm an idiot I left the blade and if you leave glass under this much tension I cracked the tank, so it was basically so I tapped the score lines to open them up, 'cause if I had all the pieces separate I could to repair the broken pane from the bottom half. You'll see that in the end I could actually pop it apart So I had to just spend the next two or three hours Unfortunately this is just what you sign up for if you're Basically there was a lot of cleaning, followed by However, when it was done it did actually look good, and because I used glass from the other side I was even able to get rid of the So you could say it worked out better in the end anyway. I'd finished putting everything together, so I just started playing around with some rocks. At first I had no ideas and no direction, but For example I quickly realized that having a slope in the scape was way more interesting than having something flat. and also I'd be looking at the tank from three different sides, so if I was gonna have a tall section Eventually I noticed that one of the rocks so I just thought it was really cool.. and I partitioned-off one of the corners and then 'cause I wanted them to look like roots that were growing Then I wanted to create an island in the middle I stacked some rocks again so and I also left some space in the middle of these rocks for another land area where I could grow some plants emersed. Hopefully it'd end up looking like a riverbed I was finally happy with the design, unfortunately to move forward I'd have I needed to lay a bed of mud underneath the I wouldn't have been able to play around with Anyway I took some garden soil and sieved-out and I poured all the juicy dirt into the tank. It's there to provide nutrients for the plants to grow, (like the good kind of bacteria). then I poured-in some water and mixed flattened it down to an even consistency; and then I sort of sculpted the bed of mud into I wiped it off the glass so you and then I covered it all in sand. I know it's a shallow tank but it was 'cause I wanted at least two inches That way there'd be a layer the oxygen couldn't reach, so I'd have some anaerobic bacteria; completing the nitrogen cycle. This time I wedged a little rock between the bigger rocks and I glued everything down including the branches. I didn't make any changes to the island, but I did and I did scatter some little I also sprinkled some darker sand for the same reason. I really like the way the hardscape turned out, and all I had to do to get that 'natural look' was to make sure the lines and grooves on the rocks ran along the same axes. I then filled the tank with water. I got a little heater and stuck it to and then I took some typically terrestrial plants Alright, so this is where I did something really stupid. It was time to put the aquatic plants in this substrate, and I bought them weeks ago so The problem is that I took a while to set So what you're basically watching here is me But the floating plants looked healthy at least. Optimistically, I positioned a desk lamp over It was looking a bit bleak, but I was hopeful.. so I decided to wait, and see if anything So two weeks went by and there was life in the tank. in the form of biofilm covering There was a tasty layer of algae covering all the rocks, but the shock of a new environment I didn't need to remove 'em, 'cause they'd get but they were taking up the places I wanted to put new plants. This time I just found a guy online to give me But I have no idea what half of them are, and he so I'm expecting half of these to die as well. but hey; they're free! The land area was looking a bit naked, so I got as well as some more aquatic Finally, I put a little pump in the corner next 'cause I didn't want any crazy temperature It's lookin' alright, and I could put fish in it now. But I prefer to wait for things to look a bit more The surface was covered in floaters and you I had to break up the surface if I wanted to see They'd basically just be some little windows into the water. They were for me to see the fish, but more and of course I could feed the fish through them. All the plants survived except the weird one on the island, This'll be my third attempt trying to The land plants were losing leaves while adapting to the water. I just fed them back into the system to be recycled. The first guy was this gourami that I took from another tank. He was expectedly timid and confused at first, but he had plenty of time alone to explore his new home. Here he is just cautiously skulking around. The tank was full of microfauna: All over the glass, all over every surface. Some freshwater limpets must've ...and they were slowly multiplying. I also added a couple of these freshwater but would occasionally come out to graze on them as well. It's best not to add too many fish at once, because so I left things alone for another month or so. A handful o' guppies was just what the tank needed next. There was a lot of water lettuce on the surface and I opted to remove most of 'em. It's all a balancing act, and with a dose of new swimmers The gobies were more confident to come I'd occasionally treat them to some chunks of spirulina algae. I'd even deliver it right to their doorstep, But the guppies would usually come They're famously greedy little guys, so ..and I trained 'em to come to the same The females are big enough to push They were growing very quickly. I tried not to sprinkle food directly onto the gobies, 'cause it was very easy to get them swarmed by everyone else. Any food that sank to the bottom would So I added ten and I left them alone to do their thing, which they happily did, all day, every day. The population of microfauna had and the guppy mothers would just hover around When you fill a shallow tank with stem plants, it doesn't take long for them to pop up for some of that tasty carbon dioxide. I loved all the vibrant colours they brought to my desk, because I wanted an aquarium and not just a garden. With the nitrate cycle pretty much keeping the tank clean, all I have to do is remove some of which is sort of like 'emptying the recycling bin'. You can see the monstera's dropping its bigger leaves Meanwhile, the gobies and corys They comb the so-called 'riverbed' all day in a little squad, helping to sift the waste through the sand, so it'll later get taken care of by the bacteria under the surface. Between the gobies the corys, and the plants, All I've gotta do to keep it going is add food and remove plants. There was one cory though, He'd usually break-away from the team and do I don't know why he does what he does, For hours he'd just sit in his hammock watching the world go by After all, it was the best seat in the house to The tank was finally looking like a It only took me replanting everything three times. The gobies felt safe all the time now, and they In fact, I don't think I've seen one hiding for a long time. One of 'em even moved-in next door to the cory. I spotted a baby fish, just pecking some At first they were just a few at a time, ...and the fry all lived in the forest of plant roots. But they'd always show themselves for food. Eventually they'll grow up and they'll need a new tank to live in. 'Cause there's absolutely no way this one's going