The United States pays more country. They're profiting broken system. Every calculation that I this is not any more a virus has already spread Johnson and Johnson to be splitting into two I am living, have lived and best I can. Revenue from U.S. retail pharmacies reached a The United States pays more country. Drug prices are something that should cost Because of the complicated insurance companies and Millions of people get their pharmacies like CVS, I like to describe it as the most successful health care It's the last provider that going home. Those in the industry say pharmaceutical delivery save money. Patients have a wide array they'd like to go to. to the pharmacy that gives the lowest cost for their But nearly one in four to afford their March 2019 poll by the I'll do whatever it takes to price. They're profiting broken system. It is have. So how did the system of drugs become so pharmacies exist and how money? The business of 1800s was primarily selling drugs on site for their But new technology and mass pivot, pushing them closer know today. Pharmacists equipment to the back of sell other items such as This ushered in what is of pharmacies. If you see a lot of pictures 1800s, early 1900s, these They have elaborate soda They've got marble about the 1920s, 1930s, pharmacy stuff that which was not related to to dispensing, really took pharmacies did for not only revenue in sales, but the When Prohibition went into consumption of alcohol for was allowed, creating a physicians and pharmacists Front of the store business for pharmacies in of pharmacies in the 1930s their sales in dispensing the local bar as a place to Pharmacists use some of create fun flavorings for root beer, Dr. Pepper and Coca-Cola. While they could still medication during this unethical to give out drugs recommendation, often stick and poor era. The 1950s saw another shift A clear legal distinction pharmacists and physicians medication with the passage amendments in 1951. That is the first federal That said, this is a OTC product. There was some substances before that, but Humphrey, there was nothing would stop a pharmacist something without a Physicians, however, medication through the there was a spike in the plans for prescriptions. Physicians, by and large, types of medications that pharmacy, partially because the systems that you need those and all the along with it are just so makes sense for your dispense. This retail model for business. Major drugstores make the majority of their For retailers, the traffic driver. So if you Walgreens in particular, store to get to the And that may mean that you toothpaste or shampoo when pharmacy counter. So it's traffic, it's really a way Cvs recently reported its if you even look at its annual sales, you'll see most revenue of its three Cvs, which held the largest drug market in 2020, billion in total revenue in with 24.7 billion of that long term care businesses, pharmacy benefit management in a minute. Walgreens has the market. It generated during its fiscal third 21.7 billion of it was from In principle, the way be simple buy a product in sell it at a higher price. That's still a competitive negotiations make it more Reason why pharmacies to charge a price that they given third party payer with them. Retail pharmacy prescription above the from any insurance company. That's because an insurance a pharmacy more than they customer. So if the pharmacy is $20 and the the uninsured patient would pharmacy lowered their insurance company would that's what's often called price. So pharmacies always above what they expect to company. People who are benefit of insurance, end on discounted price for There are also organizations managers or PBMs that Pbms are hired by health as an intermediary between of the system. An insurance company in an intermediary whose negotiate what type of costs or coverage would be That middle person access But PBMs are controversial They play multiple roles in So they're also, in many And many of the pharmacists are now competing with the negotiating with for that to be negative. There should be PBMs and the pharmacies, able to say, look, we'll And the PBMs say yes or no, it. The top three PBMs, CVS Express Scripts and X processed about 77% of 2020, according to Drug All of these businesses division. So CVS, through their what Joe's pharmacy or Walgreens we'll get paid. So, yeah, it's a conflict Express Scripts, their mail the largest pharmacies. They also decide what And isn't it interesting try to steer patients from mail order pharmacy? That's not a coincidence. When asked for comment, CVS simplifies health care for clients prescription drug 2020. Express Scripts PBM patients a range of choices their medications, saving Optumrx X declined to My name is Greg Lopez. I work with the Management Association. That is the trade America's pharmacy benefit We don't think that is a think that there is choice pharmacy of their choosing. They're likely going to go them the best experience their medications. You need some kind of intermediary in this I think the question is, Aligned with their clients driving the lowest cost for cost of the patients? Pharmacies themselves are it comes to setting generic Federal regulation on actual there is no antitrust Pharmacies have been at whatever they want. Once third party payers, picture in the 1960s, over pricing. It's at that point where setting a price and having to pay the price or not, this negotiation with the it's totally different than to and their margins on fairly steeply. A lot of people don't know supply and payment chain, are five or six actors. If you look at it really ones driving the cost of State legislators have been pharmacy benefit managers themselves. 42 states have aimed at regulating PBMs. The Supreme Court issued a December 2020 regarding to regulating PBMs. The ruling said that the require PBMs to reimburse rate that is higher or the pharmacies paid for regulations considered at The U.S. Senate Finance in February 2019 to the major PBMs about rising In September 2019, Pallone introduced the Costs Now Act. The House passed the bill but it died in the Senate Former President Donald orders that aimed to lower prescription drugs. The Biden administration date of one of the more January 1st, 2023, rather in 2022. Congress tends to be not taken much action. And as a result, drug There are ways for consumers generic drugs, but it A Consumer Reports secret found that there was a huge of five commonly prescribed retailers. They found that retailers and big box those at large chain One of the lessons for that and find a better pricing. But the independents often pricing, especially for There are also various store that can bring down costs. One way is with something Discount cards are backed with a discount on the There are three primary cards created by a PBM retailer such as Sam's Club brands such as GoodRx X. Here's how they work. A PBM creates a network of that will accept the card pharmacy to offer a The pharmacies agree to pay PBM when the card is used. The discount card vendors agreements with the PBMs to fee. We work actually with every pretty much every major play that role of an give the consumer the best may often not be their Goodrx X collected more than its discount card programs Guru X has just taken the found a way to scale it in scaled, both in terms of in terms of accessing the PBMs at the same time, one grown so quickly is that it or people who have maybe for them an opportunity to or discounted rates managers and insurance Because GoodRx X is a billions of prices into our better prices by not using that you have, but by simply looking at all these consumers can save. Most of the people using some kind of health But when a discount card is bypassing their health insurance network instead. The fact that we have so insurance and using another a problem in how generic consumers who have commercial insurance. If pharmacies receive less a medication and also have how do they benefit from What the discount card tell the pharmacies? Is, card, there would be $0 of The patient wouldn't fill price is too high. By using the discount card, prescription. I'll do consumer find a fair price, but for care as well. Seeing a doctor, etc., it's And so we can try and point PBMs or anyone. The reality is, is they're designed, and if we don't with a better way. But until then, good or X helping consumers navigate all these complicated terms understand, just to simply that they use in every something in health care. I have mixed feelings about I applaud them once they've they bring to consumers. On the other hand, they're fundamentally a broken They can't change the that. But it is we have. Pharmacy serve a vital role A study from July 2020 Medicare visit their physician. What I like to describe it being the point of contact It's the most accessible It's the last provider that going home. So demand and expectations comes to the delivery of A physician is trained to the patient in that way. A pharmacist is indeed the We know the ins and outs of specialties, and it's very single person to understand all of the medications, all insurance information, all regarding managing that The two can't really exist It was January 24th, 2020, knew that COVID 19 was pandemic. Did some calculations and were infected? How many How many people could have How many people could be And every calculation that this is not any more But the virus has already Though it was over a month Health Organization pandemic. Shahi met with co-founder and chief Tureci, and together they the company's resources to It was immediately clear to technology we had, which we developed, could help to Up until that point, focused on developing novel The company was little had never brought a product They were still a small, company, really working on The founders were confident mRNA technology, which they powerful immune response. That confidence wasn't broader medical community. No mRNA vaccine or approved before, but the was actually decades in the We understood that we would it would need innovations to make it really work for But the potential was Shahi and Qureshi, whose Germany from Turkey, met in were working in the cancer southwest Germany. Neither envisioned a career During my time at the medicine, I also started to in a laboratory and that In my perception. Tucci and Shahi both was little they could offer the ward in the lab, they new treatments. I was doing my lab work and system could be a powerful And at a certain time not only laboratory work, develop the therapies and Out of desperation, I become founded companies because I to use innovative research have to do it yourself. The couple had been studying the late 1990s. The function of mRNA is cells how to make specific But because mRNA is very degrades in the body, they way to go before it was At that time point and on it community. So it was like a You see a young talent. You know all the weaknesses to invest a lot of years to So in the meantime, they company, Ganymede Ganymede used a more monoclonal antibodies to the couple sold the company In 2016. It was Germany's biggest By that point, Shahi and years into their second founded the company in they had improved the focus on developing vaccines. Because challenge in cancer cancer is different. The individualized cancer getting the tumor of the tumor, then making a the profile, to the genetic patient's tumor. Unlike traditional vaccines, introduce a weakened your body. Instead, the make a specific virus immune response and produce to fight off a cancer protect against future And while traditional to collect and grow large process that can take much faster to produce. That's because they're made lab, the sequence for which in an instant. It's the most ancient which means that the all the tools to understand terms of messages with The vision and the We're in place. But by the had still not gotten any of approved for use in humans. The company had never IPO'd in 2019, it raised it had hoped for. They were still a small, company, really working on But the world was on the On the day when Shahi already spread around the concerned. Europe had just coronavirus cases, and yet. But after Shahi and in late January, they action. On the weekend, we started sequences and on Monday we them. This could become a have the obligation to do come up with vaccine And already on Tuesday, we the whole team to start the vaccine. We are like in a military The teams were redirected. We never put our cancer So they went on, Why are could really help with the step by step to pick up Lightspeed Biontech. Knew that to successfully manufacture a COVID vaccine need a bigger partner. The company had already having worked with them mRNA based flu vaccine, clinical trials. And so naturally, Biontech We approach Pfizer in early early, because no one was a pandemic. And as everyone else, our really believe that a needed. And the response at no. And I talked with he was saying essentially was really focused on China, at Pfizer's people thinking about developing a Undeterred, Biontech developing not just one but The company started clinical trials in Germany, in humans. By this time, catch on. Covid 19 can be Dow is now down more than As moments ago, the W.H.O. has formally declared the pandemic and now the US. Large events banned in Francisco. As US cases rise Less than a week after the Pfizer agreed to work with up their clinical trials, We had our first patient in It was the first volunteer. And in July we started This was already in which allowed us to move clinical development to the development. So as they were starting designing and figuring out As they were getting into figuring out these massive that they managed to start And the FDA and regulators being incredibly flexible. Over 43,000 participants company's Phase three many vaccinated COVID compared to the Shahi and Qureshi were by vaccine would work at all. We knew that the vaccine is system, but we didn't know able to control the virus. So as a scientist, my great if we have 70% But I was also aware that able to control, we might And getting getting the hearing that we have 95% This was extraordinary, of Hi, my child. And then we And it brought this just be able to start fighting And I think everybody who their lives changed. Over 1.75 billion doses of have been delivered obviously, Biontech is market cap of nearly 60 The company made over $4.5 first two quarters of 2021. As the United States and governments have entered buy hundreds of millions of And Biontech stock has seen January of 2020. In the second quarter alone, billion in revenue. That compares to just about in the second quarter of So this has been a Biontech. In August, the Pfizer first to gain full FDA way for a return to normal But there's still a long Over half of the world the virus is mutating into variants like the Delta through communities Our work on COVID is still a in the company, obviously, long path to go until we supply to ensure that all vaccinated and need to be In September, Pfizer demonstrating that a after the second shot Currently, the FDA has Pfizer Biontech vaccine for populations, such as those My personal opinion is that pandemic and we can't If we if we don't enable of the population stays And then there's the issue Currently, the Pfizer one authorized by the FDA over. Though, the two emergency authorization for clinical trials showed were given one third of the But amidst their ongoing still found the time to Even during the pandemic, we multiple Phase one clinical new concepts not only mRNA immune therapies for the in cancer patients. And we have also initiated cancer vaccines where we care treatments. We are, of course, excited it could be as exciting as Shahi and Qureshi emphasized cancer vaccines, which are has already been diagnosed, lengthier process than vaccine. That's because of cancer patients for their condition over a Still, though, they say from the rapid response to Namely that it's important side, to have sufficient very efficient work on approvals or for drug There are processes which much faster. The question is, can we can other severe diseases? And I believe we have to because if you take, for the time between 2020, patients die with cancer 19. So it is not a Endemic. Chahiye and tureci are They ride their bikes to TV. And while their company employees at the beginning today, it's still minuscule Pfizer, which employs about But what the influx of change is the level to and accelerate its other We have now the chance to cancer immunotherapies. We have the chance to make We have the chance to go in It's also very valuable to assets which we otherwise ourselves, which means I'm and being faster to In July, Biontech acquired platform, as well as its facility. Kite is also immunotherapy products, and that the acquisition will development of novel cell company is expanding beyond In the next few years we will enter into clinical disease vaccines like Continue to work in the Start projects in the Start projects for diseases, and have also regenerative medicine. Since the pandemic began, technologies have raised combined. And according to based biopharma research mRNA based vaccines and The COVID 19 pandemic proof of concept for It showed it really works coronavirus. Now, the really work as a vaccine Will this really work as a Those questions are not yet For their part, Shahi and is just the beginning. I believe that RNA as a transformative for the be used not only for pharmaceuticals, and yet already doing it. I expect that in about 15 products developed will be that will not only include existing products or completely new type of possible only because this And this is of course, this future and to drive medicines with this type of Johnson and Johnson is the company in the US based on It was named number 36 on the largest United States revenue. Johnson and dividend growth for nearly consistently outperformed years. The analyst community has up J and J for years, as companies. Johnson and Johnson to be splitting into two The pharma and a medical be called Johnson and Tylenol, Listerine, They're now separating the pharmaceutical and the I think that's going to shareholder value. But some investors question break up now. The company lawsuits regarding its its role in the opioid J&amp;j also took a hit when Americans receive one of either Pfizer or Moderna, quote, the risk of serious The timing situation is have been very intrigued as Now, Johnson and Johnson is companies in the really seen as a bellwether Why is the largest the U.S. breaking itself And what does it mean for Johnson. And Johnson is business segments Consumer also called MedTech and The consumer business sells Neutrogena. The device side of the company single dose COVID vaccine, replacement materials and Separation right now makes a You're going to have two financial strength and cash objectives that they need for the foreseeable future. Analysts say the split management team to consumer division while New branding and marketing. Strategy of running these very dissimilar to a pharmaceutical business. There's a lot more direct Obviously, the sales and media effort is very It's much less so for the So allowing a management has to be done in order to better revenue growth over think is very smart on Pharma and our medical much more of a business to way that we work through compared to the consumer importantly, where we see future, we feel that now is kind of a move. And again, ultimately it's more patients, more innovation and execute in a It's a somewhat common diverse segments to break Pfizer, Eli Lilly and Merck business structures within spinning off segments into What the market is saying is on their core competencies We've already seen several separating out non-core I think they finally came to they weren't really seeing from having that consumer When you're a conglomerate, various different pieces, probably shouldn't because company are not in. They're not investing the They're not focused the way And so when you separate businesses, we now, as managers, can appreciate businesses are and they do There have been studies Both remain CO and NewCo are on their own. So far, investors reaction with the stock only moving The stock went on to following the announcement. Market hasn't really reacted There are some risks to separating out the consumer investors aren't fully standalone earnings So from a consumer wonder how the consumer companies such as Procter larger, more established Space JNJ business move may different type of investor. You're going to get people and consumer oriented. You'll get them focused on And of course, you're now care. And so you'll get That you finally get a balance of the business is on, good or bad, with the But unfortunately, there's J&amp;J over the past. Call it 5 to 10 years, Johnson and Johnson coming that due to a product COVID 19 pandemic, they 100 different products from all of their talc based Let's not forget that the consumer product, right? And the talc litigation has Johnson and Johnson has legal battles and liability segments of its business. In July 2021, Johnson and that requires the company next nine years due to its crisis. But it's the legal side of the company that attention. More than 20,000 alleging Johnson and resulted in mesothelioma These legal challenges have a slew of headlines coming plaintiffs millions of Johnson and Johnson talc based baby powder in 2020, as demand for the the courts ordered J&amp;J to the baby powder cancer There may be more come as the lawsuits make state by state. I think one of the main trades where it does, which overall, the unknown once I honestly. It's going to liberating. We got it. We figured it out. Whatever the dollar amount and focus again on the medtech business. These may seem like big perspective, J&amp;J reported a billion in 2019 and $14.7 The company reported $19.9 2019 and that number went I don't think the legal to the company's growth I do think there are some We often get questions as is separate consumer that's the case. I think consumer business because changed and the synergies pharma med device are now Johnson and Johnson declined on its decision to ongoing litigation. The company told the Wall 2021 that the lawsuits Johnson's baby powder role in the decision to In October 2021, J&amp;J put separate company which protection. That means it's separate entity from the What they're trying to do is what's actually happening At the remaining J&amp;J, absorb the pain related to situation and then the the rest. So it is something that we before. I think that J&amp;J basically having an all these liabilities and the headline. Risk, if they can create order to not protect the limit the effect it's investors care as long as responsible for paying out Johnson and Johnson's offset one another. The risk to J and J. A longer term is that there pervasive within either consumer business no longer event that if the unit improve. When you think about the business model is evolving historically, there are not require greater investment business. Then I think the there is any hiccup and there the way that it used They're going to obviously of making sure the growth the business continue to be Wall Street has also smoothly the process of Some of the things that the company hasn't given a up cost associated with business, any potential dis implications and exactly this? There are a few other possibility of health care That's why they're so pipeline, because while a to go off patent in a few near-term risk. Your longer we've got a big pipeline, of a streamlined company flows and reinvest and do and grow even stronger. Some analysts were Johnson didn't split into separating its device units. It's a topic of debate, and longer term, if that might pursue. But I think today feel that pharma and med synergies. They talk about are shared from a market businesses and the way that commercialized are still can actually work together But I would say that over potentially make sense. And when I talk to investors tough is it's hard to find broad enough perspective to around. All three device and consumer people of those three segments. I would say that when you most of the analysts attention to and you siphon going to be a positive. I think I'm going to position trying to create that they can. This is one And I think just going to figure out how the whole I think it's very exciting, There are roughly 6 million Alzheimer's in the U.S., a more than double by 2050. The memory robbing disease Americans a year, making it death. Alzheimer's disease is a progressive dementia, where aspects of their cognitive to remember key things. And people. Is not aware of the fact question. Ten times in 10 Well, maybe nine and a half The US has spent billions on been able to develop a drug the disease. We know that it's a costly that cost continues to grow A drug for any company that successfully would be seen Street and a huge gift to Now, one biotech company Alzheimer's tricky code in now sold as AGM. This is an approval for This is a huge stock event. It's a 50% pop on this FDA But Biogen has reported only sales. The company's share Major insurers haven't treatment, which Biogen $56,000 per year. But now the company is 50% to hopefully boost And all of this comes as investigations into its the advice of its own There's been a real mixed because of the lack of supporting whether the drug So the question is who will Who will be monitoring it, and who's going to pay for The US spends roughly $3 dementia research every That's up 360% over the Spending on people with Medicare $599 Billion by The fact is, is that disease of the individual It is a burden on also caregivers as well. In 2020, there are over 11 providing unpaid care for Alzheimer's. That unpaid to their family. I'm Eugenia Zuckerman, and I I'm Dick Novak, retired business. To be able. To take care. Of my wife once I heard she Alzheimer's. Eugenia was Every senior walks around on their forehead, saying, But but this got beyond That's got to, you know, question. A certain amount My daughters were saying to with you. You're not You we have to take you to tested. I said, no way. But of course, I ended up and being looked at very One of the biggest shocks If you go to. Any other specialist give you a medicine for With Alzheimer's, there has prescribed medication. Alzheimer's is a notoriously There are a couple of drugs point, many decades old, of the symptoms associated But in general, they don't So there hadn't been a new almost two decades when nothing out there to try to underlying drivers of the That's where Biogen comes In recent years, its faced growing generic company posted $13.4 six and a half percent drop Researchers designed disease's defining What happens with an there's a faulty cleavage it results in the insoluble and sticky And when this forms, what accumulate in the brain and Surrounding it are signs of brain cell death. So Lilly has a very similar Donanemab, which it has really promising earlier not just that it clears the brain, but also that there But the path to an FDA has been riddled with medicines failed their and in early 2019, AGM In early 2019, Biogen said after it didn't appear to researchers began to doubt benefit Alzheimer's Nobody has has shown that Alzheimer's disease, and shown to be the only cause because there are also accumulate in the There have been a lot of developed for Alzheimer's like Aducanumab have So none of those drugs have But eight months later, reversal. The company one of those trials showed cognitive function for even though the other trial Biogen forged ahead with an The Alzheimer's Association approval at this point, science that we saw leading And that has continued to this drug, but in the total seeing. I didn't think there was that there was that the In addition to that, you the fact that the the observed, even in that one extremely small effect Harvard University's Dr. Aaron Kesselheim sat on an overwhelmingly voted And then when you take into the drug was associated bleeding in about a third many of those patients it didn't seem like the very conflicting evidence of substantial risks. But instead of following the used a special method known for AGM. The FDA approved of removing amyloid from slowing dementia. Often we see drugs get approval pathway for Usually it's on pretty well So if you can shrink a over time, that will result survival. So it was kind of like the FDA saying hypothesis, even though the still in disagreement about During the advisory had explicitly said that the, you know, approving basis of its effect on And so then when the FDA and it approved the drug on amyloid plaque alone, it what it had said six months Well, accelerated approval pathway by the US FDA. So there is nothing new or We are able to gradually that is affecting the Alzheimer's disease. I think this is Kesselheim and two other FDA's committee shortly I stand ready to try to help decision making process in wrong with it. But, you know, I do think additional investigation to on here. Now that we have seen the approved treatment and horizon, we need to make benefit from it have access The FDA's approval sent over 60% from the first day Wall Street expected billions of dollars every Of the estimated 6 million 2 million of them would be to take Aduhelm. Except just 120 clinics are far from the 900 Biogen running. So when this drug was expectation that thousands would be lining up to get And as we've seen Biogen it's really turned out to Aduhelm only made 300,000 quarter. That was far from Street was expecting. So after the approval, a lot by the process itself and And at least one has been opened by Maloney and Frank Pallone those issues. According to a report from held a close relationship revive aging home after it When asked for comment, the company to participate thorough, collaborative, understand its trial data. A lot of that focused on a executive had with the head Division at the FDA. They met at a scientific sort of talked potentially a future. You know, meetings between you know, is normal and is know, to be able to about the process of drug it more efficient. But, you know, I think it's when those meetings happen, around them and that there the existence of those You know, the fact is, is and we seem to be getting around the approval Shortly after the report, Janet Woodcock requested an into her own agency. The FDA told CNBC they were comment, given the Office of the Inspector committed to overseeing the approval process. Biogen's initial decision agent infusions at about criticism. That was, by some estimates, lot of folks expected. And on top of that will be a monthly infusion as well the serial MRIs that need However, with sales lagging, Agent Helmsley's price by 2022. If we knew this was going to mortgage on the house. I loss of of memory would be Meanwhile, major insurers debating whether to amyloid targeting Under the drug's previous The agency running Medicare were set to rise in 2022 by Alzheimer's treatment. Medicare, of course, is the the elderly. And so a lot be influenced by this expected early next year influential. And of course, with that coverage for the the infusion, coverage for As part of your home's through an additional study actually slows patients Initially, when they got the Biogen CEO Michele Thanasis said they had up to nine confirmatory result. We will be in a position to data that hopefully will of action. After that, it was reported how long they said that on it. We agree that nine for answers related to this Biogen has since cut its which is set to enroll 1300 four. Once it kicks off in confident in Adam's long Biogen is trying to rapidly centers and improve amyloid costs for patients. The company believes it can with Helm's newly lowered But the drug's delayed Biogen, which is now about $500 million in 2022. The company has another treatment known as Larkana testing, but its clock is Competitor Eli Lilly filed treatment donanemab with for an approval as early as It is exciting to the first treatment, but the fourth in the pipeline. The vast majority of the about Aducanumab or Aduhelm thoughtfully to the answers So a lot of them are the start of the new era in disease. And in the near effective and safe and medications. In terms of this new drug, If if only there are a way our minds that it works. But I don't want to jump I don't want to make a We're all going to die. But for someone who knows sooner than they'd like to, very different. I can remember moments of wonderful. I hope I get a moments. I feel as if I am to continue to live. Best I can.