If there's one thing I hear time and it's that most of you would rather And I can't say I blame you. After all, up until now, most of printers on the market have been, well, Messy resin spilling everywhere, punctured imperfect settings and print failures. So, so many print failures. So when HeyGears reached out and told printer and then offered to sponsor a show it to all of you, I was intrigued. Even, dare I say, cautiously optimistic. That's because unlike most of the tried in the past on this channel into the 3D printing market, has An approach that has led some prominent the Bambu Lab of resin 3D printers. And say what you want about Bambu Whether it's software, printing directly that make maintenance really, really barrier to entry for FDM 3D printing. So while I'm not a big resin or miniatures my curiosity got the best in the year. Could this finally be the resin printer A printer that I could actually for complete beginners? Will I actually achieve more than I just had to find out. Unfortunately, due to the situation shipping this thing was going to be But fortunately for me, and of course really went above and beyond going back she did manage to actually coordinate all the display printers at their booth And also, fortunately for me, the folks to fly me out and put me up in a hotel, really, really expensive right now. So, with all of that, it was what Hey Gears has cooked up. Let's get after it. The big question on my mind was this: Unlike resin printers, which can have motion systems, resin printers are You have a light source, a screen, So how is it that HeyGears is able to increased print success rates, improved Well, as I understand it, when before playing with it, there are First, HeyGears has basically waged can cause layer lines, but apparently, sooner, can also cause the types of come to associate with resin 3D printing. They do this by focusing on quality motors, but also by simple stuff and alignment during assembly. The result is that even in a 50 kilo test, build plate and moving up and down 10,000 96 percent accuracy within one micron, and So to put that into perspective, a is either five or ten microns and that's So yeah, this printer is accurate than just super accurate dimensions Now, they also do a significant on the light source itself. Now, you might think that an LED there are tiny variations in each that are brighter than others. And even those very, very tiny variations differently in one area versus another. So, HeyGears did something They actually calibrate every single replacement screens that you'll need And then they encode that information replace the screen, that new calibration I guess to kind of understand this, or Phaetus had a slightly different For example, the thermistor read was ever so slightly different So imagine if to combat this, those into an RFID tag that the printer would temperatures or flows accordingly. Now, this is theoretically what doing when they RFID-encode filament on the actual printer hardware itself. What's more, this printer is smart - smart dumb and inexperienced user like myself. It features 8 different sensors within displacement sensors, as well as a Z real time data to the printer, so it can different points throughout the print. So, if, for example, at a certain point cross section or a chance of increased peel that layer away, the printer will instead of you losing the entire print. In fact, it will even apply reinforced prevent the model from detaching and But the final piece of According to HeyGears, they drew on nine perfectly calibrate each component of the Everything from the dedicated slicer and even their official resin Of course, that doesn't mean that you you do use HeyGears' own resins, you can time to perfectly, absolutely perfectly, photo-curing reaction efficiency, and So for example, the RS will adjust z axis based on the geometry being printed with to just one standard Z axis compensation normal budget printer, which inevitably, from the build plate and failing. And yeah, once again, this reminds me the best results generally do come own profiles for their own filament. Oh, also, for those of you who are in, the build volume is 222x122x230mm. But that's enough of the geeky tech specs. What's the user experience like? After all, like I said before, resin typical budget machines, can be Fortunately, for me and for HeyGears' machine does feature automatic resin need to deal with pouring resin through It also has automatic residue detection itself from the kinds of damage that I much every resin printer I've ever tested. It'll even notify you of print Now, I hate to belabor the point, why people out there are comparing On the software side, HeyGear's slicer is more approachable to successfully print. It allows you to do everything from And their claim is that the in their 19th revision, are actually But as a resin novice, what I am perhaps click slice&quot; feature, which is intended models with no intervention from you. And that's a good thing because I really it's a big part of the reason why I and why my prints almost always fail. The last thing I'll add It can print layers as fast as 4.3 honestly, I was under an insanely done with all the travel I was doing. I needed to figure out how to use try this thing out and print a bunch of the video, then post process them, all all of FormNext, fulfill my obligations B-roll, and of course, dodged all the It was really intense and really glad that I didn't need to babysit Okay guys, it is 8:21 on The show actually hasn't opened. And I just gave them, I threw at them, detailed model I possibly could. And then we just hit one click slice one click slice thing already works. It was so easy. It reoriented everything So I'm honestly going to be not if it doesn't work perfectly. But we're going to come back in a Okay. It's been about three hours. I have pretty much all the UltraCraft And I can't believe I'm saying this, No failures, no issues, no mess. All my prints are, they're just printing. Imagine that. Okay, FilaFam, let's talk. Seven hours ago, I fired off this print put a bunch of models in the software. And then I hit one click slice. And I kind of didn't believe that But it looks like everything I'm a little bit shocked. And now, uh, we're going to wait build plate, and wash and cure. Are you guys ready to see what I printed? So it is now five o'clock and models that I wanted to print. Albeit, we had to scale them down. Apparently, a shipment of So, uh, after I printed all this like, wow, the quality is really good. They're like, yeah, imagine this wasn't prototyping resin. And I was like, what do you mean? Apparently a shipment So, uh, I can't use too much more resin. I might do some more prints later, but, seeing on the screen is there prototyping Now, I also do want to talk Uh, I came into this Obviously, this is a sponsored a whole review here about it. But I'll just share what happened, which stressed that in the tight timeline we the booth in perfect conditions and Sam are not great, uh, conditioned machines. They've been shipped across been touching them all day. These are not lab conditions. I was a little bit worried that we failed print, that the auto orient click slice wasn't going to work. And every challenge I threw at it, one, didn't break, massive models that like half a kilo, very detailed models. Basically everything I've thrown at but it has done it with one click. I didn't manually intervene at Uh, you can tell that on some of The tools were with, I think the resin, pick to pick out some of the sports, And, uh, I don't think I'm ever going to again, if I get one, because this is I don't want to learn I don't want to learn how to do supports. I don't want to learn about curing times. And even I'll say, I was shocked The supports came off so easily. And, uh, the amount of curing on the model came off so well that actually just the supports on some of the models. Like I pulled it out of the, out of had just detached by themselves. It really is one click easy I'm gonna show some footage of capable of because that apparently But um, I can legit say sponsored by what this machine is capable of. And uh, I really, really, really want one. All right, FilaFam, let's take a quick the room because I can already hear Yes, this is a kind of walled garden slicer, their own line of resins that a lot of people in consumer 3D printing and that may be your choice this is an ecosystem for you. For me personally, I have long avoided have because I'm frustrated with trying to energy to calibrate each individual resin, and I just don't want to learn it. I don't enjoy it like I I want to use a resin printer any other tool in my workshop. For me, resin is not a hobby, And personally, I'm much happier to my time and not have to use 50 percent For me, I'm super happy and grateful really high quality, really reliable make it much more accessible than the dollar-machines that I'm probably But I would love to hear in the Do you think this is a great Or would you rather have more flexibility, I read pretty much every single So, what's it cost? The HeyGears UltraCraft Reflex RS is doesn't come sin at the kind of premium It costs $999, or you can pick up wash and cure station for $2,107. But, if you're watching this during go down to $799 and $1,741, which special price, but also an extra At those prices, high quality, reliable been this affordable and approachable. So, check out the link in the There's also a pulsing release upgrade, and a range of resins So thanks again to HeyGears for me the opportunity to check out I really had fun learning about what check everything HeyGears has to offer That's all for this week, but i'll