Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back with This time, we're rebuilding here on of the Mediterranean coastline, Italy's Cinque Terre. The Cinque Terre is five beautifully isolated of the Italian Riviera. For me, the best bits of Italy and in this unique mix of there's not a Fiat in sight. We'll explore five rugged, ride a wine train make pesto in its birthplace, dive from spectacular cliffs... Whoo! Buy flowers from [Singing in Italian] And hike, soaking up than you can imagine. In the south of Europe and between Florence and Genoa We'll see starting in Vernazza. Then we hike to Corniglia, Manarola, and Riomaggiore before catching the boat to Monterosso al Mare. The Cinque Terre, was originally described as &quot;the five castles.&quot; Tiny communities in the protective shadows their people ready at the first hint As the threat of pirates faded, with economies based on fish, Today, the big employer Each rugged little town is a a well-whittled pastel jumble These days, the castles, which used to protect the towns guard only glorious views. This 10-kilometer stretch is the rugged alternative to the more glitzy The traffic-free charm is a happy result Just sun, sea, sand -- For me, this is Italy For a home base, choose Each has a distinct gently and steadily out of the difficult terrain. You approach the Cinque Terre through long, dark tunnels. Explosions of Mediterranean hint at the wonders to come. Milk-run trains tie and to the outside world. The first train line this tough, mountainous was an engineering marvel It was carved out just after the unification Built with the same determined this train line literally the newborn country's We start in Vernazza, is the hourly arrival bringing an almost rhythmic There's one main street. It runs from its train station down to the sea. Of the five towns, Vernazza has the closest thing The old castle no longer says Instead, it seems to welcome Settle into a comfy spot Study the arrangement man over the last 15 centuries. Crumpled hills come a terraced, green bouquet of cactus, grapevines, blanketing Each town is honeycombed apartments, and small hotels. Rentable private rooms, are the best values This gang rented a place and a small This couple chose a perch [Bell ringing] The adjacent church bells but thanks to an agreeable they're silent In Vernazza, where you'll find a kids' beach, and a wealth of cafes Like a breakwater keeps out the waves at the bottom a gate stops traffic No cars enter this village except early on Tuesdays for the weekly While most tourists villagers, some who've never do their shopping. The mobile market serves The flower stand For 20 years of Tuesdays, the Lombardo family And the son, Eros, florist by sells flowers with [Singing in Italian] [Applause] The people of these towns They brag that, while big-time the Cinque Terre The families remain tight, Until the coming these towns were very remote and heavily dependent Even today, While nothing small-scale fishermen working their nets And each day, restaurateurs to keep their diners And each of the five villages a distinct dialect. Every village What's an example? Example, for talk in Vernazza is &quot;Sposato.&quot; And if you're married &quot;Accompagnato.&quot; Very different. So when you hear somebody, you Yes, sure. From the main street, to a series of narrow-stepped These zigzag every which way. In the densest parts of town, these lanes became If you keep climbing, you'll pop out up at the top handy for fleeing attacks. The castle is nicknamed &quot;the place of loud screams,&quot; from its tower A tower has stood guard Visitors climb to the top and to imagine past raids. Today, the castle functions a perch from which local [Cheering] And a restaurant. And the fort's lowest deck for a romantic meal. For a sweet dessert wine, sip It's served with biscotti, Savor the view But this hints that the weather's Mammoth waves can And as photos inside attest, winter storms can engulf Life here is subject to and the people know the weather by the wind. -&quot;Bellissima giornata. It is nice. Yes, but I think that Yeah, why? Because we have now a wind from Normally, the seas Then, after &quot;scirocco&quot;, called &quot;libeccio&quot;. And that storm come in -So, from Libya, -From Syria... STEVES:&quot;Scirocco&quot;. Yes, yes. And, normally, we have, the wind from the north, STEVES:&quot;Tramontana&quot;. This wind coming down from You'd be, again, -Good for the tourists. So if you know the wind... In Cinque Terre, you don't need the weatherman. But the weatherman was no help when a freak rainstorm hit Like many towns Vernazza paved over the stream in order to build this The city was buried in an angry With the steep hillside the flash flood containing the town's stream. While every street-level the townsfolk have rebuilt and are careful to keep their for the next episode Vernazza has recovered, and its main square finest restaurants. And we're settling down for the pasta with pesto and anchovies. MAN: &quot;Gnocchi con pesto&quot;. The pesto is a local sauce, the region where we are now. When you come here, Basil, which loves this awaits its fate in the mortar. Fresh garlic, sea salt, and toasted pine nuts get Then the basil is added. Gradually, into a rich, green sauce. Like so many Italian dishes, virgin olive oil The pesto is finished with And then it's Tonight, we're enjoying it [Laughs] The most typical &quot;Acciughe&quot;, or anchovies, served the day they're caught. If you've always the harsh, cured-in-salt try them here, fresh and cooked -&quot;Acciughe&quot;. &quot;Grazie&quot;. From each town stretches The ingenious monorail wine carries workers where small family vineyards The Cinque Terre takes pride Traditional farming techniques with modern know-how, as the delicate vines in anticipation Historically, each family With the lure it's not easy to keep these labor-intensive but those who appreciate seem determined These hillsides have been Someone, perhaps after drinking a bit calculated that has over 4,000 miles Built without mortar, they require regular The dry stone masons are famed for their skill and preserving the trails And the craft survives with skilled artisans [Bell ringing distantly] All five villages are connected much enjoyed by visitors. From Vernazza, along the coast and through One of the essential is to get out and hike. The trails are rough Sure, there are plenty but with these views, The village of Corniglia, sparkles in the distance. Corniglia, the one town feels more remote With a church overlooking A couple of restaurants, and a handful it has a relaxing vibe. Since Roman times, Corniglia has been noted To this day, a little wine in their cellar, and if you manage you'll enjoy an education &quot;-Quanti litri qui? 54 liters, that's a lot. &quot;Vino della Cinque Terre.&quot; &quot;No, vino della Corniglia.&quot; &quot;-Corniglia o Cinque Terre. [Speaking Italian] STEVES: At the windy end a breathtaking lookout perched From here, you can scout and see your next stop, Manarola. There's one main path, Trails can be congested. Minimize crowds and heat by hiking early or late. As the area is you'll pay a nominal and enjoy and a more pristine Whether strolling enjoying wide-open vistas, or pausing for on your own private rock, the hike is a delight. Manarola is petite a tumble of buildings above a craggy port. The tiny harbor, does double duty, serving both fishermen Whoo! Cliff-diving for beginners In the Cinque Terre, and that includes the dead. I'm joining my friend Monica to the cemetery perched Ever since Napoleon, who crowned himself king of declared cemeteries people in these villages have buried their loved ones The result -- dramatically situated With evocative photos and finely carved any are worth a visit. In cemeteries like these, while most are in niches The sanctuary is quietly busy with locals remembering When you come to the cemetery, MONICA: Yes, my family, I know everyone here. STEVES: So, do you have MONICA: Yes, here I have STEVES: Ah, Licardi. Armando. MONICA: My grandfather STEVES: Each one is It has a personality. MONICA: Exactly. Every one, want the people, And people are coming -No, every week. Every week, to cry when you are here. You are happy with the people of your family, Lina is the first She rent room, for the first Here is an American boy. STEVES: Look at that, MONICA: Exactly, exactly. And Lina is waiting in the main Here I have Massimo STEVES: This is your husband's Exactly. They died, both, in one week. Within one week. And here I have my cousin, Sauro. STEVES: Oh. The flood came MONICA: Exactly. And they found Sauro in France. In France. Manarola is connected by the Via Dell'amore, It's the easiest and a good place your own private piece Enjoying this stroll, so many artists and romantics The next town hides Riomaggiore, while bigger than the towns is another cozy collection The tangle of pastel houses as if someone The colors of these villages by a commissioner of good taste For those hiking the trails, an ideal snack Focaccia originates here, in the region of Liguria. The baker stretches dough roughs it up with finger holes, adds a few simple ingredients, drizzles olive oil, and splashes it Hot out of the oven, the focaccia comes and is a local favorite for a quick snack to go. &quot;-Grazie. -Ciao. While you can hike or ride you can also catch the boat. If the weather's calm, hourly boats link After a hike, it's fun There's Manarola. And Corniglia, And from my boat, I can almost Last stop for this boat, of our Cinque Terre tour This is the most With cars, larger hotels, and the best beach around. If you want the kind of beach when you hear the word you'll find it here. Warm water, plenty of bodies soaking up and an inviting promenade. Complimenting Monterosso's is Restaurant Miky. And my son, Andy, is joining us for the region's most elegant While tourism has brought even high-end places The father, Miky, with an impressive mix Meanwhile, help wait tables Miky's pasta is cooked capped with pizza dough and finished Sara is bringing us and making sure we know -It's delicious. When our pasta arrives the steamy aroma heralds [Laughs] And to cap a great meal, chef Miky drops by our traditional &quot;Complimenti. From the beach resort half a tunnel leads under the castle Here you'll find more characteristic shops, and a world of colorful lanes. Sure, it's touristy, caters to visitors' needs, but there's a low-key ambience that we're all so let's enjoy the moment. It's &quot;aperitivo&quot; time, and as everywhere in Italy families are out, children enlivening One tradition that thrives is that special time when enjoying the cool Back in Vernazza, I'm enjoying the -&quot;Buonasera&quot;. STEVES: A stroll here, especially with a local friend gives a good insight into this a community that since all of us &quot;Mi scusi!&quot; Ciao, Antonio. [Laughs] There's my friend. Does this bench have -Uh, yes. [Speaking Italian] [Laughter] Italy's Cinque Terre of nature, culture, Well-worn locals, and inviting, Sure, the place is now but I have never seen happier, While the Cinque Terre the storms of the modern world, the region's charms as its people are resilient. [Bell ringing] And even today, the fishermen at sea and the grape pickers look back at their village, and they know Italy Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Ciao.&quot; If you know the wind... If you know the wind you don't need a weatherman. [Laughing] Sorry. No. That's perfect! CAMERAMAN: All STEVES: I'm going where Stay drunk all the time In Cinque Terre, [Laughing]