So, did you ever want to create charts in Excel something I've been hearing a lot when I chat that's what we're going to do today. We're from The Economist in Excel, and we're going before we get started, a quick thanks goes but more on them later. Let's get Here we have a bar chart that compares the number and the United States. Notice something is The titles for each category are on top and not on it's easier to connect each category with right? You can make it more compact. But most vary a lot. Some are in hundreds and some we kind of break up this chart so it looks and it helps avoid confusion. So, let's see So here we have the same numbers, just the context company that's sourcing parts from China and the Let me just push this to the side. First thing I'm and insert a stacked bar chart, the 100% stacked is the other way round. I want &quot;Battery Cells&quot; to Format Axis, and select &quot;Categories in reverse remove what we don't need. I'm going to delete the Let's bring up the legend and place it right here. China, this was a red color, so let's go to Fill this was a gray color, let's go with this one. one of these series, right-mouse click, Add want these labels to be right aligned. So let's label position, select &quot;Inside End&quot;. We're going For these, instead of &quot;Inside End&quot;, we want them and make them white. So far so good. Now let's add is to remove the current axis. I'm just going to titles. This is an important step. Okay, select a text box, and then draw it out where you want inside the text box, click on the text box to type in an equals, and then reference the so why did I tell you to select a chart first that's because when you do that, the text box group it together, you can move this chart and replicate this. So just select a text box, hold hold down Ctrl, drag, and let's do that two we just have to correct the cell referencing. So this one is going to be A7, let's expand this, this one is A9. Okay, that's it. All we need this right here and our chart is done. to the cells, if they happen to change, they're Next chart is this one. It's typically referred to it's great for cases when you want to emphasize periods. Here we have men's life expectancy at the to 2020. Now something we have to keep in mind if also go the other way, right? So we could be worse something we have to keep in mind, whatever well. So let's say you work in the HR department for these different departments. Optimally your previous year, but unfortunately things could go chart to plot this. To make sure we can handle all plot. A scatter plot needs numbers for both the I have my category labels. These are not numbers, basically, I'm just going to get their position this down, and I have my indexes here. Now, let's because Excel is going to come up with a crazy and insert a scatter plot. Now, we have an empty Add, Series Name. First one I'm going to add is values, these are my percentages, Y values, but because a scatter plot needs numbers, I'm let's add our second series, that's the 2024 are my positions, and OK, OK. Next let's add our between my before and after. So let's calculate and let's send this down. Okay, so how do we add separate series, instead, I'm going to select my it. So go to the plus here and place a check mark so select them, press Delete. Now, select the them. For the direction, I want them to go the don't want a cap, that's that little line here, we to go with Custom and specify the value ourselves. For the negative error bars, we are going to connected with one another. Now, let's take care don't want to see these numbers, right? We want to that plots a dot at every point along this axis. right? So I'm just going to put zeros everywhere going to add a new series, Select Data, Add, to plot everything right here along this line, exactly where we want to have these labels. Click Add Data Labels. Select the data labels, go and Label Options, we're going to go with &quot;Value From and OK, and uncheck the Y value here. Now it vertical axis, the original one that we had, and can get our labels in there. Now, we don't really want, but I just want to hide them. So right-mouse they have an outline, let's get rid of the outline We can improve on it by making these lines a as well. To do that, select them, right-mouse Under Marker for Marker Options, Built-in, you we can adjust the color, so I'm going to go with have the dark orange for the after. Okay, let's Format them, under Fill Options for Built-in, I'm we have our before and after. You also have the lines, so we don't have to go with the default, we it thicker, so it looks like a bar, right? All chart. Let's bring down the plot area and type in going to format &quot;2023&quot; to be the same color as my should be in this darker orange and make it bold. Now, it's one thing to create your charts in you need to create charts or present charts in it can be a real challenge to make them look who spends over 3 hours per week in PowerPoint, because this add-in can help you reduce the time Think-Cell is also well known in the business trust Think-Cell with their presentations. With charts in PowerPoint. You get to link your Excel choose which slides you want to update manually elements from one convenient menu, which makes to deliver mistake-free presentations. Now another on your charts in PowerPoint by just clicking you get to add in more information to your to understand the data that you're presenting. If big chunk of your time. With Think-Cell, it's here's the best part: because Think-Cell their add-in completely free for 30 days. Just taking your presentations from good to great The next visual is this one right here. It's I thought it's a heat map, but it's not a heat different categories. So what we have here is the centigrade. &quot;Almost never&quot; is really dark &quot;Common,&quot; and we have these different countries. and here's an idea I came up with. We have the looking at the estimated frequency of complaints departments and these different years. Now not dynamic. If you take a look at what's inside you can see our values are right here. Then I've format each of these based on the cell's value. it's not as compact and neat as the version that replicate that, and that's what we're going to do that became recently available in Excel. Plus, to come in in this format, right? Where you're year, and complaints. So I formatted this data our visual to be fully dynamic. If new data is to update automatically. These are my different separate color and shape. Now it's up to you these shapes in PowerPoint just because I Shape and draw this out. So a shape that looks shape fill. I'll use the eyedropper and select you have the shape, you can right mouse click that for these four different categories. Next, go to Insert, Illustrations, Pictures, Place in Hold down Ctrl, select all of them, and click I'm going to bring them and include them as a I want to see the picture. Okay, so use the lookup function of your choice. Mine this range. Let's fix the referencing so the return array is going to be this range. press Enter. And because I'm using a table, my So now I have the right shape associated with each and create our visual. I'll start right here. going to use the UNIQUE function and let's just Enter. Up here, I want to have the unique list UNIQUE function and reference the Year column. And but I want them in the columns. So I'm going to we're going to bring in the shapes. So again, I'll go with XLOOKUP. My lookup value is now the to select Department, but because I'm working with an ampersand to connect it with the Year column, which means I'm referencing a spilled range. My Year. Right? I have to follow the same order. So I want returned? The Category. Close the bracket. and across, right? That's my visual right there. over here. I can add in the legend by copying icon. I get to pluck these images out of the to more size options, you can uncheck &quot;Lock aspect then you can place them wherever you need to and forward to where I've done this, and this here is also the fact that it's dynamic. So let's say we I'm just going to paste it in. Notice the Unfortunately, IT is also not having with the IT automatically updated. How cool is that? That's in Excel. If you want to get the template, new Business Charts course where we're going to in Excel. Many thanks goes to Think-Cell for thank you for watching all the way to the end,