Hi everyone, I'm I'm at 'L'Arcangelo' in Prati, with my friend Stefano Callegari. Hello Arcangelo, hi to all the friends of ItaliaSquisita. the suppli, or surpris - surprise totem, what do you say Romano? It is probably the oldest in Rome because all in tell of these Napoleon troops which and brought from Neapolitan which in short is a kind of brother to the Sicilian cooked this ball of rice, a surprise came because upon opening it, there was The etymology is 'surprise' in French. When the elders used to say, And today we are here classic Roman suppli with sausage and dried porcini we're cooking something Roman together. Definitely, yes. So, the fundamental an hour in advance giblets, we're also adding some freshness, I like it, balsamic. Did you identifying mark, of identity are wild fennel. Normally someone bay leaf, rosemary, That's also possible. Maillard's reaction, meaning the sealing, in this case. I think it's enough. Let it evaporate. Now, as soon as we will add some water to level and we'll cook it for about an hour. Let's lower the heat. lukewarm. Yes, yes - Let it dry on at the end we will the giblets are an hour, an hour sage and dried porcini mushrooms. I choose to cook mushrooms this way because they give me that crunchiness, that additional chewiness that I then find in the meat anyway, in the giblets and in the sausage. Very that the butter has fry a little, for 5 minutes, And at the end, a little salt. So, Arcangelo these here - Now I would take them off the heat so just barely, because we Absolutely. And in the meantime sausage, right? the main flame, let's give it time. Did you say one and a half? proportions. I'm peeling it, okay? Ok, then we'll break it apart by hand inside here. Here it is. to give it a bit of kindness by adding a drizzle Let's leave some Perfect. We won't touch it. brown underneath, we'll turn it, toast, very slowly, because later on I'll put it back here. chopped these up, we'll incorporate these. Yes, you will. I do. And these ones, So, you want to feel them Yes, you want to feel them. For the giblets, you use the stomach that is open and cleaned, According to you, is it that these giblets the one that is given give us this this classic suppli. So now I would chop these mushrooms. Let's say we chop them, as again, they have to keep their consistency. I'm adding them here. There is minimal liquid. and let the salt dissolve a little. When the salt has dissolved, 20 seconds, we will add I'll give it the usual stir - 2-3 minutes dried porcini mushrooms. These it takes on a minimum of softness. We just need it to give some aroma. sage. receive the tomato. already ready. transfer this into another contraption, which Arcangelo, what happens then? we said, these giblets, Once cooked, we add the browned sausage we combine this fried in butter and sage, in short cooked cut in half, as well. Then we add a previously so we don't overcook the whole base. It's a tomato that, as you always tell me, fresh tomatoes and in the in short, you prepare this base, it's ready to add. minutes and we risotto that will become suppli. In this case you doesn't toast, because it is its maturing - more or less. inside the sauce? tomato sauce, temperature, it must be making big bubbles. If you want to this name, you must make The rice with its hides sapidity, flavors, greasiness, always be a little exaggerated, otherwise - slowly for 15 minutes. heat and leave it for another pour into this pan to let it cool, but not all of it. as possible, right? almost in contact, steel plate. Leave it there, add Parmigiano twice while it's cold, this way. because you add cheese always off the flame. hot, nor too cold. get your hands dirty and feel the temperatures. moment, the rice is room temperature or cold. these famous egg-shaped balls. I'm taking 80 grams and fiordilatte from Agerola. whole stick or do you chop it? I always add the whole stick. A whole long stick. would be a phone-like stringiness. because I'll let out that oil that's left and then I'll start to work them this way. comes out a little, because otherwise it stays too moist this is perfect. egg and bread. breadcrumbs. nice and soft. With an suppli, something breadcrumbs is More or less 10 grams. breadcrumbs, do you always use the bread that is served at the table? bread by Roscioli. I don't want to oven because it dries Instead I want to leave it plain, so I leave the bread for two days at temperature in moisten a little. which shreds it, somewhat like a cutter. Look at this, do you like how some In the end, this bread in this way has a double function: the waterproofing from and at the same time fundamental. Fried if it doesn't have crunch, better, only the part of the succulence, the fat. Obviously if you don't have so the whole game is in there. How is the consistency? and soft. Then we need to fry these suppli. Suppli must be fried by immersion, in a great sunflower seed oil at 175degC for approximately 3 minutes. We're frying them with is specifically based on high There are natural which allow you to use it taking on particular taste of the product is protected. We try to maintain the shape is important Do I lower it? Then what I'll do is, I'll leave it there for these 175degC work. the mozzarella or fiordilatte, gets stringy at 146-148degC. In my opinion, it's done. let's do the test! a nice drop... You can also turn And it doesn't break. Here it is. Wonderful! Can you smell it? It's the aroma That's the nice thing. test to see if it's greasy or not. It stays dry. The hallmark of good frying is dryness. I really really like them. What do we do? Come on, let's taste it. above and I open it. this goblet? Let's do it this way. I'll open one of these. I opened it, you see? I'll eat one from the top, It's so good. the bite of giblets. obsessed with consistency, with crunch. For example, even this mozzarella, it stayed soft. The mozzarella must be stringy, but it doesn't have to be extraordinarily a pressed dough, a stringy dough extraordinarily stringy. So the quality index do you know how many people Do you want a kilometer long string? I mean, it must be melting, have softness, its own consistency... Flavor. Listen, we addressed this topic... It's been a beautiful journey, the Roman suppli. we are waiting suppli together, right? Ciao! 'Rice, the Italian way' is the new book by ItaliaSquisita, which all its versions, total and obviously Arcangelo and I are also involved with our suppli.