NOAM basically pure engineering. It's designed in such a way that in principle, they can't cognitive processes, generally. They can but the very design ensures that you'll any contribution to science. That's not a CRAIG one of the preeminent intellectuals of our time. understanding and application in the field of has shifted from a science aimed at understanding on creating useful, but not necessarily neural nets truly mirror how the brain functions He also suggests that advanced alien structured similar to our own. Chomsky's 94, and I reached him at his home where he appeared You're in California. NOAM I'm in Arizona, which is on California time. CRAIG you because you have the, you know, one of the few and natural language processing, that has the to where we are and what that might mean for the learning and what large language models are not the, the underpinnings of language. But I thought developed. I mean, going back to Minsky's thesis turned against the perceptron, when he was talking processes in the brain. And then, you know, what were the failures that didn't get to where, to go. And then, and then I have some other NOAM Suppose you're interested in Biological problem. So, one thing study in detail what the desert ants are solar azimus, so on and so forth. Something else build an automobile, which can navigate. Fine Well, those are the two forms of artificial it's now kind of ridiculed as good NOAM Okay. Like an airplane does better than an That's possible. But it's a difference Roughly speaking, science and engineering. It's Either you're interested or you're just interested in building Those are both fine occupations. Nothing wrong language models, that's not correct. I'm Captions are based on deep learning, clever they're very helpful to me. No criticism. this explains language. You tell them, it's kind It's the wrong question. It's not intended intended to be for a useful purpose. That's fine. has departed to basically pure engineering. It's in such a way that in principle, they can't cognitive processes, generally. They can produce design ensures that you'll never understand, That's not a criticism, any more CRAIG says that, you know, his goal was to understand AI as we know it today, supervised learning but that are not his goal or not the goal of Was there a point at which you think the going on that people aren't paying attention to other kinds of neural nets? NOAM Well, first of all, if you're interested in how does it work by neural nets? That's an open that argues that neural nets are not what's Sure, there's arguments that go back to slow as compared with ordinary, there's much cognitive neuroscientist, has given pretty don't have the ability to capture computational capacity, they just don't have the capacity is in much richer computational systems very rich computational capacity goes way beyond this. So, if you're interested in the brain, Not just saying, can I make bigger neural net? own place to look? So, the first question is, open question in neuroscience. If you take a vote that neural nets are the right place to look. But CRAIG one of the things that's obvious is, and they may mimic a portion of brain activity. NOAM the brain, way down to the cellular level. There So maybe you'll learn something by everybody will be happy. But maybe that's not the things like just memory and associations. There to large cells in the hippocampus. Internal, which where there's vastly more computational capacity. wrong with trying to construct models and seeing CRAIG which is kind of the rage in the engineering results. I mean, what was your reaction when you that it's just sort of a clever, stochastic NOAM you can see it's like, an airplane explaining it's immediately obvious, trivially obvious, not a The reason is very simple. The large learning that children can't acquire, as for the languages came along and said, I got a great new theory possibly exist. A lot that can't possibly exist, I mean, that's it's not a contribution to biology The first minimal condition is distinguish between can't do that, it's not a contribution to that proposal you'd just laugh. Why shouldn't Valley says the same thing? So maybe they're maybe they're harmful? Those are the kinds of large language models. There is something they're Actions. Very helpful for people like me. Are Disinformation, defamation, preying on human cause harm, they can be abuse. Those are the kinds can be very sophisticated and clever. The internal But we don't expect it to tell us anything about CRAIG you know, I talk a lot to Geoff Hinton, and he'll not there's no evidence of that. And, in fact, in the brain. Reinforcement Learning. You know, as by a lot of people as an algorithmic model the lower brain. So, in terms of exploring that there is some usefulness, I mean, people look at the principles. And then they built to an airplane they, they've taken some of the created something useful. But there are scientists like Hinton's criticism of backpropagation. fit with the principles they see in cognitive forward-forward algorithm, which you said you in that it doesn't require, you know, signals to they pass back, but then stimulate other is there nothing that that's been learned in NOAM Nothing against search. But it's just chatbots. What do we learn from them? Zero, for for impossible languages as for possible ones, that has organisms and impossible ones and can't systems, you'll learn something about possible. But there's no issues It's just that the by some of the leading figures in the field, namely zero contribution, because the languages. Therefore, they can't be telling period. Maybe they're useful for CRAIG that this is going out to, I understand what a brief synopsis of what you mean by impossible NOAM Well, and there are certain general already tested down to two years old. one of the basic properties of language is that linear strings. So, if you want to birds that fly, swim' - it means instinctively the adverb instinctively has to find a verb to the structurally closest ones. That principle all constructions, in all languages. What it as you can test, automatically disregards linear notice, as all we hear is words in linear order, abstract structures in your mind, which you 'the friends of my brothers are in England.' the friends, not the brothers, the one that's information means you disregard everything, only to what your mind constructs. That's language. While you can make up impossible simple rule, take the first relevant thing sociate friends of my brothers are here, brothers are reveal rule much simpler than the rule we use. You rules that are based on the linear order what we them as a puzzle, somehow, using nonlinguistic reflexively construct with no evidence, whereas languages. And nobody's tried it out. Because take a large language model and apply it to one of course, it's going to work fine, trivial CRAIG mean that if you trained a large language large enough corpus, then it would generate NOAM You don't even have to train it because the rules of language. Like taking things that are, take the way we actually do it, is we don't say, take would be trivial. We don't do it. What we say friends of my brothers, then figure out that the not brothers. And then let's let us be It's pretty complicated computation. But that's And we ignore and we never see it, hear it. is words, and then you are, what we hear is words, we use only the much more look like complex. If simpler. But that's a deeper question, which there's a reason for this. The reason if you're trying to construct an infinite array do that the simplest computational But if you use binary set formation, you So, what the brain is doing is the simplest much harder to use. Nature doesn't care about doesn't care about if it's hard to use or not. I If it had developed eight fingers instead of 10, That nature didn't care about that when at evolution pays no attention to function. It There's a lot of misleading talk about that. Say a bacterium swallows another organism, Nature doesn't get the new system; it It doesn't pay any attention to how complex what nature can do. And that's the way So, not surprisingly, nature constructed But dysfunctions; hard to use in many ways, not nature, you can think of a way in which you can CRAIG one. So, your view is that artificial intelligence doesn't exhibit true intelligence? NOAM it's irrelevant to the question of A guy who designs a jet plane is not trying to say, well, it doesn't tell us how eagles fly CRAIG people are struggling with right now. You know, that that these models, if they get large enough, NOAM there is a theoretical possibility. You can a complex system with vast search capacity would start to do things that you can't predict some distant asteroid maybe someday hitting the scientists on this, like Max Tegmark, his book give a sound theoretical argument as to how a scientific discoveries in history. Maybe find out better way to design something new, which would but it's so remote from anything that's available CRAIG is that whatever threat exists from generative AI NOAM gullibility. Gary Marcus has done Those are problems. I mean, you may have seen somebody developed the deformation of the Pope, you duplicate your face. So, it looks more or less develop a robot that looks kind of like you have an expert could tell whether it was you or basically as a joke. When powerful institutions CRAIG that's swirling around these large language if the model is large enough, and this goes a on in the brain than, than the neural network is the potential for some kind of sentience, NOAM vacuous questions like asking, does a submarine it swims. Do you not want to call it swimming? CRAIG it supports the view that that consciousness in the mind, the NOAM that hasn't believed been John Locke, after Newton's demonstration possibility that thinking is some property CRAIG belief in a soul and consciousness as something NOAM but within the rational part of the human mechanical model doesn't work, there's no material the obvious conclusion was that since has properties that we cannot conceive of, Since matter has those properties. Organized This was investigated all through the 18th chemist, philosopher, late 18th century material organisms, material objects could have Darwin's early books. It was kind of forgotten is some radical new discovery. Astonishing we're doing it right now. But the only problem we call thinking, what we call sentience. What are what matter is, but whatever it turns out to be, don't know, but whatever it is, the something properties, like the properties that we are now question whether something else has sentience If you're talking English airplanes fly. If you're It's not a it's not a substantive CRAIG neural nets may not be the engineering solution, a system outside of the human brain NOAM we call thinking, thinking how that whether it not a substantive question. We shouldn't waste CRAIG Minsky was very interested in the possibility of NOAM the right place to look. Now, I think it's not so which is not accepted by most neuroscientists, CRAIG because I haven't read that. And I, I'm guessing NOAM Penrose is another Nobel Prize winning physicist, that have argued, I think, plausibly, that the basic element of essentially a Turing So, you have to look somewhere else with a pointed out what in fact, is true that there's than neural nets, even internal to a cell. There's maybe that's involved in computation. And then given some evidence for this, but it's a problem an expert in the field, I'm looking at it from the But to me, it looks very compelling. But whatever some organization of them of whatever's there is NOAM approach it in two different ways. One is, you try nature of the system? That's first step, kind what are the properties of the system that And there's a lot of work on that. From what can we learn about the brain that So, there is neurophysiological neurophysiological languages that violate the principle principle. If you train people on those, the you get diffuse functioning of the brain, which So, you can find some neurological correlates looking at the nature of the phenotype. It's NOAM the physiology of human vision. But the reason is cats, monkeys, and so on. Can't do that for it's unique to humans. So, there's no comparative invasive experiments, which teach you a lot. You the neurophysiology of human It's in its basic elements like language, And in fact, a very recent development in 100,000 years, which is nothing. So, you can't you can think of them but can't do them, evidence. So, it's much harder to do, you have to MRI kind of things, electrical stimulation, doing the kinds of experiments you can the neurophysiological basis for things like NOAM other way to proceed is learn more about hundreds of years. You just postulated the you know, why are they there? Because unless don't explain anything. Or early genetics. Early gene is. You just looked at the properties of the That's the way astrophysics works. Most CRAIG talk about invasive exploration that there are thinking of Neuralink, Elon Musk's electrodes that can be put into the brain NOAM much more advanced than that is work that's Under brain surgery because the brain is basically that can be used to study what particular neurons are doing. It's very delicate person is working on it is Andrea Moro, the same described before about impossible languages. NOAM we could mention some that Alec Marantz at shed some light on the very elementary function what what's going on in the brain that tells us an English speaker. It is for Arabic speakers. And Hard work. David Poeppel, another very good like free structure in the brain. But the ,you can think of, he's just not allowed to do. CRAIG cognition has advanced in your lifetime? And are you hopeful that we'll eventually NOAM Well, there's been vast improvement That we know a great deal about that There's been some progress in the neuroscience CRAIG physically, you're in Arizona, but where you are trying to understand language in the brain? Or are NOAM involved in I mean, I don't But I mentioned under Andrea Moro who is a good the work they're doing, we interact, but my work system? And there, I think we're learning a lot. looking at more subtle, complex properties. The binary set formation, how can we show that from account for the apparently complex and apparently a fair amount of progress on that, unheard CRAIG recreating it through computation in external hardware is another is that NOAM Well, at the moment, I don't see any particular I mean, the kinds of things that we're I suppose you could construct some sort of seem any obvious point to it. It's like taking construct models that will look sort of like a - and studied its properties, you could that would do some of those things. Would it If it would, okay, if it wouldn't, then don't. CRAIG are using neural nets, even in this call. Do you or not they help understand, help us understand in about the promise that these large models hold? NOAM I think it's fine for me. Somebody who can't Yeah, pretty accurately. That's an achievement. CRAIG your work from here? I mean, are there any students of yours who you NOAM Quite a lot. There's a lot of young people small research group. By now spread all over and other places recently working on the Right now, I should say it's a pretty special these foundational questions. But I think that's, show that, ultimately try to show that NOAM written about the time that I started working in Scientific American, which I read, but didn't in which he talked about what It has an interesting history. Goes back to simple. It doesn't do things in a complicated That's Galileo's maxim. Couldn't prove it. And it's the task of the scientists it's been substantiated. Case after case. It But by then there was a lot of evidence for It is what Einstein called the miracle creed. Can't prove it. Skeptic and say I don't believe NOAM for language. But I couldn't have proposed that that maybe language is just basically a You look at the phenomenon doesn't look like that. 1950s 1960s. Biologists assume that organisms studied on its own without bias. By now that's all explosion, there's virtually no variation in the deep homologies, and so on. So, even been not totally accepted, but NOAM moving in the same direction with the study of linguists interested in this. Most linguists, like which is fine, you learn a lot that way. But plausible thesis that language is a natural object perfect design, but to be highly dysfunctional, it's part of the nature of evolution, which NOAM success that does take function into account, just peripheral fringe, very important of evolution is constructing the optimal system by some disruption in the system. That's Darcy Thompson others by now I think it's understood. And I think maybe the language is a biological object. So why should CRAIG recently about, you know, extraterrestrial craft I don't put much stock in it. But imagine that forms of life. Do you think that their language on these simple principles? Or is it? Could biological organisms that would be quote NOAM studied with one of his students, Daniel fewest states, fewest symbols, and asked Well turned out that most of them just crash, don't proceed. But the ones that So, he suggested, what we're going to find if be based on the successor function. And if we want intelligence, we should first see if they have there. Well, turns out a successor happens to be The language is one symbol. And the simplest form successor function. Add a little bit more add a little bit more to it, you get something So, it's conceivable that if there it would have pursued the same course. Where CRAIG is no supernatural realm, that the consciousness attributes of the brain, intelligence behind the creation NOAM If you want to believe it. CRAIG NOAM don't see any point in believing things for CRAIG always wanted to ask someone like you, clearly, NOAM CRAIG that you say that. You think is just a matter of NOAM I have certain talents I know. Like, not believing keeping an open mind and looking for arguments and When meaningless questions are proposed, like, are say let's discard them and look at meaningful like then I think you can make some progress. Same If you think it through, there's every reason why If so, it should follow the general principles the miracle creed. So why shouldn't language. So that's just common sense. Many people think CRAIG That's it for this episode. I If you'd like a transcript of this conversation, meantime, the Singularity may not be near, but AI