Everybody is familiar with the feeling that things are not as they should be. That you're not successful enough, your relationship's not satisfying enough, that you don't have the things you crave. A chronic dissatisfaction that makes you look outwards with envy and inwards with disappointment. Pop culture, advertising, and social media make this worse by reminding you that aiming for anything less than your dream job is failure, you need to have great experiences constantly, be conventionally attractive, have a lot of friends, and find your soulmate, and that others have all of these things and are truly happy. And, of course, a vast array of self-improvement products implies that it's all your fault for not working hard enough on yourself. In the last two decades, researchers have been starting to investigate how we can counteract these impulses. The field of positive psychology emerged, the study of what makes life worth living, while cognitive behavioral therapy was developed to change negative feelings. Scientists began to ask &quot;Why are some people happier and more satisfied than others?&quot; &quot;And are there ways to apply what they're doing right to the rest of us?&quot; In this video, we want to talk about one of the strongest predictors of how happy people are, how easily they make friends, and how good they are at dealing with hardship. An antidote to dissatisfaction, so to speak: Gratitude. While gratitude may sound like another self-improvement trend, preached by people what we currently know about it is based We'll include them in the description. Gratitude can mean very different things It's a character trait, a feeling, You can feel grateful towards someone for random events, or even for nature or fate, and it's wired into our biology. 1: How Gratitude Connects Us to Each Other. The predecessor of gratitude It likely evolved as that motivates animals to exchange and can be found among certain fish, but especially in primates. When your brain recognizes that it reacts with gratitude to This gratitude makes and others care about you. This was important because, as human brains got selfish individuals were It became an evolutionary advantage and build lasting relationships. For example, and someone else showed you felt gratitude towards them and a bond to return a drive to be pro-social. When you repaid them, This brought your ancestors and forged bonds and friendships. So, early forms of gratitude that modified your behavior which helped humans But, over time, gratitude became more than 2: The Consequences of Gratitude Scientists found that gratitude involved in feelings of reward, forming social bonds, and interpreting other's intentions. It also makes it easier to save Even more, gratitude directly counteracts like envy and social comparison, narcissism, cynicism, and materialism. As a consequence, people who tend to be happier and more satisfied. They have better relationships, an easier time making friends. They sleep better, tend to suffer less from and are better at dealing In a way, gratitude makes it one of the psychological traps For example, gratitude the tendency to forget and If you work long and actually getting it can feel You can find yourself emotionally and try to achieve looking for that satisfaction, instead of being satisfied with yourself. Or, imagine being lonely and You actually might have someone or even multiple people but you might feel that that you're a loser and So you might turn down and become more lonely. If you feel grateful for you might accept invitations or even take the initiative. The more often you risk opening up, the higher the chance of and meeting new people. In the best case, gratitude Positive feelings lead to which leads to more that cause more This is a common experience like chemotherapy, for example. Life can feel amazing The smallest things can be from being able to taste to just sitting in the sun Objectively, your life is the same or but your brain compares with the times and reacts with gratitude. So, in a nutshell, gratitude refocuses your attention and the consequences of this shift are better feelings and While it is great to is there actually a way for 3: How To Make Your Brain More Grateful The ability to experience is not equally distributed. You have what's known as that determines how much It depends on your genetics, This discovery made if they could design exercises and lead to more happiness. Let's start with It's not yet entirely clear to what degree or how long the effects last. There are no Life is complicated. On some days, it feels like and, on others, you And this is okay. Also, sometimes pursuing happiness if you put too much pressure on yourself. Gratitude should also not be seen or a substitute for professional help,. It can only be a piece of the puzzle. It's not the solution to the puzzle itself. The easiest gratitude exercise, is gratitude journaling. It means sitting down one to three times a week, and writing down five to ten It might feel weird at first, so start simply. Can you feel grateful Like how great coffee is, or that someone Can you appreciate something Can you reflect on which things or people and be grateful that they're in your life? We're all different, so you'll know what And that's it, really. It feels almost insulting, like things shouldn't But in numerous studies, the participants reported and a higher general after doing this practice And, even more, studies have found some months Practicing gratitude may be This research shows that In the end, how is a representation of If you attack your core beliefs you can change your which automatically It's pretty mind-blowing that can hack the pathways in our brain And, if this is no reason what is? Being a human is hard, but it doesn't need And, if you actively look, you might find that your life is [Happy bark] [Party horn] If you're curious and we made a thing. Please note that you don't need to buy All you need is paper, Having said that, we've made based on studies we've read, conversations with experts, and our personal experiences It's structured in a way that to get into the habit of There are short explanations and make it more interesting. We've also made it This video continues of more personal, from optimistic nihilism to We don't want to be so we'll keep this sort of video We hope they're helpful Thank you for watching. [Outro theme] [Quack] [Outro theme]