Hello, and welcome to this Visual Studio Code VS the ins and outs of the best and most popular My name is James q quick, and I run a YouTube do web development tutorials every week. So you In the meantime, let's go ahead and get started code in this crash course. So before we dive like and what it's all about, I want to start by Visual Studio code is in my mind, the most popular in the realm of web development. So if you look or integrated development environment. IntelliJ is for Java or for Visual Studio is Visual Studio code is more of a lightweight text atom or brackets or notepad plus plus etc. it's cross platform, which means it runs on Mac, a download button that says download for Mac for operating system I'm currently on. Now, some that's possible is VS code is actually built with allows you to build desktop applications using which is really, really neat. So VS code, I think, really powerful and really performant application more about here in a few minutes with your basic that sense. And that allows VS code to now be operating system you're on, you can download VS So I kind of mentioned vs. Code is I would say, which means it's great for doing HTML, CSS, things like that. But it can do a lot more than Java, it can work with C sharp, it can work for example, we might see a little bit You can work with almost anything inside of VS it's really lightweight, it's super fast to you can add features through their extensions, to be able to support different workflows, that sort of thing. So if you scroll down, you see we'll look at debugging, we'll take a quick look to work with source control locally with git, Bitbucket and things like that. And then the add to VS code to just make it more powerful, is some testimonials in here, you can scroll down the main thing we want to see here is just thing I do want to show you is that there's two stable edition. That's what you see here, the edition. Now the insider's edition is a version that's coming out from the VS code developers get some extra features some new features, these are things that they're testing out before So this is for early adopters. This is for greatest features. They don't mind if they get an wrong. But I can tell you from my experience, for months at a time and never had any issue. So But you'll get these frequent builds at least And the cool thing is you can install VS code, both on your laptop and or your computer and of those latest and greatest features and then So to get started with VS code, you'll download And then when you open it, you'll see kind of a VS code on mine. And you'll see how quickly actually going to seemingly take longer than But one of the things that I really like is when some updates Of what became new that month. So the these are pretty powerful features every single to show you what all is new. And you can see in So VS code just does a really great job of one features to add, but then also communicating and what things have changed. So if you open this you also have kind of a welcome message or welcome you've worked on before some help, you can get the lot about keyboard shortcuts in here. There's tips on there some features or some sections in here languages than just JavaScript. So Python and and Docker as a container system. Those things you don't need to worry about it. Those are extra but you absolutely don't have to. So probably the ahead and open a folder. Now I'm opening a project working on recently, which allows users to upload scroll through and see different people set up. working on. And I've got this thing open in here. of poke around and show you more about the editor. to close this welcome tab here is you've got this and the top one is probably what you're looking of the files that you have inside of this open this project open. And you can see here are all Now if you're, if you're new to react, if you're files do specifically, just know that this is So in addition to the File Explorer, you also have your project. If I wanted to search for react, for will also show me everywhere that react is And then I can go in and actually do a replace, that doesn't really matter. And the cool thing what that replace will do. So react will become do. So I'm gonna go ahead and back out of that. replace in a minute. But you come down, you also and we'll cover some of the basics of this, you'll files that are ready to be committed, you'll see So all of your Git stuff you can do right inside a debugging section down here. So this allows where you can have breakpoints and inspect And then lastly, you'll come down and see there's search for extensions to add different pieces the couple of couple of tabs I have down here, extensions. So we don't need to cover that. But here. And you'll also notice that your VS code, a little bit different. So we'll cover themes So if you want to go ahead and look at this you can search cobalt two, and then when you it and it'll be ready to go. And yours But I will cover some of the different things So one of the things that I think is really the way things look and your space that you're of my favorite things. So let me open up. Here's And I can do command B on Mac or Ctrl B on mentioned going forward command will be on So I will probably just stick with command, know command is for Mac and Ctrl is for allows me to toggle open this sidebar. And I might want to look at my files here. But then go away so I have more room to actually write the Ctrl V to toggle this open all the time. And then over these icons, you can do Command Shift II Command Shift F to go directly to find her, or G, actually, this one specifically is Ctrl, Shift the source control, and then Command Shift D to command B to make that toggle the sidebar menu Now, you also will get some information a few extensions installed, so I get a little bit but you'll have a little bit of information about this case, I'm working in a master branch inside which one I am working on. So you get a little bit bit of information up here to show you which file of cool things with working with files. There's a file, you can have two files open at one time. And notice you get this kind of darkened effect files side by side. And I can resize these to any can you have to file side by side, you can also columns. So now I've got two went to pain side by top and bottom. And not only can you do that, you So you can get as crazy about this as you want And I don't know that there's really a limit here. to have all these files. But here's three going So you can do this, any combination of that you side by side, I don't usually use multiple rows, I didn't show this. But you can also take a and however many you want. So there's only so but you have the flexibility to kind of make one thing I want to let you know is your kind code is going to be the command palette. So this you do that you have the ability to kind of search inside of VS code you can do from here. So one of Zen mode under view. So view toggles in mode, and the fluff. So all of the border items up here, all And now I can just focus on my code. Lots of no distractions, they just see code. I don't distracted by the other stuff going on. But of VS code to be able to use, I'm going command again from the command palette. Again, you can always go to the command palette and Now another thing that you will see is on yours by over here. And this is extremely useful. If we get big file. So if we have a much bigger file like kind of scroll through all of these lines of code with my mouse wheel over here, you can just kind inside of your code pretty quickly. So I don't to take up space in my instance of VS code. But around really big files. Now again, going to the the mini map and add it or get rid of it. So you search and replace. So we started by doing this this right inside of a file. So if I wanted to will open the find window and I can type in center that did this before. If I get rid of this and I will go ahead and automatically populate that with also from here go down and say all right, instead this is a valid property for justify content, but I can do a replace of one instance or replace of you can actually do some search and replace stuff Easily inside of VS code. Alright, so I can run there. Now this is, obviously in just one file, of what we showed earlier, where I can search for not something I probably want to do, I can replace where that is. And you can even by file by file, just replace all of the instances of center with by file, or line by line, you can click on these this is something you actually want to change. And you're going to change this line to this line and replace stuff in VS code is really, really if you understand some of the shortcuts and then go ahead and act on them. So speaking we mentioned Command or Ctrl B to toggle open you can do command W to close a file, I use this or multiple files, open whatever these are, you you can toggle through them like this, I use Tab to toggle back the opposite way. So if I've I want to go from profile to home, that's good. I can do it backwards by doing Ctrl Shift and tab and Ctrl Shift Tab on Mac, and Windows Now another thing that I do a lot is I do command if I want to search for my app j s, I will do then enter and it will open that thing for me. I have more space for code. And then I just come press Enter. And now I've got that file open right a file. And then I can toggle through that using go forwards and backwards. I think one of the for people that are writing code is learn to use writing code, the less amount of time you spend on the better off you're you'll be and the more other things I want to share with you is just how So what I mean is if I want to go from right here I could just arrow over so I could type the arrow Or I can start to use some shortcuts to help me and press left or right, what this will do is is kind of a loose definition where like this kind of a series of connected characters. So it So you can navigate word by word This way, you can and go left or right to get to the beginning and Now you can also hold down Command and go top bottom of the file. And on a Windows machine, I the same sort of thing. So home an end will take hold down your control and do that you can get to have to play around with that and to get kind really helpful. If you can start to learn to use you can save yourself some time, keep your hands really become a much more productive programmer. changes. And I can do that with Command or all the changes that I just made. You can also as editors, you can select a line and do Command C you can do that. But even cooler, you don't have I want to copy this entire thing, I can just do to select it, it will basically inherently select favorites is you can use Command D or control So if I wanted my character was inside of this Command F to be able to search that thing. And else if I wanted to as well. So again, learning will really save you some time. Now another thing built in IntelliSense. That VS code provides you. you see I get a bunch of things pop open here. But inside of JavaScript, and I press dot, now VS code I can scroll through to see all the different So if I scroll down, you can see the difference in those are actually functions. So a common listener. So I could press Enter on this. And call this function, you can see VS code is also are required here. So the first parameter is there's 86 more, there's a ton in here. So these And it's saying that that thing is a type of is an actual callback function. So if I type in so not only can I get click, I can get close and then, if I go down to the second parameter, I can all is needed, including the callback, which is I use all of the time. Because as a developer, word or every single character, every single line assisting that for me. And VS code does a really, IntelliSense that you can use to save yourself a going to get rid of all of these changes. Another new file in here, we haven't really shown how to I can get a new test HTML. And I love this which is built into VS code, but Emmet is its own you can go to Doc's dot IO. And you can it's powerful shortcuts that you can use for your it shows me VS code does with IntelliSense, that will give me the boilerplate code to an HTML file. this stuff from scratch myself personally. So I the boilerplate stuff or code for an HTML file. if I type in an h1, for example, and press enter is an h1. I can also if I wanted a div with a And this will add a class to a div with that class div with an ID of contam. Not very creative. So div with an ID of container. I could also ID of something special. What again, not super And what's even cooler is if I undo this and go this out, div is kind of implied here. So if it will infer it as a div. So I can also do an cool title or something like that. So it does all So if I did a ul, inside of that ul, I could do allies for me, you can do an input with a type make writing your HTML so much quicker and easier. to figure out how to leverage the power of Emmet generate your HTML code. Now, you can also do this So I'm going to get rid of this thing. And then create a new test CSS file in here. And if I start if I wanted to set the cursor pointer, notice I abbreviations for cursor pointer. I could give me a lot of things in Well, this is just kind p 10. For example, notice that autocompletes that. So Emmet is really, really powerful for you really short code, these really nice shortcodes energy as well. So you definitely want to spend how to use Emmet, to work best for you. Now let's kind of interested in what I have set up here my settings. And so you can open the settings by command, comma or control comments to open up the font family. So I have in here installed on pull that up for you Cascadia code. This is a free So you can install this cast this Cascadia code of your font family here. Now just to show you and now come back to my code, this looks very that's set up in VS code. But I like to have that better. So notice also that as I save or update to show you those new changes, which is really, is I have something called a font ligatures turned have to change directly inside of the settings code editor. And you see I've got lots that are to true. And font ligatures are these cool little So let me show you a couple of examples of this. one character there. Instead of two, if I do a If I do a not equals, now this will come together can see that comes together too. You also get a JavaScript, you can get that as well. So this is really cool. But if you don't like the way those settings JSON, and then just turning that thing so you may not even have to worry about it. font size. I love how easy it is in VS code different things are that you can change and then set to 20. If I bump this up, for example, to 40, is probably not very practical. But this is really something. And you want to be able to show people if I type in a four, for example, notice this is going to make everything bigger. Again, if you're be able to see every part of VS code a lot bigger, turn this back down to two to make sure that I command or control and plus or minus to zoom open the change in here. So you can do that with your Alright, there are tons of different settings in I like is a word wrap. So what that means is if I and I'm just typing out kind of dummy code here. to the next line. So I personally like to have horizontally to see the end of a line of code. And to scroll to be able to see this, I personally Now you can also set the word wrap column. If I set this bar to four, for example, this is word wrap column, now this thing is going to wrap what you want, even if I set this to 40. That's So I'm going to reset this back to 80. And then and now again, you can see this is wrapping what is there. Alright, there's some other cool files over here, you can tell VS code to not show and I can add node modules for example, and this So notice node module is not no longer showing getting rid of this setting here by clicking this and you get a really, really kind of powerful you can scroll through and do tons of different we go through one of the ones that I like is the an expand as well. So this is just kind of a of expand there, I think that's kind of nice. And or a block, for example, now this thing is a lot wild, I've never done that one before. So you can really nice, I would, I would recommend just to really try to get things the way that you let's move into extensions and themes. And let's extensions themselves, and they can kind of show editor even more. So I mentioned that I use the cobalt to and then this is the official theme by then you can select it and use it so you can You can also go to your magical command palette now you can scroll down to the color theme. this as I scroll through VS code will update in will look like. And you can see there's a ton of Night Owl is one of my favorites. This is from has a couple of different versions. So you have thing I can't imagine really working with that. nice one as well from a mod a wise hopefully thing because he's a big fan of purple. And There solarize dark and these are another one I I really like this one a lot as well. I think this So you can search for tons of different themes. owl here, you get that one there. And then Winter So if you just search themes in here, now you you can try out. There's a Linux set of Linux there's zeplin themes that's kind of wild and really easy to install, you just click a button you choose which theme you want to be active. So I of my favorites, you can go in here and look Now let's talk about some other awesome extensions Here's a few that I really like there's an formatting and VS code. So you can install this and say format on save. So this is a combination this. And if you set this to true, what's going happen is it's going to use prettier. And it's kind of mess up some of the tabs in here and I This just looks like really terrible code. When stuff for me. So the combination of using prettier for format on Save is incredibly powerful. I do one that's worth having. I also use an extension to do if I come and grab the right one, so this is instead of coming over here and choosing to click So advanced new file. If I run that, it gives me a this file in. So I could put this in the workspace then now that file is created. And you can see use shortcuts and extensions to help me do stuff with a mouse. So that's one of the ones that handy is the better comments, extension. What different types of comments like to do and it something like exclamation, that's going to for a green comment. And then if you define or color that as well. So I think this is really and have them be kind of highlighted so that you they really jump out at you. And you can see what especially if you're a JavaScript developer, which gives you a JavaScript playground and I can do a new JavaScript file. And then inside or scratch pad or whatever you want to call it. And I can see the output over here as well as the this is anytime I want to try out a new piece of The alternative would be to go into Google use and open up the console and type something you're already inside of your VS code editor. snippets and stuff that you can use inside of VS just a live scratchpad for either JavaScript or server extension. And if I searched for this, downloads, it's really incredible. So if I typed using my Emmet snippets, and came down and I can do my command palette, and I can do live And what this will do is it will serve this on a from a real port. And I can update this file. And the browser as well. Because of that live server which is really, really amazing, you'll definitely basic HTML, CSS and JavaScript stuff, installing that stuff. A couple of other nice ones, there's really sweet looking images of your code. So you the example GIF here, you copy some of your code this really sweet looking snippet in here for you. on Twitter, or in your blog post or things like do any HTML work, again, this one is really nice. title here and make this an h1, notice it's you'll definitely want to have that extension to And there's also the bracket, pair colorizer. JavaScript, this will color your brackets to match So notice that we've got a purple color to show that this one goes with this one, this one really nice. It's kind of subtle, but especially it's nice to just have it be pretty easy to look just scroll through some of the other extensions as well. There's one here called bookmarks. This you're working in really, really big files, or of your files and then be able to toggle through spots inside of different pieces of code, you can using the commands with this bookmarks, extension. If you're working with private credentials, cloak will take a dot CSV file. So if you use and they're private, and you don't want people turn on cloak and it will hide those things from As it says here, if you're presenting onstage if you record a screencast Another nice one is CSS peak. This class or ID. So you can pick that where you don't or if it's coming from bootstrap or something like You can kind of see that right in line in your This one, we will actually have a section on Studio code and we'll use this extension to is pretty simple, but it's just gives you kind of variables inside of a dot E and V file. So if never done dot E and V files, that's totally Next up is the editor config. This is a basic you can use across different types of editor. you can use this and embed it in your project and certain format across different teams and people enables that ability inside of VS code. If you are extension that I know of with snippets. for react Redux graph, qL, and React Native. So take advantage of. Alright, this is not maybe of highlight this extension here is for fauna for your applications. And I just am wanting lots of third party technologies as well. So or a ton of different options out there, you have a product, a third party product outside of go and give it a shot to see if there's Import costs is another one that is great for just show you how big your import statements is not showing here, but if they had the example text right next to the import statement to show make sure that you're only importing the things Alright, we've got the live share extension a section on in a minute, we've also got the try out myself to create an E book where you be able to export that to a PDF. Now speaking of In VS code, you get some pretty good here. So if I open a markdown file, here is up the command palette, I can open up a preview in line with all the markdown stuff that I see preview all inside of the editor. Now I've used I've used stack edit, which is in the browser. same place where I write my code. And I can So with that extension that I mentioned, you can an E book or something like that. the majority of the most important ones here. in VS code is great, there's tons of stuff if you have an idea for something, go ahead Alright, now that we've covered extensions, shortcuts. And I waited until we covered you can just kind of get with an extension So if you hit the settings, cog you can open up your keyboard shortcuts. And as could also do this from here. So this preferences, place. And keyboard shortcuts in VS code are thing for you to be able to customize. So as commands that you can then add a key binding for the shortcut here let's do let's search for is the shortcut for fine, we talked about And then you can see there's also find as well where you can find previous that this command is going to be Command F and I think is pretty nice. So pretty nice. So if so I'm doing command Alt Shift, I, that's probably this thing has been updated. And now I would need something. So let me go ahead and fix this back so that goes back to normal. And let's just search If we type select and then add selection we actually use this command Command D earlier to you can use Command D to select it and go from we've got shortcuts for this is actually the that we talked about a few seconds ago has its own keyboard shortcuts as well. So some extensions some of them will already have key won't have key binding set. So you have to go Alright, one of the ones that I have customized is the advanced new file. So when I want to close out some of these extensions, when this is going to ask me where I want to create the dot something. And that's going to create which is a really nice workflow. Now, let me So if I, if I just remove this key binding that will go away. And then if I press Command n where it creates this new file, but it doesn't directory anywhere. So I would then need to go like having that advanced new file extension, Now I can just update the one that is here. And now say command in and that thing should be telling me that three commands already have this are some commands already have this and I need to And then VS code is smart enough to know that this the one that I show you showed you that for me And then mine, the one that I created up here is a the one that comes default with VS code. So it Alright, so there's my new file. And then if that there's no delay here, this automatically now they're available for me to use. Another thing and we'll talk about the built in terminal here not only does it have a command and a key binding, basically a state that you can use inside should take place, which makes the combination of shortcuts. And I want to show you just so later on for yourself, if you need to do let's search for the win. And I'm scrolling down some conditional things in here when the editor specifically in a TypeScript file, a command if you're on Linux, or if you're on Windows, you you come down, and you can see all the different when your your shortcut should be triggered, based if you're actually focused on the editor, if selected a piece of text. If you scroll down, Linux, there's also an is web because there's of the browser, which is pretty cool. And then about debugging here in a second, there's so many This gives you kind of the ultimate ability to Now notice that I've got these three key bindings when to trigger each one. So because I have this precedent over the default source here. And then when I'm actually down here in this terminal will on the terminal, so VS code already has this define and then add precedents on top of them. shortcuts, and again, there's tons in here you can and just customize it to your heart's content. have that, it's interesting to know that there well. So if for instance, you come from sublime, you come over to VS code, and the shortcuts Well, the Sublime Text keymap and settings sublime and then all Also basically override all or what would have been inside of sublime. you're used to. And you can kind of go about Now there's sublime, I wonder if there's notepad one, I wonder if there is Adam, key map all And then there's probably brackets as a key map, you can find for most of those popular extension that you can just bring right in, and the past. So that is the section on customizing customizing is your snippets. So if we look I'm going to show you a couple of snippets that notice VS code is now popping up with this snippet So it's going to output a console dot log. So the IntelliSense that VS code gives you. So if something like that, we can go ahead and complete. and then some IntelliSense on knowing But if you want to customize and add your own that snippets work is snippets get stored the cog wheel and go to user snippets, or if we as well configure user snippets, it's going to with. So you can have global snippets which apply And or you can have snippets that are specific at the JavaScript, JSON, I've actually got a kind of walk you through how those work. So of the console log example. So if I wanted to have I would one give this kind of a title or a key that thing is going to point to or have a value of the first thing is the prefix. And this is going to trigger this snippet. Now, this is not super between the other CLG. But let's do a prefix do the body. And the body here is going to be a And then we'll have the description. So this will write a console log statement. And so thing, now this snippet is ready for you to use. what JavaScript file I'm in, I can type Jq. And IntelliSense for my snippet, and it shows me the actually going to write. So if I press enter, Now a couple of things, we might want to update, I might want to actually end with my cursor in that console log. So one of the things you can do sign one here, this is saying that I'm going to be is the first one that I'm going to enter. So now now you see my inputs, my cursor there, so I and then come over, and maybe I want to after I finished entering in the information which can get kind of interesting. So a couple of And then if you're doing snippets that have So you have an array of strings. So there's is going to be on a new line. So we can have this out again. And let's trigger the snippet and then tab will take me to the next tab stop. The interesting thing about this one is the dollar place that you end. So after you finish all of or however many you do. dollar sign zero is going where your cursor goes. After you finished all the the same this We'll do the same thing, I just want uclg, and type in my object and then return or next line. So that's a pretty simple example. And Here's an example of will actually another And I do this a lot where if you're using out process dot E and V dot something. And So I created the sixth this this extension, the it with process dot E and V. And then I can type Alright, and if I scroll up a little bit, let's like here is a use state hook and react, this may is new. But same thing here, it's got kind of the have a description, because I didn't add one. But here is one and tabs. Two are actually three tabs, goes to the end of the line, and then I could great example of one that would be really useful. in four, there's a couple of different for loop itself. And then here's the one that I created, you can see this is a multi line snippet, because in the array is a string. And so we define a So it says Dollar Index, well, we haven't seen you can instead of using numbers with your And this will allow you to repeat the same like is if I show you, if I trigger this snippet cursors. Now, so there's a cursor here, here, I probably is what you're going to use it for is name. So if I type in I now it's going to replace And then I press tab. Well, now if we look back And that's used twice to because it's name. So now of my range. And then I can tab over again. And is a really fun way or not, I mean, it is fun, of being able to use that same value in a couple that one of the things that I use a lot in vanilla And usually typically, the idea that element is it inside of JavaScript. So I use this snippet to as well. So it's going to use the same thing. So ID. And this is gonna write that whole thing out. that completes at the end as well. And then I tab it ends. Alright, I've got a few in here for inside of doing a fetch request, I always have to to handle errors, and then log out the air, get So here's another example of me just thinking that would really help me by having a snippet, this snippet, it goes ahead and writes all of the data from cool API, COMM And then tab and then I can just go ahead and handle the response. powerful features inside of VS code. Anytime you again, and it never really changes you might think think about how to use snippets, or defined so that you can save yourself some time and effort settings and themes, and a bunch of different previously was an extension if we search in here, cool extension that came out a while ago where you all of the customizations that you've done And what I mean is it will take all that Your your settings, your extensions, it will take all a file. And then you could use that file or share So that if I went to another computer opened And then I can have all that stuff ready And then I'll open up my just to show you just and then come down here to cloud settings. will save all of those things. And if I open this So I've got cloud settings. This is just for like version I think I was on for that extension. And extensions that I use. Actually, I think this This has all the stuff. So inside of my extension that I had installed note of So all of my extensions would be ready to go which I do here for Mac, all those custom overwritten with VS code, the snippets that snippets here for markdown as well, and Python, you want to be able to use on different instances So up until recently, the setting sync extension this is something that is built to settings and I'm going to go Actually, I've left, I've got this icon here for my account. things I'm going to do to show you how this works and turn this off now. And notice inside of VS your settings window, you'll see this button here to do is VS code is basically going to manage And make sure that it does the same thing that we built into VS code. So if I click on turn want to actually synchronize. And this is yes, my extensions, my UI state, so I'll select either have to log in with your GitHub or your in the past. So this is basically kind of be taken to GitHub have to log in with your GitHub And you can see, this says that settings sync details there. But if I come over to it says that I'm logged in with GitHub, and this can also if I look at the search for setting sync there's a little tab here that will open to show as well as the machines that are synced if I had VS code on multiple different machines, I could refresh this to get a new list, I specific about which one I'm working with. on different ones. So if I didn't want all instances of VS code, I could turn that off notice here that in the activity, this shows were updated. And it gives me just a pretty cool again, previously, you would have had to jump for st you can do this right inside of VS code and not to go with making sure that all of your things are I took a second on here to bring up another regular edition, the stable edition open is got open the VS code insiders edition as well. as well. So if we look at the show sync data tab, and you can see on both sides, there's two There's the VS code which one is this let's make the current and there's the insiders Mac over I come in and search for theme and then go to talk What crackpot contrast. Sure, let's do that. And then if I scroll back over, it should change it took a few seconds, but that came through back to cobalt two. And then this should be able And you saw that come through. So the settings cool, because now real time you can see these miss any of your settings in VS code. All right, VS code. This is one of the most powerful and going to open up this, this project here, which I'm gonna open this one up. And I actually added a in them I don't need. So I'm going to delete And with that go live extension that we talked live server. So this will open it at Port 5500. what this demo is, is the ability to take a color some sort of color in here, I can then lighten should be D. So here's my red color, I can darken lighten it down to basically a white. So this how we can actually debug this. So let's open up these functions here, this toggle button. So when removing some classes to do the styling on here. piece in the middle of changes color as well as which side it's toggled to, by look at my debug it's got a run and debug button here. And it's inside of VS code where I can now choose where am And then went ahead and created a configuration So I'm going to say this is going to run at So with that in place, once I press this button, And now debugging is enabled so that I can debug menu button up here, none of these things are set. And we aren't paused for debugging. So to the left of the numbers, I can now add And when I click this toggle button, it should So we'll click this. Now it goes away from that breakpoint. Now, if you're new to debugging, typically people will just kind of do console true debugging is incredibly powerful. So with buttons here are enabled. So I can play and this you were and it goes to dark. And now let's click And we can step over. So we can go through that skip that else. And then now that we're that comes down here, and instead of skipping over will go inside of that function and go through I could go through and go line by line. And then I things I want to show you is that you can inspect actually, I can see all of the different elements of this script inside of this JavaScript file. I can scroll down. And I can see the input color, then I can look at, here's all the different So you can see I've got all of these in here, I can inspect all of these variables. And and tell it to watch for that thing. So if I say, button. And if I click the play in here, and then And then I click this toggle again. Now it's going this variable. Now I see it right now. And I can so I'll go ahead and play And then if I now we should see that it has the class of to I could check for DOM elements As opposed to let me make sure I play this again, into the element itself. And looking inside So overall, debugging in vs. Code is very is highly underrated and very, very useful kind of vanilla JavaScript, I also want to show as well. Alright, so I've got a new application socket IO and node j s. So you can actually grab there is a video series on YouTube on how to I made sure to install the packages and I CD into want to be because that's the final step of this and let me make sure that I can open this server JavaScript file. And then I come to debug and I didn't really have to do anything extra. But up our browser to localhost 3000, we should And it actually works. So this thing is running debug point and do the same sort of thing like we message handler. So when a message actually let's trigger it and then come back over Hey, this is James, and press send this now hit did before look at variables that watches didn't This shows you the history of the functions that in step through all those sort of things as and it will go ahead and send that message. of what it's like to debug an application But the cool thing is that VS code makes All right, we've mentioned this a few you actually seen this a little bit right inside So I want to say that a lot of our some people code, they prefer to have a separate window for preference is that I really enjoy having the can do everything that I need to in my editor So as you would probably expects, you can do in your regular terminal. So I use an application And if you're on Mac, you'll have like the built have might have PowerShell, or Command Prompt terminal. And it uses z sh instead of bash. So z So yours will pick up your default shell and default shell on Mac in the last couple of months. here to be able to use. And you can select But this is going to open up and have basically of your regular terminal, which is really, really on here is you can have multiple instances of your kind of cool. I don't really use this myself. And inside of my terminal but not side by side. If I do the plus over here, this is going to drop down between one and to. And so this is some shortcuts on here to customize this and So I customized my shortcuts to be able to use different files that control and tab to be able custom shortcut for my terminal as well. So now I losing out on space by having them side by side. and it seems to work out, well you can do a split you can kind of get crazy with this and it's But it's something that you can do. And then expand this all the way up which is kind of nice. we'll kind of increase the size of this or it a little bit bigger or a little bit smaller. So notice on this delete over here, if I hovered a built in command, that's one that I customized the command w or Ctrl w on windows that I use the same inside of my terminal. So again, I've works exactly how I would expect. And the other until they will toggle open this terminal. So we B to close that side panel, I also do Ctrl until I can have a lot of space for my code. If I need if I need the sidebar, I do command B, getting All right, and then if I come into the settings settings or a handful of settings for the terminal then I'm going to click on the terminal category at some of the settings associated with terminal, ones. One, you can customize what your shell the operating system that you're on, you can do so we can have the block or a line. And notice width. So I could change this and make this a lot one is kind of interesting. You can also have this acting inside of our code. Now this thing going to scroll down and grab a few more of these font in here. And actually I need to update this need to go inside of quotes, because I had used code, although I think I'm getting a little bit fear code. And that goes away. So I'll just leave you wanted the font size in your terminal to be do that as well. So very similar to how you do line height, letter spacing, if I did a 10 for probably not what we want. But you get the ability which is actually pretty nice. And I think default location. So this, this controls the includes the terminal, the debug button, bottom right or left of the workbench. So you could do that as well. And it looks like we've go ahead and kill that. So anyway, inside of knowing how to toggle that open and close. So you can create multiple instances of your terminal by you can close them, you can make this And once you get used to kind of navigating I think you'll really really enjoy it the way section is out of the way, we've got the built look at some of the Git integration. So inside of is actually telling me that I've already got gonna open up a different project. Let's open up And yes, this is actually asking me if I want to And let's come back in here. And notice that but yellow, if I do a git status, notice, So all the things that I could do down here, so worth doing. So let's go back out here. Let's go make dir of test Git. And then I'm going to open test kit. And let's just see this inside of VS this to be a git repository is I would run a git do that right inside of here. So if I come to the this repository? Yeah, let's go ahead and do that. So then I could come in and add a file, so to get a, an HTML file. And so I would I would see that this file needs to be added, and so on. But I could come in and see this the ability to stage these changes, or add them, and revert this file. If we look at this kind changes, as well as open the file and see the do a couple of things. Let's go ahead and stage and say added test dot html. And do the checkbox let's add in a title, working with Git. And And now notice, if I click on this, I see a very VS code, I think, is one of the best diff visually and different in files that have changed these out and showing you what's changed, which go through that same process, let's say just Alright, so with that in place, I'll Now, one other thing that VS code allows you to there's even better integration here, where I I don't have this created as an actual repository scroll down to the Publish to GitHub command, I can say publish to GitHub, a Can I can choose So if I do a public repository, it's asking me HTML? Yes. And this is going to say published to repository. If I come over to my GitHub now, and list of repositories here. Now we should see this for me in the past an issue where I would have to go through the steps. Now, these things are taken is created. Now I can push this code to that and we'll add the remote from GitHub. And then And we'll name this as origin. And that should code is just one file, but push that file out we see that stuff got added up here. So from And then I can also create repositories to GitHub directly. This is really, really my project here. If we look at I've got some this is for that debugging stuff that we checked down, and I can look at these individually, if I see the things that have changed there as well. because I don't need to right now. But you have used to add commit push clone poll, you can check branch selected here, I can create a new branch, do all that stuff right inside of VS code. Now, is VS code has some amazing built in support for as well. And get lends to me is the most powerful file and see this. So if I open that app j s, and the File History. So what the different commits based on that line and the different commits different branches and contributors and remotes Also, if you look at this text over here, that is which will show me that I edited this file and a commit that had refactoring code as the over here, if you hover on that, now you get this the commit, click on the person if I wanted to. another monitor. But I can see a lot of different I can see the same thing down here. And then I get commit, and the search commits view, to open the This is by far, the most powerful extension I highly recommend checking it out. And then on built in features inside of VS code. Alright, coolest and most powerful features in VS code, and extensions. And let's search for live share. And this before, of what it does. What this does is so that we can have like a live peer programming we could share code, we could talk through code, share extension inside of VS code. So you want And then I'll type in the command palette, live start collaboration session. So when I do that, in, in this case, so I can just copy this link, And I'm going to come over to my other instance of share join collaboration session. So let's join I'll sign in with my GitHub account with my jamesy thing. You'll need to go through this process as say, all right, that's good to go. And then I need grabbed here is the session that I'm trying to of VS code over here, the one that I started it terminal session. Yes, I'll kill it, I actually terminal kill. VS code is going to need some I also want to change that setting for the exit. So I want to turn that off. Okay. Now, you open on this side, it was only open. On the other here the code is and I can toggle around, I can this is my cursor on the insiders edition. And this instance that created the share session. So person as they navigate through code. So if I open the new file here as well. And the way that works follow this person around as they scroll through changing files, and I'm not even doing anything. walk through code. While the other person just both work on code at the same time, you can share code, live share. This is such a cool extension to someone across the world or someone that's maybe Regardless of how you use it. This is one of the code. And you should definitely check it out. It's code review sessions. It's flat out amazing. and just kind of talk about how I think and most the most popular, the most powerful editor for development is where it will really really shine. we looked at downloading the stable edition, the two, we looked at the layout and how to customize you as a developer so that you can write code as getting into speed is how to use those shortcuts, much as possible. Keep your hands on the keyboard. really crucial. Knowing how to toggle open your and shortcuts for opening and closing and saving to save you a ton of time. And then we started to code. And there are lots of ways to customize it, built with electron. It's built with HTML, CSS and See those things take place. So some of the in settings, things like your font family, I use get those free on GitHub if you search for them to be able to have those fancy characters for at font size and zoom size. And there's a ton of you can customize. And the cool thing is they make We also looked at customizing your key maps, of your shortcuts to be. So I think VS code has a lot that you want to customize that, you can certainly into extensions, you see that they have key map maps from other editors like sublime, or Notepad shortcuts that you're used to. And then we covered I use every day, the live server extension is the advanced new file extension, the color, pair, all of these that we walk through are really We looked at things I use the cobalt to theme, Sarah dresner. There's a ton you can just search those to make them your own. And then we got into to do debugging right inside of your editor not and walking through files. We did that in vanilla node VS code just makes this really, really easy. of or working with Git inside of VS code. It's got locally for working with remote repositories in extension on top of that, to really supercharge look at the live share extension, which allows you walkthrough code real time with someone across the can see each other's cursor, you can follow each really impactful for code reviews and teaching all in all VS code is the best editor that's out I highly recommend it. I hope this Crash Course