Transcriber: Chiara Polesinanti I'm going to share something with you When my husband was diagnosed with cancer, I felt hot and tingly on the inside. My head felt like it was floating And I had a sizable lump in my throat. Then I laughed. I didn't think it was funny, but the way that my brain As a kid, I would lose friends over this. My husband is doing well, and he's actually here today (Applause) I am a terrific actress, I'm social, but I do not like small talk. I was once the odd kid, My feelings are not different than yours, And sometimes that looks different. My name is Cynthia Coupe, As a speech language pathologist, I specialize in working with kids yet I didn't notice that my daughter and I didn't see my own We are on the spectrum I want you to walk away from this talk, rethinking normal. So what is neurodiversity? Neurodiversity is the spectrum in terms of things socializing and a whole host Neurodiversity was first coined Yet it has no formal definition to this day. It was originally used to describe autism, so over time it's also included dyslexia and a whole bunch Put simply, neurodiversity is the natural variation Just like our fingerprints, Autistic traits have a long Yet autism is a fairly new diagnosis. As we learn more about it, we see that we've always had and we've actually needed them From Einstein to Elon Musk, Michelangelo to Bill Gates -- But it's not just about being It's certainly not about being emotionless and it's not even about being weird OK, maybe it's a little about being weird (Laughter) But really, it's about One of my clients, Jessica, used to think She didn't know she had autism until one day, during an argument, "It's your autism." "Autism what?" Jessica had no idea what this was. Her family finally shared her diagnosis Her whole world opened before her eyes. She tells me, "I learned I had autism." "Nothing was wrong with me, Nothing was wrong with her. What if we could all think that way? When my daughter, Lina, she asked if I hoped she was autistic. "I really don't care, What do you hope?" "I don't know why, I think it'd be kind of cool." This next generation There's more acceptance, more openness. Just look at racial and gender identity. Acceptance and integration and neurodiversity is no different. What we consider normal is shifting. Neurodiversity, racial diversity, these new normals are shaping our future. The statistics give us only a narrow view but no matter how we look at it, autism is on the rise. The CDC states that one in 54 children have a diagnosis of autism. That's up from one in 150 That's significant. Adults with autism And I can tell you there's a whole host of us that aren't identified, (Laughter) and our children which means we are not even part The numbers have tripled and they might even quadruple soon, because we're still learning In fact, between 30 and 40 percent is thought to be neurodiverse. It really is the new normal. So I find it incredibly ironic that neurodivergents are forming yet we don't fit in. Neurodivergents have a significantly depression and suicide than the general population. We're stuck on the fringe Of those that have a diagnosis, between 55 and 85 percent are There's a 400 percent and a 300 percent higher chance of suicide than the general population. But why? I have a unique vantage point as a mother, therapist and individual, in all cases, I see here and experience Society has a narrow view of autism. It's either Rain Man or Forest Gump. Identification is difficult, and neurodivergent adults We need education, So how do we do that? My daughter actually nailed I was picking her up from school, "It was fine. I told my friend I had autism. She said it didn't seem like it. Mom, can you please do a talk Education. She knew it was the answer, With education, we have the chance It allows us to become vulnerable With education, we have the chance to open as well as ourselves and the ability to expand Take my story. I had missed my daughter's autism even with 20 years of experience My view was too narrow. It wasn't until I read an article and learned that girls I finally got it. I saw what I was missing. And I'm not alone. The fact that females didn't come to light until 2016. We all missed it. But through education, we've learned. Over and over again, I hear We wish we had known more We wish other people understood it, We don't feel like we're disabled. We just feel like we don't fit in. In the work my husband and I do, our community and even ourselves We provide outreach and education And we know that education It also leads to identification. While it may not seem to matter in today's society Here's the formula: diagnosis equals services, services equal support, and support equals positive outcomes. So if we're not diagnosed then we might struggle to hold down a job, And if we struggle we might end up depressed We find ourselves trying to fit in, because that's what In fact, identification also has because how do you serve someone I can't exactly just grab "Hey, you look weird, I think I can help." (Laughter) Chances are if people aren't identified, they don't know what their struggles are, and that leads them So while formal diagnosis just being able to self identify Knowing we are not alone and to realize that we're not actually To quote Mark from the Netflix series "it doesn't matter." We're all human beings. It's all about diversity. We're all in this together. Which brings me to the last piece we need: support. Remember how I said that the incidence to one in 54? When I was a speech language pathologist the number of kids on my caseload It's a tidal wave and it's already leaving it. Over the next 10 years, roughly 90,000 teens each year will age out of school based Well, that's almost a million teens Similar to foster kids, there isn't much available, maybe some accommodations in college, but no real life coaching as they're navigating New experiences, it's overwhelming. No wonder unemployment, That's a big problem. But what if instead of a problem, we viewed it as an opportunity, like my daughter did? I find that as we support their growth is tremendous. Teary eyed parents are thanking us, while teachers and clients are asking Our support has led directly to the things jobs, friends, self advocacy. As Dena Gassner says, you grow into it." Autism is not static. It changes as we all do, and the years post high school This is where the rubber meets the road, The other day, one of my classically "I'm pretty much happy all the time." "Really? Since when?" "Since I met Juan, now I have a friend." This young man is 23 years old. His new besty is 19. I can tell you, they've changed They've connected with something Working in the field of autism became my life dream when I was seven years old. It is my passion, and it has only become Life is funny, isn't it, it sent me a daughter and it opened up my eyes I know intimately and what we experience day to day. My vision is a world where neurodiversity We need systemic change. Change happens I don't have a roadmap. But I have a direction. It all begins with education. We educate ourselves Searching the internet, watching videos and reading books and literature We educate our children as well as others. If our child has a diagnosis, We ask for neurodiversity education and we don't stop asking until we get it. We start using a strengths based model We build better diagnostic tools, like a Myers-Briggs for neurodiversity. Bit by bit, we bring neurodiversity We normalize the new normal. Together, we can create a world where everyone in society As we move forward, I would like to share "Autistics are the ultimate square peg, and the problem with pounding is not that the hammering is hard work. it's that you're destroying the peg." It's time to put down the hammer. Thank you. (Applause)