Oh! This is genuinely shocking! Hi, I'm Josh. I'm Ollie. And today we're going to be reviewing the worst recipes Wow! Today we have five show-stopping courses. Five courses! That should be consigned to history, In some cases had to find ingredients What?! So are we going to be just looking at them or We're trying them man! What is going on! Ollie : I commissioned Jenny, our friend Jenny to make these. She spent literally all day yesterday dawn till dusk making these. What? Are you ready for this? No, not at all! All right. Round one or course one should I say, This is a jellied tomato refresher. That looks disgusting, it looks like a bloody mary that someone's drank and then vomited up in jelly form. Do you want to know what's in it? A tablespoon of dehydrated green peppers, artificial sweetener, Worcester sauce, garlic salt, ground cloves, And a green pepper to garnish. Who the heck thinks of this stuff? It smells putrid. I mean that, there's a lot... It's just jelly. All right. Enough amusing our bouches, I hate tomato, I hate tomato juice, Ollie. I hate it. Oh my gosh! Is that a real recipe? My bouche is not amused. Not even remotely amused. I would say my bouche is angry. It's livid! It's an angered bouche. I'm seeing very red! That is disgusting! Take it away please, next course. I dread to think what's next. Josh : Why did that need to be jelly? That was so unnecessary! That is an important question that we can answer today. Now we come on to our starter, Lime cheese salad. That's not a real thing? It is. It looks flipping identical! So this is lime jello and cottage cheese. And then lime jello on the top with grated onion, vinegar, mayonnaise, with a seafood salad. You might be noticing a pattern here, right? Why is there so much jelly? Gelatine was invented in the 1650s I think. Josh : Wow, that's a long time ago! At the beginning of the 20th century. Following the second world war the world was rebuilding, Josh : People had to get creative. By the 50s it's like, this is the heyday of jello. And this isn't even the craziest! Oh dear Lord! Let's try it. That is actually an abomination. It keeps jiggling about! Alright, our bouches are thoroughly amused, I'm just going to get a little bit of jelly first, because my inclination is surely, that's going to be like, that's going to be sweet. It's got a bit of onion in it though. What is that? That's the cottage cheese layer, and That seafood salad in the middle! This is genuinely shocking. Cottage cheese, bunch of tuna, lime jello. There's a lot going on. You know what? That's a lot better than the last one. Really? If you don't think about what it is, I'm kind of not that mad at that. For me the combination of the acidity of the lime... Josh : No don't talk about it. I don't want to analyse it. The tuna and the cottage cheese jelly thing With the sour lime jelly on top. Goodness me! That's like maybe a party dish as a joke. A party dish as a joke? Yeah, you put it out and people can actually try it. That last one was a genuine waste of ingredients. I mean I feel bad talking about it like this in front of it you know. Like imagine if you say someone I like you but kind of as a joke. Now we're coming on to our seafood main. Wow, you have really outdone yourself today I've got to say... What... is that? It's seafood mousse. Gelatine. It. s not jelly in there? Josh : There's more gelatine in there? Lime juice, grated onion, teaspoon of salt, teaspoon of pepper, Two fish, tablespoon of capers, tablespoon of chopped parsley, Two fish?! One cup of heavy cream, whipped, carrot strips, Look how solid it is! Ollie : It's mousse. Josh : Mousse is not that solid! Oh it's really thick! I'm actually quite looking forward to this to be honest. Why? I'm partial to a tuna mayo sandwich. Why is there jelly in it again? All right, right as I bit into it, You reminded me that there's jelly in it. Oh the texture... It's like... It honestly tastes like a tuna mayo sandwich. Oh no! That has just been lubricated. Why is it sour? It's slightly sour! It's got lime juice in it. I mean that doesn't sound bad, put lime on a bit of fish. And it's good but that. Ollie : It's not bad! That, I would actually say that's worse than the last one. Ollie : Really? Ollie : I feel bad for the fish that went into that. We're now moving on to the meat main. That's a real pineapple! It's the real top of a pineapple but the body is not pineapple. Oh my goodness! That's amazing! I know! How on earth... Do you even go about making something like that? What is that? It is a jellied... Ollie : Liver sausage pineapple. There's a pineapple made from liver, sausage, and jelly?! This has been described as the worst recipe ever invented. It's not like just sausage meat Do you want to see? Yeah. No! This is like the nightmare evil cousin of meat fruit! It is! You're right! Heston would be proud. That was a 700 year old recipe that actually tasted amazingly good. Josh : And this... This looks like a 70 year old recipe, That is going to taste incredibly bad. Who knows? It might be incredible. Josh : Don't know about that. The skin is falling off. Don't call it the skin! Ah crap! It's so gelatinous! Oh, it's so squidgy. Ollie : Ready? That's not that bad. I had way too much. Ollie : Is that too much? I think you need a thinly layered spread. It's a very strong flavour. Ollie : Definitely not the world's worst recipe. Jelly tomato for me takes that crown at the moment. I'm on board for this, I'm genuinely on board with this. If you throw a party, serve up that. It's a talking point. Massive talking point. I genuinely think Heston Probably! Ollie : You don't get a Michelin star, but you get a round of applause. I think Heston would... Performance, I mean....that's a performance piece. It's historical and it's edible. I'm amazed. You've outdone yourself. Josh : And that you've managed to replicate it. How on earth? For our desert. That could literally be anything. Cream cheese on the outside, Melon on the inside, hollowed out, It's like a ball of trifle without the sponge, Held in a melon, and then covered with cream cheese. Oh my gosh! Wow! That looks identical to the picture! I'm genuinely impressed that That's really good, right? Not quite feeling your level of enthusiasm. The cream cheese though. Literally is the worst part of it. Ollie : Which is ironic considering its a cream cheese recipe. It would taste a lot better if it was just melon and trifle. Well, yeah, melon and cream cheese. Ollie : Not cream cheese... This is how advertising works. But the cream cheese really doesn't help. I mean it makes the whole thing taste very odd. To be honest, I'm just glad that there's That's true! You're right! This is by far the best thing we've tried. Would you be tempted to have any of these again? I'd make that without the cream cheese. That's fun. I think this, points for creativity, right? This, points for movement. Points for W-T-F were you thinking. Like genuinely that is the worst thing I could possibly imagine. This I would say... Abomination. Ollie : Abomination. This is an insult to fish everywhere, And I would say that is an insult to mouths everywhere. Genuinely, it's made me stop and think how thankful I am that Why am I this just miscellaneous retro outfit as well? It's the 1950s man! Okay, I think that's about all we have time for today guys. We'll see you JOLLY soon! Hello Jolly! I am Alex from brazil, Bye!