It helped me so much to realize I I'm a highly I rejected myself about came into a such a a whole different perspective. And we start to for were actually good things, when you think with a very special guest who I was so excited is a Dutch high sensitivity expert. You may have it's on my bookshelf, about the brain of the researcher, keynote speaker and author of several trains professionals in understanding and guiding facts about the trait. Kind of debunking some the many benefits and advantages that come is also a highly sensitive person herself who has conversation about how to live a happy life as of the challenges that can come with it. And how always built for sensitivity. I am personally in talking about high sensitivity and the science the brain of the highly sensitive person, and her further ado, please enjoy my conversation with on the channel and welcome. Thank you Vera. You yeah, you are the expert and I'm so happy to have it would be really nice to just hear a little bit being a highly sensitive person. How did you get of like the nitty-gritty and the science about makes us different from non- highly sensitive like that. And what does the science have to what you know, so that is really nice. And then I ask you. And I got so many questions about, mostly from being a highly sensitive person. For example high empathy and then sometimes struggling with really saddened by world events. And many people it with non- highly sensitive people. People even dismiss it and say like oh, that's not a things like that. So yeah, we've got a lot to to us a bit more about yourself and how you how you Well, yeah. I think in in many periods of my life highly sensitive person. But I didn't know about manager, and I got sick. And had to stay at home And I noticed that all the doctors didn't know advice that I strictly followed, because I'm very didn't work at all. So in that period, I read oh my God, that's me! That's me. And well, I was the time. That I wasn't a good manager. That I make swift decisions. That I wasn't firm enough. but I am well considered. And I think about all manager. But the way that the organization So that was the moment that I really started to had. And it helped me so much to realize I'm a that I rejected myself about came into a such a whole different perspective and we start to see were actually good things, when you think about in my recovery. And at the same time, I realized They were eight and six at that time. So that that Because I tried to figure out how to cope with their experiences. And it was a a real big game when you were a child. Obviously like, I have the didn't really know about high sensitivity. They teachers too. Did you also have that experience? didn't know about it. So we can't blame them of children. And it was, well. I grew up in the north just go forth and don't cry. What do you have to it it was really difficult for me. Because I felt one else was feeling them. And only when I read were also having feelings, that I thought okay, I really didn't understand how to do things. Yeah. you can teach your children about it and help discovered that. And now I see my children, and of can talk about it and I think that makes a big or being anxious. Or being very happy. And it's so many highly sensitive people, myself included, when we go through a rough patch. Like for me it kind of feel like how why can't we do what we see Or why are we always so like tired or emotional? everything, it's not really talked about that that there are highly sensitive people that have with life as much as the people that didn't have sensitive. So there is a group that maybe just empathic, but don't feel the the need to look for haven't had the recognition for their very intense because of our depth of processing, we feel it level, in our bodies. And because other people doesn't match what we experience. Or they just to just carry on, to just stay strong, but that go any further. And now that's our burnouts for because we don't have the recognition, we go it's a normal topic in this society, and when you normal to think about who I am? Might I be highly point, then it's much more easy to take lessons That makes total sense, yeah. And that is I think, about high sensitivity on the channel. Just you may be highly sensitive. The funny thing do you consider yourself to be a highly sensitive a lot of HSPs here. Yeah great. So could we get like what is a highly sensitive person really? trait. So it's not something that you get, it's information from your surroundings you notice more sight, but it's also emotions. We call this of others more precise. So the surroundings have and your brain processes that more deeply. more connections with different brain areas. processed. And your brain is more focused on the have to do to keep the harmony in the group? Or going very fast. Your brain is doing overtime we will speak of that later. But it also has some And that means that you are depleted more easily. have done a task. And your emotions are much friends or with your colleagues. So we say process more deeply, and reacts more intensely. Alenis Morisette, who is also a highly sensitive highly sensitive person walks into a room, they highly sensitive person walks into a room, they you say that that is accurate? Those numbers? accurate. Because we know that a highly sensitive perceiving is more intense. That's through all When we walk into a room, we feel the emotions ourselves. So that's called emoception. We also from within the body. So there are stimuli from subtle. Like hunger, thirst, tiredness. That and all those signals. We can say that there are senses are so sensitive to all those stimuli. That story that I could relate to on a very deep level. then all the stimuli together, even though you friends, and eating the nice food, and going on that you kind of also just felt a little gloomy, Yeah. I couldn't enjoy it anymore. Because those didn't understand what was going on. And I saw flow away. And I got really irritable. I didn't go home and lie in my bed under the blanket. Because it's not that often that you can go to it's something I think more HSPs can relate go out. But there are so many stimuli that come not easy to to be in surroundings where lots is that HSPs differ from non- HSPs. Because they have really interesting to read about. So we don't know there was a research in which people had there was a really busy picture with all kinds there was a face that was not there, but slowly moment that they saw the face. HSPs pressed more don't see. So if you're at a movie, or if you're don't experience what you experienced, you know more subtle. And is HSP the same thing as SPS? those terms kind of like used interchangeably sensitivity is the scientific term. So when you're that is used there. But high sensitivity is how websites. So it is the same thing. And would you different? Because one of the questions and I always feel a little bit difficult to the same thing as autism for example? Especially for example in women, than we did when Elaine often goes undiagnosed. And people ask: is both change how we perceive and process sensory is a kind of neurodivergence, because the brain sensing, the sensory things. Although, with people means that you don't notice those things about main difference is how the brain processes things. subtle, your brain processes things more deeply, about the brain of the highly sensitive person is brain areas that interact with each other. And that are connected by nature, but those networks you're a HSP. And we see that in brain scans. on in the brain, you see real big differences. still needs to be a lot of more research about what we do know about the connectivity and about we know about autism. So we're fairly certain people with Autism and people who are highly But the nature is different. That makes sense. as a highly sensitive person, and then later together sometimes? Or is it always either/or? Because there's so many questions about the a different thing. But I can't really state it's know more about it. More research is needed. Yes. all highly sensitive people are also introverts. Yeah exactly. So when Elaine Aaron first started was a kind of subtrate from more introverted discovered that's not the case. So about 70% of in the total population, it's about one third. introverted than normal. But, also about 30% research that more introverted people need their get new energy. While more extroverted people need and talks with other people, to get their energy conversations. The big difference is in where you and highly sensitive, you need the contact also more more depleting than other extroverts, to you, when you are at the bar or at a party extroverted HSP to keep the balance than an like depressed or sad or something, if they're not feel really tired, because of all the stimuli. And I don't know if you're familiar with the the For me, it also came out as an extroverted type. need alone time to recharge. So I thought that started to think about it. And I do need people. it get really gloomy and cranky and uninspired. people. So then yeah, I don't really know what to I'm having the best time. And then you know, by I'm just so incredibly exhausted from all the those things a day. And don't really expect much home, change into my comfy clothing, maybe curl you know, cool cool off a little. But it's really in and too much out. Especially as someone with difficult. And it's great for you to do it that with other people, and then giving yourself the energy that you did get from the contact. But would deplete you too much. Yeah I've noticed. to deal with this. Okay. And what what would you sensitivity that you hear your work? Oh I hear I feel so... because there's so much research. such a twisted idea of what high sensitivity is that it is sensory overload. So that that very triggered by by loud noises for example and But that's not the case. Because the sensory highly sensitive. But it's that deep processing, that's the big difference. So not everyone that's example is highly sensitive. Yeah, because that Or maybe people who cry easily or really take the thing that people associate most with the the eggshells around people, because you don't want to HSPs do get emotional more quickly. Because the what we feel. But that doesn't mean that everyone it also doesn't mean that when you deal with a because they might cry. So there's so much nuances That's why I'm glad you're here. To tell people is that it's mostly women. And that's not true distributed. That's very interesting. I was going my viewers are women, but a good 20% are men. for highly sensitive men specifically? Because we highly sensitive men to show their sensitive side. really appreciate the the more sensitive, the more you go to Asian cultures, it's much more accepted. there. So it is really a cultural thing. And I man, to realize that it's not just you. But it's is knowing that you are highly sensitive, and sensitive man feel, I think flawed. And they feedback like you're too sensitive, you shouldn't because you're not that tough. It really gets being highly sensitive is having talents that are the the twist to seeing yourself as a powerful and flawed man. Yeah of course. Like being very like people as best you can. There are so many great creative, being able to think outside the box. So personally, is like the biggest, the best thing many good things. I think the best one is creative creative is about making all the connections. just connecting them to one another. So you're way. And I really enjoyed that, now I know really get the feedback that that was something you have to stick to the assignment and not it. And I often use the metaphor of the the Lego houses from. Yeah. There are very many different You can see that the highly sensitive person is colors in the blocks than not highly sensitive they have more shapes. Because they yeah you sensitive person just has two shapes, because well to do. So when you look at it that way, it's more things. So many colored Lego blocks and so many very different from a non-HSP. I love that. And about more with kids and education. Like you said, just need to do exactly what the assignment says. and out of the box thinking. Like maybe they're That's not what they want to hear. When actually, do feel, as HSPs, what is expected of us. So we Because thinking out of the box is something that many complex problems. Yeah oh for sure! We need share one research that is really connected with when you give an HSP a task that's really easy, non HSPs. So that doesn't seem very effective, very complex problem, the non HSPs need to really while the HSP has the same activation. So then, HSP. So we are more equipped to tackle those very That's like a superpower. Yeah. It really is. one last thing before I ask you about how to person. I read from your research also about the is a like a network in the brain. How is that we have different brain networks, that are brain tasks. So for example, the central executive a specific task. And the default mode network is at hand. So when you're taking a shower, you past experiences, or maybe experiences to come. the brains research shows us that this network when we're resting, that is the time that the but it's more active with HSPs. And we assume that more stored specifically than others. So we we those experiences are stored. And where others Because we really store this so specifically. But the same situation. You can get that map that the moment. And we did see in brain research that the central executive network is present, with the So it's shut out. So you can really focus network really strong. And that's doesn't seem you want to your energy to focus and there's a lot when you need information from past experiences, So the activity of this network also means that outwards. Past, future, present. So that's relate to the shower situation. Because most of my or when I'm going out for a walk. That's when at my laptop with an empty screen, trying to highly sensitive people really need to take much letting our brain do its thing. Yeah definitely don't know. Well, I'm really excited about all thing. Because when you have to study words for to recall them, this research showed that when a but did engage in another task directly afterward, person. But when the highly sensitive person took they recalled 50% of the words, versus 20% of the yourself the time to just wonder off, it gives memory. Wow. For me, it's just... Even though highly sensitive for a long time. But I still maybe highly sensitive people are always a little expect a lot of themselves. And I constantly bits of rest. It's okay to not do everything on to daydream. It's so important. I always feel so nagging voice in your head that tells you like, that video. You know? When you take it a bit responsible for everything. And we see the bigger it will have consequences for the bigger thing. you don't have those creative ideas, and you So you really do need to rest to be your I'm curious about what you like best about things? I would say the amount of joy I get from movies and art and nature and being around my experience, or when I see how I experience these gauge how other people experience these things, for me. And of course I I can't look inside feels much more intense. And of course yeah, that I have a picture of myself when I'm, I don't at a shrub in my parents backyard. Because there really pretty. And I was just kind of mesmerized remember that ever since being very little. Just yeah that's one thing that I really like about to stress that it's really important to know this refresh your energy. And to feel better. It's understand that you you don't always want that. you can induce those feelings with yourself and to cope with with difficult moments. Seeking out good one. And so, one of the comments that I got loud noises, bright lights, crowds, make me want would you say was like a good strategy for highly not feel over stimulated all the time? Because I a little bit less, but it's not like financially that we can't really get out of. So how do But it does really help to know what you are senses that we know. Hearing, seeing, feeling, that's about emotions. And when you know that then it's more easy to find a strategy that helps them for about two two weeks or something. And try overwhelmed. And when you have made a list of reduce the sounds in my workspace? Are there really an issue, so your emotion is very triggered something you can do to avoid feeling all those other way. Or can you move away from some from It really helps you to choose the right strategies overwhelm. Because when you feel overwhelmed, Because your brain is just not capable of it. And I think that also has to do with knowing high maintenance or difficult or childish, if you definitely. For example when you have discovered feel that you are complaining or that you are realized, that you can be your best self. And of So that makes it easier to ask, for example, Great answer. And is it also, this is something sensitive to certain stimuli by avoiding them it by being in those environments more, and then always going to be the same? Well I have heard on on sensory stimuli, that for example always to sounds. So yeah yeah. So you should be really every day, then it's more sensitive the next if it counts for all senses. We do have some some what you say when you experience things that you you are less sensitive to it. But we do think that know for example that sensitivity to sounds We also do know that in difficult periods of your experienced that yourself, but in those difficult that it is more difficult for different stimuli it's different for you. So you might feel temporary I don't even think I need research to not feeling well. For sure yeah. That's that's to remind myself of, I can recover fine. Even if If I just take some time to recover, I will sometimes it takes a weekend. But it's not the afternoon with a friend or something, and I'm better. It's not a cause for immediate concern that you learn when you really get into the high don't know it, you might feel what's wrong with I? And why am I always so tired after a party the party? So it really helps to know that you got from someone. As a highly sensitive person, those around me. Some tips on how to keep myself and suffering. And someone else also asked: bad news and what is happening in the world. So explain what is happening to you. So I talked where you get the emotions of others. You really you can feel other person's feelings. We also know we also noticed that the social brain areas are you're really getting into what does the other harmony in the group. Is everybody feeling happy. those things. So it's a brain process where So when you notice within yourself that other it does help a bit to understand what's going on what you're feeling is not yours. It might be the And when you do notice that it is the emotion I don't have to feel this. This is the emotion of that you let it go. What you can also do when you know, that really affects you all the time, he or she is feeling really sad or really angry or so to speak. So you observe what's going on. other, it's just happens. And we also know that that are really active in a highly sensitive the brains. We also call it the neural WiFi. So over invisibly. But when you are really observant want that. Dadada. Keep that for yourself. So it's saying is understand what's happening, observe like okay, this person is feeling frustrated. not mine. I don't need that. It's his feelings or to let them go, maybe take a deep breath or? Take state in yourself. Because we do know that you about it earlier. That feeling, those emotions of those feelings out of your system, because they're beautiful. And try to get in your own emotions. yet. I'm gonna give that a try next time. And when just be not watching the news for a while, when or something really terrible? Where you're just I heard a lot from from HSPs. That there's so it's really difficult to concentrate on your all the other people. And so, even at a great person. And I myself try to not get the news that all the other times, I block it out. Because I are a lot of highly sensitive people that feel so not okay to block it out. But you sometimes need else. Yeah exactly. That's something I've really of made my peace with. Feeling kind of guilty you. I do watch the news sometimes, I like to stay have lots of boundaries in place when it comes made me feel very guilty or like I didn't care, or something. But you know, constantly subjecting where you can't be your yourself and and show up really helping anyone. No. And I also know that benefit of picturing a sort of bubble around them. when you are breathing in and out, you can picture keeps the negative things outside. And you can direct contact with you, but you can also use but you don't get all the intense emotions. And doesn't. But if it helps you, it can be a way to world at the moment. Yeah that makes total sense. that comes with it. It just cannot penetrate your and they are experiencing strong emotions, sometimes I'll just take a bathroom break. Just myself up in a little cubicle, just breathing. exercise is always good in such a moment. And when you are high in stress at a long time, Physical, but mentally as well. So your breathing when you do that many times a day, you can really that I wanted to ask you about is one comment people (mostly family) who are negative about say things like you need to suck it up, and stop family know about about this. And they accept it really understand what it's like, I think. But this as well, when I was a kid in school. And my you don't have that vocabulary, it's really hard. I want to acknowledge that it it really hurts when to you. They don't really consider it to be a real knowing that you are highly sensitive, I hope can also see that they really don't understand not highly sensitive to really get what it is. What I also recommend is that sometimes it's really specific, examples of what it's like. So highly sensitive, you can also say, I really don't to this meeting, because my brain just needs some lie down for an hour and perhaps I can come later. work for me. So most of the time, people get that concept of being highly sensitive. Where they have what you need and what you experience. That might really good point. And do you think it it would this with people you don't really know that well, articles? Or be like hey, there's proof. This is book. The Brain of the highly sensitive person. people just, when they've known someone their But when someone else says it, and this person has maybe it's easier for people to to be like oh a lot. And there are many blog articles everywhere on all kinds of places. And it could help people come with high sensitivity. And know, I recognize or with my my daughter or son. Just realize that for your friends or your your parents. Yeah going through my burnout, and my therapist at you need to look into that. And I did. And I was myself. I'm a highly sensitive person. And I I could see that she felt a little guilty or a before. And she was like you know, we didn't know have sensed it somehow. Or she should have known then you can't know about it. So they're not to Well, there is information, but it hasn't reached as well. You can't expect other people to really to give the information for them as well. And real thing as well. Because there are a lot of the circumstances are not that good for them. But it can also help to to show the benefits of your negative things, or the things that you need that to more well-considered decisions. So you show in your talk to the person. So it's not oh, oh, I for me to do certain things. No. I'm really good right circumstances to deliver that. And we have we don't know how to verbalize the many talents off, is there any one thing that you would who is a highly sensitive person? Anything congratulations on your high sensitivity, I would and the difficult things. But what we said, it that you're worth taking your time. Taking suits you. Because you wonderful person. And you You made me emotional. I love that, thank today on the channel. I had such a wonderful will get many comments from people as well. So highly sensitives. Thank you Vera. It was very