This isn't a speaker. This isn't a level bed. question I've been asked is which 3D printer it would have been Creality. If you'd asked me this moment there's one no-brainer brand: Bambu buy is a bit more complex, so this video will help [Music] So I thought instead of doing a dry review of all Lab printer aligns to a set of different personas. you're a woodworker a D&amp;D enthusiast or any of are unique qualities of each of these printers for you. I'll also dispel some common myths and my members' Discord forum to make sure you're information. But first let me introduce you to who just exude innovation, and they're not the that deserve a bit of a spotlight, not just on the and their mindset to challenges. With the A1 for on. Did you spot that? Everyone in their right mind by adding a speaker and obviously a bit more But that wasn't a speaker making that nice bootup Feature added. No cost. No complexity. Genius. Bambu suitable for anyone. You can even print directly little more interesting is is deciding which are innovating means that their newer printers range. So the first thing to note is the order of A1, and this means there are some truly range-leading features in their lowest cost option. Fundamentally a lot of videos spend all the time to you and your interest. Now I'm going to make but feel free to decide yourself if you have a people have focused on for years. Firstly forget and very capable. You can print a Benchy in 16 Secondly, forget about bed levelling and technical You just hit print and it'll deal with it. I is extraordinary. It just doesn't care about print quality - they're all outstanding. This figure It's ridiculously detailed, accurate and clean. X1C is undoubtedly the highest quality, but then and then back up to the P1S with its LCD screen. In deciding factor. All of them have inbuilt cameras - and higher res than the lower-res P1Ses, but they print is working or not. But the three factors you interests are number one: the nozzle design. Now A1 range is an enormous feature. I can't overstate for many a year and the P1S and X1C made this nozzles on these printers I must admit I never with the Allen keys and screws that you drop. But to align and a single clip to secure. And that's hands at all, hey Bambu Lab? I know an iteration why is this so important? Well let's look at the increases the speed of the prints, so let's say project. They lift the wood off the ground and as simple, robust shapes that I just need to print any difference in layer lines is really not that sizes you can see how radical a print time is mm nozzle or 2 hours on a 0.6 mm. But let's say to print labels for your workshop or you're also miniatures. This is where the 0.2 mm nozzle is a about is the enclosure. Now in almost all cases time. They're easy-to-print materials and they work demand stronger or specialist filament types. In essential to avoid nasty particles and VOCs. No the X1C, but it can work the other way, like if this in your workshop then the enclosure plays the drips, the oil spatters and paint explosions in my craft room simply because it's small and workspace is slightly smaller than the A1. So the the final area to consider is the AMS. The AMS is between filament reels automatically mid print. but equally if you're running larger prints it can automatically move on to the next white module and the A1 comes with what's called the AMS version is newer, so whilst it's not as neat and on the original AMS. The central gripping of the a sensible upgrade - this avoids any issues with not least cardboard reels. So I really like the AMS so if this is an issue then the enclosed version lot of generational improvements that are hard to your interests. Now stating the obvious here, you could use 3D printers in. There are thousands! But they should be useful to understand how terms of specification and help you decide organisation. You want to create super flexible there was a video covering that! You want to make such thing available for free, surely? ;-) But this need a reliable, simple printer, and really it's for any prints, so the A1 would be an immensely woodworking and DIY. 3D printers offer an amazing DIY solutions. My workshop is rammed full of handy to make things easier, and I will cover these anywhere near your workshop then suddenly the question mark. I mean, you might be one of these too tidy....no dust anywhere.....and everything is neatly their garden late at night but know nothing their neighbourhood. However for the rest of us doesn't mix well with high-precision devices, so woodworkers on this point alone. Now if you're course you could fit a 0.2 mm nozzle onto any likely you'll want to swap a lot, so printing 0.06 mm layer height allows a huge difference pieces at that size will kill your print times. to-large prints the A1 quick-change tool becomes sewers and crafters the A1 is a strong choice, models but then larger pieces too for outfits or also very quickly start to veer into things prints can become much longer as you're printing case the more controlled and stable temperature something to consider. Gardeners - you just want to outdoors in the elements, so PETG is great for you, whilst most things will be bigger, there might be Plant labels that are super-long lasting in a 0.2 of the sky. Well suddenly you're dealing with more durability, so in comes things like lightweight only is this more prone to warping and elephant -footing on taller prints so an enclosure helps, but when it comes to fumes you get an enclosure X1C are the only options, and the more extensive the more serious you are about your hobby. In pointed towards the more advanced filament types - others for this a fully-enclosed, air-filtered ideal. Again, noting the X1C's ability to cope for art and design folks - you tend to be the most your prints, so as a generic recommendation the X1C this is ultimately about you, not the printer, now and think about the style of art and design best. I've got filaments made of actual bronze filaments with wood in them, glow-in-the-dark, multicoloured and so much more. You essentially palette. Now there's also a few myths that I keep surprised when I mention them, so I thought I'd any outdated reviews mentioning this. Myth one: connected to the cloud. Well no they don't. That's you're sorted. Myth two: I want to use only introduced that as an option. Just note they quite other people's code, but this is possible. Myth ecosystem. Well don't just like Prusa will Creality will push their solutions Bambu Lab has you can happily use whatever slicer you want include some neat features on their filament, like the filament type and colour when you add it RFID about how handy they are! But you don't have to filament brand or your own favourite slicer if you eyes. And really, don't worry about the speed focus on what your interests are and pick one the cheapest to start you off! You'll be buying covering many more projects with these printers work horses that power almost all the 3D prints thousands of hours of use. I've got links to all so it's a great way to support me for free to help also commented about missing my videos when they can either submit to the whims of the algorithm Patreon and I'll always ping you a note the moment could also become a member which gives you lots I've actually decided to re-jig the listings as true Pantheon of Awesomeness of people who've been longest. I'd love to hear if there's anything I've I'm trying to keep at high level. One big area something I've dabbled in yet and I know Bambu Lab to hear who you think are the market leaders at in future. I hope that's helped answer my recommended products up to date on my site. So Hwyl Fawr. [Music] [Music] [Music]