Autumn 1956, the world tries to forget the Second World War. However, in the Middle East, a new crisis has just erupted. In the early hours of October 22, a DC-4 landed at a military airfield near Paris. On board was David Ben Gurion, Israel's founding father, accompanied by the young state's highest officials. The trip was secret. Its purpose was to prepare for a war, the Suez war. We were squeezed into the car. Ben Gourion had hidden his famous white hair under a hat and Dayan wore a pair of dark glasses, instead of his famous eye patch. I was between the two, completely stuck. Ben Gourion turned to me and said: &quot;By the way, did you tell them that we didn't agree to anything?&quot; Ben Gourion asked me to keep the diary. With that in mind, I became the delegation's secretary. I was the man who wrote the minutes. I was 27, with a degree in history. And I was perfectly aware that I was witnessing history and that I was writing it. Because the Israelis and the French had discovered a common enemy, President Gamal Abdel Nasser, who had just nationalized the Suez Canal. Together, they drew up a war plan in this discreet villa on the outskirts of Paris. The Israeli leaders are welcomed by Prime Minister Guy Mollet and Defense Minister Maurice Bourges-Maunoury. Christian Pineau, Minister of Foreign Affairs, was also present. The British, also involved, would not arrive until the following day. They all had good reason to be angry with Colonel Nasser. That day, everyone reiterated their grievances. From Gaza, the Israelis were under attack from the Egyptian fedayeen. The French, for their part, accused him of actively supporting the FLN armed rebellion in Algeria. Finally, there was the Suez Canal affair, which led to the secret pact. For France and England, it was unthinkable to give control of the canal to a man they considered a dangerous dictator. In 1952, Colonel Nasser was one of the leaders of the officers' movement that had overthrown King Farouk. His popularity was at its zenith. He wanted to unify the Arab world through a great federation and promised the Egyptian people a better life. His first objective was to build a huge dam at Aswan, to generate electricity and industrialize the country. The entire Egyptian people looked up to Gamal Nasser like a true hero. For it had been a long time. A very long time since the Pharaohs, since a true Egyptian had ruled Egypt. Nasser is breaking the colonial order and Franco-English domination of the Middle East. He was also threatening Israel with destruction. The first step at Sevres was to convince Ben Gourion that they had a common cause. Nasser also worried the West. At the Bandung conference, he became a figure in the nascent non-aligned movement. He wanted arms and struck a deal with Zhou Enlai, who persuaded the Soviets to offer Egypt $200 million in arms. In September '55, to everyone's surprise, Nasser announced a shipment of arms from Czechoslovakia. But it was clear that these weapons came not from Czechoslovakia, but from the USSR. If Nasser had received 150 Migs or 300 tanks, it would have been a big shock. It would have created a real motivation to find the opportunity and small A, to regain a military balance, small B, to attack Nasser as soon as possible. When Nasser took the decision to import these Czech weapons, Israel had already attacked Gaza several times and killed Egyptian soldiers. We decided to strengthen our army and that's why we imported these weapons. There was no intention to attack or occupy Israel. It was just to defend ourselves. The Egyptians then blocked the Straits of Tiran, the main maritime supply route to the Israeli port of Eilat. They also stepped up their support for the Fedayeen. 400 Israelis have already been killed. At the same time, Nasser supported the FLN's terrorist actions in Algeria. The French navy intercepts a ship off the Algerian coast, a ship from Alexandria carrying 70 tons of arms. There was collusion between Nasser and the FLN, in revolt against France. There was undoubtedly a trial between Nasser and France. I think it's been blown out of proportion. But in the end, it was true, that the French authorities felt at odds with Colonel Nasser, it's not absurd. The French military at the time had three priorities, Algeria, Algeria, Algeria. And they mistakenly thought that the main support for the Algerian rebels was Egypt. It wasn't. Egypt was just one of the supporters of the rebellion. But the Algerian uprising was a truly national movement, against colonial rule. Nasser was also the man who forced Anthony Eden, then Foreign Secretary, to withdraw 80,000 British troops from Egyptian soil, after 72 years of occupation. At that moment, I think, Eden realized that Nasser represented a real danger to British interests in the Middle East. In England, there were people with experience of the great British Empire. But the Middle East had a special position, I think, for the British, for oil, but also for strategic reasons. And as early as April, Eden had said to one of his assistants: &quot;If it's not him, it's me. We've got to get rid of this guy!&quot; On this point, Eden disagreed with his friend, President Eisenhower, who saw Nasser as a controllable element in the Middle East. The CIA even helped him seize power. In June 1956, Nasser's great dream, the construction of the Aswan Dam, collapsed. The Americans had promised a $400 million loan, but, in collusion with the British, they claimed that Egypt would not be able to repay the debt and cancelled the project. The way the Americans refused the financing was very humiliating. And there was great discontent in the country. Nasser said: &quot;I will retaliate&quot;, but nobody knew how. The riposte was not long in coming. Nasser had a formidable card to play: the Suez Canal. A vital passageway for Europe and the Commonwealth. 50% of the oil destined for the West passes through it. The canal is jointly managed by the British and the French. It's a highly profitable business. But only 3% of revenues go to Egypt. In Alexandria, on July 26 56, without telling anyone, Nasser announced the nationalization of the canal and offered to buy back all the shares. And the money from the canal would henceforth be used to build the Aswan dam. Even today, I'd like to hear my father's speech in Alexandria, because that's what united the people behind him. Gamal Abdel Nasser. He achieved what all of Egypt had been waiting and hoping for. It was a plunder, in a way, and it was Nasser's plunder, against the French and the English, who had considerable interests in the Suez Canal and the Suez affair, whereas it was the Americans who had done Nasser a disservice, by refusing him the loan. So there were reasons, to justify Paris's deep-seated ill-feeling towards Abdel Nasser. Furious about Nasser's coup and worried about their oil supplies, Paris and London set up a Joint Intervention Staff. Christian Pineau was particularly upset. He had met Nasser a few months earlier and had even declared to the National Assembly that he was a man he trusted. Now he's an enemy. Will he be able to pass his trade through the Suez Canal normally, or will he have to suffer the whim of a dictator who can, from one day to the next, from one day to the next, prevent any ship from passing through and deprive any nation he chooses of its supplies of oil or any other raw material. We have no quarrel with the Egyptian people, nor with the Arab world, but with Colonel Nasser, who has proved that he is not a man to keep his promises. Mollet and Eden mobilized their troops. A fleet left Toulon, Marseille, Southampton and Portsmouth for the Mediterranean. Above all, it was a signal to put pressure on Nasser. But the military machinery had been set in motion. After that, it would be difficult to stop. From Moscow, Khrushchev insisted on a peaceful solution. But for Eden, it was a personal matter. Eden's hatred of Nasser, really began at the time of nationalization and I think that made him.., particularly vehement against Nasser. That was his failure. He became obsessed with Nasser, obsessed with the canal. For the world at large, the only thing that mattered was that boats should be able to use the canal normally. And Nasser was clever enough to ensure that this would be the case. Nasser put out a call for pilots to replace those of the French-English company. Then he invited the international press to check that everything was running smoothly, which it was. In the United States, Eisenhower is up for re-election. He presented himself as the man of world peace. It was therefore a particularly bad time for his British and French allies to launch an intervention. Eisenhower sent his Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, to London to find a compromise. Dulles and the British organized a conference of canal users. They say they are prepared to offer the canal to Egypt, but with a users' steering committee. The conference decides to send Australian Prime Minister Robert Menzies to Cairo. Nasser refused, as the canal would still be under foreign control. The Anglo-French armada headed for the British bases closest to Egypt, in Malta and Cyprus. Planning for Operation Musketeer was underway. Plans are constantly being modified. The French realize that, in fact, the British command is opposed to the war, believing it to be unjustified. The fleet remained off the coast of Egypt for three months, before another plan, this one definitive, was decided. The men were idle, and the equipment was beginning to deteriorate. On October 12, Christian Pineau, his counterpart Selwyn Lloyd, and the Egyptian minister Mahmoud Fawzi sought a diplomatic solution. The Allies later decried Nasser's intransigence. At the UN, the USSR declared that Egypt had the right to control the canal. Foster Dulles took no position. For his part, Eisenhower declares that the United States will not go to war, even to support its allies, unless America itself is threatened. Despite this stance, Eden believed that the United States would turn a blind eye in the event of a Franco-English attack on Nasser. On October 16, Eden landed in Paris. He had no casus belli to launch an operation against Nasser. The French would provide him with one. If the Israelis were brought into the plan and attacked Egypt, Great Britain and France could take on the role of an interposition force and regain control of the canal. Eden, urged on by Guy Mollet, decided to harden his position. Sevres, October 22 1956. All the reasons for overthrowing Nasser had now been established. For the French, the first step was to obtain Israeli agreement on the terms. The British were due to arrive the following day, but there was still a problem, the British hate the Israelis, who have used terrorism against them in Palestine, and the Israelis hate the British, for their imperialism. When we arrived at Sevres, there were only French people there and the atmosphere was very friendly. Until, at the beginning, Ben Gourion said: &quot;I'm not going to do what you want, unless you accept my conditions.&quot; And he asked for all sorts of things. They tried to convince him that these were the last moments and that he had no more time. But despite everything, the atmosphere remained very relaxed, very friendly. At this point in the discussion, you'd have thought we were all from the same nation. What was also exciting was the French team. They all came from the Resistance. Christian Pineau had been interned in a concentration camp. Bourges-Maunoury had been at the head of the Resistance. They had all experienced breakdowns and defeats and they were deeply determined not to suffer setbacks again. You could feel it, you could see it. But when the British Selwyn Lloyd arrived that evening, the atmosphere was leaden. It was clear that Selwyn Lloyd didn't like the idea of being here at all. He didn't like the meetings with Ben Gourion either. He didn't like Eden's politics at all, but most of all, he felt out of place. Selwyn Lloyd was obviously against the Israelis. At first, he'd been in favor of war, but had later embraced diplomacy. Now, at Sevres, he found himself in a belligerent position and no longer agreed. Selwyn Lloyd was icy. I think by nature, he's not a very warm man. He's probably a very good lawyer who can argue, but he came in there like a block of ice and he didn't melt and neither did we. The French tried to connect us as much as they could, but it was a strange encounter at first. As Selwyn Lloyd returned to London, Christian Pineau telephoned Anthony Eden and said: &quot;Don't listen to anything Selwyn Lloyd tells you. He's very negative. I'm coming to London, we'll spend the day together and I'll really tell you what's going on. The Israelis will be very useful to us.&quot; Eden is convinced and decided to take matters into his own hands. I think Israel provided him with a military plan that suited him. He would have been very unhappy with an invasion, without cause. And he liked the idea of separating the Israelis and the Egyptians, he liked that. He wasn't particularly committed to the cause of Israel. He was rather close to the Arabs. This gave him the role of peacekeeper, which he appreciated, and he thought it would go down well with the United Nations. with the United Nations. And he believed - but this was a huge mistake - that all this would remain secret. Eden wanted a war that didn't exist. A war where no one would kill or be killed. And because of this, there was a real reluctance on the British side, much less on the French side. And secondly, the English wanted us to be at their service and not see us as partners, whereas the French were clearer on this point. They said, &quot;We want you to participate.&quot; And in saying that, they understood that we were not mercenaries. The French plan called for Israel to attack Egypt, then for the French and British to intervene. But Ben Gourion was undecided. He didn't want Israel to be seen as the aggressor and feared that the British would not play the game to the end. Shimon Peres and Moshe Dayan urged him to accept the French proposal. A war would be easier with allies, but only Ben Gurion could make that decision. Moshe Dayan was the driving force on the Israeli side. Ben Gourion was much more cautious, hesitant. Ben Gourion had many questions and Dayan brought him solutions. Practical solutions to all his questions. The critical night was October 23. Ben Gourion had to make a decision and only he could do so. So, in his bedroom, he pondered. He turned the problem on its head. And he wrote down a series of questions that preoccupied him. And the next day, he submitted these questions to Peres and Dayan. And Dayan was luminous. He had an answer for every question. We didn't have any cards with us. So, as I was a heavy smoker. I opened a pack of cigarettes and the plan of attack was drawn by Moshe Dayan on that pack. The basic idea was a 3-axis attack towards Suez. The plan was to attack Gaza to break the Fedayeen, open the Tiran route and take the Mitla pass to open the canal route. This would be the pretext for Franco-British intervention. Two of Antony Eden's loyalists, Patrick Dean and Donald Logan, arrive at the Villa de Sevres to conclude the deal. For Selwyn Lloyd is not coming back. Antony Eden's orders were to plan the intervention clearly, without having any direct relations with the Israelis, and to keep the agreement secret. Nevertheless, a document was drawn up. A three-page document known as the Sevres Protocol. It was Ben Gourion's idea, and he insisted that the agreement be written down to guarantee Israel against any reversal. The protocol was typed up in the villa's kitchen, by a secretary of Minister Maurice Bourges-Maunoury. They called Bourges-Maunoury's secretary to type the document in French. She was sitting in the kitchen. She was rushed out the back door. She didn't know what she was doing. She didn't understand. She was just typing on a sheet of paper. This document only surfaced 40 years later. It is the only written evidence of this secret meeting. In fact, instead of creating a single army, we achieved the coalition of two wars, that of the Franco-British and our own. The protocol was supposed to state clearly who would do what. It was a document that committed each participant in the meeting to carry out what they had agreed to do. The Sevres protocol shows the hidden lie behind British prevarications and denials. It clearly proves that there was indeed a meeting. And it foreshadows the entire sequence of events. Precisely. Ben Gourion made no secret of his pleasure at having obtained this document. He took it in his hands. He folded it. And put it in his inside jacket pocket. He was wearing a three-piece suit. So, he had his copy. He was going to keep it preciously and never show it to anyone. Anthony Eden was furious when he learned that the agreement had been transcribed onto paper. He didn't want a written record of the English commitment to ever be revealed. Anthony Eden almost fainted. He immediately ordered all copies burned. He sent Logan and Dean back to Paris, to try to find all the copies. The French said, &quot;We're not giving you anything back. Ben Gurion is gone.&quot; When conspirators go to war, when they attack a country, normally they don't write it down. We have a secret agreement and that's it. Here, it's different. Why is this protocol so important? Because it's proof that there was a conspiracy to attack Egypt In exchange for their help, the Israelis ask France to supply a nuclear power plant and uranium. Shimon Peres, Bourges-Maunoury, Pineau and Mollet lock themselves in a room. The deal was done. That was clearly what I had in mind. But to say that without it we wouldn't have got involved in this war, no. You know, it's not that simple. You go to war and the next day, hundreds of thousands of people wake up with their children at the front. And although we had total confidence in our army, it was no guarantee of victory. And God knows what could happen. So we had to do our utmost to make sure we didn't miss an opportunity. The English, recalcitrant participants, had already left Sevres. Confident that they were on the right side, the Israelis and the French celebrated the tripartite signing of the agreement. The champagne is out. We toasted victory. It was a really, really happy moment because we Israelis deeply believe that this war is necessary. Today, I'm not so sure. The politicians involved in this story were totally out of touch with reality. They had lost their feet on the ground. They were behaving like 19the century imperialists. They were in fact practicing a gunboat policy. They thought that as great European powers, they could neglect the United Nations, international laws. And ignore the rights and sensibilities of Arab countries, small countries. They were sure they could succeed by force. On the evening of October 29, 1956, in accordance with Article 1 of the Sevres Protocol, Israeli forces launched a large-scale operation against Egyptian forces in order to reach the Canal Zone. to reach the Canal Zone. Five days after Sevres, Israeli forces entered Egypt, following the arrows drawn by Moshe Dayan. At the Mitla pass, very close to the canal, Ariel Sharon encountered unexpected resistance. I think I was the first to cross the border with my unit. We advanced day and night, without a break. At Mitla, we met great resistance and we finished the battle at night. The only place to take cover was between the corpses of the first Egyptians to die in the attack. We couldn't miss our target. There were so many Egyptian soldiers that with each shot, you could be sure of hitting one of them. We hit all three targets. The Tiran seaway was once again open to our ships. Secondly, we destroyed all the Fedayeen HQs in Gaza. And for the years to come, we had the quietest period of our lives, without any terrorist infiltration, between 56 and 67. These were the best years in the history of the State of Israel. Thirdly, we destroyed modern Egyptian weaponry from Russia. And this for the first time when we were outnumbered and outgunned. And we did it brilliantly. The whole operation lasted just 100 hours. We lost 180 soldiers. Of course, every soldier killed is a pain for us, but it has strengthened Israel like never before. That's not something to be proud of, but we felt we had kept our promises. But the war is not over. Nasser is still in power. And where are the allies? Ben Gourion thinks Israel has been abandoned. The ultimatum is overdue, because Eden thinks that intervening too quickly would reveal the plot. Sevres Protocol, Article 2a. To the Egyptian government, stop all warlike action. Withdraw all troops to the distance of 10 miles from the canal. As expected at Sevres, Nasser refused the ultimatum and preferred to commit the Egyptians to war. The day Nasser gave his speech at Al Azhar and said, &quot;We will wage war!&quot; His popularity became immense. Not just in Egypt, but throughout the Arab world. After 72 years of British occupation, people needed to regain their dignity. The majority of the Egyptian people were happy. And ready to make great sacrifices. Article 2b, it was understood that if either government refused, or did not give its agreement within 12 hours, Anglo-French forces would intervene. The Royal Air Force takes off from Cyprus. This was the first wave of attacks. The targets, military airports and any Egyptian air force likely to attack Israel. But the British had lost their military brilliance. They missed their target. It was the mysterious 20 Frenchmen of the second wave who were the most effective. In the meantime, Nasser was able to send part of his air force to take cover in the desert. The aggression began with the bombing of Almaza military airport, which was very close to our house. We could see the lightning. We had to leave. That's what the security officials were telling us. But my father refused to leave Cairo, which was a target. He said, &quot;We are part of the Egyptian people.&quot; The bombardment continued for five days. 1,300 sorties by Franco-British planes. 3,000 tons of bombs. The equivalent of a night's bombardment of a German city, at the end of the Second World War. But the landing planned immediately afterwards was strangely delayed. In London, Prime Minister Eden was under pressure. The majority of the country was opposed to the war. Demonstrations took place in major cities. The English felt that Eden had ventured, and they resented him, for having thrown them onto an explosive mine like that. Whereas in France, the affair, was supported by public opinion. In France, there's absolutely no problem, in public opinion, taken as a whole. We were at war in Algeria, on an expedition that was perfectly in keeping with the Algerian war. We were at war. Unlike England. As far as we were concerned, there was no problem and no one had any qualms about it. Faced with the riots, Eden tried to turn public opinion in his favor. He appears on television for the first time, to justify his action. We've seen this before, with Mussolini and Hitle in the years leading up to the war. It may sound a bit harsh, but it's justified. Almost word for word, the same propaganda line is being used unscrupulously by the French authorities. Make no mistake, this is no reincarnation. It's just a bad imitation. Gamal Abdel Nasser, dictator of the Egyptians, threatens, rants, tears up treaties, makes a mockery of international law. He defies the free world. We are right to say no to Nasser. And if we had said no to Hitler in 1936, we might not have had the war of 1939-1945. When Nasser is presented as a new Hitler, it seemed only natural that this man should be put down, since he threatened the entire Middle East. He threatened the Catholics in Egypt, and he was threatening Israel. So everyone thought it was only natural. It was a crusade. Soviet No. 1 Nikita Khrushchev took advantage of this moment, when the eyes of the world were fixed on Suez, to violently suppress an uprising in Hungary. He sent his tanks into Budapest and brutally crushed the rebellion. What struck me most was that the events in Hungary happened at the same time. It was a monstrous act on the part of the Soviets. I think that because of it, the Soviet Union lasted another ten years. And we couldn't do anything about it. Maybe there was nothing to do, but in any case, we couldn't criticize it. We were just doing the same thing in Suez, intervening by force. Sevres Protocol, Article 2c, accepting the temporary occupation of key positions on the canal, by Anglo-French forces, to guarantee freedom of transit on the canal. French and British paratroopers embark in Cyprus. The French were to take Port-Fouad, on the eastern side of the canal, the British Port-Said on the western side. We were excited to have been chosen for this mission, because nothing like it had happened since the Second World War. In fact, nothing on this scale has happened since. The Franco-British armada sets sail for the Egyptian coast. 150 ships of all sizes, from cruisers to aircraft carriers. They head straight for Port-Fouad and Port-Said, to support the paratroopers already in action. The plane kept going like this, through the little windows, and we were hanging on like this, trying to hold on and see the black clouds, the flak. And all we wanted to do was leave, because down there, you might have a better chance than in the plane. It's a question of willpower. When you land on the drop zone, when people are shooting at you, with mortars, with rifles, where there's nowhere to take cover, we simply charged towards those firing at us. The French paratroopers soon reached their objective at Port-Fouad. Resistance here was weaker than on the other side of the canal, despite a few pockets of resistance. A bridgehead was thus secured and the paratroopers awaited the reinforcement of naval troops. Before the UN, the Egyptian conflict takes unexpected turns. This is the 1re time we see the American delegate Cabot Lodge, in agreement with the Soviet delegate, to condemn a Franco-British initiative. Nasser's representative, bolstered by his disparate support, violently attacks Israel, whose delegate pleads self-defense. As for England and France, they persisted in their resolutions. At the same time, Nasser sank 51 ships in the canal. The British and French were embarrassed. Their action was supposed to guarantee traffic in the Suez Canal. On November 5, Soviet Prime Minister Vladimir Bulganin, who had just visited London, sent a letter to the three allies, threatening nuclear intervention. Guy Mollet called his bluff. I think it's safe to say that nobody took him seriously. The idea that Bulganin and Khrushchev could send bombs to Paris and London, to save Colonel Nasser, frankly, didn't strike anyone as serious. At dawn on November 6, the paratroopers created a strong point. The fleet was now in front of the canal, supported by a large air force. Landing begins. Landing in Port-Said had the appearance, at least at first, of a full-scale landing, in other words, I witnessed.., a cannonade. As I think has been the case since the Normandy landings, nobody saw any, because there were British cruisers and destroyers firing, and I could see the shots coming, On land, explosions, fuel depots. It was quite spectacular. They bombed the city ferociously for five days, night and day. They didn't spare a single place. They burned everything. They dropped napalm on houses, on the coastline. Even on the oil reserves. They burned everything. The Mannach district. Even the cabins on the beach. The armed forces distributed large quantities of weapons, to the people of Port-Said. The weapons they gave us included heavy machine guns and automatic rifles. And also machine pistols. Whenever the locals heard on the radio that a landing had taken place at such-and-such a place, they would head there to resist. The police went there too. And the military. The soldiers took off their uniforms and put on civilian clothes, to resist with the other inhabitants. Port-Fouad and Port-Said fell into the hands of the French and British. The first criticisms came in. Why did they only attack the Egyptians? The Sevres collusion was almost unmasked. At the UN, for the first time, the idea of sending a neutral force to replace the French and British gained ground. The Blue Helmets were born. For Eisenhower, it was election day. Following the Suez intervention, he threatens England with economic sanctions, but promises Eden $1 billion, if the attack was stopped. The Americans had the means to break the pound sterling and obviously, for an English Prime Minister, this is a threat that leaves no one indifferent. In retaliation, the Arab countries closed the pipeline that supplies England. Oil was rationed. The pound sterling collapsed. Under pressure, Anthony Eden decided alone to call a ceasefire without warning his allies. He made his decision, and only then informed the French. Mollet had every reason to resent him, but he remained very courteous and Eden let the French down. He let the Israelis down and he let the Americans down. On November 6, Eden decided to call Guy Mollet. All bets are off. The BBC announces a halt to the fighting. General Massu was dismayed. The fighters couldn't believe that the politicians had let them down. The death toll was 400 Egyptians, 180 Israelis, 16 French and 16 British. When the order to stop was given, I was terribly frustrated. It has to be said. The feeling that we'd been robbed, so to speak, of a success, that we thought we'd earned. In the days that followed, the occupying force suffered sniper fire, attacks and kidnappings. The soldiers don't understand why, they hadn't taken possession of the canal. In retrospect, this military option wasn't very clever, but stopping it like that was even worse. Some units remain along the canal, as if to force the hand of their rulers. The French were ready to continue south, but the British blocked them. The southernmost of the occupied positions, Le Cap, is only 35 kilometers from Port-Said, i.e. less than a third of the way along the canal. A week later, the first United Nations troops arrived in Egypt. They would remain there until 1967, when Nasser demanded their withdrawal. This was the first time blue helmets were deployed. They came from India, Colombia, Yugoslavia and Scandinavia, and were commanded by an expert on the Middle East, Canadian General Burns. Work began on unblocking the canal. Great Britain even offered boats and specialized equipment. But Nasser refused. Just before Christmas, the last Allied troops left Port Said. Only Israel refused to withdraw from Sinai before March 1957. It's true that it was a military victory - no one can deny that. But diplomatically, we folded up our flag, put it in our pocket and left. Which meant that when we came back to Algeria, even though we'd won, we were still losers. And that strengthened the FLN, the Algerian National Liberation Front, in their fight and in their support... It was such a disappointment. If only we'd been allowed to continue. And when I say we, I mean all the Anglo-French forces. We would have taken the whole canal. And who knows, maybe the history of the last 50 years in the Middle East would have been written quite differently. At Sevres, the politicians who conceived the secret pact certainly hadn't imagined the consequences of their action. The geopolitics of the second half of the XXe century, has been quite altered as a result. They opened a veritable Pandora's box. For the protagonists of the conflict, the outcome can be measured in terms of winners and losers. For Nasser, it was a triumph. He forgot that he had been defeated militarily. His aura in the Arab world, and throughout the Third World, was now incomparable. Eight years later, the Aswan dam was officially inaugurated. It was finally built thanks to a huge loan from the USSR. This is a very important event, because it was a period when many Third World countries were demanding their independence. The fact that Egypt managed to stand up to England, France and Israel and keep the canal is what encouraged these countries to resist and fight against colonialism. and fight against colonialism. I had the opportunity to meet Nelson Mandela in South Africa, and he said to me: &quot;Thanks to you, thanks to Nasser, thanks to Egypt, we began to believe that one day we could liberate South Africa!&quot; After Suez, the Middle East became the scene of competition between the United States and the Soviet Union. Britain and France no longer counted for much. Israel was deeply disappointed by the attitude of its Franco-British allies, but it was largely the winner in this affair. An Israeli diplomat told me: &quot;Before the Suez war, we were like a beggar sitting in a hole, being shot at by everyone. After the war, we became a major regional military power, that had to be reckoned with. So the result of Suez was to install Israel as a major power. In 1957, as negotiated by Shimon Peres at Sevres, France provided Israel with the technological assistance it needed to develop atomic weapons. Great Britain was the biggest loser. Although Eden lied that no agreement had been signed, he was forced to resign, he was forced to resign. England would later realize the extent of its dependence on America. After that, none of our prime ministers took a hostile view of the United States. Anglo-American dialogue, good relations, business relations, call it what you will, will become the essential point of British foreign policy. Going it alone will be seen as an option doomed to failure. For the English, this has been a truly historic break. For the British, the break with the Arab world, the Persian Gulf and beyond, the whole of the Muslim world, the English have lost terribly in this affair. We are not simply ridiculed. And in politics, in the French political balance, there was a rupture between the army and the government, which led, a few months later, to the Algiers putsch, the OAS... For France, the consequences were serious at home. For England, the consequences were very serious abroad. In a way, it was the end of the British Empire. Guy Mollet had also concealed the truth, but nobody demanded his resignation. The French government was focused on Algeria and the creation of the European Economic Community. After Suez, the French no longer trusted the British or the Americans. They adopted a much more independent policy. And this was reflected in their nuclear strategy. By developing an independent nuclear deterrent, not just towards Moscow, but in all directions. This marked the beginning of a national policy that would reach its apogee under General de Gaulle. What's surprising today is that it passed off as an incident, a kind of expedition like there were in the XIXe century, where troops were sent to some lost island or whatever, We wrote it off. We realize that today, but it's easier afterwards, of course, to reconstruct history, we realize that in the end, it was, I was going to say, a very important moment. Very important indeed. The consequences of those three days at Sevres were incalculable. In Algeria and the Middle East, for France, England's unwavering submission to America. As for the Soviets, they entered the Middle East political game with full force. The Suez affair marked the end of the supremacy of the two great colonial empires.