He actually blocked a kick Don't do that at home, folks. Hand or forearm against shin, like, look at this, who wins? Hi, my name's Miriam Nakamoto. I'm an eight-time Muay and I've been doing it Today we're going to be from movies and TV, and we're going to Her form is great on those elbows. So, elbows is the shortest-range weapon of a Muay Thai fight. There's a up elbow, and then there's round elbows. And then there's a Tomahawk elbow, and then there's spike elbows too. So what she's doing in this In a Muay Thai fight, I would not elbow anywhere but the head. Because if you're elbowing somewhere else, that means your head is down, where there's a lot of danger. So that was very, very, very realistic. That, no. That's not Muay Thai. What Muay Thai is, is and then you add not only punches, but you add in kicks. And not only kicks, you can also elbow, knee, and standing grappling. That kick is awesome. The spinning kick looked You wouldn't see that very Usually you just see round you see the low kick, where it comes up here Well, I'll say 8 out of 10, just 'cause that whole jumping and flinging yourself down is like, no, that's not gonna happen. But everything else looked great. That tree, I think that's doable, but in America, that is not common. People do kick tires, not full blast but just kind of repetitive stress, or they'll kick really heavy, hard bags. I would kick really hard Thai pads. Or you could kick a banana tree. It's absolutely 100% realistic and vital to condition your shins. Shin is your shield. You block kicks with your shins, you apply damage with your shins. But he keeps pointing his toes. There he is, pointing his toes some more. We don't do the toe-pointing thing. Because as a Muay Thai kick, As you point your toes, you actually end up kind of instead of going this way. It would kind of take some of your energy away from your target. People do do a lot of You could work on your breath, for sure. You could work on lung capacity. I think that would be valuable. You need body conditioning. You want to be dense, If you go into a Muay Thai gym and the coach tries to get the h--- out of there Flexibility is important. You could just lay on your back with your legs open facing up on the wall. Or you can have someone push down when you do a butterfly stretch. They push down on your thighs, and you try to close them. [groans] [laughs] I've never seen anybody to train their core. But I have seen, you hit people with medicine balls. You kind of take the medicine ball, and you're like [grunts in rhythm] as you do your sit-ups and your crunches. Or they put a glove on Oftentimes, too, you'll behind your back, and I'll give it 4. It's important to stretch, yes, it's important to it's important to have a strong core, but the way they're going about it is totally not anything His teep is beautiful. The teep is a foot jab. You can see it starts from his back leg, comes up his body, and goes, pat, right out through the lead leg. That would be the position you'd be in in a Muay Thai fight. But, yeah, a teep is coming in on you and A high kick to the head looks cool, and if you have a nice head But for me, I prefer to kick to the body. With the head kick, if you to somebody's skull, yes, it hurts them, but, yes, it hurts you too. And I'm not trying to be with a messed-up foot for For Muay Thai, I've Because he was really, It's never that low. I guess that's Boran. And so they do more of that, The logic in Muay Thai as you're getting kicked and as you want access to your kicks, the lower you are, the to get your leg up there. But if you're already standing taller, you can just rotate your If you can catch their chin, I've had a lot of knee surgeries. Probably not in the cards But what I find is awesome about knees is when you're lighting somebody it actually takes the fight out of them, kind of tenderizes the meat. And his form is perfect in his knees. By rotating the femur in, then and your foot goes kind of outward. Then you point your toes, and it creates a much more lancing effect. And you can also get more which keeps you further away from danger as you're implementing damage. So, those punches were terrible, I did one stunt scene, and I was like, &quot;Oh, this is not even real at all.&quot; For a film, you'd want so you can really see it and sell it. But when you're actually fighting, you want to just keep Don't want to lift your elbow. Just want to rotate, just disguise it. Because the more you have a tell, the more your opponent sees it and they can prepare for that. That is accurate, the knee shield, keeping somebody off you. That is definitely a I firmly believe he can jump up there and put both his knees like that. But, yeah, that's not That's too much of a gamble. I mean, you're spending You could stay on the ground and slam an elbow into their face. And they bow. Yeah, that's accurate too. Always bow to an opponent, I have to rate it high, So I have to say 9 out of 10. You mean you're going to Not only am I going to use it, I'm going to rearrange your face with it! A Mongkhon is something that you wear. Your teacher gives it to you. You do not fight with it on. and then you can't go It's disrespectful. You've And when you fight, you take it off. That's it! The invincible tiger knee blow that made him famous! I've never in my life It's a knee, buddy. It's just a plain old knee. It is absolutely effective to It is absolutely effective to add momentum with a flying knee. And it's not as risky, because your feet are It's just forward momentum. I can see Muay Thai has Hiyah! The first person, who looked got whooped by the second person, who looked like they did less. And then he talks about, like, there's different levels I don't know what he's talking about. It is not, you know, &quot;Kill Bill,&quot; when they did that secret it's a boom, boom, boom, and then, you know, kills Bill. No, there's nothing like that in Muay Thai that I am aware of after 23 years. I'll give him a 2 because of the Mongkhon. No, actually I have to take that away, because he's fighting with it on. So 0 out of 10. Yes, foot stomp. Heck yeah, The kick, not as much. I don't know why you would be kicking in that really small space. There's a lot better things you could use. I would do punches, elbows, and knees, because those are the And then the push kick would be good too, because they're in front of you. You wouldn't really do because you have to go out and around. Like, yeah, no, you want He actually blocked a kick Don't do that at home, folks. Hand or forearm against shin, like, look at this, who wins? You can get your arm broken, Well, I like that he keeps That would be definitely I mean, the hands are kind Yeah, you don't wanna be ... that's not good. If somebody's striking at you, you just need your hands up. I would give it a 6, if you have a hallway in your house and you're going to So, what they're doing is or Ram Muay, and they and it's a spiritual dance. They're definitely doing that correctly. But, so, it's hard to say. Every school has a different dance specific to their school. This clinch part is correct. This is the grappling So, you seek to control and your arms and your head. He has him like this. The other arm's over here, on the side of that guy's neck. You find control by either and deliver strikes at the same time, or by creating space and making a frame. With experienced pros, they're It's going to be more controlled. Uh-uh. You don't do that. You're going to eat a and it's not going to feel good. He was standing in front of a Thai fighter in a Thai fight with their hands up. And he was in front of the Thai fighter punching with his hands down. You would never do that. You would need to have your hands up. Oh, and then he swept There's a bunch of different So he grabbed the leg, lifted You can also sweep your opponent by either body locking and or as they knee, you sweep their leg. You can take them back over your thigh if you get an angle on them. I give it 8 out of 10. [Miriam laughs] Yeah, this is totally not realistic. I'm just here for that outfit. The performer is doing elbows, and they're elbowing like this. The thing with elbows is and you're elbowing, they have elbows too. So you never want to throw an elbow with the other hand down, because that's, you would be cut open. That kick was really silly. He's just spinning around But it's like, even with a Kicking is not just lifting the leg. It starts at your foot and the rotation of your foot. And it's like, your foot, your ankle, your knee, then your hip. And then the last bit is this. And so the same thing If you want to kick with the right side, it starts with the left You want to rotate the to sling the kick, and I know that it's stunts and but you still can make instead of kind of flailing. 2 out of 10. That was, like, all completely off. My favorite of the clips viewed today was &quot;Raya and the Last Dragon.&quot; Their body mechanics made a lot of sense. The fight scene made sense. That was cool that it was two women, too. You know, that was really neat. Thanks for watching. If why not click the video above?