I think we can all agree that mascot horror scene. Every year there are dozens of new contenders, Franchises like Bendy, Hello Neighbor, Baldi's Amanda the Adventure, Poppy Playtime, all gamer dollars. But I think we can all agree that one franchise One series with gameplay so deceptively simple that pushed out sequels at a blistering pace One series with a story that was so convoluted And that series is: Banban. Wait, are we...are we doing this? Are we really doing this? Oh, boy. All right. Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, where today I give the abyss that is Garten of Banban. In case you missed it. Congratulations, you missed it. Garten of Banban is, no joke, the most searched But believe me, it wasn't always this way. Upon first release back in January this game People got mad like mad-mad about the phoned-in the basic monster design and the clear attempt of its first installment. It was hailed as the final nail in the mascot the shark, a cash grab with no thought or and every other mascot horror game out there. I mean, Mob Games announced a movie and made 1, which, mind you, was only a half hour experience. Hello Neighbor was so busy making TV pilots, they had to build their game beyond an alpha. And Scott was busy releasing the new FNAF just like we see Garten of Banban doing now. The point is, while these things may be cause for the genre. Which brings us to today where Garten of Banban has bootleg merch for sale at my local North But for as much as I like to give this franchise These games are just dumb fun. It's kind of like the Fast and Furious franchise, off to. Or at least that was my intention. But then Banban had to go and ruin it all. [Matt]: It's okay to have no friends and [Ash] Y'all. Nabnab is Banban backwards. [Matt]: LORE! Yup. Garten of Banban went the full nine yards Lore that is...definitely there. I think I said it best in GTlive. If there are sharks to be jumped, I feel like and continues to find new sharks to proceed But shark or no shark, where there is lore, And so against my better judgment, I dove this game to unlock its secrets. And what I found there won't surprise you. No, I didn't misspeak. You heard me right. It won't surprise you. Stop me if you've heard this one: Evil Corporation, come to life, dead kids, playtime facilities Yep. It's like the IKEA instructions for building So what does Banban do differently to merit Well, it takes the insanity meter and cranks into a blender, grinds it up and drinks it Because for as much as I've seen a lot of like this before. Wow, they're going hard. [In Game]: Opila, what do you think about [Opila]: *screech* It's not every day that you see the monsters road trip through a desert alongside a psychic So throw your sanity to the wind dear theorists, of Banban. And let me tell you, it is...something. First, let's just review the basic premise In these games, we play as a parent desperately for any signs of our missing children. And that's it. That is pretty much as far as we got on the In each installment, we find a single note and a girl named Claire, which means that our kids. But, you know, might not be. Through these letters we also know that our they're ultimately saved by a giant jellyfish. Other than that, bupkis, not a whole lot. Which means that we have to make our way deeper Sesame Street and much more Backrooms. As twisted versions of the kindergarten's But who would have built a facility like this? And more importantly, why? The answer to those questions are hidden in If you manage to find the red key card you center, where a secret door leads to three Notes that reveal the game's true villain, The first document is addressed to Dr. Uthman, airplane boarding pass in chapter one: Uthman In it, we learn that the company has been to try and bring their mascots to life. Hold on, hold on. Creatures that shouldn't be alive, but are Mark that one off on your indie horror bingo As other lore notes reveal, givanium is basically into giant monster bodies that are made of But as you'd expect, this method isn't without veins and body of the subject. Exactly like we see with one of the designs Side note to this one, kind of love how instead just made the bad textures part of the lore. Euphoric Brothers over here playing 4D chess And while that side effect ends up being purely brought to life with givanium is in constant behavior. Not exactly something that you want for the young children at a kindergarten all day. Needless to say, Dr. Uthman's experiments And that's a problem when they've promised big bring a friend day. So they decide to push forward, desperately effects of givanium by mixing it with human Yep. They skip the animal trials and just jump The hope was that the human genome would allow parental instincts towards children. And who better to contribute their DNA than This experiment would lead to the creation At first glance he seemed to be quite successful. He wasn't violent and was actually incredibly Except yet again there was something they Banban was too intelligent. Banban believed that he was human, which meant with Dr. Uthman, it caused him to go into To try and bring him out of it they made a Using the genomes of the one person that Banban But all this did was just make him less cooperative. So overall, things aren't great at the kindergarten In one last ditch effort to fix the problem, dosing them with an updated givanium solution, Again. The higher levels of givanium cause him elevated But of course, evil corporation gonna to do push onward. Throughout the facility we find a handful other animal genomes. Spider DNA gives us Nabnab, snail DNA gives results in the fan favorite Opila Bird. It wasn't until they used wooly spider monkey they finally struck on a winning combination. In fact, Captain Fiddles was deemed so successful and investors at the big Bring a Friend day. That day, though, would be the day it all The third note that we find in the red medical the weight of all the kids that have registered is likely to cause the ball pit to collapse. Considering that there's no ball pit in the that it's all boarded off to the public, I what happened. I'd also suspect that this is why Uthman had anything bad happened. And he was right to worry. According to a note that we find later in causes all the mascots' primitive instincts attack. However, amidst all the chaos there was one The one and only giant orange jellyfish: Stinger In fact, not only does he stay friendly, thanks he actually saves our children from both Banban The nice jellyfish is strong. He carried everyone here, but Miss Mason hates Well, don't worry yourself about that one, him. Also, can I just say you have some remarkably If you've played through Garten III, you'll Stinger Flynn is massive and threatening, size of his word. This dude talks a lot and often in very vague, One thing he's not vague about, though, is behind. And when we refuse, he turns on us. Releasing the evil Banban to kill us. He's able to do this thanks to the unique You see, Stinger Flynn is the only creation alongside the givanium, Human and Atlantic The case studies tell us that this led him other creatures, making him comfortable and However, he's far from content with his current But what can he possibly mean by mental refinement? And why would Miss Mason hate him for it? Well, elsewhere in Chapter 3, Stinger Flynn This is where the children come in. So far, the only human genomes that we've Adults with developed brains. Too much intelligence, too much introspection. But children, I suspect that that's exactly They're fully sentient, but they're also not That's why he saved our kids and why Miss He's planning on using them for experiments conscience-less creature. However, I have a feeling that that's going You see, in Stinger Flynn's room there's a find the correct keycard. Inside of it we get one final update about Genome Cloy, quote. "In short, it was found that when a subject's the body will enter an irreversible state through the body, with the rest all getting This reveals the critical necessity of ensuring more than 3 sources or donors, lest we're and wild with absolutely no place in a kindergarten. The genome that gets preference in the Genome has been theorized that it is whatever genome Basically what all that tells us is that creatures mixed together max. More than that, and suddenly you transform We know that Stinger Flynn already has himself But if he's planning on using these children And if the theory is correct and similar genomes behind the most different one. In other words, good old Flynn is going to again. Stinger Flynn isn't aware of any of this because They were likely done on the creatures down to meet in the next chapter. But just like Stinger Flynn throwing too many I'm not done throwing too many theories together. You see, there's still one experiment that One who's iconic for this franchise, but strangely The jolly green giant himself, Jumbo Josh. If you look across the game, we have case Fiddle, Stinger Flynn. Heck even oddball characters like Slow Seline. But Jumbo Josh is basically an enigma. He's one of the only mascots to show up in And yet we know nothing about him. Or so I thought. Once you get the green key card in chapter the medical center, where there's a secret wall. This puzzle is actually incredibly well done, If you found all the case reports in the chapter, code in the corner. Scanning the QR codes get you shadowy images bow, Slow Seline's smile, Jumbo Josh's teeth, But this is a dark image in an indie horror That can only mean one thing: brightening If you do, in each corner you'll see a number Click the buttons in order and you open the Quote: to be normal, and assuming we could even get was next? What house would he fit in? What school would accept him? I don't even want to imagine the consequences, him around those other monstrosities; He plays them around in everything" of immense size, strength, and with a grotesque We also see him throw round the other monsters This is also something that we hear about During the Jumbo Josh minigame Banbaleena But why is this so important? What makes Jumbo Josh so different? Well, the end of the note gives us our best Quote again: and we should have accepted that. But we're doing the right thing here, and The only time I see language like "being Yeah. That's in reference to losing a child. Them not being able to have a child or a child Either way, these parents lost the most precious chance through science experiments. That said, they aren't the scientists that Uthman and Weverly because in letters from "the green guy", which doesn't really Instead, I suspect that these parents might first place, hiding behind the idea of bringing But the real goal was saving what they lost, Reincarnated dead kid! Come on, someone's got to have a bingo at But along with that note, there's also an If you play it, it summons Zolphius, the creepy at various points throughout the chapter. It's basically Sackboy crossed with Kingseeker And when we encounter him, we see two simple I'm sorry. It's my belief that Zolphius is the parent It's because of their hubris that our children Their determination to bring back their child And that is why all they can do at this point And I think maybe that's the most unique thing horror tropes: a character finally apologizing, recognizing the wake of destruction that they've Am I right? Am I wrong? I guess we just got to wait, like, what, 24 And then we could see what other sharks they But hey! That's just a theory. A GAME THEORY! Thanks for watching. And don't forget that the fun doesn't have Why not click the video on the left where in real time as I play through chapter three Let me tell you, it goes way off the rails. Or, you know, if you fancy a little bit more hidden lore inside Amanda the Adventurer. That video is on the right. As always don't forget to subscribe so you Banban IV theory drops. And as always, I'll see you next week.