Let's kick things off If you've ever dreamed of update your resume because Major breaking news. President-elect Donald Trump's is out. Matt Gaetz says his name from consideration. Trump himself has &quot;Matt has a wonderful look forward to watching things that he will do.&quot; [LAUGHTER] Oh! Do you want to watch Matt Gaetz will do? Might I suggest downloading But yes, this-- this was from the Trump team. And as you can see, no one was What a week Gaetz has had. He resigned from Congress. Everyone talked nonstop and a pedophile, and get to be attorney general. This guy is [BLEEP] had to Venmo himself 10 grand. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] So pour out a Capri Sun But let's move on. We've all heard the official According to the were obsessed with woke connect with voters, were talking about real issues So now, Republicans of both houses of Congress. So let's hear On Capitol Hill, Speaker took aim at Democrat Sarah member of Congress. He barred transgender people complex bathrooms that do not at birth. Hmm. OK, forget about the economy. I guess the making it harder for this And by the way, who as the king of bathrooms? Under House rules, the of facilities in the chamber. Oh! I guess he's the Pardon me, Your Majesty. Government is weird sometimes. This guy is second in and he also has to refill So now, Sarah McBride, the hasn't even started already has to run around the And she is handling this than I would when I have Sarah McBride actually She said, &quot;I am not here I'm here to fight and to bring down I've remained hard to represent the greatest state [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] Yes. Yes. Although, did you just say that Have you tried any other state? I mean, you won. You don't need to But the point is, the one pushing this issue. The whole thing started because Mace, the Republican where things must be running devote all her energy to this. I'm going to fight like to keep men out of to include bathrooms, changing rooms, you name it. You are not welcome. If being a feminist or a bigot or a monster, I've said it before Come at me, bro. Or bros, in this case. I don't love but I do respect her dedication I listen to podcasts, but is also a choice. Honestly, transphobic Cruella [LAUGHTER] --might backfire here. Because all of her drama, Sarah McBride's gender. There is nothing that defines starting a new job just decides she hates you. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] And Nancy Mace really seems It's like it's In just 72 hours on X, has posted about trans women in What the [BLEEP]? 325 tweets? How can anyone else when Mace is on the toilet Jesus! I have never hated had to buy a new data plan. That is way too much tweeting. Even Elon Musk is like, have She's not just posting She's posting on the walls. South Carolina hanging signs for biological Ta-da! Your tax dollars paid for this. But, hey, she's getting for her bullshit politics. And even if it's pissing you know who would not be happy 2021 Nancy Mace. Back in 2021, she LGBTQ rights and equality. No one should be I have friends and family Having been around and transgender my opinion over my lifetime.&quot; Hmm. Wonder what changed? I guess the biggest Nancy Mace wanting to identify [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] Here's how you know that Well, first the performance. Ta-da! And also, here's what she I'm not going to stand someone with a penis is in that's not OK. I know how vulnerable women and Yes, of course. You just want to protect women That would play a lot to get actual predators levels of government. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] Pete Hegseth, RFK, Matt Gaetz. If Donald Trump Nancy Mace would be walking in eating a pudding pop. Bottom line, shit like this-- Men are not allowed Period, full stop, --would land a weren't rolling with about women's spaces is this. I'll go backstage And everyone's getting dressed And, you know, no And I'm allowed to the owner of the pageant. And therefore, Yeah. Ta-da! [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]