"I cut her up into little teeny-weeny pieces. Lee Lucas, explaining that he would kill his then usually sleep with the dead bodies. In was his young girlfriend, but she was only one How many? 150? 300? 600?...3,000!? worst serial killer in world history. Sawyer," Americans in the 1980s heard from their of all time, a man whose crimes were so utterly about them. Soon, police from all over the US were and the depraved things he'd done to them. investigators telling the truth, or was negligence scandals in US criminal the police and the American justice system far This is a case with many twists and turns. Today, as deep as it gets, presenting you, we hope, You're going to need to understand how this man's to be confident about your decision regarding man tick? Just how evil was he? Did he show any of when he was young? So, let's first have a look at Henry Lucas, the youngest of nine kids, came of ours on August 23, 1936, born into a very Virginia, the once wild frontier back when America their home while fighting the locals. stock, while his father, Anderson Lucas, those wondering colonists. Still, this was not happily discussing their family tree. This was the Before we show you that, you need to hear some hell and what their offspring might look like. serial killers' lives, you find that one of the childhood bonding with their mothers. Babies, form about 50% of their life knowledge during and sights, and they feel vibrations, It's well known in psychological circles that their entire life. Neuroscientists talk about affect how the brain develops. It can shape sympathy, or remorse. Babies are a sponge, deprive them of affection, they will likely out those negative feelings in a negative way. it was found that only 57% of them had both left before they were 12. 66% of them had very a very difficult relationship with their mothers. need love, and they really need it from the 72% of serial killers in that FBI study said they another male figure charged with looking after noting that 50% of serial killers had parents histories. Kids with criminal parents in that crimes than kids without criminal parents. four times more likely to commit crimes even criminal history. But the most important is that children who become serial killers very a massive 45% of killers said they were physically were psychologically abused. 35% said they were were on the wrong end of this kind of violence. fantasies about sexual violence between the keep doing that as he ages, but throw in and you're giving your kid a much higher As the British poet Philip Larkin put it: like a coastal shelf/ Get out early while Talking about his childhood, Lucas once said that doing other things to them we won't describe lest Lucas said his stepfather taught him how to hurt Bearing in mind what we've just told you, it's often made money from selling her body on calling him a sissy boy, severely humiliating women's clothes. He got much more than maternal of motherly hatred. Lucas would later say His father, Anderson, aka No Legs, was a due to a drunken night out when he was hit on after which his legs were amputated. Anderson his wheelchair. He sold pencils. He skinned minks, sold his hooch around town while always having little Henry already knew how to run a small he and his father would sneak around at When Nellie's male customers came to the house, find this embarrassing, she, a powerful and She made Henry watch. Anderson was often there, club that she often used to beat him with. "I was dressed as a girl by my mother. And I after that, I was treated like what I call the do things that no human bein' would want to do." said a customer of his mother's had turned violent leg with her shotgun. The blood went everywhere, fascinated with blood. This was just one occasion and it was connected to sex, something that, as When he was 13, his drunk dad went crawling night. Lying there in the snow, he passed out he'd felt about his mom having sex in front of would mine. He drank just to get away from away from watching her. That's what made him die." using broom handles and whatever else she could time saying everything was his fault, that he was One time, she beat him so hard over the head clean out. He spent the next few days in the dizzy spells and the odd blackout. This will If you've seen a photo of Lucas, you'll know the time he had a play fight with his brother, couldn't be saved, so from then on, he had a glass his mother ignored his injury for several this story isn't already awful, the eye only Lucas with a ruler. We should also say that the not an all-out attack by his brother. relationship. The two of them would also go boys were malnourished. They went to school and Henry came home with some shoes he'd school shoeless. His mother took them off and Henry said the only thing he really loved in his so one day, she took her shotgun and then gave him a beating and blamed him haul the mule away. He once said in an interview: I had a goat or anything like that, she killed wanted me to do what she said, and that's it." invented the worst hell possible, but according books about serial killers, Peter Vronsky, Lucas' using various sources and interviews. Neighbors many of the events Lucas talked about. depravity. There were the schoolteachers, who I don't think, a human being alive that can say he confirmed that little Henry was sent to school in was later discovered that Nellie had done this so therefore doubling the earning potential. and saddened teachers managed to get a court Lucas said he was 14 when he killed 17-year-old Laura Everlean Burnsley. He picked he strangled her. He later buried her body "I got to playing too rough with her. The my emotions more or less took over, and I never been found. Keep that in mind as we go on. forever in trouble with the local police he was sentenced to six years in the Virginia committing numerous burglaries. Three years later, He headed to his half-sister's (Opal) house in recaptured and sent back to prison in Virginia. went to live with his sister again. Nellie called down the phone, demanding her son come back to her of beating him, but a mother like that will When Nellie went to visit them at Christmas time, Stella. The two said they planned to marry. Nellie He was hers! In January, Nellie was screaming at more, he thought, no more. He picked up a knife "I was pretty well drunk when she started live with her to Virginia, but I told her He said when he hit her, he didn't even notice and when he bent down to pick her up, he saw the was dead, but when Opal got to the house, she saw was still breathing. Opal called for an ambulance, The official police report said Nellie had was the result of her first being assaulted. Ohio, on an outstanding Michigan warrant. got him on the warrant, and Lucas later When he stood up in court, he told everyone in scars on his body that his mother had inflicted Carol Durst, the defense attorney, argued or intent to kill. Witnesses, some stood up and testified to the hell he'd been he showed no remorse at all. Durst later said her stories about what he did to animals. Don't Lucas said he'd only acted in self-defense, killed her alright, but they thought it was but he'd known his actions could have killed sentenced him to serve up to 40 years at Jackson it seemed, was having the last laugh. is a resounding yes. It could get much worse. thinking about how his life had gone, and on his own body. That's how he ended up in the Ionia days (1960s) where men and women were unwitting Lucas was knocked out cold with various zapped time and again in electro-convulsive shock was harmless, it seemed. On his patient file, with feelings of insecurity and inferiority." the state had to do something about overcrowding and Henry, a nice guy, it seemed, was Could this man, with that kind of past, member of society? We think you know the answer He became a drifter, human sewage floating violent and perverted human who, with an IQ of 87 was always going to infect wherever he went. In which he was handed a five-year prison sentence. know upon his release, he went to Port Deposit, Almeda Kiser, and her daughter, Aomia Pierce. Pennsylvania, with Aomia and her daughter woman named Betty Crawford. The two hit it off. At 1975, they got married. Lucas was 39. In time to December 5, 1975. You'll find out later why. of them down. It's reported he worked he rarely made enough to take care of Becky They all lived in a trailer park and partly This was far from a marriage made in heaven. In regard to her daughters, something Lucas and on July 7, he hit the road with He drifted around the US, learning the highways take much interest in. On his way to Michigan, to visit Opal, and later, with his For months and months, he drove all over often going back to Virginia and Maryland, on Virginia working in a carpet store. In Hinton, he met a woman named Rhonda Knuckles, but soon sister Almeda and getting a job in a wrecking of sexual misconduct with her daughters. a friend and never returned. After reporting it Florida. Lucas was not far away, broke and this is where something very significant admitted to Lucus that he liked to dress up Sometime in the near future, these two will but let's not get ahead of ourselves. involving chronic abuses of every kind you can mal seizures, and was endowed with an IQ of 75. in abandoned houses after running away from his to him. Unbelievably, Ottis's father did what dress in female clothes for his own sick kicks. to say here, but we will say that Ottis developed two men were two rotten peas in a diseased pod. Sarah, and her husband, Robert, who lived a nephew, Frank Powell Jr., and his Becky. None of them was concerned about Ottis and this happened often. He'd sometimes get off man was the ideal candidate for a friend of Lucas still had problems holding down work. He severely beaten up and spent several weeks in the he got into the scrap business, but and closer to young Becky. Becky was of very Their relationship was cut short for a while we mentioned earlier, and Becky was sent to live children's shelter in Bartow, Florida, after her and police suspected Lucas had picked her up. 70s to the early 80s. All this time, Lucas and Lucas held down work for a while at a roofing the two would rob small convenience Lucas said they were hellraisers. One time, he in western Georgia, and pointing a .22 at her didn't move, but as they walked away with their calmly walked up to her and said, "I told you into her temple. Lucas would tell the police: Ottis. He just kills 'em when he feels He would also say that while he was loading the terrible things to her dead body. Lucas would We say "victims" in the plural. This was a activity of the utmost depravity. It included a bonafide American "death cult" he said was quite a bit out here, but we think we'll We will say is that in 1981, a young boy was boys in a Sears store in Hollywood, Florida. Two a drainage canal alongside the Florida Turnpike. every family's TV screens. It was one of those According to Lucas, Becky would often down to their depraved business. At was on the run from child welfare authorities. headed to California. Toole told Ottis they'd some of it involving hits for the death cult. have a sexual relationship, but one she became sexually excited, and the two including the dismemberment and burying of bodies. According to Lucas, he took Becky on a veritable girl should ever see as they passed through when he read about the Green River murders in the out and murdered several prostitutes. they met a man named Jack Smart. He owned Hemet. Smart took pity on the bedraggled-looking drifter with his "child bride." Still, Smart fed got them a place to stay, and Lucas worked would later note that Lucas often went missing After a few months, the Smarts got news that their was not very well. The old lady lived she'd become unable to take care of herself. and Becky over there? They could look after While Kate fed them, housed them, and gave them the food money Kate gave him on booze. He'd Kate well and buy stuff they knew Kate would name. The clerk soon called some of Kate's arrived at a house. It was filthy, littered and there was a sink piled high with dirty dishes. They were soon handed some bus fare and told money and hitchhike. That's how they met Ruben who was the Pentecostal minister at a religious in and gave Lucas a job as a roofer. There was to learn to cook, sew and clean. They also Becky apparently changed her ways. As they'd not but this time, she really did do the work. Then, good Christian woman, she would repent for to head back to Florida and hand herself into escaped child. She said she'd say nothing about to come clean and lead a more righteous life. especially as she was planning to hitchhike, Let's now skip a bit of the story. arrested Lucas on charges of unlawful possession for Lucas, who'd had firearms charges in the Lucas had been in custody earlier after a car he'd California Highway Patrol. There was blood on the relatives of Kate had contacted the local was missing and she'd been seen with Lucas. they had nothing to keep him in custody, and back to Oklahoma, and on through where he would later say he held up convenience Lucas drove and hitchhiked his way around, he contacted the House of Prayer by phone the minister that he'd been trying in vain to the minister was aware that Lucas now might be Kate and Becky. He called Sheriff Conway, and they Prayer. The minister sent Lucas $100 and told him It was some days after Lucas' return to the House Now, there was a reason to arrest him. Conway with those missing women, but he needed an excuse and Conway led to Lucas being arrested again. jail. Maybe he felt it was the end of the run no more. In that cell, he wrote a letter "I have killed for the past ten years, and no I also killed the only girl I ever loved." he explained that he'd been drunk one night with where to go and what to do. "That was it," Henry I just picked it up, brought it around, and hit there for a little bit and then dropped on over." put it, having relations with her corpse. He said and put the pieces into pillowcases. He explained but this one murder was different. He claimed from the grave haunted him." When Lucas returned to the House of Prayer, The one person who asked that the most was Kate, conversion. She called Lucas at the House of in town, and he'd explain the whole story. when they'd stopped at a truck stop in Texas. didn't believe him. She kept questioning him house. That's when he snapped. He pulled and stuck it into her chest. He did his thing with garbage bags and a knife. He said he cut her House of Prayer. A problem for Lucas was that the Kate alive. You already know that the minister You also already know that the car he dumped police had picked him up before and had he was admitting to the murder and giving all the could take them to see body parts, the coroner Even so, it had to be him, surely. How to find their buried body parts? could this man talk! The so-called was the sheriff. He seemed to treat Lucas like and a seemingly endless supply of cigarettes. let's remember here that Lucas had never in his he was the apple of someone's eye, so he talked missed out earlier, that he and Ottis had gone on fun, for money, for the death cult. Lucas sang At this point, Toole was already in custody unrelated to the alleged mass murders he'd was he who'd killed and decapitated little Adam store. We should mention again that Toole had sandwiches short of a picnic, as the saying goes. killed the kid. There was meager hard evidence, which he perpetrated alone, the evidence was weak that Lucas told cops they'd both committed, Toole The two men were suddenly famous, receiving more were treated like rock stars, not even handcuffed cookies, snacks or drinks and enough cigarettes Lucas described how they'd driven from state almost always doing things with the bodies. he carried on killing, picking up hitchhikers, "I killed 'em every way there strangulations, there's been knifings, there's I didn't have any emotions... I had no feelings One time, he and Ottis got on the telephone victims and then barbequing the body parts they must have known someone was listening would go to Lucas' cell at the behest of the cops, and new pack of smokes, telling the police about went to 300, to 600, one time, he said, he killed he'd killed government officials, and there was a The US news was then telling folks at home that worst serial killer in US history but in the The Lucas Task Force was set up by the Texas Public Safety, a department you should not to say about it. The task force was headed by cat that got the cream. He'd stand for photos often being called the best cop in America. More cases every time they talked to Lucas. Homicide were having the time of their lives. It looked They'd take Lucas to crime scenes, later telling only the culprit of the murders would know. Lucas grave. He later said, "It was maddening working That's because the lawyer knew for a fact much but not the others. And this talk about a death the mind of a fantasist who, for the first time Lucas obviously felt like he was worthy of Later, a journalist named Hugh Aynesworth the cases. He interviewed the families of he said, privately told him that he was lying this down in a story that would itself become the cops had said he'd done, he would have had he was covering thousands and thousands of miles, same again and again and again. Lucas covered It was physically impossible for him to have Then it became clear, it was seen in a video, to look at. This book was full of crime scene would get some time with this, and then he'd start but his memory was good. He'd been taught how to it seemed, but he would later die from cirrhosis strange way, these two men probably loved on their cell walls. They were also maniacs, After Lucas admitted to killing a woman only found wearing orange socks, Boutwell even a roofing company supervisor named Fred way Lucas could have killed orange socks. He far away from Texas. He had Lucas' clock-in card. too. Far from being a loner, many people knew How was he supposed to travel 1,100 miles in Even so, the police still said his stories checked for saying Lucas might not be some record-breaking knew the only way to turn this around was to but the next day, he changed his mind. The Lucas was a killer, but what kind of killer was just a sad, traumatized, attention-seeking man needed to clear cases? The TV news wasn't really up saying Lucas was telling police, "Details so but after they'd given Lucas the details. media wouldn't have known about that part. victim Debbie Williamson, was irate. She knew her family knew the cops were lying. They spent out that Lucas was in a different state at killed. They found out that Lucas had been him admitting to the crime. "We were mad. Their investigation was sound. There was no way Betty Crawford came forward, saying Lucas was hundreds of miles away. Remember, December 5. when and where he got married? It was as if they The Lemons family found out that Lucas was in They interviewed many people and discovered could prove it and sometimes had had never once been questioned by the police. There was hope when Vic Feazell, the District involved. He could not believe his eyes. He soon Lucas, now serving a death sentence, started that cops had fed him all the information. investigation, the Texas Department of to the top dogs in the FBI, defended the was the former Acting Director of the FBI. He had fact his Texas Rangers were being bad-mouthed. and the head of the Texas Department of This would not come out for quite some still a mystery, but you could take a guess. wiretapped. His dog, which had barked at the calls at night saying he was going to be taken "We have a bullet with your name in it." was about to expose one of the biggest but before he could do that, police raided his took all his documents, found a toy plastic and noted it as "narcotics paraphernalia." the shadiest part of US law enforcement and you mess with us." Feazell was released on bail, attorneys. Even though he was innocent, somehow taken these bribes. Some attorneys had turned Feazell was looking at 80 years in prison He later said, "I could not believe the US justice it had anything to do with the Lucas investigation but the district judge reminded people there To cut a long story short, Feazell was found found out through investigations and freedom of some people that went against him had gathered later took his case to trial and was awarded a WFAA-TV, which, at the time, was the largest libel Feazell was done with the justice system. But his and others work proved that Lucas It was now obvious the Texas rangers had admitting to some "sloppy" police work at times. including those of Kate and Becky, and socks. Lucas was still going to be executed, have possibly killed orange socks because he definitely a liar. He was definitely violent, and starting to look like he was no serial killer. death sentence when it was obvious to anyone orange socks. It was discovered that not only but Lucas had had some kind of nervous breakdown strong medications at the time he was He later underwent extensive neurological tests, extensive damage to his frontal and temporal This could have happened when he was beaten as a one of his mother's beatings. Researchers said to do with childhood malnutrition. CAT scans with diminished control over violent impulses. Kevin Key, two youngsters who had been brutally and admitted to it at the start, yet DNA evidence, man, later arrested and convicted. There was also so the man charged with her murder, Scotty Scot, been Lucas, as it was later shown he wasn't of the murder. Scot was retried, but the case cases when Lucas knew all the details, such out it could not have been him. So, how did he The families of the victims saw this on TV Many came forward. The Cold Case Foundation showing how utterly ridiculous the case was was there was no pattern." No consistency, no hard evidence. Just the words of a fantasist with a 32-page report to the Texas Rangers showing DNA evidence had proven Lucas could not have but they had him tied to 3,000 cases. For even Kate and Becky, whom he probably scrap of evidence outside of his confessions. maybe, maybe not. In 2019, orange socks was She'd been murdered, but with high probability, of other cases, but if Lucas hadn't killed most of these cases, although, over Police departments now know perhaps just through willful blindness rather they now call this "Henry Lee Lucas Syndrome." things look too good. Don't believe everything On March 12, 2001, Lucas died from heart he told lies, lots of them, but he truth when he said, "I am not a serial killer." Killer - True Crime)." Or, have a look at