(speech muffled by static) - [Pilot 3] Oh my gosh, dude. (suspenseful music) - [Johnny] It's November 14th, 2004, about a hundred miles off the coast of San Diego, California. The USS Nimitz, one of the US Navy's largest aircraft carriers is preparing for deployment to the Persian Gulf. But the radar technicians The military report from that day says that they notice quote, &quot;multiple objects descending from around 60,000 feet down to 50 feet in a matter of seconds.&quot; Very high velocity. 60,000 feet. A reminder that commercial airplanes fly at like 36,000 feet. The report goes on to say &quot;hover for a short time and with, quote, &quot;advanced At first, these radar techs thought that their fancy new radar so they recalibrated the Something was up here. - They're telling us they They don't know what it Well, they've been watching these things, and what he told me is they had as we're driving. I says, sir, we've been for about two weeks. That's, we had been at sea for two weeks. He goes, this is the first We want you to go see what these are. - [Johnny] So they sent out The report from that day no clouds and unlimited visibility. These two Navy pilots arrive to the scene, each with a weapons officer in the back. They look around and in the water below. - So, as we're looking the back seater in the &quot;Hey, skipper, do you,&quot; and that's about what he gets &quot;What the hell is that?&quot; - [Johnny] It looks as if the size of a massive right underneath the surface of the water, and above it, it appears to be boiling. And just above the boiling - And we saw this little and it's just kind of moving - Like no predictable movement, - Yeah. - I guess it was just- - It was just like a ping pong ball. - No acceleration. - Very, very random. - Acceleration. - [Johnny] The Navy report &quot;an elongated egg or a Tic across the entire body.&quot; It was approximately 46 feet in length. One of the pilots with his wanted to get a closer look. - So then I go, hey, I'm - [Johnny] So, he turns this The other pilot's staying - So, I'm coming down, and as the Tic Tac's doing this, it's aware of us and it just goes bloop, and it kind of points out towards the west and starts coming up. So, now it's obviously whatever this thing is, So, I'm kind of almost as this thing's coming up. I'm gonna meet it, and it just, as it crosses our nose, it just, it accelerates and literally, probably less than a half second, it just goes, and it's gone. - And you saw no visible propulsion? - Right. - [Interviewer] No wings or anything- - No. - [Interviewer] To no make - [Johnny] As these two to their aircraft carrier, they get a radio call from - I mean, he's like, hey, sir, you're not gonna believe this, but that thing is at your cap. It showed back up. It just popped up. The other, this is like 60 miles away. It just reappears. - [Johnny] Within seconds, 60 By the time they get back to So, they gear up and get to investigate, and this time, they make sure that an infrared camera is strapped to the bottom. With the camera recording, they found the Tic Tac again. Okay, so now we're looking at real data, real evidence that we can analyze, get us away from relying What you're seeing is an object that is somehow flying through the sky. These infrared cameras will of exhaust or some kind how an aircraft is being But here, there's nothing. And yet suddenly, this blasts away. And to be clear, we just We didn't edit this in any way. This was back in 2004, but no one knew about it until it was leaked in 2007 called Above Top Secret. It honestly looked like some kind of BS conspiracy UFO stuff, But 10 years later, the Pentagon confirmed that, actually, it's totally legit. This is authentic Navy footage recorded by some of the best pilots on earth showing an unidentified flying object. &quot;The New York Times&quot; would go on to report on this pretty deeply and as well as the firsthand accounts by people who saw this object, would lead the Pentagon to study what's happening here. And not just this encounter, Something the public wouldn't And that's what this video is about. - [Reporter] US military officials have gone before a Congress hearing, releasing once classified videos from fighter pilots' cockpits. - [Reporter 2] 144 unexplained sightings. (speech muffled by static) - Wait, pause. Yes, I know some of you are asking, am I actually doing this? Yes, I'm actually doing this. We're doing a deep dive on UFOs and no, it's not some bait and where I try to trick you into believing me and then, like, tell you to I'm actually doing this. I'm applying my that, in my opinion, has and sensationalized by the UFO fanatics and Hollywood. I wanna do the opposite of all of that. I wanna actually evaluate there are some really So this is not Roswell. It's not aliens landing It's not Bob Lazar claiming back in the '70s. I'm not touching any of that stuff. Maybe if this video does well, I will open up those cans of worms. Today, all I'm looking evidence-based sightings of that the US military has observed but has concluded they That's it. Let's do this. Oh, and by the way, next week's video is live You can watch it ad free right this minute if you go sign up for Nebula. Link in the description, Okay, let's get back to it. In many ways, the 2004 Tic Tac for a new era of UFO investigations. And again, big props for breaking the news that the Pentagon had been investigating UFOs in secret since at least 2007. It was a program that Harry Reid, a Democratic senator from Nevada, had personally been asking for. Big alien guy, that Harry Reid, huh? &quot;The Times&quot; reporting also revealed that there were other videos. In 2014, a Navy jet was chasing a fleet of strange objects on the east coast of the United States. I mean, listen to this radio chatter. - [Pilot] There's a whole - [Pilot 2] Oh my gosh. They're all going against the wind. The wind's 120 knots from the west. - [Pilot] Well if there's- - [Pilot 2] Look at that thing. - [Pilot] It's rotating. - The next year in the same area, a Navy pilot captured a small round object traveling at what looks over the water. - [Pilot 3] Whoa! Got it. Woo hoo! What the fuck is that thing? - [Pilot 4] Did you box a moving target? - [Pilot 3] No, I took an auto-track. - [Pilot 4] Oh, okay. - [Pilot 3] Oh my gosh, dude. Wow. (speech muffled by static) - [Pilot 4] Look at that fly. - In 2019, some Navy sailors when they pointed a camera through their night vision goggles On March 4th, 2019, a weapons officer sitting in the back of a fighter jet captured these pictures of a sphere and an acorn.&quot; And then, there was this incident in 2021 where a Navy pilot was filming and caught this. Yeah, you probably missed it. Let's just slow that down. This. Like, what is this thing? These videos and images who were on duty and have by the United States government. And these are just a few under investigation by the Navy, many of which remained classified for, we all know what I'm gonna say, national security reasons. Not undermining it. I'm It's just like the catchall Got a little outta control there. (suspenseful music) As more and more of these were being reported and the Department of an official unidentified UAPs is what the government now calls UFOs because UFOs, you know, again, has been completely tainted by this stuff. - [Narrator] A UFO sighting - [Speaker 2] I don't - [Narrator] An extraterrestrial event that changed the course of history and an alien abduction witnessed - When you read through these reports and you can start to see why the government wants to study this stuff. And no, it's not just into aliens or whatever. The government says it itself that it's interested in this Who's flying around in our airspace without our authorization, and why are they behaving in weird ways that we don't understand? But they also mention the and their very expensive hardware. This new committee has been and they state very clearly First, the Pentagon is may be quote, &quot;part of a or indicative of a major by a potential adversary.&quot; Counterintelligence, quote, of flight and could pose a broader danger if some instances represent against United States military activities by foreign governments, or,&quot; crucially, &quot;demonstrate a by a potential adversary.&quot; Translation, we don't really and that kind of scares us. Oh, and safety. - When do you start getting a what the fuck is this thing? - So, that happened when There were two aircraft and they flew, took That means they're essentially like this. And as they hit the area, one of these objects went - We have a very strict who is flying in our airspace to make sure that things don't run into each other because random stuff flying around could risk the lives of the pilots and these $67 million weapons. So, when something like this They immediately abort and they return to their ship to, like, discuss what the hell just happened. - And you know, he was &quot;Hey, you know, I almost hit and we all knew what he was referring to, even though we didn't just because we were seeing these so much. And he described it, you know. He described it just as a And that cube was inside of a and essentially the the apex best he could tell, were touching that inside of that sphere. - Wait, hold on. Did you catch that? Not the weird cube inside of a We'll get to that later. To me, what's actually more compelling about what this guy just said is. - Because we were seeing these so much. - He is saying that these pilots have been seeing these things. - You know, essentially, all the time. - Wow. Yeah. Like yeah, I get it. The translucent cube thing but, like, the fact seeing these UAPs, these UFOs, week after week, that, to me, that we need to evaluate here. And, like the 2004 Tic Tac at the beginning. - This was happening because the best we could tell. - These Navy personnel what they're seeing. They think that their - And then people started to And at this point, you know, I would say maybe 80 had probably seen one of these Everyone was aware of it. - So, according to some of these accounts, you've got a bunch of Navy all the time, both on radar but also with their infrared cameras. But are you gonna be the guy in the Navy and say, like, You don't wanna be like the UFO crazy. You're gonna get kicked most superior pilot corps you're seeing UFOs. These pilots have talked about with reporting this stuff, so a lot of 'em just sort of keep quiet. But it was when that near these pilots are literally of what happened. And this is where the Pentagon were forced to take these - We know that our service unidentified aerial phenomenon, and because UAPs pose and general security risk, we are committed to a focused effort to determine their origins. - This is where I start about the potential here because, look, this is like a real high up in the military who's talking about getting more data on this, on studying it. Keep going. Mr. Moultrie. - Our effort will include of adversarial platforms and potential breakthrough technologies, US government or commercial platforms, allied or partner systems - Scientists, military leaders, even some politicians of true believers with the - So, by 2020 this is now, and this is probably why This task force was the first time since 1969 has officially or at least the significance of studying UFOs. - There is something there, measurable by multiple instruments, and yet, it seems to move in directions that are inconsistent with or science more broadly. And that, to me, poses and, as well as potential - Okay, wait, pause, just, yep. Inconsistent with the Very tantalizing. Let's just pause. We're talking about UFOs to just check in and make sure we're all First, we know it is a has observed stuff in the The evidence that I've solid sources, solid reporting. If I had evidence like that I'm doing, I'd be like, Let's put it in the story. Okay? We know that it's true. (suspenseful music) Oh, and it's not just the few events that I've mentioned here. According to this report, there's been 144 of these instances either or government personnel, and 80 of these reports have been gathered from quote, &quot;multiple sensors,&quot; meaning from multiple perspectives, multiple perspectives or tools, which is like a thousand one pilot just saw something Even if said pilot is someone like Lieutenant Commander Alex Dietrich, who, when you read this profile on her, seems to be a pragmatic, from one of the most in the world. - I don't identify as a UFO person. - Like, these pilots don't have incentives to make this stuff up. And yet, the fact remains for measuring and observing the world is the human eyes, brain which is a pretty faulty and inaccurate data collection tool. So, when I see something being collected from multiple sensors, it makes all the difference for me. Okay, so that's number one. The US government has seen this. They don't know what it is, Number two, the other thing we know is that they've taken it seriously. This is a concern for them. The US Department of to investigate, study and which, again, is awesome. Funding research is the only about the world. It's so much better than on what they saw. Science and research is our best antidote to the faulty, story driven human brain. And indeed, the task force has come to some pretty useful conclusions. - Since the release of UAP task force database approximately 400 reports. - They went back and they looked at every one of these reports, analyzed all the data they could. And when you do that, you come into perspective. Remember this video of the that the pilot was freaking out about? Turns out that the Pentagon analyzed this, knowing everything they know and what tools were being And they calculated that an optical illusion. Like, this object actually only like 30 miles an hour. Or remember this video of filmed off of that destroyer? It turns out that this was - [Scott] We're now reasonably confident that these triangles correlate to unmanned aerial systems in the area. The triangular appearance passing through the night vision goggles and then being recorded by an SLR camera. - These objects are trying to spy on US military maneuvers, yet they might not be triangle in shape, but, like, that's still We should know if there floating over our Navy destroyers. Or this video of a UFO shaped object being chased by an F-18. - [Pilot] There's a whole - What makes this video so weird is how the object is behaving, unexpected ways, kind - [Pilot 2] Look at that thing. - [Pilot] It's rotating. - Well, once again with this weird movement is of the image sensors that on these specialized look like they're moving in strange ways, when, really, if you just it wouldn't be that weird. There's this guy, Mick West, who's probably the most anything weird going on here. He does a really compelling deep dive on an explanation for this, why this object looks like I mean if you want to go into it, it's like another optical mixed with gimbal equipment and rotating compensation mechanisms. Yeah, you get the point, but we still don't know but at least we have more clarity on why it looks weird to us with our eyes when we're watching on The Pentagon recently came out that most of this stuff is actually just foreign spies flying around, spying on US military or other airborne tracks, and further specifying that looks weird to us looks weird because it was recorded and is built for a specific purpose that we don't have leading to some strange looking imagery. Really convenient, Pentagon. And yet, another fact many of these videos have a foreign drone and, in And that's after analysis. One of those unexplained the one we started this video (suspenseful music) The report often cites lack what we have here is not the best, but we still have four sets of eyeballs. We have an official Navy from that day, technicians seeing this thing down to 50 feet in a matter of seconds, hovering stationary on the and then departing at high This video, which is kind and not very long, but with its infrared not any means of propulsion at mind boggling speeds. Since these pilots went a handful more of Navy telling their stories And again, I take this all especially when you see putting fuel on the fire that, I'm intentionally not because I consider them of useful evidence. But yeah, if you're interested, you can easily go down the rabbit hole. This stuff is like If you do go down the rabbit hole on some of these other just be careful. This is powerful, intoxicating stuff. We all secretly want to believe that this isn't just, That's boring. Our brains are really good to construct a faulty narrative. Be careful. But yeah, that aside, there's that I could find that Could be Russia or Chinese secret drones or even experimental aircraft that we ourselves have been developing. I mean, it's no secret spend a lot of time and a leg up militarily, trying to find the next big technological thing. Like, you can actually find that claim to revolutionize using, like, anti-gravity really out there, wild, that may or may not exist. Again, another rabbit hole The 2004 Tic Tac case remains a mystery, and I have a feeling that it We'll probably never and that's because real answers only come when you have real inquiry with real tools to measure and analyze real People's eyes and brains and memories are about the worst and yet, we can't ignore credible sources. - They were always out there, you know. - [Joe] Always. - They were out there when we took off. We'd see them and then we'd go to land. They would still be out there. - Like every day? - Every day. - But that's not proof of anything. To me, if they're always out there, we should be able to come and the US government agrees. - This often limited and reporting hampers our about the nature or intent of UAP. - Step one in all this is gonna be to decouple the study of UFOs, which is something we should totally do, from the quick conclusion that we are being visited by aliens from a different star system. That is what created the That is why people are embarrassed We need to decouple them. There are UFOs. We should study them and But am I saying that alien spacecraft coming No, I'm not saying that What I'm saying is that I to the burden of evidence that that's what these things are. What I have seen is evidence flying around, behaving in beyond our mainstream I mean, potentially. So yes, I'm totally open to I'm open to literally anything. My issue is that people see this, and our brains automatically which is to fill in the blanks. Suddenly, aliens are the It scares me. It's not I mean, I'm aware that it literally is almost a statistical impossibility that we're the only intelligent Definitely not the the case. So yeah, maybe they found a way to travel to our little speck of dust planet, and they wanted to visit I don't know. I'm totally open to it, but again, I have zero reason to believe that because there's no evidence that points to that as the explanation. - [Announcer] Seven, six, five. - But then there's the flip side, the juicier part of this for me, which is, who's to say we aren't the awe inspiring creatures ourselves? A hundred years ago, most people were still They would've looked at our and thought that, certainly, Certainly, some crazy magician had come and reshaped the entire planet, and that's exactly what happened. Crazy scientific breakthroughs I mean, just this year, went to a team of physicists for quantum communication, that essentially bypasses the What I'm trying to say here like religion. We don't need to believe. Instead of cobbling that we have to fit some let's go out there and and build a body of knowledge about this. Let's poke at these what the hell is going on in our airspace, at the very least to keep us safe, but potentially so that we something that we can and learn from. Wait, wait, wait, don't go yet. They released the report. The Pentagon released the report, like, right before we published this video. Like, we were waiting for and then they didn't. So, we filmed the video and I cut my hair, and then they released the the 2022 Annual Report on UAP, baby. We've gone through this, they're actually studying this stuff. This report goes through that is very interested in doing more to gather data on this, There have been 366 new reports of UAP. They think that over airborne clutter or drones but 171 of these reports They don't know what they that some of them continue &quot;unusual flight characteristics.&quot; They even say that they're to try to get to the bottom So yeah, the report is out. It's a pretty good read I want to tell you that next You can watch it right this second. It's over on Nebula. I publish all of my videos a week early, and it's over on Nebula, no ads. The video is a map all of the major coups over the years to, like, depose leaders and put in leaders that they like. Spoiler alert, there's and we mapped them. You can go watch that video All of my favorite creators are on Nebula, because it is a creator owned platform where we all publish our best stuff, not just our videos that we but also originals, things that you can't find anywhere else, like RealLifeLore's &quot;Modern Conflicts&quot; or PolyMatter's &quot;China Actually.&quot; These are really cool series that you can't find anywhere else. Nebula is a giant repository This video actually isn't The reason I'm plugging it right now is because I don't have And I want to tell you that not only do you get access and ad free, as well as access to all this other amazing, exclusive content, but you're also directly It's four bucks a month which is like $3 and 33 cents a month, and a portion of your subscription the creation of more videos like this. This isn't some, like, venture This is a creator owned streaming platform that we're all building together, and you subscribing to it not but also helps support us. So, if that's interesting to (playful music)