Welcome to JForrest English. I'm Jennifer. together about the royal coronation. So you vocabulary, grammar and even pronunciation. Why Meghan Markle isn't attending King Charles the third's coronation right here, notice, We have the word, why? But let me ask you What do you think? No, it is not a question and we know that because we would have the verb and then we would have the subject Meghan Markle. Markle attending the coronation? That is a question Meghan Markle isn't attending the coronation is written more as a statement she's a mom first. So if I wanted to write this reason why Meghan Markle isn't attending the coronation is because way to write it here. Here is just written as a headline to introduce the reason and then this is what you would write. Let's continue Sitting this one out. So notice this is just as a full sentence. I could say, Meghan Markle sitting is in my ING form. So I know is part my sentence was start with the subject in Megan Markle. And then my verb, I know my could be a Jaron, but this isn't a Jaron sentence. Markle is sitting this one out. Now, this in this case this one is the something and nowt, in this case, the coronation it means it's an event. So it would mean to not go project and you might say story, my schedule means you're not going to involve yourself project. So here I wrote the definition Shin for you and I gave you an example as so you can look in the description for the of the notes. Let's continue. Meghan Markle coronation with Prince Harry next month and In this case means to not attend. We could has to do with her children. So again, to attend, something to not attend something, when there is an obligation of attending. Do not attend something that you should or And if you are a university student, you might say, I was tired. So I skipped my morning But there is this requirement or at least to attend. Whereas, when you say, I'm going to sit this one out. There isn't just be careful about that. You might say, The meeting today. So in this case, it's probably you probably were required or you should have when you use skip something because there As much as Megan appreciates the invite to birthday for the world. All right, so that's makes sense. It's a valid reason to sit it reason? Now notice here, the invite the invite is a verb Herb, what is it doing here with an article a verb. I let me give you an example. I didn't invite of course this is a verb. Now in this article in front of it. Now in this case, And as a noun, and I want you to notice my pronunciation invite the invite and listen verbs, the syllable stress is on the second stress is on the first syllable invite Using the noun invite is a very casual way the, the noun is invitation invitation. But invite because it's just a lot shorter. So you get my My invite, okay. And it's the same as invitation, syllable stress on the first syllable. As coronation. She wouldn't miss her son's birthday us weekly of the former actress 41, so Meg Actress. So that's what this means of the years old and she's a former actress who shares with Harry 38. So Prince Harry is 38 years old? Despite being The Duchess of Sussex. why she's skipping the coronation. She's sitting. Laying it out. Now, if you're enjoying this about the finally fluent Academy because this native English speakers on YouTube, TV movies, Expressions, learn how to use them correctly, and ultimately become fluent in as little for the link. On how to become a member. All right, let's May 6 happens to coincide with our cheese we could say, Archie turns for on May 6. So going from one. Stage to the next stage. So let's say it's Archie, just turned 4, because only a few case, it's in the past simple because it's to 4, so that is how you can talk about age turn. It's not clear. What kind of plans, the suits to know about Megan markle's acting history. and she was in the TV show Suits. It's a very TV show Suits. It's about lawyers lawyers, Okay. And Lum is short for the word, alumni. Alumni their University studies. So when you graduate that college or university. Now in this case, job on the show Suits. The show is no longer It's done. And so she's now an Alum of the So the suits Alum, who is Megan Markle has a Markle has made for her eldest child's celebration. this? The sources says, that's not correct, Because the source is represents the subject. is a person who provides information, a source information about Meghan Markle with the magazine in this case, they're saying the Horses. So there's more than one source so s on it because the S would only be for the I got rid of the s for you and now it's grammatically, to spend it. This she represents Megan Markle, The Source, she didn't want to spend it away we're talking about the relationship between wondering didn't need of English speaker. the rule. No, absolutely. Not every native Like this. What happened is it's a tie. Typo. They just spelled the word wrong, most and they probably first wrote The Source says, Oh, wait, there's more than one source and but they forgot to change the verb. So we just He or she says, all right. Let's continue. such a special occasion by the royal family on behalf of their family. So this information is sharing this information about Meghan Markle Um, Meghan Markle, The Insider ads. So The the source more commonly we would say the source of information because that would be What's your source of information? Which is Come from now an Insider. If you have inside that the general public does not have. So about your life that your boss doesn't have does not have but being the same day as Archie's Just going to have to miss out on this one. something. And in this case this one represents coronation. It means that you don't use or something good or positive or beneficial. So we commonly use this in things like I can't was a sale at your favorite store, but you that day. So you couldn't experience that Missed out on the sale miss out. And then, you have to use the preposition on, as well. missed out. Now if your friend was just talking I missed out. Now, it's obvious, you're talking don't have to specify the noun, but if you preposition on as well, a very common phrasal The palace announced on Wednesday, April 12, this article assumes. You know, a lot about husband, founded the Invictus games. So he's games would return to the UK for the festivities Wife. Buckingham Palace is pleased to confirm Harry's, royal title. The Duke of Sussex, Abbey on May 6, read a statement, The Duchess Markle. The Duchess of Sussex will Remain in California with Prince Archie and Last month, AAS confirmed that the Duke of event. But at the time, it wasn't clear, whether Prince Harry the Duke of Sussex, the founder of the book, The Spare The spare author hinted that he was still about two things here, hint and on the fence. hint at something. It means you you give some She hinted that she wasn't going to attend that she was going to skip the party because use it. When remember I say, we use it when At that you should attend. She hinted that you hint at something, you do not say I'm that suggests, for example. I'm really busy right now. I'm really busy don't have anything to wear. I live really now. So if you're talking about the party I say, oh, you know, I don't really like parties. like you don't want to go or you're not going I could hint that I'm going to skip the party give information that suggests what you're on the fence because notice our verb Here is the verb to be on the fence. To be on the fence to be on the fence. We use this idiom when you're unable to decide. but it could also be bad. You're on the fence. just have not decided for whatever reason As an example. where, On the fence, if jeans a good fit for the This is not a good thing for, for Jane, for it means on the one hand. They want to promote the other hand, she might be missing some her, but they also don't like her. They think might be bad. So they're on the fence. We're Promotion or a lot of times we use this as you going to the party tonight, and you could I'm still on the fence, which means you, you will be really fun, but you have to work tomorrow. And you don't have a lot of time, so you're So odd a previous time. We now know that Harry time he was on the fence about going and that's I'll go to the top and I'll read it from start pronunciation. Why Meghan Markle isn't attending. Harry. She's A mom first sitting this one out, Meghan Markle coronation with Prince Harry next month. And to do with her children, as much as Megan she wouldn't miss her son's birthday for the of the former actress 41 who shares Son Archie, 3 and daughter Lily, bet 22 months of Sussex, Meghan is a mom first, the date to coincide with our cheese, fourth birthday. Alum has made for her eldest, child celebration, it away from her. One. She feels very grateful to be included and is glad that Harry can go and show support but being the same day as Archie's birthday. miss out on this one. The palace announced games, founder would return to the UK for King. Ham Palace is pleased to confirm that service at Westminster, Abbey on May 6th read in California with Prince Archie and Princess Duke of Sussex had been sent an invitation whether he would attend in January, the spare On the fence about going. Did you like this I have many more learn English with the news guide where I share six tips on how to speak download it from my website right here. So next lesson.