Welcome to Hollywood Graveyard. Today I turn community, as we travel the world to visit of the woods. In this tour we travel through Wells, Buffalo Bill, Raymond Burr, and many Our previous video left off in the state of by you brings us now one step closer to home, New Mexico, Colorado, Montana, Idaho, Utah, a quick trip up to Vancouver, Canada, leaving in this viewer series. in New Mexico, at Old Fort Sumner Cemetery. these historic grounds we find a figure who west, Billy the Kid. He was born Henry McCarty Billy the Kid. The notorious outlaw of the his teens, until bigger crimes including theft, man. He would earn a reputation as a gun slinger frontier feud escalated with Billy the Kid others. From that point on, Billy the Kid grew with time. He was eventually captured, to hang. He escaped from jail again, and evaded by the bullet of Sheriff Pat Garrett in 1881. the subject of numerous media productions, and Emilio Estevez. Kid's grave is enclosed in the past. There are two stones here for names of his pals and fellow outlaws. find the grave of another legendary figure eternal home of Buffalo Bill Cody. After the and would earn the nickname "Buffalo Bill" for frontier workers. In the years that followed, shows, to showcase his skills as a cowboy Indian Wars. In 1883, Cody formed his own traveling circus. He became one of the greatest and American frontier to audiences across Buffalo Bill's show was one of the most late 19th century. Bill Cody died in 1917 a desire to be buried on Lookout Mountain overlooking the Great Plains. where we find the grave of Elrey Jeppesen. in the field of air navigation. He worked about his routes at a time when aviators had maps and landmarks for navigation. He created fly much more safely. Finding there was a company in 1934 to sell what he had developed. today, and Jeppesen is a member of the International Riverside Cemetery is in Fort Morgan. This who specialized in science fiction. He wrote throughout his career, many of his short stories 1962 novel, The Man in the High Castle earned into a series in 2015. Other notable works which was the Basis of the Blade Runner films, made into a film. Dick was just 53 when he his death, The Philip K. Dick Award for Science This is Littleton Cemetery. Here lies a folk Alfred, or Alferd Packer. In the 1870's in the Rocky Mountains. In the dead of a harsh for the gold fields in the mountains of Colorado. ran out of food. Two months later, Packer about what happened on the mountain would is that his five companions ended up dead... violence, and Alferd Packer had survived by He insisted he hadn't killed his companions, then escaped, and was re-captured nine years He died in 1907 at age 65. His grave is cemented and Matt Stone's first feature film, Cannibal! of Alferd Packer. Colorado here at Crown Hill Cemetery, in Wheat First up here we find actress Barbara Bates. Phoebe in 1950's All About Eve, a role that roles include as Helen in Quicksand, alongside Katy in the 1950s series, It's a Great Life. and depression into her 40s, which negatively took her own life by carbon monoxide poisoning. Over now to block 35, we find the grave of and journalist, a pioneer of female newspaper to her true love, the theater, and began to the 1944 Broadway play Harvey, which was adapted would receive the Pulitzer Prize for Harvey. into the 1939 film, Sorority House. Mary died If you enjoy a cold one now and again, you himself, Adolph Coors. He was born in the 1847. As a young man he apprenticed and worked on a boat as a stowaway to the US in the 1860s. in 1873 he formed the Adolph Coors Company a century and a half later, Coors remains nation. In 1929, when Coors was 82, he died suicide by leaping from, the sixth-floor window This heart shaped stone marks the grave of of memorable and long-lasting roles on television. of Days of Our Lives. And you fans of Babylon in over 100 episodes. But Richard's career aortic dissection. He was 44. we didn't get any submissions from you this Loy, at Forestvale Cemetery in Helena. Myrna as a teen. She studied theater and dancing stands a statue for which Myrna was the model, on screen during the silent era, often cast best remembered for playing Nora Charles in "I'm not taking him, he's taking me...oooo!" "Woops, women and children first, boys." "Oh, so it's you he was after." Other memorable films include The Best Years 1991 Myrna Loy received an honorary Academy She lived to be 88. We begin our time here in Boise, and Morris character actor had numerous memorable roles He played Ebenezer Scrooge in 1938's A Christmas Boom in Mary Poppins. He's also one of the and Dr. Watson. Reginald Owen died from a Perhaps you need to pick up some groceries If so, maybe you'll pop into Albertson's. in the grocery industry as a Safeway clerk store, Albertsons Store, right here in Boise. complete, one-stop, self-service supermarket. chain became a familiar name to shoppers throughout One can hardly visit the potato state, without was a businessman, and the potato made him was the largest supplier of potatoes in the the supplier of frozen French fries to McDonalds. one of the world's largest suppliers of of frozen fries distributed around the world Simplot's potatoes. He lived to be 99. of US history... but this isn't that Paul leader and namesake of the band Paul Revere 50s here in Idaho, and rose to fame in the Revolutionary War style of dress, and hits The band would also be the house band for performing with the band until 2014 when cancer 76. to stop in Coeur d'Alene to remember Patty note up front that this is not Patty Duke's was cremated, and according to some reports, here at the site of her mother's grave. when she was cast as Helen Keller in the Broadway the role at age 15 on screen alongside Ann for best supporting actress. She was the youngest The following year she would star in The Patty her, playing the dual roles of Patty and Cathy Dolls, and Me, Natalie, which earned her a 69 from sepsis. She was the mother of actor We've arrived in Deseret, the Beehive State: Salt Lake City Cemetery. Here lies a folk was an early leader in the Mormon church, as he was known, was also known by another nickname he earned for his colorfully unique, being afraid to let a light curse word fly in Utah, where "heck" or "darn" are hear. Golden became something of a Will Rogers and quotable quotes. When asked how he could "Hell, they can't excommunicate me. I Golden died in a car accident in Nevada at Adjacent to Salt Lake City Cemetery is Mount me, know I have something of an incurable being one of my principal vices. But in the them all, one you will always find an open fact, when Reese's and Oreos combined, I you look carefully, you'll find a grave Since 1912, Oreos have been an American staple, but that unique embossed design. Bill was various products like Ritz, Nutter Butter, with producing a new design for the Oreo cookie. that we know today, which is embossed into 96. Here we dodge some man-made rain to find the known as a megasavant, meaning he had photographic memorize entire books. And his talents extended calculations, and music. Kim was the inspiration Man, played by Dustin Hoffman. The film won Barry Morrow - was given to Kim, which he when he made public appearances. Kim Peek Let's continue to make our way south to Hills Cemetery. In these grounds is an actor in the Great Mausoleum... but they are related. inherited his grandfather's good looks, He's known for hosting two seasons of the he played the title character in 2020's Gable was found unresponsive, and died from the time of his death he was in Dallas, filming Our last Utah stop is at Provo City Cemetery. this next individual, known as "The Candy that were quite a bit sweeter. Gail Halvorsen the US Air Force. After WWII, Gail was assigned During that time, he founded "Operation in Berlin by dropping candy via miniature a hero to the children of Germany, known as and "the Chocolate Flier." He would also would repeat these candy drops in other struggling Japan, Guam, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania, of a Santa Claus and Easter Bunny rolled into from respiratory failure. is Holy Redeemer Cemetery in Phoenix, where to Bil Keane. If you're a fan of The Family here on this tomb. The comic strip was created It would grow to be one of the most widely in some 1,500 newspapers. The strip generally to what you see here on his tomb. Bill continued heart failure at age 89, after which his son This is Christ Church of the Ascension Memory of legendary newscaster and TV personality, the 40s into the 20th century. He was announcer beginning in 1957. Downs would go on to host most notably, as anchor of 20/20, from 1978 "Good evening, I'm Hugh Downs. And this For a time he held a Guinness World Record surpassed by Regis Philbin. Hugh Downs died How about a little more western folklore? Johnny Ringo. He was an Old West outlaw associated AZ. There he rustled cattle, participated with the Earps and Doc Holliday. That bad of participating in the ambush of Virgil Earp, out on a vendetta ride, seeking revenge. In a tree near this spot, a bullet wound to his other theories surrounding Ringo's death that he was shot and killed by Wyatt Earp. legends of Johnny Ringo, mostly due to fictionalized We've visited some famous animals over the Here is a face familiar to anyone who has was Tardar Sauce, and she was an American &quot;grumpy&quot; facial appearance, which was caused grew as millions shared her meme across social to an estimated $99 million. The earnings appearances, and even her own film, &quot;Grumpy 7, and lies at Pet Rest Cemetery at Sunland Grumpily. Memorial Park in Scottsdale. Here lies Eddie a member of the Guerrero wrestling family. promotion, before finding success in the US WCW United States Champion. He then moved called The Radicalz, and in 2004 won the WWE great technical wrestlers of all time. In hotel room. He was pronounced dead at the Next up is Paradise Memorial Gardens in Scottsdale. of Hollywood Graveyard, Elizabeth Kubler-Ross. in the field of death and dying, and near-death book, On Death and Dying, in which she outlined anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. in the US. Other of her works to help people Life After Death, and Living with Death and into the National Women's Hall of Fame. I die I'm going to dance first in all the and she called death a "graduation." This This is East Lawn Palms Cemetery in Tuscon. Bill Freyse. He's remembered for taking House, in 1939. He continued to draw the daily death in 1969 at age 70. Good Shepherd, to find the crypt of Hank Leiber. outfield between 1933 and 1942, for the Giants in the 1937 world series with the Giants. Next here at East Lawn Palms we find the grave of the most talented and popular dancers of her leg up to touch the back of her head. the Ziegfield Follies, and Take a Chance. of the troops in travelling USO tours. She Francis, and Martha Raye, would bring their big screen, in the film "Four Jills in a films, but her biggest success was always Moving on now to Nevada. This is Mountain of Dawn Wells, better known to generations Miss Nevada in 1959, and in the early 60s She landed her signature role, that of Mary play the character in close to 100 episodes, 70s and 80s she shifted much of her focus like Neil Simon's Chapter Two. Dawn died age 82. Mortuary Memorial Park. Here is the grave for her roles on television in the 70s and Island, The Love Boat, Love, American Style, have to be that of Beatrice Travis in close film credits include 1970s Beyond the Valley age 73. Vegas, where in our previous series we found today to visit the McGuire Sisters. Phyllis Sisters, a popular singing trio in the 50s songs "Sincerely," and Sugartime." perform on television, including 21 appearances in 1968, after which Phyllis could continue was inducted into the Vocal Group Hall of We've made it to the west coast, and the in Tigard, where rests Rowdy Roddy Piper. and WCW... a villain everyone loved to hate. popularity of the WWF in the 80s. Rowdy accumulated throughout his career, and in 2005 was inducted career as an actor, starring in films like on It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia. Piper age of 61. Newport. Here lies John Blackburn. He was the lyrics to the song, "Moonlight in Vermont," introduced in 1944 and would be performed Sinatra. Blackburn continued to write songs popularity of "Moonlight in Vermont." This is Eagle Point National Cemetery. Here whose tale of survival has become the stuff on Guam when it was overrun by Japanese forces. into the jungle. He would be the only survivor For two years and seven months, Tweed lived returned to retake the island in 1944, Tweed Japanese defenses. After his rescue, Tweed Star. His story was dramatized in the 1962 Also here at Eagle Point we find Steve Mason. of the Vietnam War. He would become critically the Vietnam Veterans of America. His poem, dedication of the Vietnam Veteran's Memorial of his experiences in the Army and in Vietnam, truth is, that the only message I've taken with lung cancer as a result of exposure to at age 65. Order of Odd Fellows Cemetery. Let's head Harry &amp; David Holmes. If you've ever sent it was a Harry &amp; David. The company began grew, by the 30s was operating a mail order flowers, and gift baskets. David died in a later. but is said to have inspired a beloved character. was to stop traffic at the railroad crossing He was friends with another Oregon native, Pinto was the voice of Goofy, and he once of Goofy off of his friend Frank here. This is the grave of Ken Williams. He was an outfielder in the majors between 1915 and the St. Louis Browns. In 1922, Williams became home runs and steal 30 bases in a single season. Hillcrest Memorial Park is also in Grants He began making appearances on television and Captain Webber in one of my favorite episodes best-known role would have to be that of Dr. House on the Prairie. While principally known big screen as well, in films like The Learning Continuing up the pacific northwest we reach what looks like a marmot scurrying through in Spokane, and Greenwood Memorial Terrace. visited many stars who shined in the Twilight characters we loved to hate better than Albert Cliffordville, A Quality of Mercy, and Execution. of this era, including Daniel Boone, Gunsmoke, particularly enjoyed the Western genre. He in The Brothers Karamazov, for which he turned love was the stage, where he'd appear in 23, 1990, Salmi and his estranged wife were that Albert had shot and killed his wife, Over now to the lawn section, here is the of a Civil War veteran, a man she held in newly recognized Mother's Day, Dodd felt She approached authorities in Spokane about June 5th, as the date. They instead chose Day was celebrated in Washington on June 19, across the nation. In 1966 President Johnson Day, then in 1972 President Nixon established Day. Sonora Smart Dodd, the founder of Father's Next up we reach Holy Cross Cemetery in Spokane. The actor appeared in close to 200 productions smaller, supporting roles. While never a leading the 30s and 40s, like Billy the Kid's Fighting died at age 53 from liver failure. Park. This is the grave of Dave Shriver. He Four, who backed Rockabilly superstar Eddie wanted his autograph, and he would later play with Trini Lopez. Shriver passed away in 2012 He was 76. His cremation urn was buried here yet on the marker. a writer and producer for television, known Among the shows he would writer for and/or Travel, Fantasy Island, T. J. Hooker, Gunsmoke, Airport 1975. Don Ingalls lived to be 95. the various shuttle disasters. Here at Grandview William McCool. He was a pilot, aeronautical the pilot of Space Shuttle mission STS-107, out a 16-day research mission in space, before during launch weeks earlier, a piece of insulating the thermal protection layer on the wing. all on board, and scattering debris across spaceflight; he was 41. There are numerous Columbia crew nationwide, but this is McCool's For our final stops of the day, let's hop for a visit to Vancouver. This lovely cemetery we find a magician who went by the mononym, illusionist, escapologist, and ventriloquist the 1920s. He travelled extensively throughout the Magician. He was known for his top hat, inspiration for the comic strip character, Mandrake died in 1993 at age 81. we find the grave of the legendary Raymond in the 50s and 60s. In 1957 he landed the Perry Mason, in the series of the same name. he would play the lawyer who never lost in TV movies. Burr was the star of another successful T. Ironside in Ironside. And his best-known in Hitchcock's Rear Window. Fans of Godzilla into the original Godzilla for the Americanized was diagnosed with cancer. Realizing it was a number of goodbye parties to bid farewell 76. And that concludes our tour. What are some visited today? Share them in the comments for more famous grave tours. next one.