Few countries in the world offer so much diversity as Pakistan, a surprising and eye-opening travel destination. From awe-inspiring mountain landscapes and incredible historic landmarks to charming villages and bustling cities, full of friendly people. In this video, I take you back to one of my first and favorite when I traveled through Pakistan, from North to South. From the bustling streets of Lahore and Karachi And from the rugged mountain scenery in the Indus valley From the challenging Karakoram Highway to So join me, exploring the remarkable country of Pakistan. We enter Pakistan at the very Northern border with China, after traversing the first part of the mighty Karakoram Highway. Stretching 1,200 kilometers from Kashgar to Islamabad, the road opened to tourism and trade in 1986, after two decades of full-time construction work. With its severe weather and challenging terrain, is widely regarded as one of the most impressive engineering feats in human history. For most travelers, the journey starts in Kashgar, China, a former trading town along the Silk Road, and home to the Uyghur people. and winds its way down past the stunning Karakul lake, where you could stay with local families in a traditional yurt. Through the unassuming border town of Tashkurgan, we finally reach the Khunjerab Pass and border of Pakistan, at 4,700 meters. As we descend into breathtaking, but also dangerous, narrow gorges, the paved highway that we traveled on before quickly turns into The region had recently been hit by heavy rains, resulting in a massive landslide, floods, and the creation of Attabad lake. Parts of the Karakoram Highway had submerged, and the only transport available were local ships carrying Today, this part of the Karakoram Highway has been rebuilt and rerouted, including the construction of 5 tunnels. After a challenging entrance into Pakistan, we arrive in the Hunza Valley, one of the most beautiful regions in the country, if not in the world. Comprising of several small villages, this tranquil valley and offers spectacular landscapes, and friendly, welcoming people. It's easy to spend a few days here, exploring rural life Make sure to climb up to the Baltit fort, to enjoy sweeping vistas over the valley, and take advantage of the many guided day trips, including to the impressive Hoper glacier. We leave Hunza and the Karakoram Highway behind and travel East towards Skardu, known as the gateway to some of the highest mountains in the world. It's a beautiful area with small villages, picturesque lakes, and rugged natural scenery. Traversing this region proved unexpectedly challenging, as a sandstorm suddenly picked up, covering the Indus valley in thick dust. At times when the weather was actually good, the beauty of the Skardu region was magical. We continue our journey by plane, with views of Nanga Parbat to reach the capital city of Pakistan, Islamabad. Unlike most other cities in the country, Islamabad is a completely planned city. Built in the 1960s, replacing Karachi as capital, it is divided into from political and educational to commercial and green areas. Welcome to Pakistan. While there are few specific points of interest for travelers, Dominating the skyline of the city, this mosque was financed It's the sixth largest mosque on the planet, and provides a good insight which has the second largest Muslim population in the world. A stone's throw away, and known as Islamabad's twin city, is Rawalpindi, a vibrant place that, in many ways, provides a much better introduction into urban life in Pakistan. While navigating the busy streets can feel challenging, the narrow alleys of the markets and bazaars breathe character, and are a joy to explore. From busy restaurants to small shops, this part of the city is truly a world in itself. Perhaps my favorite encounter in Rawalpindi was an area with small truck workshops. These are no ordinary garages, but form the basis of one of Pakistan's As you travel around the country, you can't miss the beautifully decorated trucks and vans that typify Pakistani road transport, something that has grown into a national sport and art form. Welcome to Pakistan! How are you? Our next destination is Lahore, the capital and largest city of the Pakistani Punjab province, and regarded as the cultural and cosmopolitan center of the country. The city's history dates back some two millennia, At the very core stands the magnificent Lahore fort, an ancient citadel that was almost entirely rebuilt when Lahore was one of the largest cities in the medieval world. It's a phenomenal structure, and you should reserve plenty of time Just across the road is another icon of Lahore, the imposing Badshahi Mosque. = It's an important place of worship and can hold up to 100,000 people during prayer times. As a visitor, it's easy to spend a few hours here, wandering admiring the architecture and design of the mosque. Make sure to explore the bustling alleyways of Lahore's old town and mingle with crowds of people going about their daily lives. It's a great area to get lost in, meeting the people in the streets, While in Lahore, you shouldn't miss the Wagah border ceremony, located around 20 kilometers from the city. Every evening, just before sunset, the Pakistani and Indian army It's both serious and theatrical, as soldiers try to outperform their rivals, all to great excitement of the crowds. After a long overnight train journey, we arrive at our final destination, Karachi. This sprawling metropolis is regarded as the industrial and economic center of Pakistan, and attracts people from all over the country to work, study, and live. We visit on a Sunday afternoon, and it seems like half the city has come out to play cricket, Pakistan's national sport. Strolling through the parks and streets of downtown Karachi, we eventually arrive at the city's beach, with views over the Arabian Sea. And that concludes my journey through Pakistan, with imposing historic landmarks, spectacular natural scenery, vibrant urban centers, charming villages, important religious sites, and friendly people. I realize I have only scratched the surface, and you could spend months exploring this fascinating country. Please also note that many things have changed since I made this journey, in 2010. Yet I still hope this video gave you some travel inspiration, or at least provided a glimpse into this intriguing place. Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely.