LIKE AND SUBSCRIBE! Hey Kid! Have you ever heard a grown-up say: Stop that Unfortunately, yes. Why? Well, I think I just found If You Laugh, I'm Starting This Book Over GASP! I know! Oh no! Should we even start?! I mean... does anybody want to read a book Ooh. You have to. Or else. Or else what? You know. You'll be in violation Ah the Storyteller Creed...! Oh yes... uh, how does that go again? Once the book lands on my reading desk, even if the title is trying to be the boss of me. This is gonna be so good... Mmph... StoryTeller, I know you can do it. Oh thank you, Doug the Dinosaur, And you know what? You know what, Kid? I wasn't feeling that funny anyway. So we will not have to start this book And you're not gonna laugh. Because we're not gonna be funny. This is my serious face. Let's go OH, OH! It's from the author, Chris Harris, What does he have to say? For the incredible ColdTime SmartyFellers I mean BigTime GorySmellers I mean KidTime StoryTellers! Close enough. Thanks for reading my book. Squiggly, squiggly, Chris Harris. Well you're welcome. We think. Stop Stop Stop! If you're about to read this book to someone, We will follow all the rules so that you will not Okay let's see what they are... Don't look at this book WHAT?!? How am I supposed to... story...tell? I mean, except to know what words to say. Uh... okay... Also don't look at your beautiful fingernails but -- but they're so pretty I said don't! Okay, fine fine. Try not to look at my beautiful fingernails Don't look Did you look You didn't look, did you? Instead, do look at your listener. Gaze deep into their eyes. Give them long super serious stares. Go NUTTS when they say something silly! And also get your listener to look at you okay so I'm gonna look at you really long and awkwardly and then you look at me equally long and awkwardly Yes they'll want to admire your beautiful Okay. And remember - if they laugh All right we have all our bossy important Is it the goose? Is it the pineapple? I don't know... Okay, Kid. You are a kid, right? Of course you are. I hope so! It would be weird if I were reading What's wrong with a 56-year old dentist? Hold on, you're not a 56-year old I am a shark! Or or maybe you're a large pineapple Oh I'm a pickle dressed in.... Oh! I'm not wearing anything! Ohhhh! You really are a kid? I said you were a kid. Is this book gonna believe me?! Okay if you promise you're a kid, Oof. Finally, we get to turn the page. So much bossing around already... Here's the deal. I have something that I It's a big thing. And you know it's a BIG thing because they And it's very serious. That's why I'm giving you this Look at my face. Is that a grape? Doesn't it look serious? Yes, as seripus as a grape face can look. Before I tell you that big thing, I have to So please! No laughing while I read you this book because... If You Laugh, I'm Starting This Book Over! Now we'll start. And remember from here on out, do not laugh. If I hear you laugh, then I'll What?! We were not even beginning the book yet?! All these instructions and all this, If you laugh, then I'll go right No no no, you giggly goose! Why did you laugh?! Now we have to start the book good old page one We just now got to page one? Please please please let's try to Click! Okay... Here we go... So are you feeling serious? Honestly I'm feeling a I'm feeling great, thanks. Are you going to laugh? Stare into my eyes and promise me: Okay let's just say it: I Will Not Laugh Whoa! That was too fast. Oh! Stare right into my giant eyeballs these right here and say it more slowly I will not laugh Go ahead. Say it. Okay, let's do this. And looking at the big eyes right here Iiiiiii willllllll noooooooot laaaaaaaaugh..... Good job! But everyone knows to make you cover your mouth and say it in a super [SQUEAKILY] I will not laugh Okay So please do that now. Okay so we have to cover our mouth and say Okay. Please do it with me because I need the support. Here we go.... [SQUEAKILY] I will not laugh I hope that was good enough What a great start! Yes! We did it! I'm so glad you haven't laughed yet I think we need to use our real names to promise each other we won't laugh. Have I ever told you my real name? Pretty sure it's Mr. Bossy-pants This is a pretty big secret, so please take it seriously! Ohhhh we're serious! We're serious! My real name is actually... Chicken McStinkbreath Eyeball. Do you know what your real name is? Your real name is actually.... What? What's my real name actually...? Captain Funnyhair Snozzdripple. Fun Fact: You're the second Now repeat after me: We, McStinkbreath and Okay we're promising. The pineapple man looks very serious about this So okay, oops! not supposed to let you see my hands Okay... Oh. But I can't turn them. Okay look at me while I turn the page so you That's good, but I need to stare deeply into Keep very still.... It's hard to keep still! You've got to do your best, Green Bear! Here we go! I'm looking... I'm looking.... Whoa, you have a lot of weird thoughts. Yup Yup Yup. I was thinking about pickle stuff. Wait, are you thinking that I'm a silly person? And you think I'm silly because I'm scared Um hello, don't you know that everyone is They're scary! Oh I want you to know that I am not scared I'm very proud of you, Doug the Dinosaur. Hold on, now you're thinking that my head A giant cheeseburger? Why are you thinking that? I don't think this guy's And you're also thinking that I probably That's ridiculous. I've only done that I do it three times a week It keeps my red fur red. That's why he always smells like tomato. Wow I love how serious you're being. Remember if you laugh I'm turning all the so whatever you do, do not think about hitting over and over like this ow ow ow ow ow ow ow you're not thinking about this, are you? Noooo, absolutely not Uh-oh! I can tell you're about to laugh. Quick! Think about something serious. Maybe something scary like a cute yellow feather. tickle tickle tickle tickle Wait! I have a better idea! Staplers aren't funny, are they? Staplers are hilarious. Neither are toenails or windows, right? So saying the sentence below should Eek! I stapled my toenail to the window. Let me hear you say that over and over and starting now. Okay. Eek, I stapled my toenail to the window. [IN CHICKEN] Eek, I stapled my toenail to the window. Eek, I stapled my toenail to the window. Toenail, I eeked my staple to the window. Now! Okay, I'm gonna turn the page right now. Wow you're incredible. I have one last request To prove that you're really serious, all you is just float up in the air We can't do that but I know someone who can. Oh ,Ghosty! [GHOSTY FLOATS UP UP UP] Go Ghosty! Go Ghosty! Go Ghosty! I'm waiting, I'm waiting, I'm waiting. Why are you disobeying me?! But we had a representative float for us! I told you to float! But we-- Oh that's right, people can't float. Okay fine. In that case Congratulations!!! You've shown me that you are We did it! I feel like we should get like But remember, no laughing Do you have a feeling that this Kind of. Yeah so do I and I love it. So here's the big thing Do you know what the best The words &quot;dinner is served&quot;? The Sweet Sound of a cookie crumbling... The voices of my grandbears ME singing an aria...! The best sound in the world is by far.... the sound of your laughter . What?!? What? I know What have you been doing to us this You have been torturing us. Then why the heck have I been Because I want to make sure Your laughter is the most It's more beautiful than, um... What's the most beautiful It's more beautiful than... a really, really Well that's unexpected. It's more joyful than walking across a We're going to agree to disagree Hey your foot's about to be attacked! This is such a bad idea. I can't look! And I would never trade a second of your laughter the oldest pile of mashed potatoes in the world. I feel like the standard is really low. Your laughter makes the world a happier place Seriously. This person is very serious about our laughter. Or the lack thereof right now. So go ahead and laugh all you want and all you can BUT not yet. Ugh! OOH! Someone's getting impatient..! The book's not over. Go ahead and laugh starting... not yet. Not yet. Ugh! Not yet! AAAH! Not yet! Not yet! But... maybe.... right..... oh no no no no no no no, not yet oh no, look out it's a scary hello feather! Ahh!!!! Everyone run for your life!!!! RUNNING MUSIC! Huh.... I guess maybe yellow feathers Oh good, now he has realized that That's good for you, I know, right? Is it the pineapple? Is it the burger? Is it that grape that looks like a chicken Why didn't you tell me that I don't think anybody can really Anyway, where was I? Oh right! Now... you can... laugh! I can't. I've been holding it in so long, I think it's stuck. That's terrible. You call that laughing? I... I got my laugher stuck. Can you? Can you maybe start the process because... now my laugh is stuck! GREEN BEAR LAUGHS! SNOZZDRIPPLE! LAUGHING &amp; LAUGHING... OH, that's good! Keep it going, keep it going! I think I'm getting unstuck! Haha! Eyeball! Cheeseburger Head! HAHAHA! That pineapple had pants!!! Chicken McStinkybreath! HAHAHAHAHAH!!!! I think I'm finally unstuck!!! P.S Oh wait there's more. From here on out, you're not In fact, if you ever stop laughing, then you What?!?! I'm sorry, but that's the rule. So keep laughing! Keep laughing! Keep laughing! Keep laughing!