Grand Theft Auto introduced itself to the vat in a lab where it was chemically engineered the world over. The series immediately made a name for itself. Well, it made a fair few names for itself, in any given week. What tends to get lost in larger discussions games were actually...good. People focus on the controversies at worst missing the fact that video games are meant that from the very start. It's gaming bliss when things click, and As such, though we are indeed ranking them end of this list is rather narrow. Grand Theft Auto certainly isn't everyone's - but it's easy to see that each game and dedication to quality behind it. Well...most of the games do. Don't worry; there were still a few stinkers Ultimately, though, the games are almost all that you enjoy ranked relatively low, do know more likely, we just like the other ones a Grand Theft Auto tends to have a very strong I'm sure that will continue in GTA 6...which are 12 and 14 - for context I currently But before we get to the ranking, we have After all what's Grand Theft Auto without This time around, we have decided to count as those expansions got standalone releases. Is it fair to compare an expansion to a mainline No, of course not, but with only five numbered so deal with it. Secondly, we don't normally count ports, In this case, though, there's one entry all at once. You already know what it is, and you already we just wanted to mention that we broke our is that we hate that game and all that it There are also a few other "ports" that those as well. And, finally, we'll just say "Rockstar" We are very aware that some of these games Studios, Take-Two Interactive, or various just saying Rockstar. It's easier that way, and it's worth whatever Let's rank 'em. I'm Ben and I'm Peter from TripleJump, Ranked from Worst to Best. #19: Grand Theft Auto (1999) As an absolute marvel of limited hardware, excellent. It's never an easy task to take a PC or Nintendo handheld - just ask Capcom how GTA port is shockingly faithful to the full The vast majority of the content is there, better than it has any right to. There are some obvious changes, such as to not quite a worthy substitute for the full this working at all is worth celebrating. What's not worth celebrating? Many of the missions have been tweaked for are also buggy to the point that objectives them. The limited processor of the GBC also means roaming the map, which sounds fine until you fewer opportunities to rain carnage down around appeal. Speaking of which, the gore and swearing was as well. The controls are awful, which is to be expected, that the Game Boy Color was fully capable there. Also, some releases advertised a free pager come with one. That's the real crime, and we are the real Interestingly, the Game Boy Color versions to be influential in their own way, inspiring similarly pixilated approach to its own lawless That one kept the gore, though, so pick that #18: Grand Theft Auto 2 (2000) Right, Rockstar, you already proved you could but was there any real reason to do this again? Ultimately, no, there was no reason to do they did, because this version is an improvement. Everything looks better, the music no longer and people around to help the game feel more Well, temporarily alive. You get the idea. Admittedly, this game runs a bit worse. That's the tradeoff for everything else is fair. If you disagree, that's okay, because the notable exclusively for their oddity, and predecessor does not imply that we think anybody Both of the original Grand Theft Auto games all of those versions are quite faithful to You will of course run into versions that scenes censored, or which do or do not include of either game on any system, you will be Auto experience. Any system, of course, other than the Game these games, doesn't benefit from having lesser imitations of these games. Impressive imitations, certainly, and kudos But we can't recommend that you play either Any time that you do spend with them will #17: Grand Theft Auto Advance (2004) After an underwhelming handheld port of the of the second game, certainly an underwhelming everybody happy. Right? RIGHT?? Well, don't worry. Grand Theft Auto Advance indeed began life At some point in development, though, somebody Then everybody else sort of shrugged. They decided to make a completely new game idea. It's still bad, though! Obviously, no matter what, a port of Grand out of sheer necessity. There's no way we'd have gotten a full can't blame them for refining the 2D top-down It does include some features of the 3D games, when driving police cars or taxi cabs. The camera also zooms out when driving quickly, provide. The controls aren't great, but considering asked for much more. The story takes place in Liberty City, about Auto III. The plot is that you are Mike, a man who...well, And in my experience he commits crimes, but his own city. It doesn't have much of a story, no, but violence of the main games, and it fills in the GTA III characters, such as 8-Ball. Which is...good? Look, I'm trying not to come off as too these games run at all on such weak handhelds, We've played far worse, but we've also #16: Grand Theft Auto: The Trilogy - The Definitive PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Switch, Xbox Good idea: Remastering three beloved games Bad idea: Turning the project over to the A repackaging like this should have been an Instead, Rockstar managed to hit themselves swallow and choke on it. The package contains new versions of Grand They're largely remastered ports, but there's with updated HUDs, navigation, and other features Sadly, the modern expectation that it lives will be launched as buggy, unstable messes, gets to sit around hoping that the game will Everything about this package screamed catastrophe previous versions of the games from sale. That wouldn't have been so bad if the new than the ones they were replacing. Many of the so-called improvements actually effects that made it impossible to see, increased really are, and an AI upscaling process that across all three games. The thing with AI upscaling, in case you weren't work, but a human being still has to actually This is because - and I can't stress this Somehow, Rockstar forgot this, and it leads which is something these games never looked A set of three competent remasters could well as great as we remembered them being. That, of course, was always a possibility. What the Definitive Editions did, though, less fun, and far less interesting to revisit. #15: Grand Theft Auto: London 1961 (1999) Yo dawg, I heard you like expansion packs pack so you can expand your expansion pack Relevant meme. This one is a slight stretch to include, but leave it out. Grand Theft Auto: London 1961 was free, but game and Grand Theft Auto: London 1969, so It wasn't one, as you already needed both buy, but that's exactly what it feels like It's very brief and relies heavily on the expansion. Yes, the London 1969 expansion came out before first time that Grand Theft Auto would dabble the last. It's interesting that a series that is very in each game would also bother connecting That's not a complaint, but it's interesting to that well. In fact, London 1961 could be considered a place the earliest, chronologically. At least, so far. I hold out hope for a Grand Theft Auto set from Grease, and I don't know why Rockstar Unlike London 1969, London 1961 never made out on much. It's another brief dip into what most of doesn't make it bad, but which does make There's more multiplayer content, including I've been to Manchester, but I've never I can't vouch for its accuracy. I just wish they'd have added Newcastle. It's a nice place, and I'd love to demonstrate spree. Never mind... #14: Grand Theft Auto: London 1969 (1999) In the days before 3D worlds, it must have place in a new city. "Look, we're in London now! Not that you can tell, because you're only but I swear, this game takes place in a whole In fairness to Grand Theft Auto: London 1969, different vehicles and imagery, and they even the correct side of the road. Still, it's interesting how quickly Rockstar Today that would take them...let's see...nine The gameplay is very similar to the original this was released as an expansion pack on it required the original game to run. If you liked that game, this was just a less-expensive Of course, here in the UK, we got a far superior the PlayStation. It featured swathes of upgrades and improvements owning the original Grand Theft Auto. Oh. That was it? Really stretching the "Special Edition" The game is notable for being the first time location. Well, unless you count "Earth." You get the idea. Overall, though, it doesn't do all that It's a repainted Grand Theft Auto with some That's all it tried to be, of course, but worth seeking out on its own merits. I think we can all agree, at the very least, accurate, authentic, and lovingly realized. Either that, or it's a joke. Lord above, I pray that it's a joke. #13: Grand Theft Auto 2 (1999) We might be in for a little bit of confusion "original" and the PlayStation version PlayStation port released a few days earlier. And a Dreamcast port, which we aren't counting rather than within the original release window, probably count as the direct port. Still, we are lumping the PlayStation version enough to warrant a separate discussion that The main differences between it and the PC the PlayStation not being quite powerful enough It's also missing some of the map and around I could keep listing minor differences, but and I don't know you that well. The game takes place in Anywhere City, which went into the story. Like its predecessor, Grand Theft Auto 2 is than it is story or characterization. This game does add an interesting wrinkle, warring gangs. As you build up your reputation with one, have to balance your illegal activities accordingly. Otherwise, it's a similar experience to Whereas that game could get away with some however, the second game repeats many of the improve anything. It's still unclear how to get to your destination It's still a repetitive city full of areas Its difficulty is still due to design problems If you prefer this one, we can't blame you. To us, however, it feels like the odd game It wasn't as influential or important as made the game more fun. #12: Grand Theft Auto (1997) Fallout. GoldenEye. Final Fantasy VII. Symphony of the Night. PaRappa the Rapper. Oddworld. Mario Kart 64. Turok: Dinosaur Hunter. Riven. Age of Empires. Probably also some other things. 1997 was not only awash in great games; it influential games in the history of the medium. There was no more appropriate time for Grand bit as influential, but far more likely to run you over with your own car. Grand Theft Auto hit the scene like an unwelcome and bad taste. Those things would only be cranked up by its word-of-mouth sensation that offered a riveting What's more, the entire thing was a fluke. Development began on Race'n'Chase, a game either side of the law in an open-world environment. An unexpected issue with the police AI meant and quick to violence as actual police. Oops! Rockstar realized that the real fun would then either outwitting or overpowering them. The design shifted entirely to the world of today. If Grand Theft Auto seems tame now, it's how deeply depraved it has gotten. The casual nature of the violence here and puddles made for a genuinely shocking experience The game was originally released for the PC, port. It wasn't identical, but we aren't ranking Aside from some graphical downgrades, the missions, it was a fairly faithful version If you played it in 1997, wherever you played it fondly. There's no denying, though, how much better #11: Grand Theft Auto III (2001) Grand Theft Auto always courted controversy, more realistic, even if "realistic" now any footage of this game. As such, much ink was spilled about the degenerate Auto III, from mistreating sex workers to But, in a way, it's admirable that Rockstar the blood-drenched insanity of the earlier appeal. Instead, the developer doubled down, tripled as well, making this the most unhinged experience And, in many ways, things were just getting Of course, the developers weren't entirely Very late in development, the September the understood that fiery chaos in a city based for many people. They quickly retooled elements of the game Much of the reason they were able implement fact that there's not all that much story You are a silent protagonist, and nearly all telling you to commit a crime. Granted, we could be very reductive and say but here, you can really feel how direct it The characters are voiced well, and some of little actual meat to the game. That's fine if you're only looking to is when all of its flaws are revealed, from variety, to the unnecessary difficulty in Grand Theft Auto III seems to do everything properly. GTA III laid the groundwork for the 3D games But going back to it? It's easy to focus on what just about every #10: Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories PlayStation Portable series, there's a lot to like about Grand It also handles its prequel status much more did. You'd see familiar locations and a few familiar goes all the way with it, showing us earlier attention to the many ways the city has changed Areas that are under construction here are III, and things that get destroyed in the by the time of that game. It's superficial for the most part, yes, us a different version of the city rather You are Toni Cipriani, returning to Liberty quite svelte before his three-year diet of What follows is a story of shifting allegiances, carnage. Goodness gracious, I'm beginning to think One truly impressive feature for a PSP game Granted, it required faffing about with external your music as legitimate tracks that you definitely your parents' computer with spyware in the The game received a PlayStation 2 port the of its own and had significant slowdown and Those are things that can be overlooked on processing power, but when the PS2 had actual, fine, the performance of Liberty City Stories And I don't even get to import my mp3 of Unforgivable. #9: Grand Theft Auto: Vice City Stories (2006) Liberty City Stories was, by quite a wide Portable. The second-best? Vice City Stories. The third best? A game that is irrelevant to the subject of Vic Vance is our protagonist for this one is guaranteed to live through the events of That's a nice change of pace, eh Vic?? Vice City Stories ties its narrative a little Liberty City Stories did, at least as far familiar places and characters in intriguing Where Vice City Stories really outperforms The game runs much better, looks better, and That game had a better difficulty curve overall, And both games offer both quick bursts of missions at length, so if you'd rank Liberty you. Actually, yes I could, because Vice City Stories you can plop down 6,000 GTA FunBux to see By that, I mean you can watch some polygons to "In the Air Tonight." If only the game had been on the Vita instead, Oh, yes, it's just "Another Day in Paradise" jokes. Vice City Stories is a genuinely good game, we feel. The empire-building feature even gives players content, as you are able to oust rival gangs over yourself. Of course, other criminals can try to oust available businesses in the city. It's like Monopoly, but with brothels and Actually, the original US Monopoly is based In that case, yeah, it's just Monopoly. #8: Grand Theft Auto: Chinatown Wars (2009) At last, a GTA game on a Nintendo handheld It's less deep than the full 3D outings, successor to the 2D ones. You are Huang Lee, and you've arrived in head and dumped in the sea. That was a quick game! No, of course, you survive, and it's your the outcome of a massive turf war, and... you have an entire city to explore and visit Well, not quite an entire city, but an impressive console that gave us Nintendogs. For everything that the game does right, though, The lock-on is a nice feature but it isn't enemy; the rotating camera is a great addition, environment to make fast driving satisfying; impressive, but it still feels limited. Chinatown Wars is worth playing, certainly, in the series. Later the same year, the game was ported to Conventional wisdom is that this was due to sales reports wouldn't have been available by October. Six months would have represented a rather even considering a PSP port" and "now that they had to rebuild a dual-screen game More likely, they'd already had a port in story. And, as we all know, gaming websites need the story actually is. The PSP version adds new missions and replaces You may have a strong preference there, but then I prefer not to choose at all. #7: Grand Theft Auto IV: The Lost and Damned Xbox 360 prequels. For a pair of GTA IV standalone expansions, separate stories that overlap with the events There are some who call those "sidequels." Don't be one of those people, because that It's difficult to say, as well. Let's all agree never to use sidequel again. The first of these two expansions was The a minor character from the main game. The action centers around the Lost Motorcycle "quite awful people" and leave it at that. Johnny grapples with the direction of the a possibility of getting out and doing better It's a decent story, and it has a unique to its focus on biker culture and iconography. You even need your motorcycle for missions, focused in that regard. Impressively, The Lost and Damned gives you That doesn't mean you get the same content and objectives, of course - but the sheer city feels generous. It also adds new minigames to enjoy, with only because we are really bad at cards. Oh, and instead of shooting pigeons, you shoot See? Totally different game. Right, okay, it's not. The Lost and Damned is, at its core, exactly over it, but that's far from a bad thing. The overlap in the narratives is handled well through. This is just a very similar, smaller helping. It wasn't a proper sequel, but it was very As a way of killing time before GTA V, it In fact, we wish we had something similar #6: Grand Theft Auto: The Ballad of Gay Tony Xbox 360 Gay Tony puts us in control of a minor character whose story here overlaps both that of the Indeed, both of these expansions received they feel like natural extensions of the first experiences. This one explores Luis's relationship with only as an employer and mentor, but as a father Indeed, it is their relationship that forms a great one. You can still get up to all manner of mischief you'll know the city well. But Luis trying to balance the demands of to keep Tony's empire afloat just a little The two central characters are both well written The Ballad of Gay Tony above just being another And speaking of Liberty City, The Ballad of graphics, physics, and performance. Those things don't completely revolutionize game at least feel like more than just another The Lost and Damned had a unique identity and, sure enough, club culture has a similar We're not really a part of either culture, spend a night on a dance floor than getting that's why we're comfortable ranking this So, did the overlapping stories of Luis, Johnny, Grand Theft Auto V would take? I don't know; I don't make these games. I just commit heinous acts in them, and shoot #5: Grand Theft Auto Online (2013) Boy, there's really no way to rank this Grand Theft Auto Online is an experience that taking that evolution into account is sort It's not an experience that was later enhanced, has been changing since day one, and will I say in this entry will be well out of date In fact, since I've started recording this that I'm no longer even talking about the Grand Theft Auto Online was originally an V, but in 2022 it got a standalone release, a standalone release recently...like I said, ranking. So, let's speak generally: Grand Theft Auto your closest friends, and lots of unfortunate each other miserable. And I mean that in a good way! The appeal of Grand Theft Auto has always Chaos is fun. It's why we hired Ashton. And causing chaos with actual people, whether It's one thing to steal a plane and crash It's another to crash it into a digital who doesn't realize just how difficult you Grand Theft Auto Online has been updated consistently a team-based heist mechanic, casinos, new than we could possibly cover here. Whenever you last played the game, the odds entirely new content for days on end. Rockstar has provided even more support for Not that that would be difficult. I'm not sure Rockstar remembers they made #4: Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (2002) After Grand Theft Auto III took the action proved not only that the series could keep releases as well, assuring fans that they years between proper installments. ...and Vice City pulls more than a little inspiration Vice City adapts 1893's Scarface, without But what of the game itself? Well, it's darn good, and we're glad Rockstar rather than the optional expansion pack for be. Career criminal Tommy Vercetti gets out of behind him, opting instead for a life of quiet I'm joking, of course; this is Grand Theft Tommy dives right back into dealing drugs, and turns what could have been a simple quest the entire city. Say what you will about Tommy; when he sets GTA III was impressively dense for a PS2 game, It seems to be a bit glitchier than GTA III "almost rock solid" by 2022 standards Most of the problems in Vice City were inherited navigation, and its lack of cover or other But it adds so much - such as the ability missions for them to build your empire- unfortunate quirks. Vice City was basically Grand Theft Auto III, characters, a better story, better acting, better showcase for Hawaiian shirts. It's rough by today's standards, but it's #3: Grand Theft Auto V (2013) Upon release, Grand Theft Auto V was lavished And, just looking at it, it's easy to see The game was and remains gorgeous. The map is huge. It's packed with things to do. Superficially, it certainly seems to check However, as the years have passed, many players writing, the fact that its story loses steam previous, smaller games didn't seem to suffer Let's be clear: It's perfectly fine to Something that we enjoyed as kids may not In this case, it might be something we enjoyed The fact that we enjoyed it then does not today. Having said that, we do think that the "GTA exaggerating a bit. It's a good game. It's not the best one, but there's a lot Auto V's fault that Rockstar hasn't given with it since. There are two main, major benefits that Grand First, there's the map, which is hugely Taking a few minutes just to explore - and along the way - reveals just how varied Secondly, there's the trio of protagonists: The writing isn't consistently sharp, but These feel like distinct and identifiable hopes, worries, and motivations. That's notable, as is the fact that you with very little delay, no matter where they them during the same mission at times, particularly of the entire game and add a real element It's flawed, certainly, but we still think video game royalty such as... #2: Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2004) Are you disappointed that this wasn't tied Or maybe a #9 LARGE? I certainly am, but it's not my fault the (Well, the non-remastered version of the game In fact, it can be argued that San Andreas than Grand Theft Auto III did. The fact that San Andreas actually has a full, a preview of an approach that would not only other games, most notably Red Dead Redemption. Vice City certainly had a memorable protagonist, characterization. Whether or not that's important to you is, in our eyes. Vice City had a nice roster of big-name acting them, including the likes of David Cross, course - Samuel L. Jackson, whose corrupt villain in the history of the series. His presence is downright...arresting. Also, James Woods is there. It's less easy to get excited about James The game still, of course, shares many of Long missions that need to be restarted from the biggest problem, but it's really not train, CJ. And San Andreas does attempt to iron out a by adding the ability to set custom waypoints. That's an achievement with a map this big There are even minor RPG elements that let That's not really necessary and the effect impulse. Even if you just play these games for the power struggle between the various gangs makes The theme of the game informs how we perceive pushing back against the world around him video game characters. That's refreshing to see. And, in our eyes, GTA San Andreas was only #1: Grand Theft Auto IV (2008) There were quite a few games in the series Grand Theft Auto IV, but the desire for a How enormous? 3.6 million units sold on day one. 8.5 million units sold in a month. More than 25 million units in lifetime sales. That enormous. Grand Theft Auto IV was a sensation, and if the enormous marketing push behind the game. If you were not around in 2008, well...you about these games. Sorry about that. You are Niko Bellic, a firm contender for Your cousin Roman is, according to him, living That's... debatable, but he still gives Yugoslavia to seek some totally healthy revenge. You help Roman out of his troubles as you of your own. It's an appropriately dark story that would weren't for how fun it actually is. It takes everything that made the previous So much so that it's tough to play Grand by just how much it took a winning formula Setting the action again in Liberty City really to achieve here. There's more traffic on the streets, more to encounter, more mission variety, fewer everything just feels right, and once you it's tough to go back to the earlier games. With a series like this one, no one installment Features come and go, without any one game If you preferred the games in which you could options for customization, you might feel That's okay. But when everything else is so strong - when tone, story, and mechanics come together to and memorable, well, it's not really worth Focus on what's here. When you do, it's tough to argue that the