CREW: Here we go. INT: Today is January 26th, 2024. I'm Doris Lazarus conducting an interview with Ginger Lane in Chicago, Illinois, in English. [PAUSES 16 SECONDS] INT: Can you please introduce yourself? GL: My name is Ginger Lane INT: Do you have a middle name? GL: Well, I have a number of names. Officially, I'm But that's my American name. INT: Let's go back to Ginger. INT: Can you please just spell GL: Ginger is G-I-N-G-E-R. INT: What was your name at birth? INT: Can you spell that, please? GL: B-E-L-A and Weber is W-E-B-E-R. INT: Did you have any other names? GL: Well, actually, I did have But I didn't know that when she was back INT: Can you spell GL: Veronica. V-E-R-O-N-I-C-A. INT: And you just mentioned Did we get all of them? GL: Virginia is V-I-R-G-I-N-I-A. Susan, S-U-S-A-N. Speigel, which is my adoptive name. And Lane, L-A-N-E. INT: So just to clarify, GL: My name at birth was Bela Weber. INT: And your name GL: When I became adopted, And then, when I got married, because that was my husband's last name. INT: And how did you become Ginger? GL: My parents, my adoptive parents, because I was an older child And they said, Bela is really, it's a European name. And we'd like you So they gave me a choice of, I think, and I chose Ginger. What I didn't know at the time, what I didn't know is INT: When were you born? GL: I was born November 27th, 1939. INT: How old are you today? GL: Today I'm 84. INT: What's the name GL: Berlin. INT: What were your maternal [THINKING] GL: Well, you've got me there. [THINKING] Anna and... I think my maternal and that is my father's, INT: What was your Where were they from? GL: They were from a town in Westphalian, Germany, INT: What languages did they speak? GL: I beg your pardon? INT: What languages did they speak? GL: They spoke German. INT: Do you remember your grandparents? GL: No, not at all. INT: What was your mother's name? GL: My mother was Lina Banda. And she was Hungarian. INT: Where was she born? What city? GL: She was born which is sort of a suburb of Budapest. INT: Can you spell GL: Lina is L-I-N-A. Banda. B-A-N-D-A. INT: What was her ethnicity? GL: She was born an Orthodox Jew. INT: What was her family like? GL: What was my family like? GL: Her family. She was the... My mother was the daughter And I know very little about the family. But he was, of course, very religious and dedicated. And so, when my parents... When my father he had to convert to Judaism INT: How was that GL: [GESTURING] INT: How was that GL: Well, when he met my mother, it's a little bit He traveled to Hungary to sell umbrellas and walking sticks, And he came to this village And lo and behold, [SMILING] They became friends So he underwent and became a converted Jew. And then when they because, of course, he wanted they disowned him. It did not sit well with them at all. [PAUSES] INT: Did your mother GL: I don't believe she did, INT: Do you know GL: I have pictures of her, and I know that she had very long, which is very different But I suppose you could say that she had sort of a stereotypical Eastern European Jewish look about her. She was dark INT: Do you have any memories GL: I have almost no memories. I was very young when she was taken, And the only thing that I know about her She was very dedicated to and she called all of us her swallows. And would drag us with her and I know... I didn't know it then, but I know so she was part of the resistance, GL: Was taken. more about what happened INT: But getting back to your family. INT: Do you know if your mother GL: Oh, absolutely. And so, we all lived She observed Shabbat. We had Seder every year, where we children because there weren't enough chairs And my sisters have told me So they were very fond of that. INT: What type of dish is that? GL: It's a desert. [PAUSES] INT: What were your GL: [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] GL: I don't remember. INT: Do you know where they were born? GL: Where they... INT: Where your father's parents GL: I'm thinking. Oh, I think they were from Paderborn INT: What was your father's name? GL: Alexander. INT: His last name? INT: Can you just spell that, please? GL: Alexander is A-L-E-X-A-N-D-E-R Weber is W-E-B-E-R. INT: Where was your father born? GL: In Paderborn. INT: What did he look like? GL: [THINKING] GL: Well, the pictures show a very serious minded, sort of a formal portrait of him with sort of medium to dark hair. Although I kind of remember [GESTURING] a short red beard, which is where I think INT: What type of education GL: I don't know what kind He went into the family business, [PAUSES] INT: Do you have memories GL: I have a few memories of him. I know that he always tinkered with radio parts and electrical things, and he wasn't a certified electrician, And many years later, when we were able to bring him he worked at as an electrician. [PAUSES] INT: Do you know about your before he converted? GL: I don't know his upbringing so I'm assuming that he was raised I know that he had a friend at some point, which was very fortuitous for his children. [PAUSES] INT: Do you have siblings? GL: I have six. Well, I have a number I have six sisters. [GESTURING] No, sorry. That's part of my birth family. [COUNTING] Then my sister Senta, then Ruth. Then Renee. No. I'm sorry. After Ruth comes Gertrud, And I'm the youngest, Bela. And there's a 12-year age difference So when we emigrated he was 18 and I was six. INT: You mentioned other family members. GL: Other siblings. My father remarried And he married a woman who had a daughter She was about six. Her name is Gita. And then together they had a child, And they were all born in Berlin. And then in my adoptive family, after I lived with my parents we adopted my brother Jonathan And then four years later, She lived in an Italian orphanage. INT: Thank you. GL: [DRINKING] INT: In what city did you grow up? GL: Well, I spent the first six Although part of that time And then once I came I spent the rest of my time in Chicago. INT: What language GL: Well, I spoke German and then, at the end of the war, we were beginning to learn although I don't remember So when I came to the United States and finally got together with my Because they didn't speak German So Yiddish was the common language, That was at the forefront of my mind. I didn't want anything INT: Did you parents have a house An apartment. And we first lived... At first, actually, which was not far from Paderborn, and where my brother Alfons in Dortmund. And then they moved to Berlin, and the rest of us were born in Berlin. And we always lived in an apartment. INT: How would you describe GL: Well, we were very poor and we lived in an area of Berlin which is the Barn Quarter which is a central marketing area And it was a district Actually, even lower than them, filled with drunks, alcoholics, prostitutes, Jews. It was a very mixed district. Today it's a very full of trendy shops and things. But then, it was not. INT: Do you remember Jewish holidays as a child? GL: Not in Berlin, I don't. [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] INT: Would you know between Jewish people in the neighborhood GL: I am thinking that it was probably a mixed bag, but we lived in a very diverse area. So there were many non-Jews, people who lived there. My mother, as I mentioned earlier, and so she had a lot of friends And I think she got along very well. She was very gregarious and got along very well and women in the neighborhood, INT: Are you aware if anti-Semitism existed in the school GL: Oh, yes. And, I mean, my father long before I was born, and put in the first concentration camp, which was Oranienburg, right, in Berlin. And he was there for ten months. He was arrested for his political, Whether he was actually But then once he came out, once he came out, And the... And then, after I was born, I think in about 1942, the schools were closed So I, of course, But my siblings, after 1942, We were supported and my father couldn't get a job. We actually lived on welfare and were supported by INT: Do you remember when your parents sensed danger for the first time? Was it prior GL: I would think, yes. I mean, Hitler came into power, My father was arrested in March of '33. And so, right then, INT: How was your family made aware that he was arrested and taken GL: I don't know. That's a very good question, INT: Do you know how long he was GL: He was in concentration camp INT: What was he like when he got out? GL: My brother describes him as being a broken man. He never wanted to talk about his time. I mean, it must have been horrible And he was at hard labor, I know that. And he was, I'm sure, I know that he couldn't get a job And my mother actually became a super, to earn a little bit of money. And it wasn't until probably 1939 or 1940 So, and it was, you know, which was worldwide and very bad for German population. So... And I'm thinking it had He couldn't support a family. And he had all these children And with the political situation it was a very frightening time. INT: Tell me about his release How did he get out? GL: I don't know. I'm thinking that there was The Oranienburg, those first arrests were for political prisoners, people with disabilities. Anybody who wasn't part of the quote &quot;Aryan brotherhood,&quot; end quote. But I don't know. I do know to try to get him released. And I don't know the specifics of that. Whether she was helpful I do know that he had a friend My father had a friend Maybe the priest helped to free him, [PAUSES] INT: You mentioned that your mother GL: My mother was arrested So my father had been arrested And in 1943, when I was already now three years old, she was arrested she was smuggling people in and out of our apartment building, And these were primarily Roma and friends. And she also had worked on the black... She traded in the black market I was going to mention something and now I can't think of it. But if I do, I'll add it. INT: So your mother was arrested [NODDING] GL: My mother was arrested. Yes. And she was arrested a couple of times. She was arrested and then released, and then arrested again, And my father was also arrested in 1943. And then the seven of us children Well, we were taken which had sort of been turned And it actually was a collection site And we lived there, I think, for about a month INT: Where was that hospital? GL: In Berlin, INT: Do you know where they had planned that were in the hospital? Where were they going to be deported to? GL: [NODDING] Well, my mother in the spring of 1943. We were supposed to follow her But we were spared that because a neighbor of ours who was a farmer, who was [GESTURING] ostensibly found out that we were And he said to my... And my father He said to my father, &quot;Let me take the children about 60 kilometers east of Berlin, to a village called Worin, &quot;And they can live there and how can you take care INT: What was this man's name? GL: His name was Arthur Schmidt. And after a number of other instances, we called him our savior because he, along with his wife, took us out to this village. And we lived on that farm INT: Did you or your family know after she was sent to Auschwitz? GL: In December of 1943, we received a notification that she had died, and supposedly, she died of influenza or angina, but we don't know. [NODDING] stating not only the date of her death, but the time to the minute, And then it also had listed her birth date, when she was born, So it was all very strictly documented, INT: How was that message GL: I think by mail. [PAUSES] GL: I'm not sure, INT: Do you know who it came from? GL: The Nazis. Hmm. I mean, beyond that, [PAUSES] INT: Do you think it was hard to make the decision to release seven children to Mr. And Mrs. Schmidt? GL: I don't think it was hard for him He, meanwhile, because he now had a job But he would come out to visit us which was good. My brother also, at this point, So he was often in Berlin and was able to work. He had worked in a bakery. He worked helping my father But they would come out on the weekends. No, I think my father And then he could continue doing what he needed to do INT: Was it risky for your brother, to go back into Berlin? GL: [NODDING] Yes. [SMILING] And I mean he, my brother recounted A lot of bullying and teasing. Having to [THINKING] then later prove My father also, by the way, had to prove that he was Jewish which he did, because they thought The government thought that he was trying to evade capture. This was post war. [SMILING] GL: But for my brother, As a child, I mean, he loved being a kid and was always But as he got older, And then people, never to be heard from again. So it was hard. INT: Do you think that your mother knew were going to be saved? [PAUSES 8 SECONDS] GL: I don't. [PAUSES] GL: I mean, that's pure conjecture I would like to think that she knew but I can't imagine that she did. INT: So when you were taken what was the age range among you GL: Well, I was about three and a half And my brother would have been 15 or 16. So there's a good, And what I forgot to mention was that I told you that my father had a friend And at some point, but my brother Alfons They went to... He and the older girls But, at some point, &quot;We're going to do a conversion. I'm going to get them baptized So that they will be safe.&quot; And so we were baptized. INT: After you were taken to the farm? GL: I don't know I mean, it had to be before because we lived on that farm and I don't remember A couple of my sisters did, INT: What was the time frame? GL: In the spring of 1943. I mean, it was right after and deported. INT: Do you know if Mr. And Mrs. Schmidt GL: I don't see how they could We had nothing. No, I think he was just... Especially Herr Schmidt. He was a lovely jovial man. I remember being fond of him, His wife, Paula, was more standoffish. I don't think she was thrilled that he brought the seven of us I'm sure she was scared because had they been discovered... The, you know... So it was not an easy thing for her. And while we were on the farm, I mean, she didn't... and my sisters don't remember, or provided for us or anything. We were left to our own devices. INT: Did they have GL: They did. Well... Frau Schmidt, Paula Schmidt So there was... Yes, there was a... He and his first wife had a son. But I never knew that. I've only learned that And jumping far, far ahead, not only was there a son, And we got to meet the grandson who didn't know [SMILING] INT: As we move on, I'd like to hear more GL: [SMILING] INT: When you went into hiding, did you have to change your names? GL: Change our names? [SHAKING HEAD] INT: Did you go to church? I don't think so. INT: So describe the structure GL: We lived in a separate building It was the laundry shed and we were all I don't know what it looked like. I mean, I don't have any memory There must have been a stove I know that we spent our time and I do have memories Because it was a fruit orchard But I would play out in the field and I was always lonely, and so I spent a lot of time I had no playmates. We didn't go into the village of Worin, so we were very isolated. But remember, we were... While we didn't say we weren't Jews, we also didn't advertise the fact And unbeknownst to me, the mayor of the village, knew about us and actually provided us which is remarkable. Never turned us in. The Schmidts never turned us in. I thought nobody knew Apparently some people They never turned us in. The only reason I believe that my mother was deported was because someone had betrayed her and turned her in. And so the Gestapo came I was home alone with her And two men showed up at the door, and I was hiding They took her down. I climbed up on a windowsill and saw her being put into a black car and never saw her again. INT: Did you miss your mother? GL: You know, I don't remember my mother And so I formed, I think, a close bond who was six years older than I. She was kind of like And I would always say to her, I'm always so alone.&quot; A tiny child had no one to play with. No one, I guess, or tell me things. So it was-- But then again, I was born into war and it was normal. And when people have said to me, No, it wasn't, I didn't know anything different. And none of us did. INT: Do you know if you were able to Any possessions? GL: When we were arrested and taken to the Jewish hospital, we weren't under lock and key. And so we could wander around But we lived there. But my brother left and went back to our apartment and he took some documents in our building to hide them. And when he came back to the hospital, they discovered that he had gone And after that we were, But in terms of... So I do, today, I don't know what made him say, So we have pictures. We have ration cards. We have things declaring that And my brother just... He's the one who collected And then brought it to America with us, that he had that kind of foresight. INT: Do you remember what a typical GL: I don't remember except that I was outside I was probably cold, hungry and lonely, and I have no idea what it was like other than that. INT: You were in hiding [NODDING] INT: Do you know if you GL: Did we have false papers? I suspect not, because I'm guessing my brother would have made sure to keep them and bring them with us. So I don't think we did. INT: What can you tell me Or when you realized GL: Well, this village of Worin, [GESTURING] was on the direct route back to Berlin from the east. [GESTURING] So, as the Russians were marching towards Berlin, Herr Schmidt said, &quot;This is no longer And he packed us up. We got into a truck, and they put a tarp over us, and took us back to Berlin. And this was two weeks And so, when we came back into Berlin, we went back to our apartment, but there was street to street fighting. I didn't know whether it was going I was frightened. There was a lot of bombing going on. So suddenly, we didn't And we had to... During that time, we would run because my father figured out how to get notice on the radios about German air raids. And so, with enough notice, and go down in the lower level, and we spent our time there. But this one time, And so, the bomb came. All we were able to do was go And we actually, we were locked in because of all And wouldn't you know it? Arthur Schmidt again became our savior He was a remarkable man. INT: Was your father in the apartment GL: I don't know. [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] INT: How would you describe What happened? GL: Well, I know that we suddenly found ourselves living that was controlled by the Russians, [THINKING] because we were in East Berlin, It may have been liberation, At least for one of my sisters. It wasn't much of a liberation you know, were looking for young girls, and they took one and she did not return for several days. And another sister, Ruth. They had wanted to take her, but I think a neighbor or somebody said, And they did. So it didn't... I mean, I can't tell you There were bombs. There was seeing men in uniform marching down the street. That was scary. I remember hiding behind my father, kind of looking to see It didn't feel like much of a liberation INT: Did your sister when the Russians took her? [PAUSES] GL: She never talked about it Well, I didn't know, I mean, she had, you know, a... And she was 16. So she was old enough And they did what they wanted with her. And she returned except that she had sort of as did my father This kind of gaunt haunted look. So different from a regular face. INT: What happened next? GL: The... [LAUGHING] I don't know what the plans were I think, in the fall of 1945... [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] I think it was then that my sister Ruth took me with her because there was always talk about But we had no money, so-- [SIRENS] GL: Excuse me. [DRINKING] [SIRENS] GL: We had no one who could [PAUSES] [CLEARS THROAT] But my sister Ruth The first thing she did because she loved the movies, And she'd plop me down in a seat and I don't know But there I was, this, you know, sitting in a movie But then, she took me with her which turned out to be the Joint That was helping. Helping get refugees And she told them And that started the process. And they told us, or they told her, that it would be better It would be better because we'd be able to get out faster, and that my father would follow One thing I do remember, because we sat there for some interviewer, was that a soldier came out. And he picked me up. And, you know, I was a little kid. And I wiped his face, And I remember that which probably I promptly threw up because of the sweetness of it. But that started the process And then, perhaps in January of 1946... So I don't know really between liberation and January, except to begin INT: Was your father GL: I think my father, he knew about it. But he wasn't directly involved. who kind of took charge of that. And in January of 1946, we began moving from DP camp to DP camp. The first one was right in Berlin. Then we moved to a DP camp And then eventually, just a bit north of Munich which was Indersdorf. And that was actually turned into a refugee spot for children. So it was a children's camp, The first two were more adult camps And we'd lived there and then got on a train so that we could board ship INT: So from the time you were liberated until you started your journey what condition were you in after your GL: [THINKING] GL: I think... I think we were happy. And we knew and that Papa would follow us So I don't think... And it turned out that he but I don't think that... [THINKING] I mean, I think we felt We knew that we'd lost our mother, but we needed to move forward with life. INT: Do you know what condition you and your siblings GL: Well, I know that we all had lice. [THROAT-SOUND] We were all very, very thin. The children's cloister, I was now at this point almost six So malnutrition. [PAUSES] Even, you know, the first thing that my adoptive parents did was to try to fatten me up They thought, in Germany, that I was... And there was food shortage, so trying to get nutrition And during that two weeks, [GESTURING] when I mentioned before liberation, my sister Gertrud wasn't part of that. She wasn't aware because she had been hit by a truck, And so she was in hospital and... So she didn't know what was going on, but the rest of us, yeah, we were by whatever Jewish community was left. INT: You said that you were advised to say that you were orphans. How could you do that GL: We just said We said we're seven children and we need to leave. INT: When you were in the cloister, GL: I guess so. Catholic sisters were taking care of us. It was a-- As I... I mean, I was going to say, but I don't really remember, except, yes, we were well fed and given clothing and maybe deloused, I don't know. INT: Do you remember GL: About six weeks, in the cloister. INT: Where did you go after that? GL: We got on a train And Bremerhaven was where we boarded the very first ship In December of 1945, President Harry Truman decommissioned this transport ship. It was a troop transport ship And we, along with 800 other people, were fortunate enough To be able to come. And it was about a ten-day voyage, of which I remember... I remember lots of oranges And I remember arriving Oh, and it-- I have to back up a tiny bit, in that we had lived And we got on the ship and they said, Well, we'd never been separated. And so, we said, &quot;No. So we sneaked him into our cabin so that we could continue And when we arrived in New York, which was actually May 19th, 1946, we were told to go to sleep. &quot;And in the morning, because you're going to see something.&quot; So in the morning of May 20th, And when we woke up, and take a look. And what we saw Well, it wasn't because everybody had and I was afraid we were going to drown. [SMILING] And of course, I didn't know but everyone else did, INT: Were you required to have a sponsor GL: Our sponsor was the Joint. And then, eventually, because we said Why did we want to go to Chicago? Well, my brother Alfons and he said, &quot;Oh, that's where...&quot; We had a choice of New York-- No, a choice of Miami, So we came to Chicago. And the Jewish Children's Bureau So it was the Jewish Federation. INT: Who greeted you when you arrived? GL: I beg your pardon? INT: Who greeted you? GL: I guess social workers. I know we took the train. I don't know how long but I know that we then went where when we first docked in New York, I'm backing up again, in New York, we docked at pier 64, so we never went to Ellis Island, And we went into this enormous shed. There was a lot of, you know, because of the excitement of coming. And we had thousands of photos because it was unusual to have a family So we made all the headlines. I, of course, was scared Of all the cameras. But we seemed to... This was the first troop transport ship from the war, from Germany. And it was, you know, We then lived in the Bronx to get acclimated and for health reasons, And so, there were social workers that had to be part of either HIAS, or the Joint, that took care of us. INT: What happened GL: Got on the-- Right from there, I mean, I remember that we went out during one of our forays, and maybe more clothes or things. But then we got on the train to the Jewish Children's Bureau. Had more pictures taken. I have a photo of the six of us, I'm sitting on the desk at the JCB and having some ice cream or something. And then, each of us were put in a taxicab and dropped off at a foster home, all on the south side, Because who was And after I had a couple of not-happy experiences then I lived with one sister which was nice until my eventually adoptive parents and I lived with them. INT: So, initially were you all GL: What was the question? INT: Initially were you all separated and placed in different foster homes? GL: We were each placed but we all had contact with one another. And even when I was initially living with the Speigels, my adoptive parents, they would have the rest so that I could spend time with them. But I had a lot of difficulty, kind of, not knowing And my siblings were saying, &quot;Don't forget Mama, don't forget Papa.&quot; My adoptive parents were saying, So, in the eyes they felt that it would be if I no longer had contact It was just too hard for me. I mean, I was six and a half years old, and, you know, confused and didn't know what I was about. But I knew that these very nice people and take care of me, so that was fine with me, Whereas my sister Judith, her foster parents wanted But she was nine. Perhaps almost ten. INT: Do you know why she said no? GL: Well, because we had that we wanted to bring here. INT: Were you in contact GL: I wasn't, but they were, especially my sister Judith. So she was instrumental He, my father, his second wife, and their now two children That didn't happen until 1956. INT: Before your father came all but one adopted? GL: I'm the only one that was adopted. My brother was 18, so the Jewish Children's Bureau They said, &quot;You're 18. Where do you want to go to college?&quot; And so they supported him and became a physicist eventually. And he was able... I don't think he lived with them But they were lovely people, and he certainly And then he got married and so did my sister Senta and Ruth. They were older. The younger ones, you know, needed to live with a family INT: During that time you said that you didn't have contact but did your siblings GL: My siblings all had I'm the only one who didn't. Which was very... [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] It was... I mean, I knew I wanted but there was guilt about not having contact with them. There was also guilt because I was now living My father was a neurosurgeon. He was well known in Chicago And I went to private... I started out at public school, and then went And except for my brother who did go to IIT, Illinois Institute of Technology, They had said, &quot;You can go to the University of Chicago But he, you know, was more The rest of the family And through the years... there was a little bit so that I... Excuse me. [DRINKING] So that I wasn't sure I wanted I had my own life. There was, however, one incident where... [THINKING] The incident where I was in a restaurant with my parents, my now brother and sister It was a Chinese restaurant And as we came out of the restaurant, and we passed a family a mother, a father, a boy and a girl. And as we passed each other, And not knowing who he was, but staring at him, and turning around to look back at him as he turned around to look back at me. And it was my father. We never acknowledged each other. The... It was a sort of surreal incidence. I think, at about the same time, well, I would have been 16 because that's when they came here, I was a dance student downtown. And one day somebody and said... I'm not sure she said anything. And I started backing up and I said, &quot;I don't remember your name, It was my sister Ruth, who, unbeknownst to me, and spoken with the dance director, who immediately called my father, my adoptive father, told him that this young person and then waited for me till I came out. And she was told... Then he reported this who said to my sister Ruth, this is my sister Ruth, the one who arranged for us that if she had any further they were going to deport her That I had my own life. My father had so that I could be adopted. GL: And... Why did it take ten years GL: That's a very good question, INT: Did you know that he had remarried? GL: I didn't know it, I don't think. But they, my sisters and brother, INT: Were you corresponding GL: I wasn't, but they, yes, they had had some A little bit. Not much. INT: Did your father GL: No. My father married a woman Apparently after we left, to start going from DP camp to... He was just... I mean, you know, he'd lost his wife. Now he didn't have his children, And there was a woman who kind of nursed him back to health, and this was the woman that he married. My siblings then began to call her, called her &quot;Tante&quot; So there was some... And it was never a warm relationship, but it was there. But why it took ten years? [THINKING] Maybe he didn't have the money. That's what I'm guessing. INT: Did he remain Jewish? GL: He did not remain Jewish. She actually had been married. Her husband had died. Her husband had been a soldier. And they were Catholic, so I think he... [PAUSES] The Germans had told my father early on that if he renounced his conversion, everything would be okay. And he would not He remained Jewish. But after we left, he then, I think, went back to... I don't know how religious he was, And so they were raised, my step-sister and half-brother INT: What do you remember about after so many years and just passing each other GL: It was the strangest experience that I'd ever had. I knew I couldn't say anything. He knew he couldn't say anything. I mean, I didn't, but he had to give up his rights I knew if I said something, and I wasn't altogether sure [PAUSES] Had I said something, in my mind, it would have meant that I was disloyal And that was paramount in my thinking. These people had raised me given me a loving home, did everything for me, So I felt that I couldn't see the possibility at that age of having two relationships. I just-- It was-- I also, suddenly, I now had American cousins, and a new American family. My father had been from Canada, I mean, it was kind of... It was a little bit and how much can I give? And I was probably who wanted a little bit of everything. INT: Did you ever see each other again? GL: Did I ever? INT: Ever see each other again? You and your father? INT: Or have any relationship GL: The-- As I-- [THINKING] In about 19-- Back up. Unbeknownst to me, several of my sisters always knew where I was and they would sometimes follow me. I went to the University They would follow behind me. They once came to the apartment They were about to ring the doorbell so they didn't. My sister Ruth had, you know, [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] They knew that my father was working at So, it was almost... [SMILING] It was almost as though I had... And I always had this kind of feeling that there was somebody that was making sure that I was okay. In 1960, three days before I got married, I went to the pediatrician's office In those days, to make sure I'm sitting in and two women walked up to me &quot;Are you Ginger?&quot; &quot;Yes.&quot; &quot;Can we talk to you for a minute?&quot; We went out We went out And they said, &quot;We're our sisters. We're here because we use and we're here We saw your picture in the paper and we wanted to wish you well, and to wish you a happy life.&quot; It was a very embarrassing because I had not invited them I had not seen them Except for, you know, These were my sisters that approached me. INT: How many years had it been GL: Well, this was now 1960. I would say 15 years. All right. Then in 1963... [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] One question I always had was they don't look like me. Everybody has siblings. I didn't look like Jonathan. No resemblance. And I got a phone call, 1963. And I'll never forget this. I was in my apartment, [LAUGHING] Ironing God knows what. And the phone rang, I answered it, and she said, &quot;Hi, I'm moving to Kansas next week. I don't know if I'll ever Would it be okay? And I said, &quot;Oh, yes. Absolutely.&quot; So we arranged for a few days She came to the apartment, and it was the first time since 1946 And the flash of recognition I said, &quot;Judith, we're sisters. You know, we look alike.&quot; Because my children didn't look like me And then we had a lovely visit. And she did say, she did ask me if I wanted to reconnect who was now living in Chicago. And I thought about it quite a bit. And I remember discussing it I'm saying adoptive parents to distinguish between the birth I consider them my parents. They're not adoptive to me. But for the purposes of this interview, I'm clarifying. I discussed it with my parents. And my father said, &quot;If you would like to please feel free to do so. But know this. You can't just see him once If you make contact, you will have because it would not be fair to him.&quot; [PAUSES] And so, after discussing and I decided I would not, Couldn't do it. Because even though I still felt INT: Before we hear more with your siblings and your father here, I just want to go back to the time So, you didn't speak the language. Were you put into school immediately? GL: I went... Yes, the first school was Shakespeare Elementary School where all I remember is I had a strong German accent. Hadn't been changed yet. [THINKING] And all I knew was that Germany, anything German was reprehensible. They were the bad people. And I wanted nothing to do with Germany. So my language, my accent, maybe my braids, I don't know, but anything that would was verboten to me. I didn't want anything to do with it. So I worked very hard to learn which for a six or seven-year-old child But I forgot my German. Because, I mean, my parents and I or I spoke German, they spoke Yiddish After a very short time, I spoke a sort of a pidgin English, [PAUSES] And I didn't-- Whatever customs I had had, It was very important that I I didn't want anything INT: Were you aware that had also emigrated here? GL: That also had come here. There was, yes, Her name was [?Hannah Kasten?]. [SMILING] Many years later, and we got together, [?Hannah Kasten?] did not come here and she lived in Berlin the entire time. [PAUSES] I think her parents had died. So we had a wonderful reunion. So, yes, I did know INT: Once you made friends, about your experiences GL: Well, I must have with Hannah, And I didn't talk much about-- I didn't even talk I didn't even talk about it much He kept saying, &quot;Well, from when you were I said, &quot;No, He has a fantastic memory, So he thought I should, but no. A very interesting side note. I mentioned that I lost Completely. Don't speak it. Can't pronounce it. In 1984, I had an accident That's why I use a wheelchair. So I was in the hospital And I was having a very difficult time. I was hallucinating a lot, and I was on morphine for a while, so some heavy, heavy drugs. And I dreamt in German. The language came right back. Today I speak no German. I can't tell you But it's in the brain. It's back there. It's sort of in the side, You never forget. INT: So at that time, you're making friends. What were your goals? GL: To be a dancer. My goal in life was to be a dancer. INT: How did you GL: [LAUGHING] GL: I was dancing on the captain's table. This little kid entertaining So I just always, I was always very, very active. And very athletic, And then my mother, of course, took me to dance class as all mothers And then I was fortunate enough that they sent me to summer camp national music camp. And the dance teacher there said, &quot;I've got the teacher There's only one person, Edna McRae. And that's what my mother did And so I studied at the McRae studio INT: You mentioned the name that you attended here. GL: [NODDING] The first school and I think I went there Although there may have I can't remember. I then went, I went to Shakespeare We lived on Drexel Boulevard. Once we moved to Madison Park I went to Kenwood Elementary School and I went there, And I went there until sort of seven and a half. Seventh grade, but seven and a half, when I was admitted to the University of Chicago But living in Hyde Park, of course, we belonged to Sinai Temple, which was a very large temple on the south side that was And the rabbi, Louis Mann, and we had Sunday school. So every Sunday morning, and drive me to Sunday school. He was also the rabbi who married us. But he was... Why am I bringing him up? Because in 1951, they had just finished building And so they were having a dedication. And I wrote, that is my mother wrote remarks And so I got to speak at the dedication. [PAUSES] And I talked about how proud I was to be Jewish and American and to be able to tell the policeman I mean, I was, you know, 11 years old. That I was American and allowed to practice Judaism. That was-- And I have photos INT: Where did you go after high school? GL: I went to Northwestern University and majored in theater and dance. Mostly theater because they didn't have a very good [LAUGHING] INT: Did you get married? GL: And then I got married. 1960. And we lived on the north side. INT: What was your husband's name? GL: My husband's name was Fred, And we... Fourteen months after we got married, And then 1963, Beth was born, And in 1969, So I have three children INT: How did you meet your husband? GL: I met my husband on a blind date. Oh, my gosh. Just... [SMILING] At that time, the Theater Guild was, was a functioning organization. And so this blind date, this man, young guy called me up, and, &quot;My parents have given me Would you like to go?&quot; I said, &quot;Sure.&quot; I was a freshman at Northwestern. [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] We went to see [PAUSES] Which, of course, [LAUGHING] my poor husband So that was quite an event itself. I also got to meet at Northwestern Joseph Schildkraut, he was an actor who portrayed Otto Frank when &quot;The Diary of Anne Frank&quot; in about 1958 or so. INT: How did you choose GL: Well, my children's names, I think, mostly by my husband, Fred, we should name our children And he had either his grandmother, Rebecca, had died. And so I said, &quot;But it's a boy.&quot; Beth, I don't remember at all. And Jennifer, INT: You mentioned your experiences with your husband. GL: Well, I mean, certainly he knew, but I didn't go INT: When did you tell your children GL: I never said that. I never told them I was They knew, of course, I told them that. Again, I would say I didn't really acknowledge that Until recently, that label because I had I had not been tortured So how could I But of course, I mean, yes, But I never wanted until 2017, after my brother died, and I felt I need to go and I need to take my children. By that time I was divorced, but my former husband Fred and we all went back to Germany. And walked around the Scheunenviertel which I didn't remember at all. But... And then went to the Jewish and, you know, Checkpoint Charlie. So we did a tiny bit But the next day-- I had been in contact with these people who lived in Worin in the village where we were living for two years. And after a bit of correspondence we planned to go and visit them. So we hired a car excuse me, They just opened their hearts It turns out that he was Excuse me. [GESTURING] INT: Who are you referring to? GL: Herbert. [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] [?Schuler?]. They lived, in 2017, on this little-- They had a home just outside of... In the village of Worin He'd been, I think, a high school They knew about us. So we visited with them. And I thought we would And there was another man there. And who was that man? It was Arthur Schmidt's grandson who had not known what his Fast forward seven months. [PAUSES] And now Arthur Schmidt III, and his wife and their son, they're all named Arthur Schmidt, met us in Jerusalem, and we went to Yad Vashem to have Paula and a plaque at Yad Vashem. So we were there for the ceremony, which was a wonderfully INT: As Righteous Among the Nations? GL: [NODDING] They were named INT: His grandfather had never told him about saving your family? GL: Never. That's the kind INT: When you went back, did you go to the apartment GL: It was no longer there. They had torn it down and they even changed from Dragonerstrasse to Max-Beer-Strasse. But we went to the building. And we walked around, we didn't go inside, but we went into the kind of courtyard in the back of the building, just to be in that neighborhood. INT: You mentioned Do you have any grandchildren? GL: I have seven. Very happy to say My son Russy who is a dancer. And son, Trevor. My daughter Beth has three boys, That's Joshua, named Joshua because my father and Josh was born at the end of July. So he's Josh. And then two years later they had twin boys, And so those are those three, five. And then my daughter Jennifer have two children. Elliot, who is now 21 or will be 21. He's there. And Anya who's 19 and is a freshman. They're both at So I think that counts for seven. INT: Did your children marry GL: No. None of my children INT: Did you raise them-- GL: But they've all raised INT: Did you raise them GL: Did I-- INT: Raise your children GL: Yes. I mean, when I was growing up, we celebrated Purim and I always was asked to speak during the New Year. I was confirmed. I wasn't Bat Mitzvah at that time But we observed the holidays, but we also sometimes So it was, you know, a mixed bag. And my father, who was from Canada, had grown up in an orthodox home. And so was used to but became, you know, modernized. And we sent our children-- Fred and I had our children which we lived on the north side. And so they were all But they chose other people to marry. But they insisted on raising their children, I think, with the knowledge of both, INT: After you finished did you have a career? GL: No, I got married So I continued to dance and I taught even through college. But suddenly, you know, 14 months So, I was a homemaker and then I did a lot of teaching at the local high school Not teaching, So I was involved in things, I think, at a marketing firm. But in terms of having a career INT: I wanted to ask you and you said the apartment GL: [NODDING] INT: Are there any kind of GL: This was when I went back in 2017... No. But more recently, we went back in September, 2023, for the ceremony which are bronze plaques. And I thought to honor my mother [PAUSES] But whatever the committee was, said, So we have nine plaques installed. My mother, my father And it was a wonderful occasion One thing I omitted was that when I took my children not only did we go to Berlin but we also went, of course, [PAUSES] And then to Birkenau. [PAUSES 16 SECONDS] And replaced the stone. [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] For my mother. [PAUSES 11 SECONDS] How people can rain down terror on other human beings, it's something I will never [PAUSES] be able to come to terms with. It's happened for millennia. Anti-semitism has been around but it is something I just can't-- It's unfathomable to me to see how human beings can be so evil and so good [PAUSES] But I'm so grateful that I have always believed that we have to hang on to the good. And that the good outdoes the bad. After 2017, after our trip back... [PAUSES] We came back and the events two weeks after we returned. I knew that I had to speak out much more [PAUSES] And I've occasionally done some But my daughter Beth was so moved that she knew then and there which is called &quot;Unbroken&quot; that is in distribution now. It's poignant. It's remarkable. Of course, I'm very proud of what she has been able to do. It tells our story, INT: Do you know how many family members GL: My family. GL: I know that my mother And they were Hungarian, so they didn't get deported And I think almost all of them [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] My father's family? No. So I can't give you a number except that it has to be upwards of... Between 10 and 20. It's not a huge number, INT: Do you read books or watch GL: [NODDING] Yes. And sometimes Why am I doing this But I do. I began to study the Holocaust in 1961 with Elie Wiesel and &quot;Night.&quot; And we had study sessions with the rabbi at Sholom at the time. And I read about the war and Lucy Dawidowicz. So I've done extensive reading Perhaps more so now but I've always done some reading. And as I mentioned, I've done presentations, but not a lot, but I've done much more, many more now. I've also... [PAUSES] Connected with... [PAUSES 7 SECONDS] Well, it's just gone out of my head. [THINKING] [SHAKING HEAD] INT: What types of presentations GL: Just speaking to school, middle school and high school about my experience. [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] Just because it's, you know, it's easy to say never forget, but it's harder for people to forget once they actually hear a survivor talk about their experience. INT: Did you follow the trials of Adolf Eichmann and John Demjanjuk? GL: I did. INT: How did that affect you? GL: A lot of anger. A lot of anger. How could these people deny I still have anger. How can people deny the Holocaust? And, &quot;There, there, boy.&quot; And they're perhaps getting stronger. I followed what happened in 1976 when the neo-Nazis You know, I've been to I've been to I've given testimony It... Always acknowledge and remember International Holocaust Remembrance Day. INT: Before we conclude, can you tell me more when your family, GL: In 1986, two years after I began I had lunch with the former director, of the Jewish Children's Bureau, who, by the way, and that's how the adoption Anyway, I invited her to have lunch, And at the end of our lunch we had a lovely luncheon, she said, &quot;Have you ever reconnected I said, &quot;No, not really.&quot; &quot;Do they know about your accident?&quot; And she looked at me. &quot;Well, don't you think [PAUSES] So within that week I contacted-- First, I contacted Gertrud because I'd received a birthday card [COUGHING] And I called her on the phone she said, &quot;Hello.&quot; At the other end of the phone-- [?Manya?] was the nickname I said, &quot;[?Manya?].&quot; And all I heard [GASPING] And she said, &quot;Why now?&quot; She knew who I was. And I said, &quot;I tried to call you but no one was home.&quot; And she said, &quot;Do you mean you would have waited And I said, &quot;Well, it's very likely.&quot; Anyway, that started the ball rolling. She immediately called my brother who came to visit And we had a reunion, so that was our first We met at Gertrud's house. And just before going to this reunion, I told my children, And they wanted to know more. And Jennifer, the youngest, &quot;Mom, wow, I never knew [LAUGHING] So we went to this reunion And it was wonderful, That was then followed ten years later, 1996, by the fiftieth reunion, which I had at my house. I was living in Highland Park [DRINKING] at the time. And of course, my parents, came to these occasions. [THINKING] And the very first time [PAUSES] My brother Alfons I don't know how he got away But he came in, and it was my mother's and they lived in Skokie. And I said, &quot;Would it be okay &quot;Sure.&quot; So we went to visit them, and my brother Alfons met my parents, and he asked if he could speak And so they went down into another room. And he said to my father, &quot;I just, on behalf of our family, [PAUSES 7 SECONDS] That shows you And my father, of course, But the acknowledging and given, you know, a loving home, was something that Alfons For the fiftieth anniversary, we all went the day before our reunion, and had a wonderful time. I have a picture of it. I had a Statue of Liberty that a friend of mine, and we lined up to take our picture. We lined up in that same order I had a cake made in the shape you know, red, white and blue. I mean, it was a very festive, And all of my siblings' children And there were now, you know, So that was quite an occasion. We got a letter acknowledging this occasion. So all in all, it was good. INT: Do you continue to be Do you continue to have a relationship? GL: Oh, yes. And unfortunately, my brother died in 2016. My sister Senta died in 2018. Then my sister Renee died in 2020, I think. And my sister Ruth So from seven we are down to three. My step sister Gita died two years ago. So, you know, the family is shrinking, but the new births keep growing. INT: What is your greatest GL: We' re still here. Nobody can take that away from us. INT: Is there anything else GL: No. You know, over the years, the Claude Lanzmann film several times. I am deeply indebted to both, the US Holocaust Memorial Museum for preserving, for documenting, for not only acknowledging, but recognizing the need to preserve these histories. They are remarkable, and, of course, after so many years have passed, denial is easier. The forces of authoritarianism right now seem to be on the rise. So it is ever more important that we continue to speak out, But to also remember that there were wonderful people I mean, I think of my own story. [COUGHING] The priest, the Schmidts, the mayor, the villagers. It's like there was a movie called Somebody Up There Likes Me. It's as though somebody to make sure that we would be okay. The Speigels. You know my family. So as much evil there's also good. And I guess we have to otherwise there's no hope. So, thank you to the Shoah Foundation, and Steven Spielberg. INT: Thank you, Ginger. CREW: [INAUDIBLE] GL: These are pictures taken, I believe, at their wedding. My father, Alexander Weber. They were married September 12th, 1926, in Rakospalota, Hungary, CREW: [INAUDIBLE] GL: This is a picture Notice that it says &quot;Wedding.&quot; Wedding was the district in Berlin on November 27th, 1939. And it says that my name is Bela Weber. And you will also note at the bottom the stamp of the German government [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] This picture is of our that was completely destroyed during the last two weeks of the war, where we could not return in the basement. And Herr Schmidt had to dig us out, becoming, for the second or third time, [PAUSES 7 SECONDS] This image is of the ration cards and given to us and small items of clothing. [PAUSES] CREW: Okay. GL: Paula and Arthur Schmidt [PAUSES] On whose farm or fruit orchard we lived for almost two years near the village of Worin, Germany, about 60 kilometers A wonderful and loving man. Schmidt never acknowledged But he is definitely our hero. [PAUSES] This official notice was sent It is in a very traditional German [THINKING] factually-based evidence the name of her parents, and the hour and minutes She was murdered in Auschwitz, at least December 1st, 1943. [PAUSES 10 SECONDS] This page shows the document of my father. And if you look closely at the image, His eyes are hollow and staring. And it is his official document as a victim of Fascism. The red image below shows that he is a victim of Fascism to the rights as a victim. CREW: Okay. GL: These are images of the... [PAUSES 8 SECONDS] DP cards that we were issued, so that we could finally [PAUSES 6 SECONDS] And here is the ship's manifest on board the SS Flasher that left Bremerhaven, Germany, I think on May 10th or 11th, and arrived in New York harbor [PAUSES 9 SECONDS] Here we are at dock 64, arriving on May 20th, 1946. All seven of us after we had declared ourselves orphans, having arrived on the SS Flasher. You can see that I'm not very happy. I guess I don't like And this is amidst enormous confusion in this huge shed, because we were the first ship with refugees from war-torn Europe. This picture is up on the wall at the United States Holocaust INT: It's supposed to be of you And I can't see. GL: There are three images here. The one in the upper right If you look carefully, you'll see She was an incredibly talented woman. Sewing was just one thing Below that is a picture which I love. And then in the upper left corner is a picture of my brother Jonathan, my sister Petra, and me. And this would have been taken So Jonathan would have been about seven [PAUSES] All seven of us are seated for the fortieth anniversary of our getting together in 1986. You see at the top row Gertrud, Judith and Senta. The bottom row, me, Alfons, Renee and Ruth. INT: [INAUDIBLE] GL: My brother Jonathan's wedding. There's a picture of Beth, myself, Fred, Russel and Jennifer. INT: Sandy. GL: And here we are, May 26th, 1996, which we held at my house And if you notice, the image of the Statue And in the little one, we're kind of lined up [POINTING] as we were when we landed. [PAUSES] CREW: [INAUDIBLE] GL: Here's a picture at Lincoln Park Zoo that was taken, actually, for Disability History. They were very young, but looking really cute. Here's a good group photo Unfortunately, Anya was busy [LAUGHING] So she wasn't born yet, It was during a Mediterranean cruise [PAUSES] To be experimented on and-- INT: And murdered. INT: Yes. GL: This image is where I was honored by the city of Chicago. And it appeared on every bus stop in the city of Chicago, and on all the billboards going into and out of Chicago. Friends of mine &quot;I almost had an accident up on that darn billboard This was taken in 1920... I mean, excuse me, 2022. CREW: Okay. GL: [POINTING] CREW: Yeah. Start with that one [PAUSES 5 SECONDS] GL: These are the Stolpersteine, the brass plaques commemorating [PAUSES] that we were victims of the Holocaust. Victims of Fascism. They are placed in the sidewalk in front of the building of our last residence that we voluntarily lived in, in Berlin. [PAUSES] CREW: Skip the next one. Got it. Okay. GL: &quot;Unbroken&quot; is the story of our family, produced and directed And it is an award-winning documentary that she finished in 2023.