Hello YouTube friends. In today's video we are going to see something that amazed me , even though it is on the internet in many videos and it is the famous Wirtz bomb or spiral bomb. This pump is very simple, it is manufactured with a support, in this case it is a bicycle wheel and we are going to wind a few turns of hose around it. After seeing that this really works, we will proceed to construction. This can be done directly by rolling the hose and the water as it rotates enters directly into the hose or you can put a type of collector like this one, which I made with a cut bottle so that it has a better water inlet. Here in the lid we have made a hole so that the hose can fit right in. We put it there and start rolling. We are going to do the first lap taking advantage of this gap in the tire. We are going to do it by tying it here, you can do this with zip ties or if you want with thread like I am doing here. Then we are going to roll up the hose and when we get here we are going to enter the tire. Now we're going to go around it twice here. Since now the turns are getting shorter and shorter and there is a lot of hose to put in, we are still going to do one thing, we are going to go to the other side and continue winding here in the widest part of the wheel. So instead of continuing here we are going to pass between this beam on the other side, we are going to pass the entire hose. Now we turn around and continue rolling on the other side starting from the outside again and now we will make three more turns in the same direction. Now we only have this piece left to place and we are separating the laps further to finish here in the center. Here I leave these laps more separated so that you can see the effect when it works, otherwise I could finish it directly there, but we are going to do it like this so that it can be seen better. Here we have the input and here is going to be the output. We have to link it to a rotating system so that it can turn and remove the water from this point. Here I took a half-inch polypropylene &quot;T&quot; and here I placed a half-inch nipple, to which I welded a nut so that the water that enters here cannot escape there. In that nut we are going to screw an axis that is this threaded rod that we have here. But before screwing it on, we are going to put Teflon on the thread here to prevent water leakage when the pump is running. Once we have the Teflon in place, we are going to enter with the threaded rod from the other side and we are going to screw it here. Now we will pull it back, this enters right there and here we are going to adjust it with a nut very tight and now here we will connect the hose in this way the hose connected here will get water in here and it will no longer be able to leave because it has a threaded nut with Teflon and The water outlet will inevitably be on this side and now comes the perhaps a little more complex part because this will be rotating like this inside the water and as here we have the outlet the outlet hose will go that will take the water where If we need the hose, it would be twisted, so what we have to do is look for a swivel, this one, for example, that we have here, which is a hose coupling, a quick coupling that we will have already placed here on a nipple that we need to screw on, then here we go. It will serve to act as the axle of the wheel and also for the water outlet, as I told you, this is a quick coupling to join two hoses, one would be the one we have here and the other would be placed in this place, so to join the hoses we pull back. and we place this there we release this hose that comes here it is not going to rotate together with the wheel it is going to stay in the same place and now I assure you that you are going to be surprised when you see it work because of how simple and efficient this pump is now I must clarify one thing. We are going to mount the pump in this basin that I put here in the studio. Because I don't have a river in the studio yet. But these pumps work in a water channel that runs at a very slow speed. As soon as there is movement, the water is placed in it. some paddles like that six or seven all around and the same movement of the water the base making us rotate here To do the test, we are going to rotate it by hand. We are going to do the assembly. Here I have put a cross with an iron and here I welded a bearing cup so that I can put the pipe there and it can rotate and on this side we are going to put a plate which I also made a hole in and we are going to fit it here and here to make it rotate we are going to put this handle everything as you can see is very very very homemade Now here we are going to screw the rest of the swivel to connect the hose output and now to prevent this from rotating we are going to put this sheet metal clamp here and we are going to adjust it in this way this part no longer rotates And yes the other one rotates and now the time has come to test it and understand how it works As I was telling you, the small force that the water makes when passing under the wheel by having the paddles moves it and gives it a speed no more than this. This is to be used with low speed, the bottle will enter the part of the bottle under the water and it will collect a small amount that will go here to the outside loops and so it will take another one, it will collect a little air and a little water, it doesn't matter if the other one falls, it will continue to collect and first you have to fill obviously you have to fill the hose and it starts to come out now yes the hose is already full and the water is already coming out and now is where the surprises begin this is a communicating glass that turns around And obviously it ends up coming out now and like here I have a height greater than this water It is logical that it comes out but the real surprise begins now what happens if I put a hose on it and raise it above the level we have here to see if things start to get complicated Well here I have already collected it the outlet hose to do the first test and I have placed two plates here to prevent the splash from throwing water out. Let's see with this hose if we can overcome the height of the water here where the joint is, as you can see. here I am at the same height and it draws the same but we are going to lift it higher and we are going to see what happens we see that it continues to draw the water now we are going to go outside and we are going to demand it a little more what we are going to do now is now Connect a much longer hose to it. This hose is about 6 or 7 meters. We are going to connect it here under pressure. Well, we already have the hose now connected. So we are going to lift it a little more to see how far it goes. Well, now we are going to start. follow the path of the water eh slowly and now we have arrived outside as we see with very little speed the water is permanently pulling from segment to segment not of course air and water we are going to see now that the height it is pulling is at 1.75 my height is 1 .80 we are going to raise it a little [Music] more here it is we are at 2 met2 which is what my hand has and we are going to see that there is no difference when I expel the water we are going to try higher up we are already at 3 Met Let's see if he gets there and we see that he keeps pulling Exactly the same but we're going to give him everything he gives us here This clothesline we're in the order of 3.8 4 Met There we're going to see if he's able to get there and keep coming out the same thing eh you have to go quite slowly because if you go very hard No it's not not convenient you have to go at this speed well Higher than there we can't go anymore because I don't have a way to go But we know that it's close at 4 Met for sure Now we are going to see what flow rate is being drawn and what we are going to do. Now we are going to place a bottle that is 500 ML or half a liter. We are going to see how long it takes to fill this bottle. Now we are going to take the time it takes to fill that one. half-liter bottle, let's first get the water to arrive, the hose is purged. There it is, we start and we start to turn , we see that there are 3 cu4 of full bottle and there it took 31 seconds to complete the half-liter. So we are exactly one minute 1 lro 60 minutes 60 lr 10 hours 600 l 20 hours 100 24 hours 150 l An average house consumes perhaps 400 l of water per day with everything and here we are throwing away 100 we could practically feed two houses with this small Wheel or pump spiral that we have made here but Now we are going to apply something that occurred to me to put a check valve here, we are going to disconnect it and here we have the check valve that we are going to put here and at the outlet of the check valve we are going to place the hose now we are going to empty the bottle and we will do the test again Well now we will repeat the same test we are going to first fill the hose that has been emptied there we start and we will start pumping the water again eh Remember that it had been filled and now we have filled it in 24 in reality we would be in the order of 1 L 200 a fifth more improving Thanks to the check valve it is really outrageous How this works without a doubt this is much more useful these are the first tests that I am doing and I am going to leave you in another video that you are going to see how I made this homemade check valve very , very easy in case anyone is interested in the description of the video there will be the link Well friends this has been all for this video and it will be until we see each other