Translator: AJ Jungbluth I know we're only just meeting but I'd like to ask you a question, and it's a rather personal question. How many of you suffer from, a mental illness? Well, think about it. Your family, your friends, your classmates I'll bet that virtually everybody Now, maybe I should explain Commonly thought of conditions bipolar, and anxiety disorders, and also and learning disabilities and ADHD, and addictions to alcohol and drugs. All of these conditions affect and disturb, by varying degrees, the mental functions of cognition, So we're not talking about the worried The World Health Organization has estimated that 20% of the world's population at some point in their lifetime. That's one in five people, A billion people worldwide. So if you do the math, everyone should know someone and the fact that many of us reflects three inconvenient truths: that we lack an understanding that we're reluctant and that mental illness Now, stigma literally means It's the mark of Cain in the Bible. It's the &quot;A&quot; on the dress of Hester Prynne and it's the yellow stars that were in Nazi Germany. So why should mental illness Well, to show you let's do a little thought exercise. Imagine that you were invited to celebrate and you were picked to give the toast. But on the day of the event, you got sick, and you had to cancel. When you called to cancel, that you couldn't come or that you were depressed and suicidal? Or would you rather say or were having a panic attack? Or would you rather explain or you were strung out If you would prefer the former you, my friends, are affected by stigma. Now, I experience stigma every day The profession to which is the most denigrated and distrusted There's no anti-cardiology movement (Laughter) and there's no anti-oncology movement But there's a virulent that claims there's no such thing and wants to eliminate psychiatry. Now, if we thought of mental illness then symptoms like depression Or anxiety would be Or psychosis would be like an arrhythmia. In the former case, In the latter case, But the brain is infinitely or any other organ The heart is basically a pump a dozen blood vessels, and comprised of two billion muscle cells. The brain, on the other hand, composed of over 100 billion neurons, which make over 30 trillion connections and form an intricate array which simultaneously orchestrate functions temperature regulation, hunger, But also form what your personality is The brain gives rise and it also houses the human spirit. It's no wonder that it's taken us and appreciate how it relates Now, stigma is not unique We've seen it associated with illnesses Tuberculosis, leprosy, cancer. The most dramatic example In the late 1970s, I was an intern in the Greenwich Village when the first cases of AIDS I remember seeing patients with terrible infections, and we couldn't figure out and we had no treatments, Now, this by itself would have been enough but the fact that it was occurring including homosexuals made its victims virtual pariahs. But then an amazing thing happened. The AIDS Advocacy Group and community They expanded awareness, and they pressured the government And within five years, 1984, two scientists isolated the cause of AIDS. By 1987, AZT was introduced, the first treatment for AIDS. And now AIDS is like diabetes. It's a chronic illness but you could live Contrast the outcome of Rock Hudson, and he was dead within a year, to Magic Johnson, who was diagnosed and he's still alive living a normal life, with treatment. That is the power of science and effective treatments. Treatments don't just eliminate They also eliminate Now we're still learning but we already have effective treatments which have helped millions In many cases, these eliminate but in some cases, Earlier in my career, I treated and she suffered from panic disorder, which had kept her because she was afraid to go out, To start I had to make house calls and when she opened the door I saw before me this woman with dark glasses and long dark hair. She looked like Morticia I began with exposure therapy And within a couple of months, she was able to come but she insisted with her bike perched just outside so she could dash at a moment's notice. But within a year, she changed her attire. She was fashionably dressed, cut her hair. She was going out with her husband, and picking her kids up at school. When we ended treatment, and she came up to me &quot;I feel like I've been let out of prison, Now, not all disorders have good treatments. Witness Alzheimer's disease and autism, and not all patients respond A particularly difficult condition is called borderline personality disorder. This affects young people self-mutilating behavior, The noxious nature of the behavior and even psychiatrists One such patient that I treated She was in her early 20s, large glasses, a very fragile demeanor that could explode into volcanic rage and propel her into aggressive I worked really hard trying to help stop her from these But the treatments I used, had limited effects, and when she dropped out of treatment, I felt I really hadn't done very much, and I worried about So, we don't have treatments And not all patients respond well. But make no mistake, there is indisputably between modern mental health care today and what existed for all human history prior to the latter part So I find it particularly ironic that while people suffered throughout human history because of the fact we had no knowledge in the 21st century, the biggest barriers lack of access to care, and stigma. So, if there were no stigma, we could launch a public health initiative against mental illness, such as with infectious diseases, with heart disease, with environmental toxins like asbestos, lead, and smoking, and we would begin The first involves early And this involves having screening in primary care settings pediatrics offices, obstetrical and gynecologic and also in schools and in universities, and also in the work place. And individuals who were screened or having symptoms of, a mental disorder, that specialized in providing that would be helpful to their condition. The goal of this before the illness has effects and risks them doing something The second strategy would be an approach of providing community-based for people who were already and had suffered some disability. This would include medical management, and also residential facilities to support people and prevent them and ending up on the streets or sequestered in state mental hospitals. So we have the means to do this, and this would provide in people's lives in many, many ways. People who are depressed, who studies have shown for up to seven years before would not have to endure this. And also at the same time while they're risk the possibility of hurting themselves or becoming addicted to something through misguided attempts People who experience trauma from violent would be treated promptly, as they're treated instead of waiting for their and then having them And for people like the first responders who go into harm's way there would be preventative routinely administered, rather than waiting to see and has to overcome the embarrassment People who are abusing substances would be encouraged and supported, to seek detox, rehab, before intractable addictions developed. And one in four women expecting babies would not have to risk experiencing but would routinely be treated and so that they wouldn't have to potentially harm themselves, And children who have learning would be identified early And they would not just they would have cognitive training, so they didn't become so frustrated that they resorted to anti-social behavior Now, you might be thinking to yourself, How much is this going to cost? Well, the reality is that health that providing this kind would actually reduce the cost and result in enormous savings. In addition, the families would be relieved and also financial burden. We would also have the benefit from the fact that many of the glaring would be reduced or eliminated, and I'm speaking here particularly that have increasingly occurred. Too many of these incidents have been who are mentally ill and manifest their symptoms They acted strangely. They were in emotional distress. They were socially isolated. But nobody reached out to them for help. Instead, they were shunned, In some cases, families, friends do reach out to try and get Take the case of Gus Deeds, His father, Virginia State Senator Creigh Deeds, desperately sought to have his son, who was in the throes But to no avail. Subsequently, Gus viciously attacked So Senator Deeds is now left and pain in his heart, instead of his son. So how can we stop the suffering, We have to begin by recognizing a medical condition that can be treated, If you look around you who was grimacing in pain you would rush up to them &quot;Is there something wrong, But we don't do this when we see somebody or acting strangely, or too often intoxicated. But that's what we need to do. We need to be involved, show our concern, make it your business. What's the worst that can happen? They say to you indignantly, Or &quot;I'm fine, thank you&quot;? But the best that can happen and alleviate unnecessary suffering and potentially harm Now, that will work for those around us, or that we're with, but to have we need to influence either individually We have to make them understand that mental illnesses and that we have effective treatments and these must be I've been trying to do this including to audiences like you, and writing articles When Robin Williams died, and I received an email &quot;Message from a patient and I'd like to share this with you. Dear Dr. Lieberman, Last night I read your article and recognized your name. You probably don't remember me, I was severely mentally ill with borderline personality I made many suicide attempts One of those times I took a large overdose and awoke in the intensive care unit You were assigned to be my doctor, and I clearly remember You probably didn't see it that way, with my acting out However, eventually, I was able to get myself together. I got married, enrolled in nursing school, For the past 22 years When I look back at just I would never have thought how very fortunate I feel And so I just had to let you know. What I remember most is that you genuinely seemed and didn't judge me. But I suppose the best doctors Signed, Laurie. So this was the same Laurie I was thrilled to know and to think that maybe But what really struck me most was the fact that it wasn't my medical knowledge that she keenly remembered. It was the fact that I showed and compassion is something including those with mental illness. So while science and medicine continues to pursue the causes I ask that you join me to find the heart and muster the will to reach out to all people, particularly people who may show to raise awareness of the public, of the government, and of the media Thank you for listening. (Applause)