Hello, in this video, I'm going and I'm going to be reading and answering some there are two segments in this video, which (music) This is not a podcast. Okay, okay. This is a and we have a simple class here called this: File SubsList equals new SubscribersList(). like this: string collection initializer. we can go foreach sub all that VSub in SubsList, property Subs on that class. We then run the app But this is quite verbose, so let's copy .NET 9, C# 13 version. And obviously, there, if we can see it's the same program, but we can make for collections in Constructors, so this can now and it's still a list because this IList thing so that's quite nice. It's better than if you've got some code, and you're going to be back into a .NET 8 project, you're going to So on top of that, partial classes have a partial class called LikeCounter. Now, this is we have to do setLikes and getLikes separately. class in C# 12, we have to do LikesCounter LikesCounter.DoSetLikes(10), and we can do Like so, and if we run this, Now, how can this be improved in C# 13? copy it over to our C# 13 target, and obviously, But let's make this partial class better. Having so obviously, what we would prefer to have set; }. That makes sense. What you'll notice is an implementation part. So what we can do is the _likes; } set { _likes = value; } }. Then this partial methods anymore; we can just use partial LikesCounter.Likes = 10;, and we can write set the startup project to our C# 13 version, we And if we compare that to the C# 12 isn't it? In case, for some reason, you're not quite sure why you would do that, but if Next up, well, actually, that's to be honest. Here's a list of all the new will make a difference to your average developer why would you do this? I don't know. And if you're it. You're not going to do this. Partial members reality that you're going to come across or find Next up, I'm going to read your viewer Who's that MVP? It's Nick Chapsas! Did you get it right? I thought that was I'm going to have another &quot;Who's that MVP?&quot;. MVP rap at some point. Anyway, on to viewer Anyway, first user comment: &quot;First time watching watching you but instantly subscribed. Good taste. was my first tech 10 years ago, still using it. I Last I think it's for beginners. It's much easier what to learn on .NET was that there was something there's nothing to learn. Once you know C#, you to learn. This is why I recommend learning to learn. Every project that uses minimal APIs controllers will being reinvented. So ultimately, Next up, Sir Ben Jamin. &quot;Thank you very much. It's This is about the video, the Scrum video I just the work, and it takes as long as it takes we're pushed to come up with artificial should be more important is producing quality can't win. If you meet the deadline, they expect it has consequences. This industry is treated call ourselves Engineers? I don't think so. If a or the bridge will collapse,&quot; their boss would I'm sorry, a software engineer, said, &quot;I will suck,&quot; well, the boss would say, &quot;Deal Next up, Boss Kovic Boris says, &quot;You all if you don't want to.&quot; This is moving too fast video. &quot;So reading other If your job involves diving into lots of every single nook and cranny about C#. It's and I have to read lots of different C#, and it's can now know every single bit of C# syntax Tto Beet echoes this. &quot;Evolving language is but the support cycle is a deal breaker. Correct. I'd like a six-year LTS for .NET 8 or 10, please. you've got about one year of LTS left. That is having a renaissance, actually. The fact no runtime download, they haven't .NET 5, 6, 7, 8 runtime into the Windows I think .NET Framework is pretty good. sure they work on every single version deployment And D Dran says, &quot;What about learning MAUI for see C# for script, Rhino 3D, and Grasshopper. Your mate. Have you seen them? &quot;I don't want to learn guess what? Thanks to the magical power of AI and and stuff, I think doing mobile app development so Swift, Kotlin, etc., is actually 100 times for example, .NET MAUI and other cross-platform have to learn Swift or Kotlin or Java or whatever their existing C# skills. Don't have to learn you know, that's a lot easier. I mean, between the two. If you've got, they've just will probably help you get there and learn I wouldn't worry about it, actually. Now, not using cross-platform frameworks. I think that Thank you for watching. I will try not to I don't call it a podcast. Don't forget to or interesting or informative. press the like button three times, which