You might not believe it, but what That's right, all you see here Because they built a brand new city in And it could change the way how we The name of this city is Cayala. For this video I interviewed two of the who have seen it go from dream to reality. The story of Cayala starts with plot of land in Guatemala City. The city had grown around this hill surrounded by steep cliffs. But around the year 2000, the owners By chance, a young architect couple partner, landscape architect and town planner Marc Landers. They see an opportunity to Their names are Maria They both went to the Notre Dame School The only architectural traditional design curriculum. The only school that was really doing And we found an amazing Their education gives them a One focused on creating places that are and not only innovative or original. The plot of land asks for a And Maria and Pedro know exactly be perfect for this project. Leon Krier. Krier is not your ordinary urban planner. He believes in places that prioritize skyscrapers and cars, and promotes instead of causing social isolation. He also promotes architectural harmony over chaotic, haphazard construction He is also well known for being urban planning and architecture. He makes these drawings that visualize They're quite entertaining. I can highly recommend his book, Around year 2002, the architect Estudio Urbano, approaches Krier. They are not sure how he will react, Because Krier accepts the Before the involvement of Krier already has its own plan. Clusters of residential areas in Guatemala has some tough Many parts of the city are not safe can afford it choose for the safety But the concept of a walled city is Leon Krier and that of Estudio Urbano. They have a plan that is far bolder. The concept was to bring the the Persian, Greek, Roman city. So, it is an open city. That was an issue at the beginning from security was to enclose the opposite thing that we wanted to do. And why to close it if we have Antigua Guatemala city and it's an open city. So that was the first like big step that The support of the family They need to convince them And so we convince them as a first step clear vision of the potential of the land. Of course, on that moment, We were breaking all the rules. All of these concepts that, that Leon to them, at least to consider them. The plan is as follows. Small urban blocks with building heights with a network of pedestrian streets and The city is designed to look The buildings do not individually But they blend in and respect the whole. It is a mixed use plan, with apartments, The plan even has a church, civic spaces where people can meet. In Cayala they did something else The car is only welcomed as a guest. Because the land is owned by the family had more freedom and could show how almost no traffic signs and without standard, or things like speed bumps. Instead, the meandering streets take pedestrians into account. It was a huge bet, but it worked. Directly from the beginning, took over the streets. Another unique thing about Cayala You will not find modernist or other generic buildings that In Cayala, they fully embraced When you walk the streets, you feel or in Amsterdam, or Houston, Texas. To achieve this, they took inspiration that can be found in Guatemala. Architecture is a bit like a language, used the architectural vocabulary of We are using the usual methods of are done with a traditional language buildings, one next to the other. You can really read the facades that are Multiple styles and elements that to the 21st century and integrated. Art deco, classicism, Spanish of Guatemala are all represented. The Azaria pavilion, for example, has capitals with corncobs. This refers to the Popol Vuh, an the Mayan creation story in which It is just a wonderful example sensitive and respectful of place. And it is clearly appreciated. The building's steps are a and I've seen many people No one seems to care The people just enjoy the quality But perhaps the nicest thing The stone mouldings and frames, wrought iron fences and railings. They all give the plan an authentic charm. Finally, the plan is adapted With traditional clay roof tiles the colonnades and arcades that offers It might sound too good to be launched and construction begins. We were really nervous about that, If it worked, they will follow. If not, that's it. The open city center, Paseo Parts are inaugurated in 2011, completed, it doesn't feel new. It feels as if it has always been there. But what was very interesting is in the in which we have a civic building, From day one, all the concept was there it was there for so many years before, picture of what was going to happen, was like a new language, a new way People were confused. They didn't really understand it. It was a shopping center and it was open. You can walk in the streets. So it really was making So how did they finance this plan? Wasn't it far too expensive? And didn't they lose money on Well, not exactly. First of all, the family that owned the They didn't just want Instead, they cared about leaving a could achieve this by doing something The family understood that seeing through the lens of an Excel sheet, as soon as they possibly could, would They came to see that if they would would want to be, they would be the It turned out to be the right approach. Because the plan is so attractive, people This led to blossoming retail the land and the property. It became so successful even, now market their property in There's even a word for Many people seem to have a knee jerk the option to build something beautiful. They only think about the possibility But each beautiful project that has been very often quite profitable as well. Finally, we seem to think today that But real value takes much safety, livability and beauty. And real value, in turn, They don't exclude each other, It didn't take long before a number Cayala in a number of hit pieces. In the articles they wrote, they claimed closed off resort for the rich, surrounded Well, I was there, and I can assure you I didn't see any men with machine guns, What I did see, however, were some And I did see some security. As crime rates are still problematic, luxurious real estate in Guatemala. In the best case, someday these Also, most of the apartments It is, after all, premium real estate. So, is Cayala really only for the rich? And does the lack of affordable Well, when I visited, I Every day as the sun set, the crowd, with people from all If Cayala was really only for a lot of millionaires in Guatemala. Jokes aside, I didn't have the a place that tried to be a closed off Instead, I saw how a variety of people not everyone could afford a house there. The city center actually functions as one. It is a public space for everyone and People just do some window shopping, intimate streets, or sit on the the sunset behind the volcanoes. There is enough to do without spending be, and that is incredibly valuable. Not just financially, but We are a multicultural country, and to because public spaces are for gathering. And even if we have different ways of thinking, if you act in a very and you can share the same space. That is the purpose of cities. I believe that what was done in It shows how striving for beauty, harmony to a win-win situation for the developer It teaches us that people vote with their People just want to be in nice places. If you build those for But although creating places like Cayala We need more architects and planners, livable places, with architecture and rooted in local culture. Happily, there is a university like the But there are also more and more summer like the one in Utrecht this summer by by La Table Ronde d'Architecture. There's a great one in Spain too, Until universities in Europe, Asia, serious again and shift their focus from actually pleasant places, there are little But more on that in a future video. Finally, building beauty doesn't have As long as the public spaces are made And the more we build that is beautiful, it accessible to lower incomes as well. We have to start somewhere. And Cayala is a great example Thank you for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please share involved in politics or urban planning. You might also like the next uprising in Scandinavia is fighting Also, I launched a cool Notion years of research and a lot more. Patrons have free access, but you can get Thank you for now, don't forget