Thanks Trade for sponsoring this video. What's up guys this is Nick Digiovanni I've made several videos with him he's a good friend I challenge you, let's make a video together. What ceviche. We're gonna make Angel eat fish today. a wagyu tomahawk with some basted butter and some Exactly! -Oh come on! -Who's going to be the judge? -I think right enough talking and let's get it done. -Nick, Nick, are you scared? -Don't, -Nick you got any thoughts going into this? -Gives me I gotta do here start with the seasoning because salt, pepper, and garlic powder nothing else. -Start got my nice fillet knife it's nice and bendy which because they don't season their steak properly. You it? -I think it's better in some way and somehow wagyu fat gets a little bit -Too much. -Too rich. high quality fish that Angel got me here. -Guga -Maybe! All right I got my steak ready to go that's chill for a little bit while we prep the other cut your potatoes in fourth just like this no I think we can safely say this is a pretty gonna get them seasoned. Just a little bit of Toss them around. -So I filleted the first side cubes for my ceviche. I'm gonna do a small we're big guys we eat a lot. -I know but this is all meal. Let's say I'm making the appetizer you're making a little appetizer everybody, that's the of salt, garlic, powder a little bit of smoked gonna be cooking this fish. -Yeah I can see. -With five limes to really get this nice and acidic in sure they're not stacked on top of each other about 40 minutes they go. -And then once I've want to keep this super, super cold for about through. It's essentially going to turn a little that we have right now, but this is all I need work on that flavor. Are you a knifes sharp? -Yeah Wow! Now we're gonna make some brown butter All I'm trying to do here everybody just combine butter together with a little bit of thyme and garlic. this is all I really want right here. -I'm gonna add them to that fish to get some cilantro flavor oil to go on top of the ceviche a little almost immediately so I don't lose too much of the I'm talking about. -Beautiful right? -Beautiful. I like happy to have you here. -You're in my house and -It's time to chop up the last few things we do need a little bit of garlic. Gonna too much of it because we're not trying to totally Guga's breath on a bad day. Am I right Angel? says he's a baby with spice so I'm gonna put just red onions in there, and then a teeny bit of lime this flavorful, flavorful coconut. -Creaminess as a soup and kind of seasoning it all up right. We'll light that's what i'm looking for. I want as smooth going one spoon at a time. -Nick's doing all his is to grill that beautiful steak. So I say at continue and i'm gonna grill some beautiful steaks. [rock music] Before moving forward I want to thank today's tired of that same old coffee in your grocery something new and that's why I got Trade. Trade is sustainably sourced coffee from the best roasters store prices. That means I get the freshest and delivered straight to my door. It just does not to get started. Whether you like instant coffee coffee experts tasted over 500 roasts and use based on your taste preference and brewing method. they'll swap it for free. And I must say they do i gotta say I absolutely love it. It's a medium a milk chocolate profile with hints of hazelnut me going in the morning. If you have any issues cancel at any time. Right now trade is offering a when you go to drinktrade.com/guga or just That is more than 16 cups of coffee for free. To and start your journey to the perfect your first three bags. Thanks Trade for sponsoring -I'm not a fan. You can you go for that first for the kidding. -Let's go for the fish first. I know That's actually really good. -That is very good. -I've is actually way better than that. Better. -I like -Yeah. Nick, I'm proud of you man you're the let's go to the steak. -Steak time? Let's do -A little dip, little dip. -Ready? -That was a huge dip. -That was a big dip. That was a lot of salt. -Allright cheers. -Alright let's do it. Ready? Wow! Super juicy with the wagyu you know you're makes it more juicy than any steak. -Wagyu is -It's pretty damn good. -It's hard to beat. -I want to try Im going to get a little bit more salt. -More salt? -Guga it's amazing. -I love it. There's an amazing crust really hard to beat, it's incredible. -It's got gray band is kind of small too so you can tell best tomahawks I've had. I love steak and this is really good. -There's a guy that doesn't like fish we gotta pick one that we like the most. Three, two, -You know why? Because fish is really bad to me -It says a lot. -I gotta give it its you know -And I eat steak all the time so I'm going with like this and have amazing steaks all the time -Nick that was a tie. -I know. -Good job -Right -I must say your ceviche -I know right? -What's up with -I'm excited to try yours thank you so much for -I'm good, I'm good. -You're nervous? -I'm always happy we got to try each other's dish. I'm excited We've been filming for a while, it's as soon as you take a bite it's ridiculous. No they're some of the best in the world probably really prefer the Australian because you know a little bit too rich. -You could eat a half this were Japanese wagyu I eat one piece like this -And -Thank you. -I see why Manny gave you the win. It's -Okay i'm excited to go for your ceviche. pretty, it's a very giant contrast. We got -And you got edible flowers. Come on. -I got a -That's good. -That's delicious you know what I outside. -That with some plantain chips like it's -Which one would you guys prefer? Let us know on the comments. Guys I hope you enjoyed this video, if you did enjoy make sure to give it a thumbs up, for future videos. Remember if you are interested down below. Thank you so much for watching. Make did several videos together we even did some make sure you guys go check them out. See you