Seth Godin: I had a near drowning head was I said, uh, I'm not done yet. And there's things I want to teach And I was lucky enough to get Uh, and that's not fuel that I suggest When we write the history of this have billions of people connected and of pumping stuff out of the ground living we have, we tend to waste it. As soon as we seek to be generous, Many people anyway and part of the been encouraged by marketers for 100 mask on first before helping others. There are systems that There are systems that benefit from There are fewer systems. That benefit from you being resilient Strategy isn't just for Strategy is a philosophy of becoming. One of my favorite sentences One day soon, the person you to meet the person you are. How's that meeting gonna go? You have agency. That means you have And if you deny the agency, Great, if that makes you happy. But if you see it, if If you want to sing, sing. If you want to post You don't need to get picked. There are no important poetry magazines. That are busy going through They don't exist. Go do it yourself. Saying it out loud, announcing the the part of, and then a miracle happens. Because it's that wishful That if you know you are on a know one more step gets you one Robert Duff: Okay, everybody. Very excited for today's guest. We have Seth Godin. How would you like to introduce Seth Godin: I'm a teacher. Uh, I've been an author and a podcaster I teach canoeing as well. And, um, mostly what I try to make them a little bit better. Robert Duff: You also have a very profound Just perfect packaging. And I wanted to say thank you personally, on podcasts or talks of yours that have me out, even in like preparing for this was something you said on the Tim Ferriss the frames, meaning don't over explain, So some of my questions, I was lots of ask the damn question. So Well, thank you. That's kind of you. I was curious, how similar is your kind of what happens inside your brain Seth Godin: This is such a Um, first, there's no such Writer's block is an invention No one gets talker's Um, show me, show me your bad writing. If you have bad writing, you Um, when I was in high school, my that I was the bane of her existence And when I went to college, I took So I am not a trained writer. But what I realized is that if writing part isn't very hard. What that meant was I had And one of the side effects of that That I try to Talk like I want to I want to write, I think like I want and I think people can learn it. Robert Duff: What does it Do you have a lot of words going on in Is it more pictures or is Seth Godin: I'm fascinated by the have no words, which is pretty cool. Not my experience. I, um, I rarely get the chattering monkey and some CBT and some mindfulness, I've and not indulgent, not latch on to it. Um, yeah, but I guess trying Seeing the fear behind other people's mean, not what they say makes it easier and not get hung up on the words. Robert Duff: It's very, you do describe that that applies here as well. The writing feeds the talking, feeds the observation, etc. Uh, cool. Thank you for that context. You mentioned CBT. Could you tell me a little bit about, like, mental and emotional health? I don't know a lot about that in Like, what's your story like? Seth Godin: Well, I've made it my life and my story too much. Okay. Because it's easy and it's a trap. And the reason I think it's a trap is engaged with maybe really hard stuff. You were an orphan and you got over You have all this privilege, but course that person can do X and And so, you know, what I say to challenges with, uh, creativity. I would love to see Where is your daydream notebook where ten things that you are daydreaming of? Because everyone daydreams. And if you're not writing down ten of And the act of doing it, makes it means you can make it better. And then it becomes part of the habit. So what I say, my blog But one of the things about my daily blog tomorrow and it's not going to be cause It's going to be cause it's you know, we, we don't skip lunch. We don't skip brushing our teeth. There are all these things we could And that starts to change who we are. Robert Duff: Yeah. Your job is not to be creative. Your job is to ship. Was it, was it another one of Seth Godin: me? Yeah. Ship generous work. Don't ship junk. But it doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't have to be huge, Robert Duff: I can respect the, the own story because that's not the focus. Uh, would you mind though, talking coast of San Clemente affected the way that you operate in the world? Seth Godin: You know, COVID Uh, people didn't make it through. They lost loved ones. Uh, and soon after that, I had a near inside my head was I said, uh, I'm want to teach and things I want to Speaker 2: through those last Seth Godin: 50 yards, uh, and that's But I share it because when we write the time where we have billions of people in terms of pumping stuff out of the of living we have, we tend to waste it on Netflix instead of contributing. And A big part of my work is bring a strategy to their effort And I think if you know you can make a Robert Duff: You focus a lot on that, serving others or serving the world. Does that help you as an individual? It seems like you've taken a stance yourself, but you do focus a lot on, um, Seth Godin: Well, the lifeguard If you're 17 years old and you've near you starts drowning, you could are not the best lifeguard in the world. In fact, there's probably a better But that person in front That person in front of you is something by saving them. You don't need to have You don't need to You know that you can go save them. Well, as soon as we seek to be Many people anyway. And part of the nihilism and ennui by marketers for 100 years to be on first before helping others. It would seem to me that if I was a disaster, I would be way more oxygen mask on first and then try But that's my practice, but what As we lean in to the work we seek to do is But if you're offering, if you're light, It's much easier to go forward Robert Duff: I like that. You mentioned that we are You are very aware and good at that we may not even be aware of. Are there any others that you can, or highlight that probably affect us daily Thank you. Seth Godin: Oh, I can't even begin there that, if we were starting over to pick one off the top of my head, if this product that comes out of a mammal We're, and it's in a barnyard gonna get some of that stuff. But we have to boil it first, And then we're gonna But you better buy it right away, away, it's gonna get rotten and smell You want to buy some? It's 2. 99 a gallon. Like, no! Oat milk, please! Sign me up for oat milk! But But culture is a system. Delivery units are a system that when of course you drive a pickup truck. Do you ever put anything in No, but people like us So there are all of these systems of connection and status all around us. And some people Control systems and wearing eyeglasses until recently, one than half the eyeglass market, including checked the people who make the glasses. The brand names are One guy figured out that he could But the real systems we need to see are Where the systems where And changing those systems is very them, understanding that they're there Robert Duff: What's an example of a is in charge as you're discussing? Seth Godin: Well, the biggest one sometimes called capitalism. So here's a, here's a pencil and. A group of people came together There's a people who make the the blah, blah, blah, blah. And they've never met each other and the market magically made it so that this Whereas if we needed to have pencil integrated all the way back to the Speaker 5: Hmm. Seth Godin: So. When you think about what What does capitalism want? You can start to understand the things we ended up with. Because it wants each little component a living doing something, selling solving it, giving people options, etc. And the next thing you know, there's But it didn't happen It happened because the market Robert Duff: Yeah. I can see that in a roundabout way, themselves as well, because we're at least we are within that, right? Yes, Seth Godin: exactly. And so, to pick one example, uh, John before he was at Apple, worked at Pepsi. And he took credit for inventing Pepsi bottle a little bit bigger. And the reason is that We've all survived it. And one of the things And one of the ways they got that term, drinking a 16 ounce jar And by making the bottle a to slam a Pepsi than a Coke. So their market share went up. At the meeting, no one said, obesity that will come from this? That's a byproduct of a system. And, you know, what fashion does to women the costs, both environmental, financial And I don't think Diane von Furstenberg But she is. Robert Duff: There's that There's a need to get something, hole that you're told is a hole. Seth Godin: Yeah. And to feel bad that it doesn't fit you. Yeah. Robert Duff: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Bringing it down to more of So your book is, it's Um, how in your mind does the, to people on an individual level? Seth Godin: Yeah. So, um, when you were gracious enough to do I belong on a conversation like this? Thank you. And in fact, um, Strategy isn't Strategy is a philosophy of becoming. One of my favorite sentences in person you are hoping to become is How's that meeting going to go? Because that meeting could go really well. You could say, yeah, I Four years ago to be where I am But it also could be a cause for of modern mental health is about that ourselves in a bind, feeling trapped. Well, that's all strategy. Strategy is, what will I do today to work that tomorrow and the tomorrow after that to build a life where I want to live and today in the short run because it's an I'm busy or tired and then we have to to cover in the book is to say all of us Good strategies always outperform, that are just intuitive. We're just winging it. And you know, a trivial example. If you need to get to a meeting in flight out of one airport and four a good strategy to go to the airport Because if one of them goes That if your flight leaves at 2 p. m., getting to the airport at 11 sitting in your office, which also has one strategy is a better strategy. It gives you more resilience. But then this gets much bigger It's well, did the system persuade Or do I have the wherewithal Because if I spend the first three years of my life I'll be earning interest. Whereas if I spend the first three years I'll be in credit card debt forever. That's what the credit card company I Robert Duff: think you're right that A in terms of applying it to their life. They may have one, uh, well, they do It could be good. It could be bad. Um, how do we get aware of the strategies daily life, not only just for ourselves, Seth Godin: So it's two simple Who is it for? And what's it for? That's it. Who's it for and what's it for? So, you, I, I ran into someone the other just talking in the parking lot and were finally paid off 36 months later. Which means that tomorrow No, that's not what it means. Right? But if you need to buy a new or your girlfriend or your ex a new car, then please do. But you should know that's because your old car is broken. Who's it for and what's it for? This time I'm going to spend, right? Then the three hours I'm going to instead of going for a walk. Who's it for? What's it for? Who benefits if I stay home and watch Who benefits if I go for a walk? And when we keep coming back to who's discover is that high school is still That what we're trying to do in person who bullied us when we were 17. Or somehow undo that And if it's getting you But if it's not getting what And once you name it, I bet you're Robert Duff: Who's it for? What's it for that isn't, you're they, you have a preconceived They just need to be Seth Godin: and that will help. So I don't, I don't use, I could have. Use Twitter right at the That's what I do. And I said to myself, I could probably But if I was going to do that, I'd have So I'd become a slightly worse a much better Twitter user. Who's it for? What's it for? Who benefits if I have a 2 People who are spending They will tell you, well, I'm going to have 79 million followers. And I'm like, well, who else And when they have 79 million followers, Let's be clear. You're doing this because you possibly winning the lottery. Not because it's a good strategy. And if you could just name it, then Just make sure you can afford it. Robert Duff: So that comes down to the factors that are at play, which For you, it sounds like Seth Godin: right? Well, part of it is it's Because books don't have to be private. You can find three other people. And now it's not self reflection. Now it's peer reflection. And, you know, this is the This is the secret of so many Is you can't lie to other people as So, Who are the three people that week and tell them the truth about So it's not a substitute for care, but it is a excellent way. To think about your strategy. Robert Duff: You, you have 12 slogans in, for, for us podcasters to look at. Um, one of the slogans is And I think that's absolutely a lot of people struggle with. Do you have any advice for Seth Godin: So we get back Um, Years and years ago, I built one AOL was one of our biggest clients. AOL invited 50 of the people who and their goal was to tell the 50 of and persuade us to go along with it. But one guy, Tom, decided that he could of the other people who were there. So he rented a slightly bigger hotel room. And he invited us all over at And we spent the next two hours How could we do better at this? How can we do better at this? And all 12 of us got this huge having a secret cartel, right? And I've been grateful to Tom ever since, So it's scary back to high school, table where you want to join us. But when you're doing it for small, one little tiny step at a And it can be something as simple as about eight years ago, maybe more. And I sent her a note and And I didn't know who this person was. I was just being encouraging. Well, it turns out we went to summer camp But the point is, it didn't cost And we can start weaving this rejection, because we're doing it Robert Duff: Right. In that, that lunch table kind of metaphor to not invite people to your table, but And the stakes for getting to that And you're saying that You can create a table and say, Hey, come Seth Godin: Yeah, exactly. We all get to make our own tables. That's why we're not Robert Duff: Yeah, I think that's really you know, I work with a lot of people with of that fear of, you know, where can I You can, you can be that one than maybe the other people. Seth Godin: Yeah. I mean, yeah. Again, empathy is valuable, who has real social anxiety. I am actually sort of shy most of put five flyers in five mailboxes. I, I walk dogs every afternoon for free. Give me a call if you're interested. If no one calls, no one knows it was you. You have lost nothing. If someone calls, now you have a new to get to know your neighbor because And the woman in my neighborhood and she has people who are rooting Robert Duff: Brilliant. Yeah. There's some stuff that, uh, that So appreciate that. There's a, there's a quote from Um, you said we mistakenly spend we're in instead of choosing which Can you break that down a little bit Seth Godin: for us? Okay, so, I'm a game designer about board games or Wordle. I'm talking about a game is anything And so, uh, when three lanes are a traffic jam, that's a game. Who are you going to let in front of you? Who's going to let you in front? You know, and you can play You can be a jerk at it. You can, um, come out fine. And so work is a game and politics is Okay. So one of the things that Western Another thing it's trained us to do So they just did a survey. In the United Kingdom and 25 percent including senior citizens said that if years, they could make the Olympic team. This is absurd, right? But 25%. So That's supposed to Well, I don't think you should play games. You can't win if your You should play games. You can't win if just to be fun, but if you can't win, play a different game. And so what we see is a society It says you should play. And to play it not to win, So play a different game. And this goes back to which You know, if the game is who is the most senior prom, you know, before you start So don't go into debt to buy a dress or a 20th place, play a different game, right? You can go to the prom. Um, with your circle of people have have opted out of a game you can't win. And a lot of tension and stress comes a game even though we are pretty Robert Duff: What are some games that going to lose that you think people Seth Godin: Well, I think the going into debt to buy stuff. That's a game. That week. You have a limited number of resources. You can't buy everything. You can't have a yacht bigger than So we've got all of these people how can I demonstrate that I have There are. There are. Games of maintaining the status quo that maybe the status quo should change. So there's something we want to do. You know, it turns out most, many, States are unhappy in their careers. Now, it would seem to me One, Figure out how to have a narrative happy with it or two stop doing it well, I went to dental school and I'm that's a gift from your former self. You don't have to accept it. You can say thanks. I'm good You can keep that gift And we try to justify our unhappiness a deep breath, move something away Robert Duff: and being generous. Another slogan, disowned Right. But Seth, that's scary. Right. That's scary. You're throwing away. This gift from your former self, to do, but that's very scary. What do you do if it doesn't work out? Seth Godin: Yeah, exactly. And so I find starting with way to train one's thinking. So let's say, uh, you were, uh, you know, And it's the last day. You got one meal left. And you look in the fridge. And there's some stuff in the And there's some stuff in the You have one meal left, and you Should you do that? Is that okay? Is it okay to not eat the second fish eggs you bought a week ago? Right? I think most of us can acknowledge for dinner because everything is going So just pick what you want. Okay, so if it works for that, then the beach vacation, and you're on a vacation. And it's raining. Should you be unhappy? Or should you be fine and Because you're on vacation, you The fact that you paid for a That money's gone. You can't get it back. And you can't change the rain. So instead of mourning what you That movie I've always wanted to I have a good excuse to go see it. I hope most of us are okay with that. You're welcome. So from those two steps, we can get, company that made DVDs and not the make really fancy computer things. And we were off to a good start. And then DVDs became obsolete. And I could have insisted that would have wasted the moment where So switching. For the right reason at It's not a sacrifice. Robert Duff: Hmm. I find that a lot of people end up say, something life threatening that them re evaluate, or their career sucked they have to do something different. Which is, yep, which is too bad. Because it doesn't have to come Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Um, you also talk about validation, If you can change the source of your or choose the source of your validation. You get to choose your future. Talk about that a little bit. Okay, Seth Godin: so there's We begin by saying, choose boss and choose your future. So, if you want to make a lot of money work for someone who might be a jerk. And that's going to define your You get prizes, but you also pay a price. Choose your customers, choose your future. If you build an institution that before their big events, you're going to The next one is choose who you're So if you move to Silicon Valley down and that fancy tech bro, you're going embarrass you in front of those people. Not because you want it. But because you've chosen If you want to see a bunch of unhappy August, because there's all these people who are fretting because who didn't come car, who's got a better spot in line, And if you don't want to do that, don't Robert Duff: Right So Similar thing though, if you are cost of well, I've already gotten this position What am I gonna do? Am I gonna move away from San Francisco That's scary Seth Godin: It's very scary and so those Robert Duff: that have done that Seth Godin: Yeah, I mean, I haven't years, uh, mostly because of the And it was very hard to say to somebody status and money to go fly somewhere I worked very hard to get And now I say, well, I can't, And it made my life better. So we, we make sacrifices. for the market for other people, And you can decide what the And you have to realize there are to make this work against you. So there's a scam. That went around for a while. It's mostly fading where you'd be in a as a spiritual guide Would hand you then would wait for you to respond by that reciprocity and guilt drive a lot to say to that person No, thank you. And give them back the flower. You don't have to feel bad about that. They created the conditions And that's happening at the checkout. That's happening with, you know, they at the supermarket for a reason, because is low, that's when we're going to And once you see that someone has a You can have a new strategy that Robert Duff: And you know, from seen who can break through with that people that, you know, even the story Seth Godin: right. Cause they have agency, right. That they have decided that. They have enough, and that is billionaire will ever have, and you Robert Duff: Brilliant. Seth, what's something that you you wish you got asked about more? Seth Godin: Uh, you that I don't have an editor and I But then I realized that So if there's something that I just have to talk about it. And I'm not walking around When I was in high school, I was out, tell me I was a good person, Because it felt like I And the world has changed so understand you have agency. That means you have And if you deny the agency, Great. If that makes you happy. But if you see it, if If you want to sing, sing. If you want to post You don't need to get picked. There are no important poetry their Rolodex hoping to find you. They don't exist. Go do it yourself. And, you know, my friend, Sarah Kay, who I she got two standing ovations in one talk. Sarah Kay didn't have a license to start She just did. And so can we. And I know that's scary, Robert Duff: Sure. Make, I mean, that's also Rather than waiting for the invitation and saying, I'm going to do this. If you'd like to join, Yeah. That resonates with me too. Like I, I wrote my first book about So not afterward. But I was in my pre doctoral internship. So I had a master's degree. I was, I was nobody. Right. And be like, don't you have to, don't don't you have to get licensed that, And then it turns out, no, you don't. Brilliant. Um, I want to, you know, kind of start respectful of your time and everything. Um, what else do you want people to that we haven't already touched on? What else do you want people if it's a good one for them? Seth Godin: Okay, so, uh, I posted, blog. com slash T I S. And, uh, I'm not interested My publisher wishes I was. I'm not. I'm interested in helping people change. And I just want to, I, I touched on specific set of challenges that some crippling anxiety, or they have other I'm not talking to those folks because or a degree to help you with that. Go get the kind of help that can help you. But many people, in fact just about with the choices they need to make. They stumble sometimes with the narrative around, about the world around them. People generally succeed not because of comes from practice and commitment. And that's another place that we stumble. And so it may seem like the deck is deck and understanding that there's are in the deck, understanding You don't have to play poker. These are important adult decisions. And we can undo a lot of the And we can learn to see what And, so, I wrote the book so I wrote it so that you and I But it won't help if It will only help if they And it's that iterative, connective for, what's it for, what is the change tomorrow into what it's possible to be. Robert Duff: So then on that you might have people take? If you could, you know, have action, what might it be? Seth Godin: Um, I think we, have conversations about our strategy. It's supposed to be a secret. Is there something wrong with us? If we can announce what our strategy is, And we need to get comfortable Right. My strategy is I need to feed a family of So I'm not going to pretend We're going to have fun doing this. That's my strategy. That's my goal. That's who it's for. That's what it's for. And suddenly I don't feel guilty anymore. I feel great because instead of spend 40 on a piece of dead cow, I get the bank so that we could go do something Saying it out loud, announcing the To leave out the part of and then a thinking That wears us out that if you because you know, one more step gets you Robert Duff: So say it out loud. Be real about it. Seth Godin: Yeah. Robert Duff: Great. Seth, it's been a pleasure talking to you. I really, really appreciate your time. Um, there's some really cool insights for, for, for the book to come out. Um, I know you're not trying to sell of people and helps a lot of people. Seth Godin: Well, thank you, Duff. I think people don't realize how you show up, how you're digging in And I have such respect for So thank you for what you're doing.