(bright upbeat music) - Is the end goal here that abortion be illegal, and removed as a resource Is that the... - Illegal and unthinkable. - Illegal and unthinkable. So it is criminalized and stigmatized? (enchanting music) - If you agree, step forward, if you disagree, stay put. Nobody likes abortions. - I don't think anyone likes it. I think they use it and they from my perspective. But I don't think anyone Like they're not like jumping for joy for. - I think it is a very to go through. And I don't think anyone have an abortion. I think those who get an it's because they need to. - It's a harmful narrative on to say that, you know, I think it creates a prejudice around women who do get abortions. And I don't think that it's good to kind of the decision of abortion from either side, from - Can the disagree step forward? - I think if you asked me this question, maybe several years ago, I would've said nobody likes abortion, but I think in today's climate, it is much more celebrated. As a pro-life person, I've had people tell me that they will dedicate instead of helping women, they will have an abortion. - I've heard very Things like I'll donate to And there's other pages that openly celebrates abortion rights. - Yeah, I celebrate abortion and I think that campaigns aren't about like getting in your face, but women who choose to have abortions suffer a lot of stigma and trauma from people who stand outside clinics and have grotesque images damning your soul abortion as a medical procedure and resource is something that I do celebrate. It's a human right and I love abortion. My name is Rocky You SheHer, pronounced I'm from Austin, Texas. And I am very pro-abortion. I think that legislation and the path towards handing over our bodily autonomy to the state. I don't understand how anyone can justify using their personal beliefs to take away the rights of others. - My name's Abby, I'm And I'm an abolitionist of human abortion. We have to ask the question So because my world view as a Christian gives me a foundation for human worth. And because I believe scientifically fetuses are human beings I am against abortion. - Biological fathers should - Well, I think so. I mean, it's consistency. Like if we're defining that as a life, if it is a life to put both parents have to agree. - I agree, I have talked to lots of women who've had abortions and I've talked to lots of men who are hurting, their they would've raised the baby. They wanted to raise baby. They begged for the life of the baby and they obviously but only one of them gets to decide if their child gets to live or die. - I would like to think feminist perspective, as the other parent of that child. Ironically enough, a lot of the times when pro-choice people put they strict the man of all his parental rights And I think that's why actually a lot of men who are because they don't wanna have those fatherly responsibilities that they will have - You've left us, man. I wanna know why. - (indistinct) struggle. - I'm mad conflicted about this because I strongly feel like a man should not have control over what a woman does with her body. I more so have an issue with when a man doesn't She wants it and then expects this man to like be the ultimate provider and child care and all But in the case of it, the man wanted it, the baby and a woman didn't want it, he has no say so. I think that's (indistinct) up dynamic. So that's why I was going back and forth. - Well, you should have stayed then. It sounds like you're for men - I just can't force you have to do this. Cause I think it's (indistinct) up it's her body. - But it's also a child's life in there. It's not just her body. It's a child's life. - And it's also your son or daughter. - I think truly in my eyes, it's like, it's my body. I get to do what I want with it. And I don't think anyone the other person who's involved should have a say whether I wanna keep it or whether I want to get an abortion. - My name is Asher, and I'm for pro-abortion. I used to be against abortion until an unwanted If you know for a fact that you're not even for that child or you can't or maybe you're just fearful and don't wanna pop a child outta you or just whatever reason that you have. I feel like you shouldn't You still have that choice - I have had an abortion. - A few months ago I found out that I was pregnant. So when I imagined myself finding out I was pregnant I wanted it be celebrated. And in that moment I and having that, I felt, I was just in a lot of I was debating about myself, about how I would be looked at or how I would view myself after getting the procedure done. - I ain't gonna lie, I'm nervous. So I'm be real careful in my words. Clearly as a man, I but my girlfriend, She didn't really want to have a baby. I didn't really want to have a baby. And I know for me, I don't want to be that seen but I knew I wasn't really or what I was trying to accomplish to be a dad at that point. - I think that's definitely to consider because I wasn't to be a mother, you know? So it's like, I wanna get my shit together before I can have a baby and give it a life that it deserves. When I found out I was pregnant, the person that I was with I will support you in every way, but I will not be able to be there for you if you decide to keep it. And that definitely influenced my choice. It was one of the hardest I like to think I'm a pretty generous, like loving person in the for even getting one. I've gotten evil, psychotic, demented. My name is Christine. I'm from Denver and I am So when I was 20 years old, I was a college student and I found myself in And I was pressured to abort very heavily, not only by my child's father, And I heard my son's heartbeat and there was no debate, it was a life. His life was not mine to take. This is part of why I am very pro-life because I know many women when they don't want to. - Can the disagree a step forward? - Your story is absolutely I think something we is abortion usually is a whether it's finances, whether whether it's relationship issues, my perspective is that instead of ending the life of a child. - I disagree, I don't think People should be able to access abortion when, how, wherever they want or need. I don't think that it's I think that is still stigmatizing. - But I think the biggest thing is that there are birth control methods out there, and abortion should not I think that that's very critical. And to hear that, you know, I think life should be - I'd like to call Just the fact of using I thank you for everyone I didn't step forward, I But I am a survey ever of rape. I was on birth control at the time and I still made the that birth control is not a And I wanted access to to take on top of that. And had that pregnancy or I would've chosen to have an abortion and I'm very grateful that I and I'm so mindful that - Well, I think it gets down You know, what is the unborn? Which scientifically the a living whole organism with distinct DNA. As a Christian, I come from a worldview that says that every human being is, - Not to disrespect any but in my eyes, that's just pushing a belief onto someone rather than actually stating - So, scientifically I'm not because of religion. But scientifically, I believe that life does start at conception. I don't think it makes sense to put life beginning at any other doing so usually ends up saying that the already born such as consciousness, There are many pro-life people here here from the science perspective who are not led by religious I am Ayala, I am 18 years old. I am from Charlotte, North Carolina. And I am anti-abortion. One misconception that I is that we are all And as a, you know, Jewish woman younger, I really want more voices in the anti-abortion movement because I think we have new perspectives that would help kind of bridge the gap and have us find a little between our two opposing sides. - Abortion is murder. - I think it is murder. I think for the abortionist I think a lot of women exactly how an abortion I've had a girl even a baby is just a clump of I do believe now there might some women might be unaware of what's going on in an abortion. But by and large, I think especially with and so much education out there, many of them do know that the life, that there's a life inside of them and they want to end that life. Whether they call it murder or not. - Hard disagree, absolutely disagree. - Okay. - I've definitely met who grew up in our generation who believe that abortion is normal. A fetus is Columbus cells and there is no human life in the womb. They don't tell you when you go into an abortion consultation, this is a child and this is a human life. And then that's, what's I have a hard time believing that if most women knew they would do that. I don't think women in I think it's very to say, oh, this woman's a murderer because she had an abortion. - At least my personal experience, the people who worked there They let me know there is a child that could come out of you in nine months. Are you sure you want to do this? I knew there was a child in my body. I knew I could have a And I knew that that child can But I made that choice because I'm allowed to have that choice. And especially you, you are a white man. And you are not allowed with my body, nor any of these other women - I think that's so dangerous. I think that's so dangerous to say that you can't say who you are as a male or female, or how you believe as a religion, you can't define what's right or wrong. I think that's misguided and we shouldn't take that in the policy. - I think what you's saying is whatever your morality is, I think that, you know, folks are entitle that we we have freedom from religion. Whatever your moral value is, the issue is trying to and putting on someone else. - We legislate what's right - Thinking even medically, you know, like for indigenous women, there are two times as likely to die from pregnancy related complications. Who's responsible for that murder if she's forced to carry that baby? - Well, I would be off working on legislation altogether where, you know, if the woman's or if they've instance situations we can keep those options on the table. - So all of a sudden, because we'll make legislation to And all of a sudden you're pro-abortion. - No, I'm not pro-abortion I personally would not like I think science is, no, no, no, no. I think science has come a long way where that's actually not the case anymore within our medical community. And we need to continue for those mechanisms to on how to keep the woman - What is the end goal here that abortion be illegal and it be criminalized forever from this country. Is that the.... - Illegal and unthinkable. - Illegal and unthinkable? - Yeap. - So it is culturally (indistinct) - Culturally for women. We want women to have to where they don't need an abortion. And then abortion for the So an abortionist could go Women should not be criminalized because at the end of the day, women are victims of abortion as well. - My name is Sebastian king, and I am anti-abortion side. My mom had an unplanned pregnancy because she was taken advantage of from the time she was 12 to 15. And she was in and outta state custody. And a judge even encouraged and told my mom that she if she goes through with this pregnancy. Because she chose life, that's the only reason I'm here today. And that's my mission is to ensure that all life is protected. - Abortion should be accessible to rape and incest survivors. - If you're pregnant from your brother or your cousin or your father, especially if it wasn't you should still have that And especially if you've been raped, there are some people who have like, what if I, when I look at my child, I relive that trauma. - Just to remind you. - And not saying that's how all rape victims view it. But it's just like some - Okay, so I was raped for four years of my life violently. More times than I can count. And I did get pregnant when I was 15. My rapist threatened me with Used it as a tool to keep me in his power. He had the power to terminate evidence, he had power against me. I did end up losing her, I named her Rahi, which And I think it's very who are conceived and rape because they're walking around right now. - There's a lot of them. - There's a lot of them. And I think it's been very insulting to place that on a human being. I think that humans no are human beings and they and their lives deserve to be respected. - And I agree because that's me. I agree a hundred percent. And my mom has always told me she doesn't view me as his. Even on my birth certificate, - Oh, so I want tap on Cause you said you really And although you don't, you know, see it as the right baby and stuff. Other people who also go through may actually see it like that, right? You wanted that. But there's other people taken away from them. They shouldn't be shamed and even having to live of the rape baby, you know what I mean? - Here's the thing, when you get an abortion you are continuing the cycle of violence. So you were raped, that was a violent experience That wasn't your fault. You're hurt, you've been victimized. Why is it fair to further because you are hurt. Why is it not.. - But you're seeing it I'm putting myself in a woman's shoes or a human being's shoes, right? You take my choice away. You write me and for all, you know, I might be a struggling human being, making $8 an hour or something like that. Crazy bills. I might be living in my car. I might be sleeping under the But now, because of your opinion and my traumatic experience, I get shamed because I into the world, bro. Oh, but you should give birth and then put in foster care if you don't want it, bruh. - I Wanna touch on that too just for a second. Like for trauma. I think absolutely what is giving people the choice. And for you, you thought and you wanted that pregnancy. And I'm really sorry And I also thought a lot about for myself when I went through that experience, what choice would be best for me? And for me that was And I think trauma is For me, not having control over a child, growing inside of me and You know, that would be more traumatic than the initial experience. We don't know how people are gonna react, but I do fight and would to do what's best for them. I think a strange about people who are pro-abortion is that we don't have respect for life or we don't care about children. That's a absolutely not true. I respect life very much. Unfortunately, I've also seen of our systems in the US, It's out of that respect that I believe people should have the right to choose an abortion. - America offers resources - There's tax benefits to having children. I think there was also, you know, in the latest round of COVID money, there was funding for - Yeah, and there are so and so many different organizations that want to help women, you know, and the resources are there. - Also government resources, there are government resources that help you take care of children. Are there enough? That is a different question. - I was basically just cause section eight, food school programs and whatnot. Like there are resources, - That's how my mom because of government assistance. So that's the only way she made it because of that. - I have been a pregnant teenager and I've also been a teenage mother on welfare and unemployed. The number of resources that is something that is atrocious. But what it comes down to the choice between do I go to work and get the money to pay rent or do I go and I sit in the office or do I go to this nonprofit who's requiring me to and come to a meeting in the daytime when I'm supposed to be working. - So you see it kind of like a job, like you're clocking into filling paper with you receiving your (indistinct). - Low resources and creating hurdles and more barriers for people who are already experiencing to get the help is not a help at all. - And I feel like a completely is it is extremely hard who is also a woman or person especially black woman. They are notoriously even in that room where they're giving birth, they aren't taken seriously. - Well, I just wanna say one thing because I think it's important. So I might not look it, but I'm native American, have my Cherokee card and everything. We have universal healthcare And when she went to have me as a child, they told her in that that she's not allowed because that's a luxury. So she got it through So that's a big deal is more for than the - That is such a low bar. - No, no, no, I'm not but I'm saying like.. - It exists. - It exists, that story exists. - But there are literal reservations out there that do not have water, do not have electricity, do not have internet that is in 2021. Are those not resources to raise a child? - So let's address that - The question was does the No, does America provide resources? No, that's unacceptable. - Abortions will continue to - Of course. - All right, well. - That ain't never going to change. - I think of course Law doesn't mean that at all anymore. Just like rape, just like murder, just like anything else we've outlawed. Just because they're still going to happen doesn't make it right. - But if you criminalize doctors and abortion providers, right? That means we no longer have providers. That means abortion is And that by default the and especially my state and it has happened. We have precedent, a woman or who tries other non-medical methods to have an abortion can and has been criminalized. What is the policy that take away the right that people have to access an abortion regardless of what their beliefs are. - If that child is a human being deserving of the right to life, then yes, it should be criminalized just like murder of two year And adults is criminalized, right? - But that's so different though. You have people that's two they been here for years, right? And then you got these cells. - Can I ask you something? - Go ahead. - When does it stop - Personally, I'm not worried - Decades of medical research has not been able to land on that answer. - And I'm trying to answer your question. As far as cells... - Do you believe that abortion should be allowed on - I do feel that's a bit more extreme. So I will agree on that as a.. - But let's not act like to get abortions at or third trimester. And the woman who are doing it, that's either that they're or it's under some men to circumstances, cause I doubt even myself, I doubt that I would get to a six month, seven month mark and then decide I don't wanna make this commitment. I feel like there's a Like when does it become wrong? As if we're actually at that time. - A lot of the, what pro-life people pro-choice comments and things like that are a response to hostile pro-life people. And I think that doesn't because we don't like to fight each other. But I think it's an important point because I've seen absolutely made towards women who are going into clinics, you know, who are obviously in a and you don't know what And they're shouting obscenities at her. And that's appalling. And I think that we need as pro-life people to understand they've experienced so much hurt from our side of the community. - And I agree with that. I think, but from our who are very passionate because they believe that's a life, they believe that's a baby and they wanna do everything But I agree that our as a resource and another option. And we can do that peacefully - I think on any side of you're always gonna have those extremists, same thing on the pro-abortion side, people are always gonna have feelings and people are always gonna But I think it's about coming up here and saying like what and how do we come up with policy that doesn't force folks to live by other people's values. (enchanting music)