[music] Who? Cowy. Where? Here. When? Now. How? Like this. Like this. Like this. Like this. Who? Elliot. Where? Here. When? Now. How? Like this. Like this. Like this. Like this. Who? Lisa. Where? Here. When? Now. How? Like this. Like this. Like this. Like this. Who? Billy. Where? Here. When? Now. How? Like this. Like this. Like this. Like this. [music] And now, let's go, Baby Bot. [music] Like this. Like this. Like this. Like this. [cheering] [music] Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. First, go the crayons in their box. If you make it a rainbow, it's more fun. Then go the pencils in the cup. Tidy, tidy, tidy, tidy tidy them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Close the glue and put it away, so you can use it another day. Get the papers, stack them up. Stack, stack, stack, stack, stack them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Wash your hands after you paint, then close the colors and put them away. Get the scissors. Keep them safe. Close them up, that's how they stay! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. [music] Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. First, we have the kitchen Where we can find the fridge. This is where we store our groceries. We can also find the oven. This is where we roast all the veggies and make delicious cakes. Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. Welcome to the living room. On the couch is where we read. And in the evening, also watch TV. Next, we have the dining room. This is where we eat. At the table with our family. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Play and learn inside my house. Hi, welcome to my home. I'm glad you came along. Let me show you all the different rooms. Come inside the bathroom. It's so shiny and so clean. This is where we bath and brush our teeth. Next, we have the bedroom. In the bed is where we dream. Turn off the lamp, so we can go to sleep. [music] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap] -I-N-G-O [clap]-I-N-G-O [clap]-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. [music] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap] -N-G-O [clap][clap] -N-G-O [clap][clap] -N-G-O. And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap] -G-O [clap][clap][clap] -G-O [clap][clap][clap] -G-O. And Bingo was his name-o. [clap] There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap][clap] -O [clap][clap][clap][clap] -O [clap][clap][clap][clap]-O And Bingo was his name-o. There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] [clap][clap][clap][clap][clap] And Bingo was his name-o. [clap] What was his name? There was a farmer who had a dog and Bingo was his name-o. B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O B-I-N-G-O And Bingo was his name-o. Hello there, sun, We're going to have Hello there, sun, We're going to have Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Here comes the rain, It's rainy all day, Here comes the rain, We're going to play, Here comes the snow, It's snowy all day, Here comes the snow, We're going to play, Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh, no! It's a storm, Run, run away, away, Oh, no. It's a storm, We'll come another day. Another day. Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! And this is how we This is how we play, we always play. This is how we play, we always play. Let's play! Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;B.&quot; Put it in the oven for Billy and me, For Billy and me, For Billy and me. Put it in the oven for billy and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Cut it with a knife. Put it on a plate. Please Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Please Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;C.&quot; Put it in the oven for Cowy and me, For Cowy and me, For Cowy and me. Put it in the oven for Cowy and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;E.&quot; Put it in the oven for Elliot and me, For Elliot and me, For Elliot and me. Put it in the oven for Elliot and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Cut it with a knife. Put it on a plate. Please, Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Please, Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait! a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z Now I know my abcs Next time won't you rock with me! 1... 2... 1, 2, 3, 4... A B C D E F and G H I J K L M N O P Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me! Q R S T U V W Y X Y Z Q R S T U V W X Y Z Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you sing with me! Now I know my ABCs Next time won't you dance with me! Now I know my ABCs A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. A-E-I-O-U are vowels. Learn the sounds today, make a word tomorrow. Tomorrow, tomorrow. A-E-I-O-U That's how words come true. A says a like a in cat. E says e e in bed. Cat, bed, cat, bed, cat, bed. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. I says i i in pig. O says o o in box. Pig, box, pig, box, pig, box. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. U says u u in run. A-E-I, oh vowels are fun. Vowels. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. [music] Choo choo choo choo choo Choo choo choo choo choo A train is coming down the track Hear the wheels go click and clack Count the cars. Watch them go. Will it stop? ST-O-P or will it go? G-O Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. G-O, G-O Go Choo choo, choo choo The train was fast, and now it's slow. See the ducks walk in a row? They want to cross, so now we know our train must stop. ST-O-P We cannot go, G-O. Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. ST-O-P. ST-O-P Stop, stop, stop. A train has gone down the track. No more wheels click and clack. No more lights flash to and fro. We had to stop. ST-O-P Stop or go, stop or go. Watch the lights so we know. Now we know, now we know. Let's G-O, go! Choo choo Choo choo Choo choo [music] Good morning, good morning, It's a brand new day! Good morning, good morning, Hip-hip-hip hurray! Good morning, good morning, The day has just begun! Good morning, good morning, Time to have some fun! Hello, hello, hello, How are you today? Hello, hello, hello, Would you like to play? Hello, hello, hello, I hope you're doing well! Hello, hello, hello, Seeing you is swell! [music] Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, I'll be on my way. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you another day. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you in a while. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, A hug, a kiss, a smile. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to close your eyes. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time for lullabies. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Quiet, not a peep. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to go to sleep. Shh. You're at the pool and swimming and you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do. Take a break and go poop. You're outside jumping rope and you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're sitting down and eating And you start to get that feeling I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. You're playing in the snow And you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're cuddling up and reading but you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. Everybody goes poop. Who took the cookie from the cookie jar? Cowy took the cookie from the cookie jar. Who, me? Yes, you. Not me. Then, who? Billy. Who took the cookie from the cookie jar? Billy took the cookie from the cookie jar. Who, me? Yes, you. Not me. Then, who? Lisa. Who took the cookie from the cookie jar? Lisa took the cookie from the cookie jar. Who, me? Yes, you. Not me. Then, who? Elliot. Elliot. Elliot. Who took the cookie from the cookie jar? Elliot took the cookie from the cookie jar. [music] What does a bee What does a bee say? Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz, buzz, buzz, buzz Buzz, buzz Big buzz Busy buzz Beautiful buzz Bold buzz What does a sheep What does a sheep say? Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa, baa, baa, baa Baa Big baa Busy baa Beautiful baa Bold baa What does a dog What does a dog say? Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark, bark, bark, bark Bark Big bark Busy bark Beautiful bark Bold bark Bee, buzz Sheep, baa Dog, bark Buzz, Bee, Bark Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. A fireman putting out a fire A dentist fixing up a little smile An electrician soldering a wire A car mechanic changing a tire. Wherever you may be look around and see People doing work for the community. The traffic guard tells you when it's green A farmer in the field planting beans A janitor who's scrubbing until it's clean A policeman who stops you if you're mean. [music] I'm in the mood for some really good food. Look, we're in luck. There's a food truck. I would like two tacos and some fresh fruit. How much, please? Thank you too. Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. [music] I see you have some chicken with some mac and cheese. That sounds delicious. May I have some, please? Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. [music] Here are some napkins. Here you have cups. Thank you for your orders. They're coming right up. Let's get some water while we wait. Here comes the food. It all looks great. Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. Please and thank you, manners are the best. You have great manners, so be my guest. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. The wheels on the bus go round, round, round. Round, round, round. The wheels on the bus go round, round, round, all through the town. The cats on the bus say meow, meow, meow. Meow, meow, meow. The cats on the bus say meow, meow, meow, all through the town. Meow! The dogs on the bus say woof, woof, woof. Woof, woof, woof. The dogs on the bus say woof, woof,woof, all through the town. Woof! The wipers on the bus go swish, swish, swish. Swish, swish, swish. The wipers on the bus go swish, swish, swish, all through the town. The horn on the bus goes beep, beep, beep. Beep, beep, beep. Beep, beep, beep. The horn on the bus goes beep, beep, beep, all through the town. The windows on the bus go open and close. Open and close Open and close. The windows on the bus go open and close, all through the town. [music] Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see some circles spinning down the street. Wheels of cars and buses looking really neat. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I see some orange cones right next to the road, warning there are people busy digging holes. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see cylinders, when it's time to eat. Open up the pantry, to get a can of peas. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a sphere, when I'm playing ball. Pass it on to my friends, this is fun for all. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a big heart, a big heart on a shelf, wishing love and friendship, happiness, and health. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see many cubes, in my big toy box. Try to build a tower, stacking up my blocks. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? [music] [giggles] Woah! I am a banana, yellow and smooth Check me on your list, I am a fruit And I am a carrot, I make a loud crunch I am a vegetable, eat me with your lunch Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy I am an apple, delicious and sweet I am a fruit because I have seeds I am a tomato from the salad mix We're so sorry, you're not on the list Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Hello, we're grapes and aren't we cute? You can let us in, because we are fruits And we are lettuce so let us in We are veggies not like him Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Hello again, I've got some news I'm a fruit Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, put us in your tummy Veggies and fruits, we're good for you We taste real yummy, so put us in your tummy Far in the candy mountains there lives a unicorn who loves to give. If you're using crayons you wouldn't understand how its magic colors all the land. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. Brighter than the sun we shine leaving glitter trails behind. Rainbow twinkles painting the sky. It's so much fun to fly. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. My unicorn! [MUSIC] Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o And on his farm he had some pigs Ee i ee i o With an oink-oink here And an oink-oink there Here an oink, there an oink Everywhere an oink-oink Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o And on his farm he had some cows Ee i ee i o With a moo-moo here And a moo-moo there Here a moo, there a moo Everywhere a moo Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o And on his farm he had some ducks Ee i ee i o With a quack-quack here And a quack-quack there Here a quack, there a quack Everywhere a quack-quack Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o And on his farm he had some sheep Ee i ee i o With a baa-baa here And a baa-baa there Here a baa, there a baa Everywhere a- Cock-a-doodle-doo Quack-quack here And a quack-quack there Here a quack, there a quack Everywhere a quack-quack Moo here And a moo there Here a moo, there a moo Everywhere a moo Oink-oink here And an oink-oink there Here an oink, there an oink Everywhere an oink-oink Old MacDonald had a farm Ee i ee i o [music] I'm going to need your help with this song. I want you to listen for the sound word and repeat it back. Are you ready? Here we go. I hear the wind whoosh through the trees Whoosh The leaves crunch under my feet Crunch The rocks kerplunk into the lake Kerplunk And I feel drip drops on my face Drip drop Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear That was great. This time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it back twice. The car vrooms down the street Vroom, vroom Its horn goes beep Beep, beep It screeches to a stop Screech, screech And the tire goes pop Pop, pop Uh-oh Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear This last time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it three times. Don't forget to be silly. I chomp on my food Chomp, chomp, chomp I gulp down my drink Gulp, gulp, gulp And now I have the hiccups Hiccup, hiccup, hiccup Oh, no, I'm going to sneeze Achoo Listen up to the sound all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear Achoo. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. I said B-U-B-B-L-E-S. I said B-U-B-B-L-E-S. Show your hands. Show, show your hands. Turn on the water. On, on the water. Get the soap. Get, get the soap. Here we go. Here, here we go. Scrub, scrub. Scrub, scrub, scrub, B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. One, two, ready, go. Rinse your hands. Rinse, rinse your hands. Dry your hands. Dry, dry your hands. Turn off the water. Off, off the water. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B. Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall, Humpty Dumpty had a great fall. All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, put Humpty Dumpty together again. Humpty Dumpty sat on a tree, Humpty Dumpty fell off the tree. All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, put Humpty Dumpty together again. Humpty Dumpty sat on a pillar, Humpty Dumpty fell off the pillar. All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, put Humpty Dumpty together again. Humpty Dumpty sat on a goat, Humpty Dumpty fell, oh my gosh! All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, put Humpty Dumpty together again. Humpty Dumpty sat on a plane, Humpty Dumpty fell off the plane. All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, put Humpty Dumpty together again. Humpty Dumpty lay down on the bed, Humpty Dumpty had a great rest. All of the penguins and Humpty's best friends, finally could rest together again. [music] Let's go on a treasure hunt. I've got my treasure map! Climb up the volcano! Climb, climb, climb. Climb, climb, climb. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Having an adventure. Slide down the tunnel! Slide, slide, slide. Slide, slide, slide. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Finding something special. Hop across the crocodiles! Hop, hop, hop. Hop, hop, hop. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Heading to the jungle. Cross the wooden bridge. Step, step, step. Step, step, step. Let's go on a treasure hunt. Deep into the jungle. Watch out for the monkeys! Run, run, run! We've found the treasure! What's inside? Surprise! [music] Pick up the paper, put it in, Pick up the paper, in the recycling bin. Pick up the food put it in, Pick up the food in the compost bin. Pick it up, Put it in, put it in. Pick it up, pick it up. Put it in. Pick up the plastic put it in, Pick up the plastic in the recycling bin. Pick up the glass put it in, Pick up the glass in the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. [trumpet music] What do you do to stay active? Do you run around and play? Do you walk the dog in the neighborhood, or hula hoop all day? Maybe you do karate, or ride around on your bike. Let's take care of our bodies by moving and grooving all day long. Let's run. (Grooving, grooving) Let's walk. (Grooving, grooving all day long) Let's hula. (Grooving, grooving) Let's ride. (Grooving) Let's dance. (All day long) What do you do to stay healthy? Do you throw a ball to your friends? Do you bounce real high on the trampoline, or show off all your bends? Do you zoom around on your skateboard, or lift some weights at the gym? Let's take care of our bodies by moving and grooving all day long. Let's throw. (Grooving, grooving) Let's bounce. (Grooving, grooving all day long) Let's skate. (Grooving, grooving) Let's lift. (Grooving) Let's dance. (All day long) What do you do at the end of the day as you start to say good night? Do you brush and flush and get big hugs to end your day just right? Do you get to read a story? Do you like to snuggle tight? Let's take care of our bodies by sleeping through the night. I love when winter comes and freezes up the lake. From liquid to solid in just a few days. Put on your ice skates. Get ready to play! I love when summer comes and melts the ice away. From solid to liquid in just a few days. Put on your swimsuit. Get ready to play! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it behaves. Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. I love when winter comes so we can make hot chocolate. From solid to liquid, it melts right away! From solid to liquid, it melts right away! I love when summer comes so we can make some popsicles. From liquid to solid, eat them right away! From liquid to solid, eat them right away! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. From liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves! Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. From liquid to solid! Solid to liquid! Look how it all behaves! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! This is the samba and the limbo, it comes from Brazil. Rio de Janeiro is where you must go to dance it with me. In Italy, in the City of Venice, we'll wear a mask, dancing the waltz, so gracefully! Come with me to New Orleans, Let's have some fun at Mardi Gras! If you like the sight of the grass, this is the city of jazz, Hurry up and come to Mardi Gras! In Spain, there's a carnival in Cadiz. Where the streets are always sunny, while they sing the Pasodoble, And the people are so jolly! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! Welcome to the carnival, where you can dance and make new friends! Fly with me around the world, so the fun never ends! [music] Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Hey, move your knees, move your knees over here, please. Hey, move your knees! Hey, move your knees, move your knees over here, please. Don't stop, move your knees! Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Now, bend your legs, like a chicken laying eggs. Bend, bend your legs. Now, bend your legs, like a chicken laying eggs. Bend, bend your legs. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Shake your big toe, show me how high you can go. Shake your big toe. Shake your big toe, show me how high you can go. Shake your big toe. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Now twist your spine, twist it like a porcupine. Twist, twist your spine. Now twist your spine, twist it like a porcupine. Twist, twist your spine. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Wiggle, jiggle. Freeze! Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na. Oh, na, na, na, yes. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. [music] Every day I walk into the store. I'm filling up my cart and then I'm headed out the door. Gotta have bananas, kiwis, oranges and more. Fruits are my favorite! Ooh, ooh. Every day I walk into the store, can't wait to eat these foods, there's really so much to explore. I spy carrots, peppers, broccoli, tomatoes, and more. It's a rainbow. Ooh, ooh. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Every day I walk into the store, want to try some healthy foods I've never had before. Grabbing chickpeas, lentils, tofu, bean sprouts, and more. Legumes are cool. Ooh, ooh. Every day I walk into the store, skipping down the aisles, I see things I can't ignore. Loading up on hummus and peas, berries, yogurt, and more. It's snack time. Ooh, ooh. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! We want, we want fruits! We want, we want veggies! Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Shala, la, la, la, la, la, la. Who's ready to rhyme? Me! Cowy was walking Down by the lake When she met a snake Getting ready to bake. A little while later The snake pulled out a cake. Lake, snake, bake, cake Lake, snake, bake, cake It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is cool When we're in the pool. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy was taking a beautiful hike When she saw a panda Riding a bike. Then she saw a rose Growing a nose. Hike, bike, rose, nose Hike, bike, rose, nose It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun When we're in the sun. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy and her rocket Were flying up to space When she flew by the moon It made a silly face. Wow, thought Cowy. This is such a crazy place. Space, face, place, moon No! Moon doesn't rhyme with space. Okay, you're right! How about space, face, place, race? Space, face, place, race Did that rhyme? Yes! It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is great, But don't be late. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! I'm just an F I say /f/ And I'm an L And I say /l/ Come over to my letter Let's put ourselves together There's so much that we can spell We can fly a flag on a flagpole We can flip, and we can flop We can even spell flamingo And we don't forget to floss So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Hey, I'm a C, And I say /k/ And I'm an R, I say /r/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together And we can go so far We'll create some crafts with crayons We can crash, and we can crush We can make a crab crawl crazy And we can crunch a crispy crust Yum Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together I'm just an S And I say /s/ And I'm a P I say /p/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together There's so much that we can be We can make spinach and spaghetti Oh, yeah We can travel up to space We can splash all day in the sprinkler And we can sprint to the end of the race So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together Hey! The itsy bitsy spider was dancing all around. Down came the rain and washed the spider out! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, and it slipped back to the ground! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, and the spider slid right down! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! Hey! The itsy bitsy spider looked up the water spout. Down came the rain, but the spider felt worn out. Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider wanted to try again. Hey! The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the water spout. Down came the rain, but the snorkel helped it out! Out came the sun and dried up all the rain, and the itsy bitsy spider could finally dance again! Hey! Hey! Hey! Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Want to eat? Well, today you'll see different dishes from overseas. It's so much fun to try tacos and beans. Oh my! Pack your appetite and close your eyes, then take a bite. Ah, ah, ah, whoo! Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Ninas y ninos, let's go get some tacos. They're delicious, amigos. Want to eat? Well, today you'll see different dishes from overseas. It's so much fun to try pizza with cheese. Oh my! Pack your appetite and close your eyes, then take a bite. Ah, ah, ah, whoo! Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Presto pizza, amico mio. Il migliori di tutto il mondo. Linguini, spaghetti, and lasagna It's got to be 'all'Italiana'. Want to eat? Well, today you'll see different dishes from overseas. It's so much fun to try yakitori. Oh my! Pack your appetite and close your eyes, then take a bite. Ah, ah, ah, whoo! Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Konnichiwa, friends. Ramen soup is great, sushi is always delicious and so fun to eat with chopsticks. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. Yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy, yummy, yummy. Yummy, yummy. Welcome to the World Food Party. One, two, three, four. Everybody play outdoors! It's a beautiful day to go outdoors. Let's play outdoors! It's a beautiful day to play outdoors. - We skate. - Yes, we skate! On a skateboard. -We ride. -Yes, we ride! On our bikes. In the sandbox, we dig, dig, dig, dig, dig. One, two, three, four. Everybody play outdoors! It's a beautiful day to go outdoors. Let's play outdoors! It's a beautiful day to play outdoors. -We skate. -Yes, we skate! On roller skates. -We hop. -Yes, we hop! In a game of hopscotch. With a hula hoop, We hula-hula hoop! One, two, three, four. Everybody play outdoors! It's a beautiful day, to play outdoors. To play outdoors. To play outdoors! One, two, three, four. Everybody play outdoors! [music] More songs, activities, [music] [laughter] That was fun. [music]