Of all the home computer stories, Amiga is long. One reason for that is the number of machines attempt to diversify and capture the market For that reason and to ensure you have adequate into two parts, and following in the lines all things, at the beginning. To do that, we have to travel almost 40 years Atari were expanding. Having developed arcade machines for several into living rooms throughout the world. To assist with this, a gentleman by the name custom integrated circuits by Harold Lee. Jay had been in the electronics industry for at electronics school in Groton, Connecticut at California-Berkeley University in 1958. During his early work career he worked at where he gained an impressive knowledge of Armed with his knowledge he successfully reduced a plethora of discreet components into a single The 2600, as we know, went on to be one of Immediately after Jay would begin development Interface Adapter, Alphanumeric Television Circuit, offering input and output control At the time the designs Jay created were impressive, circuity, allowing the 8 bit line to live By this point, Atari had been sold to Warner to market and deliver their home systems, was more interested in milking their current Jay and his team were keen to initiate a new 68000, but with Atari uninterested, left the for a company called Xymos, helping to create Another Atari employee who had left at around Kaplan. Larry was unhappy with the lack of recognition left in 1979 to found Activision. The first third party game developer who put In 1982 with the console market slowing somewhat, exciting. After seeing the Nintendo Famicom at the Consumer colleague Jay, with the idea of creating a and peripherals for Investment was needed and along with a few on the video game craze, Jay found additional Bert Braddock, Jay's boss at Xymos was keen board. He quickly encouraging the Texas owner of the Xymos semiconductor labs. And so in June 1982, work began from a small With Larry as vice president and Jay in charge was also brought on board; Dave Morse, head the same Dave Morse who would go on to head As we're discovering with these documentaries, With a team in place and suitable investment, sounding both hi-tech and Texan. The founding idea was for Larry to design whilst Jay designed chips for the cartridges By October Bert Braddock was keen for Nolan chairman. Larry called up his old Atari boss to suggest Larry to come and work for him. Only a few months after setting up Hi-Toro, take his place. The company was then split into two segments; work on software and peripherals for existing the other would begin to focus on his old around the Motorola 68000 processor. This required some convincing for their dentist But still excited by the growing games market, powerful games console, whilst Jay slyly worked a full blown computer. Codenamed &quot;Lorraine&quot; after the wife of Dave for labeling new chips after girlfriends so the hardware plan was to create an advanced development practices of Commodore's new 64 Once the design was complete, the circuits 1983 would see the company named changed to investors unhappy that the current name sounded Toro. After several suggestions, including Amigo, Spanish word meaning &quot;female friend&quot;... And I mean, the Amiga kinda did feel like Also, like Acorn Computers, it came above was cutting edge marketing for the 1980s. And so it was, the company was renamed to and one side-line to supply funds and act Whilst Jay worked on hardware, the other division and &quot;JoyBoard&quot;, a kind of early Wii Balance Surf's Up and Mogul Mania. These products weren't really the success the American video game crash of 83, which of nervousness from their investors. Thankfully computer systems like the Apple and having unprecedented foresight Jay reassured hardware could be sold as a full and powerful However additional investment was needed for and borrow from other sources to keep afloat. Steve Jobs also visited the company a few was too complicated to invest in. Throughout 1983, Hardware development continued and driven by Jay's insatiable craving for The team Jay chose to recruit, all had one They were looking to change the world, and certainly helped this and crafted the feel Members brought on board include programmers and Dave Needle and even Jay's beloved Coakapoo, The custom architecture wasn't new to Jay. The chips he'd designed at Atari are what time, offloading work from the 6502 CPU. Lorraine was also built around custom chip 68000 CPU, which although meaning it would for arcade rivaling graphics. Something the entire team was very keen on The chips in question were originally named task. Daphne would manage the display. Portia was in charge of sound and I/O tasks CPU and memory whilst also housing the Copper such impressive animation abilities. One of Jay's inspirations for Daphne was a to him by Al Pound at manufacturer Singer-Link. He wanted to use the Blitter (which can push quickly) to refresh frames fast enough to This simulator was also the inspiration to could place more colours on screen than memory of existing pixels. This laid the path for the Amiga's impressive although in these early stages it could only The complex designs were put together using with an entrance sign saying &quot;Ground Thyself&quot;, in many ways, that's almost true. In September 1983, Lorraine was completed for retail, allowed some impressive demonstrations Along with Amiga's sideline peripherals, one on show at the Winter CES, but cutting it At this point, the system had to be constantly Bob Pariseau had been brought on as chief implement a suitable operating system, so the show to come up with something worthy Lorraine didn't even have a keyboard at this a SAGE IV remote terminal. The result was a red and white checkered ball point, up and down, with no horizontal movement But even so, it was enough to spike the interest in a VIP only back room, and god knows that Badly. Even the transportation of their equipment airline seat and wedging it between them under drawn on for good effect. Amiga struggled on through the first half baseball bats which the team would use to RJ Mical even wrote a meditation program for as possible, without registering it's sensors. This became a running joke and the inspiration all very familiar with. The kit was condensed a little, although still hundreds of MSI logic chips, which accurately slower pace, and the bouncing ball demo was with today. Bob Pariseau, Dale Luck, RJ Mical and recruit task of creating a suitable operating system ready for the June Summer CES with their latest on wider display. But what was it about this ball which garnered Well.. the initial draw was the sheer size Remember, this was an era when computer animation There simply wasn't enough power to chuck The Boing ball was a whopping 140x100 pixels seamless and mesmerising fluidity, much like However, there were some cunning tricks behind to the design of the hardware, rather than was completed using just one, through clever The sound echoing from the ball is also from and volume. Bob Pariseau was recorded hitting an aluminium an Apple II digitised it from inside the garage. The demo is a testament to not only the team's programming skill. Creating something brilliant, in limited time But this wasn't their only trick. By now RJ Mical had created the basis of an This was a window driven operating environment and like others was based around an early Combined with the Boing demo, the first glimmers revolutionary multitasking kernal called Exec tantilisingly evident, but really it was unncessary. By now several big names were interested in in the evergreen and rapidly evolving computer The main two were Commodore and Atari who However with Commodore kicking it's heels, to buy 1 million shares in Amiga at 3 dollars company afloat, with a $500,000 loan whilst However, the contract for the loan was a strict within a month or Atari would be able to snap Clearly a filthy move designed to work in they had no choice. Strangely, Atari weren't even interested in come so close to completing, instead they own machines. Behind closed doors however, at Atari's parent place to find a buyer for Atari as it was James Morgan, CEO of Atari was even unware were business as usual. One of these negotiators, in early July was Having recently left Commodore over disagreements and Atari seemed ripe for the picking. A deal was quickly drawn up and Jack became was renamed to Atari Corporation. He would have also become the proud new investor/owner it hadn't been for his former company.... Commodore. With Jack and his team of engineers departed new machine and although late to the party, Amiga from right underneath Atari's noses. This included the repayment (with interest) investment in Amiga, taking ownership and Amiga Incorporated. Upon finding this out, Jack was a little scythed breach of contract for $100 million dollars out of court in Atari's favour after a few Still, disruption was minimal for Jack as which would soon become known as the ST. Back at Amiga, Commodore set about investing their new machine. Jay and his team may not have been running on safe and stable footing for the first time first founded in 1955. Things were looking good. The pokey little office into a spacious facility More engineers were brought on board to expedite was subsidised with another 10 so that everyone Work quickly progressed on two vital areas, Daphne was renamed to Denise, Portia to Paula technical improvements, an increase of memory the massive prototypes on actual silicon chips. Although the team, particularly RJ Mical had Kernal, Graphical interface Intuition and was dubbed CAOS (Commodore Amiga Operating time to develop into a usable system and needed handing and resource routines. As part of the buy out, Commodore had imposed to market and so employed MetaComCo to port the Intuition code. TripOS was originally developed at Cambridge to the Motorola 68k by Dr. Tim King. It's fit with the Motorola chip meant that reasonably straight forward, however the final visions of Jay and his team, lacking many resource tracking which would free up resources system. Still Workbench, working alongside the KickStart experience compared to rival systems. This was still a time before Windows 1.0 had Aside from the technical aspects, there was deal with. Jay had a whole swave of design drawings which system in line with desktop systems like the were put into place including a garage unit machine, suggested by Dave Morse, who was along with a pencil holder on the keyboard Not only did Amiga put a lot of time into in the belief that they had hit the holy grail Just 11 months after the purchase of Amiga at a lavish New York show at the Lincoln Centre For this grand event, a full orchestra was shipped over and a lavish display was presented. Commodore's Vice President Bob Truckenbrode took charge of the machine's real demonstrations. In many respects, the event was designed like launch, and it showed the key stand out abilities felt a little lacking. To end the display, the old faithfull Boing full blown AmigaOS with Workbench file management run simultaneously in the background whilst The ball had become so synonymous with Amiga logo (something that holds true in more recent with a rainbow checkmark, similar to the style a bid to identify the Amiga as a continuation impressive hardware. The show was finalised by Andy Warhol and other on stage to show case some of the machine's hand of resident Amiga artist, Jack Hager. The paint program in question, called ProPaint bugs with the flood fill tool, however blissfully seemingly pushing the software to breaking or glitches occurred. Press coverage of the show seemed somewhat People were clearly impressed with the Amiga's ahead of it's time, that many didn't know It seems a little absurd now, but the industry landscape of blandness. The Amiga was just pissing all over that and The original machine was available as either upgrade... something Jay had to plead with Commodore be enough after the Operating System was loaded Other than being able to read to and from ROM at this point also, with Kickstart loaded disk into a 256KB Write Control Store area off. One reason for this was to iron out bugs in ROM chip. At it's heart was of course the Motorola 68000 The custom chip set, later known as the OCS Agnus incorporating the blitter block image Denise is on hand to fetch planar video data into a color lookup as well as handling over She can provide a borderless display with be vertically doubled for interlaced display. Denise can also handle 8 16 pixel wide sprites transparent, or 15 colours when combined. Paula is still handling input, output, including but also holds the Amiga's audio capabilities. She comes with 4 DMA based 8 bit sample channels, one channel to modulate another channel's Data is held by a 3.5&quot; Double Density floppy Zorrro 1 card slot is provided on the right Port wise, the machine has a keyboard port, Centronics parallel access and an additional For video there's an analog RGB out, a TV RF Modulator, and Composite outputs. As a tribute to it's creators, who put their models bear the molded markings of the entire faithful Mitchie, who Jay apparently posed his K9 response. In it's sleek low profile package, the Commodore and aesthetically, released for $1,495 for in North America. An analog RGB monitor was available for an to $1,595. This was a price beyond most casual users at $2,495 and cheaper than IBM PC-AT machines, However, there was one, slight thorn in this Whist Commodore Amiga were frantically building staff over at Atari had been working even launching the Atari 520ST a whole month earlier, $799.99 with a monochrome monitor and $999.99 If you consider that the Amiga didn't even one hell of a deal. Of course it's true that the Atari ST didn't but even without those chips, Jack's machine It also had the head start, further confounded November. And crucially, it had the price. Rather than unveiling a golden ticket unrivaled former company within just a few months and from the go. By riding on higher development costs and had immediately placed their Amiga into the the likes of Apple and IBM. This was a market where software mattered. Where spreadsheets and productivity were king, a great deal of software. Atari's pricing had placed their machine into up the system for a swathe of new users wanting This early discrepancy meant the ST was initially a reasonable degree of software houses looking However, Amiga did still have the wow factor, fall nicely from their sleeves. One of these cards came from the then innovative of Trip Hawkins. Before, after and during the Amiga's debut, was its remarkable graphics capabilities. Able to display 32 colours on screen from res, not to mention it's 64 and even 4,096 over Apple's monochrome Mac, IBM's 4 colour 16 out of a palette of 512. Amiga's various demos showcased these abilities, users to really capitalise on this ability, to become clear. Deluxe paint, a rewrite of their Prism package and artists inspired by the appearance and popping up. In a shrewd move, Commodore had given EA access of the launch date, allowing Trip Hawkins Before this point, most programs had their their line of software, however EA were the File Format (.IFF) into their package developed This .IFF format acted as a container, allowing all adopt this universal format. Combined with the new features offered in basic digital tools, seemed to re-create an a door way for a generation of new artists unlock the wonders of this new machine or bathe in its on screen glory. If the IBM had found it's niche with business publishing and the ST with music production, in the world of graphical superiority. Released in November 1985, Deluxe paint was releases which would help propel the Amiga history. Strangely, games, the software genre the machine for had barely got a mention so far. The launch party was devoid of any nod and altogether. This was alas, an early sign of the mismanagement to establish its identity and purpose. The trap they had fallen into was the trap The notion that expensive technology can't at the cost of losing credibility. This was in part a notion IBM and Apple had of graphical and sound abilities come across Rather than breaking this mould and declaring machine was Commodore fell right into it, although games would also immediately begin showcase the hardware. Mostly being conversions from other, lesser already available on the Atari ST. In part Commodore still viewed their 64 as was, but the market was ready for a leading a high price. Commodore were also under some strain, having the Commodore 128 earlier in the year, alongside and profits were becoming thinner. The Commodore 64 was still being sold, and Amiga wasn't even stocked in them, with Commodore the new hardware, an outlet where Atari STs Instead Commodore seemed to continue their a zombie based advert, similar to Apple's based on 2001: A Space Odyssey. The advertising continued, apparently trying even moved to soul-less comparison shots before Combined with the delayed production, lacklustre only sold 35,000 in 1985, and this wasn't to the company bailing on the January 1986 This didn't go amiss from the press who noted very show, it was akin to Russia resigning Thomas Rattigan, former CEO of PepsiCo International Marshall Smith, and immediately began a much and make the most of their frankly, ground By now the Amiga was selling approximately A figure the Atari ST was beating, along with to further software ports from the ST which version OF the ST. Rattigan's plan was to first cancel well overdue then create 2 versions of the Amiga hardware. The first would be a high end desktop aimed The second would be a cost-reduced version models. Finally a clear path was beginning to be laid. Whilst these plans were being laid, Jay's still disgruntled by the handling of their To this end, whilst working on Workbench 1.1, into the operating system that would appear (&quot;We made the Amiga, they fucked it up&quot;). RJ Mical discovered it and although finding However, it was merely encrypted and the first message on screen for 1/60th of a second if the same time. Apparently someone with keen eyes spotted even with shoddy 1980s freeze frame ability, who quickly pulled thousands of machines from Given that it was unlikely to ever be found a 3 month sales delay whilst new ROMs were to take. But then it wouldn't be the first we've encountered Shortly after, Commodore decided to move the West Chester, Pennslyvania, whilst making cutting. Some of the remaining team did as bade, however the endeavor and an official employee, and the company from his home town. To further reduce Commodore's overheads, staff This included projects like the Commodore even Commodore's office branding and supplies its infancy. Rattigan then set about his plans. Proposals for the high end machine were first had recently been responsible for launching Armed with this fresh PC knowledge their idea the new Amiga, expanding the bus and allowing be added. A dedicated video slot was also introduced This allowed computer images to be placed with the Amiga's native video editing abilities. The Amiga was really defining the Multimedia way into the standard machine of use in the The final case and keyboard wasn't as elegant thanks to another cost cutting measure of case as the housing. The new machine launching in March 1987 would change of the original Commodore Amiga to It retailed for a hefty $2395, armed with from the off. Immediately its path was sown and advertising niche and selling points. At the other end of the scale work had also Engineer George Robbins was keen to jump on such a machine from the start, fitting much and indeed the expectations of developers Commodore's core group of engineers were put charge - who had previously been working on Along with Robbins, Bob Welland headed up shrinking the Amiga 1000 hardware, along with One of these was the upgrade of Agnus to Fat with 512kB of pseudo fast RAM. The motherboards were codenamed after a B52 on the boards.. a trend which would continue The new case design was very much conceived and the recently revamped Commodore 64C model, floppy disk access on the side much like Atari's It seems whatever the Amiga was doing, Atari Still, the Amiga 500 was planned for launch in October for the budget price of $699 in ready to go head to head with the Atari ST throughout the world. Not long after this the 2000 model, having some of the 500s design improvements and a Terry Fisher taking the task to hand. A new Buster chip was integrated to manage play functionality, another ahead of it's A Co-processor interface was added for CPU giving the 2000 a much needed 1mB memory boost. It appears that once again, Commodore were Thomas Rattigan had begun to turn things around, financial year, but yet, this apparently displeased bone to pick with Rattigan, possibly an egotistical But Gould accused Rattigan of conducting himself means... to me it sounds like he just didn't to quickly concluded that Rattigan should This was promptly executed by Gould in April of Commodore the very next day to the bewilderment He would subsequently sue Commodore for breach million dollars, but be unable to complete We'll never know what difference he would but for now Commodore had 2 new machines, to launch the Sidecar, allowing the 1000 to So, what about software for these machines? After all, we know its pretty essential....... Well, ready for the 500 in particular, one World of Commodore show.... Defender of the Crown. Defender of the Crown almost defined a new It burst open the boundaries of experience filled with abstract concepts or frantic action. Here was a game, which as it's appropriately a play along film. For the Amiga, it was an experience which hardware was designed for. Underneath it's really a risk like game, dotted the colourful, high quality graphics which squinting at their 8 bit screens. Older hardware really needed an overlay of In Defender of the Crown, there was no need. Bob Jacob, Cinemaware's founder was no stranger of Commodore 64 titles, but having witnessed a sense of what the machine could do and built advantage of that. Although even the best Amiga games were selling were selling over 100,000 more. Jacob's idea was to wow the press and consumers them up with cut down versions on other hardware. It was a strategy which worked and really it was. RJ Mical was actually contracted to re-write one of the best and most impressive incarnations. Almost 200,000 Amiga's had been sold by the a different approach, and keen to gloss over press to refer to the new machines as &quot;The on cases. This pushed the Amiga as almost a separate Commodore's continued Commodore 64 and 128 With the Amiga 500 launched, sales began to but the machines were still expensive and sell. Nintendo was currently dominating the home and Sega was gaining traction with the Master These consoles were cheaper than home computers, of their revenue from game licensing models. This meant that although hardware was cheap, harder to publish on them. One of the distinct advantages with machines Practically anyone could create their own This quickly meant a wave of new software Some conversions from the Atari ST, some brand and some was just coded by people at home an area which would grow rapidly over the Although the new systems were selling in America, much more rosy. Since it's launch, the Atari STFM in particular upgrade for current Sinclair Spectrum, Amstrad This was a region much more used to plonking room television for both gaming, and general It's this tinkering which grew the number and eager for new technology, many of these Armed with Motorola 68000 knowledge, the Amiga and although in the UK only some 50,000 500's released which really took advantage of it's In 1988, the number of 500 systems sold increased and it looked like Commodore UK and European Another key reason for this was the tactics counterparts. Instead of bundling the Amiga 500 with business mundane adverts, David Pleasance, the UK sales entertainment based packs, which echoed earlier under Amstrad's rule. One of these packages in particular was the with the new Batman game, based on Tim Burton's Interceptor and Deluxe Paint 2 for just PS399. A similar pack was also released for the Commodore it was glorious. These key moves increased annual machine sales Amiga was just getting started.