You couldn't simply just lean and cook off rounds like that. You'd have to pause a little bit. Otherwise, you'd completely I'm John McManus. I'm a professor of military history at Missouri University of I've written 15 books, including two about D-Day Today, we'll be looking at war scenes from &quot;Saving Private Ryan,&quot; and we'll judge how real they are. I don't know how they did it, but the atmospheric feel for what you're seeing here is very similar to the morning of D-Day. You get a sense of the tides as they come ashore. That's 100% accurate. Of course, you just had a a couple of days before Eisenhower postponed the The initial D-Day was but he decided, you know, we just simply have to Move fast and clear those murder holes. So you see him standing In the real invasion, the captain probably would've ready to lead when they got off. Now, there's solid reasons, why you can't do that, why he's got to be kind of You'll notice too, they have mixed along with them guys with a blue-gray patch. Those are guys from the which is the sort of main formation that comes ashore at Very dramatic film, of course. You know, a machine gun completely zeroed in. You couldn't simply just lean and cook off rounds like that. You'd have to pause a little bit, otherwise you'd completely And it's true that there's a especially in this initial But really, the bigger coming off those Higgins boats was mortar fire, artillery fire, small, like 50 mm gunfire. But you are under that and they really get that part of it right. Though I'm not a ballistics expert, it's actually almost physically impossible for bullets to have under the water. But, I mean like so many the realism is incredible on some levels, because so many guys did go over the side. They're in the water, they're disoriented. And of course, you know, there's the danger of drowning, as well. The sheeting that covers the guy's rifle, that's dead-on accurate. A number of people who did have plastic coating for the rifle. You'll notice one inaccuracy though. If you're looking at the log obstacle, it's pointed in the wrong direction. It should be pointed to shoreward. And the reason for that was because the angle was such that at higher tide, it could and blow though the front But it's just one minor This is just so good, because the biggest danger to your life if you're one of these guys coming ashore at H-Hour is the artillery, and these are clearly artillery rounds. And the way they show the explosions, the way people are kind of flipped about, dead-on accurate to what to a lot of people. This is one of my favorite because it shows something that happened and in combat in general, and it's called acoustic trauma. When you have these kind you are sort of concussed, but your hearing is, of So in this case, Tom Hanks' is in the middle of that acoustic trauma. When you see all this it may seem a little but I will tell you, those are taken from directly So here, you're seeing what would've to be one of the safest points. We've just, you know, gotten past the 80th anniversary of D-Day, and so we've gotten a sense The invasion that happens in France is going to open up a second front, as the Allies called it at the time. And there's really only two major reasons that they consider invading Calais, which is farther to Normandy is a solid second choice, because it's not as and it offers some ports, it offers suitable landing beaches. It is, you know, looking back on it, certainly one of the seminal because it's the beginning I'd give it a 9. I mean, a solid 9. I mean, certainly I would've preferred the log obstacles be pointed There are things to parse But you know what, it's Omaha Beach, and I think overall, No armor has made it ashore. We got no DD tanks on the beach. Dog 1 is not open. Here we have a little bit of mythology, the idea that no armor had made Actually, a lot of armor made The reason I think that is because you hear him refer to DD tanks. Those are duplex drive, that swam their way in, or they were designed to do that. Yes, it's true that 27 but in the opposite end of in the side of the beach where they are, all the DD tanks got in, because they were brought Medic: I got it. We stopped the bleeding, Yeah, I really like that clip because, it shows just how difficult the job of the medics was that day. And you notice too how Omaha Beach is one of where medics are having to move wounded toward the enemy instead of away, for the obvious reason that And so they are definitely vulnerable. And so the way they portray Bangalores, up the line! Bangalore torpedoes were a major way that the Americans got off the beach. And that's basically just like that you had to assemble together. And why was that? Because you might need a to get over that kind of barbed wire or through a minefield Omaha Beach, that is really common, especially for some of to use Bangalore torpedoes to Although, when you see in the way the machine gun nest is portrayed is not necessarily all that accurate. It's certainly just right out And the Germans probably wouldn't have had that many sandbags at a position like that. Yeah, I would say I'll and the only reason I knock it down a peg is because of the idea of For us Omaha Beach nerds, it's a little bit of a nettling thing, the idea that there's no There are some issues with this clip. The Vierville exit, you wouldn't have gone I mean that just, like they portrayed, that would've been an absolute, They actually kind of It's a pretty bad situation if your last option is to in an impact crater somewhere. What they would've done, what they did do, is to bring in heavier firepower. Some of those tanks maybe that are on the beach by now. There are also some anti-aircraft pieces that they can use to Be not thou far from me, oh Lord. I mean, obviously this is that Barry Pepper is portraying in Pvt. Jackson. A special scope, on top of Springfield rifle, which would've been you know, the major sniper rifle you But one of the things that's is you notice the bruising on his thumb. Now, that was more typical of the kind of problem that you'd have in firing a different which was the main rifle in that the bolt could slam forward if you didn't load it properly. And it was called M1 thumb, and it almost looks like which has always made me curious. he doesn't have an M1 Garand, and he's an incredibly expert rifleman. How would that have happened to him? Miller: Flames, Doyle! Do it! Now, so this is not my favorite scene in the movie. Quite far down the list. You have here what is often called the sort of classic example Someone has just thrown a and you're just going to sort of, you know beetle out of there, out of the bunker without There's also, not strictly speaking, any real evidence that we ever had a flamethrower team clear out a pillbox or bunker with their weapon at Omaha Beach on D-Day. This is really well portrayed There were trenches like this. The Americans were This last part here, with the Americans sort of catching them like fish in a barrel. Those who fought around the Vierville draw would've loved to had a But to my knowledge, there just wasn't a lot of that where the Germans got caught that badly. Soldier: I'm sorry, I can't One of the things I really is it portrays the non-Germans who are in In this case, I think these guys were Czech, and they're trying to explain don't shoot. And ironically, that's Now, if we're thinking it's far more likely that the Americans would've encountered non-Germans who came from Those were the three primary ethnic groups that you would've had in uniform for the Germans at Omaha Beach on D-Day. I'd give it an 8. You know, as I mentioned, I'm not that wild about how they're, you know, and the sort of dumb German that comes out of the bunker and the use of a flamethrower when that probably did not happen. I would give overall, to all these Omaha Beach scenes, I'd give it a 9 out of 10. It's so well done. It's so well researched. It's so true to many eyewitness accounts, many veterans' accounts. You want to explain I mean, where's the sense of risking the lives of the eight Absolutely valid question that somebody probably would've So the larger context, in terms of what these guys are doing, they've been basically selected to go and find and save So the whole thing is that was really true, the sort of informal that comes into place. Well, we don't want all the same brothers serving in the same unit. And as I understand it, what inspires the entire the story, is the story And so, is it possible that you would've had a patrol sent out to get the surviving guy and get him home? I suppose theoretically, yeah. I've always thought it pretty unlikely that you'd send a patrol and try and find him. Atmospherics. The buildings, the stone architecture destroyed, the wood lying around, It's exactly like that in Normandy. So Neuville-au-Plain does exist. It's located about a mile which is more famous and is one of the first You would've had, you in the town, but also outside of the town, probably even more so What I don't like is that the soldiers are from 101st Airborne Division. Actually, the soldiers who were from the 82nd Airborne Division, including Sgt. Niland, who was killed, just outside the town. I think that's kind of a disservice to the actual unit or the That really portrays the kind of close-quarters as you might have had it where one side could be in one building, another in the next, and they just kind of The translator Upham, played by Jeremy Davies, is trying to speak to them in German. But someone who's as I think probably would've been on the sharper point of the spear, of going and interrogating It would've been pretty unusual for him to move along with a patrol this far out in front at the spear point. The only thing that is that they just open fire immediately. And I think that's more likely to happen, because they may not have Yeah, I really like that part of the clip, because it's showing the French civilians and what's happening, how they're in the How they've lost their home, how now they're in danger. Come over here. Carpy, put your head down. There's a lot to unpack here. Certainly the sniper hunt, I mean, that is very much how There's a number of things in relation to this part You've got a sniper who's just fired down and wounded one of your guys. Why isn't the unit just and you know, why aren't you and then maybe sending closer to the church? Now, there are plenty of times where a sniper has you covered, and everybody's terrified, and you're just kind of hunkering down. I think more likely in a you would probably have who would even be a much because he is calling down heavy stuff. Yeah, I mean, I'll give it a 9. I just love the desperation of the moment. We can still skip it and I mean, this isn't our mission, right sir? I love the precursor to this, of the discussion, the dilemma whether to go And I think that in the I think you probably would've You've got a lot of everyday including Capt. Miller of course, right? And so they're wondering What I don't understand is how he's chosen to do it. The assault, as it's portrayed, would've been a very against that fairly You've got an amazing sniper in your unit. Why not get hang back Because you got the drop on these guys, Why not just pick them off? You throw a grenade, and the other guy catches and throws it back. That would've been a pretty neat trick. I think any German soldier, any human being, would've Here's the part of this the grenade explosions. Which, if you look at actual that's what a grenade that's what it sounded like. Because in a lot of other movies that just aren't as well done as this, it'll be these big flames And it's like, no, they're not shooting Roman candles. And same thing with the German side. You'll notice that the they're throwing are So I think that part of the really well done. Cover! That's exactly the way a lot of the fields in Normandy would've looked at the time. And as an infantryman, you absolutely would've And in that half-track, they would not have seen you. Half-tracks were sort of, well, it gives you the mobility, of a jeep or a truck. But you've got some level and you can mount sometimes some pretty like a machine gun or any tank gun or something like that. In this scene, they're exactly the way they would've been used. The only thing I'd wonder about is that perhaps there'd be more and that maybe you'd have kind of scouting around. It strikes me as very vulnerable out there on its own. But it's certainly very possible. I'll just get the one thing that I don't like about We have some dumb Germans here, you know, who just sort of like ninepins come out of the half-track and all that. OK. Yes, OK, that's Hollywood. But I love this clip. You have this kind of fog of battle in which the two American the other is there. They're lucky that they don't But it's extremely well done, in terms of not knowing who's And then, the way Miller's formation moves toward the half-track, and even one of his men says to him, hold on, make sure they're down. And I really like that dynamic, too. I mean I'm going to give this one a 10, because I just really like how it portrays the exhaustion, the terrain, how infantry would've concealed there, and how you would've had this kind of chance meeting, that are enveloped in the fog of war. So this is, apparently Now, there no evidence that the Americans ever faced Behind it though, we have a self-propelled that you would've encountered, you know, in this kind of town fighting. Now, it would've taken a lot of guts to do what those American The sticky bombs are accurate. That was supposed to be a to knock the tread off a tank. So all of that is really But to actually get close enough, like they are, to do it, I think it would've been very difficult to get that close to a tank. All this action is taking place in a fictional town called Ramelle. It doesn't really exist, but it's well-described. Because earlier in the movie, they're talking about how it's a major point over the Merderet River, which, the Americans simply over that river so that and then get Cherbourg and get most of the rest of Normandy. So that would've been, as they put it, a solid gold objective. Upham, .30 cal, hurry. I love how the machine gun is portrayed, you know, firing at that exact position where the Germans are moving through. And they're saying, we need .30 cal. And they're going through it very quickly, in the context of the battle. That's so 100% true. In this second part here, with the Molotov cocktails. You certainly would've used that to fight against a maybe even a tank, if you had soldiers then to get into position. I don't know about you, but if it's me, I'm either going to before they can, you know, throw their or I'm going to jump out of that vehicle where I know they're throwing it. Instead, they kind of just hunker down, which guarantees they're So I've never quite Grenade! This is one of the most in my opinion. The close-quarters battle with the tank would've but if you could have done that, we see that the tank commander apparently coming out of the hatch there, and they just shoot him. And I think that's dead-on right with the kind of desperation of the moment. But I don't know that you need to throw more grenades in there, and you might need them later. So here comes that 20 mm Flak gun, and that is so well portrayed, because it's an incredibly designed to shoot vehicles and planes. And you're talking about I guess I'll give it a 9 out of 10. Because I don't know about the realism of actually getting that close to a tank and using that much ordinance on it. Somebody would've had to for the sergeant. The bazooka in World War II was a very difficult because it was hard to as you did that and arm the rocket, and it could slide down through the tube and explode at your feet. One of the things I like about the scene is he probably understands exactly where that self-propelled gun is going to be most vulnerable. And he gets that kill shot in there, which is totally realistic where you have probably a very and they would never be able to see him, especially if he's sort of behind them. Hand-to-hand combat like that was fortunately really The sources I found for just one battle, and this is a Pacific theater battle, where hand-to-hand combat tend found that like maybe 0.7% of wounds would've been caused by puncture, like a bayonet, a knife of some kind. So you know, that's pretty uncommon, but in this context, it could have happened. We see Upham lurking on the stairwell, and I'll tell you, when my students evaluate this movie and write reviews of it, this is always the thing Like, oh, that coward, why But I'm so glad that This was true for many, or people on all sides Sometimes, they just weren't up for it, you know, and so you see and you see that sometimes in modern war. And what I've always thought especially is the PTSD element of it. He's going to have to live Thinking about whether he I am going to give this one a 10. I just, I think it's so explores so many elements of war that other war films just Sandbags are really common in It's a pretty standard way to provide some level of protection. Now, you had to have In other words, an E-tool, or and then the actual sandbags Maybe they could have shown them filling the sandbags more But I think in a town or the masonry provides you You don't necessarily need sandbags. So that just simply probably means getting inside the buildings. I want to say this respectfully, because I think this is one of the most brilliant I think that these parts are beneath a movie of this brilliance. We also see the captain, certainly groggy and out of snapping off shots at a tank, apparently a Tiger tank with a pistol. Again, a little too Hollywood for me. And then we see it blow up. I remember the first time I saw this, I thought, no, they're not going to say that the pistol did that. That would be absurd. So fortunately, it's a plane that does it. And when you look at German accounts of the Battle of Normandy, usually one of the first is how suffocating Allied air could be. The planes that are portrayed though are probably not the ones you would've used for this purpose. I think these are P-51s, and Brian even says they're tank busters. Actually, the major tank that tended to be better So I like that they showed the aircraft having a key role in the But I think the way it's done, is not all that realistic. A ground unit comes to save the day. That's a little bit of Hollywood, too. But you know what, that's not terribly unrealistic for what did happen sometimes in Normandy, where you have some embattled formations, especially airborne guys, and they're going to have, amphibious landed infantry units or armored units or at a pretty good time. This part only is, I'll give it a 7 out of 10, because the things I've mentioned are the sort of kind of shooting a pistol at Overall though, in the I'm giving that a 9 out of 10. I often say, I like these scenes, the town fighting scenes better even than the famous Omaha Beach scenes, because I think they're to the battle of Normandy, of exactly the way it would've looked. My favorite &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot; scene is actually when they're over whether to let Steamboat Willie go. It's the aftermath of when And the reason it's my favorite scene is it's so true to life for the burden of command and how he's going to restore I just think it's really on how the leadership and how the human dimension in World War II. Not just World War II, but in pretty much any combat setting. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this, why not click on more videos for more World War II movie breakdowns?