Can smoking the devil's lettuce every day What happens to your body exactly, or more And what if you suddenly quit? Will you pay for your month of indulgence Humanity has come a long way where weed is It's now legal for recreational use in 25 D.C. A further seven states in the US have decriminalized be prosecuted for taking it. This trend towards general acceptance seems Surveys show that 88% of Americans think it use. The world is changing. It seems like it won't be long until weed That's because word on the street is that from the past made it out to be. Even some of the strictest nations where drugs We imagine a few of our viewers have been has been nothing short of a weed explosion, have put you behind some very nasty-looking person. Entire streets these days in the tourist areas Bob Marley. Weed shops are everywhere. It feels like walking through a weed wonderland. The BBC called it just that, interviewing on steroids," but despite it being a veritable doctors, calling for a re-ban. The government doesn't look like it will Surely, if this is happening in conservative That's what we'll try and figure out in Let's start day one by exploring some myths One theory states that weed can make you mad, And maybe even on your first day of smoking, journey. There have already been news articles in Thailand else, and the now-legal weed was blamed. Some of those stories reminded people of a came out of almost every politician's mouth. In the past, we humans absolutely got weed, You only need to look at anti-weed propaganda told us that weed had "its roots in hell" or compel you to sleep with the first person you in a state of "hopeless insanity." Here's a line from a doctor in the movie himself "addicted" to weed. "Yes. I remember. Just a young boy...under the influence of an axe." This line is the definition of nonsense. You don't even need the numerous scientific make people violent, unlike the very legal As the American comedian Bill Hicks once joked, I'll prove it to you. You're at a ball game or a concert, and someone's are they drunk or are they smoking pot?" That's hardly scientific; it's just an very likely agree the answer is without a With weed, there have been some studies that One such study published by the National Institutes the risk of perpetrating violence was more marijuana." Another piece of nonsense we like is when drugs days, said, "I now have absolute proof is equal in brain damage to being on Bikini He was speaking absolute balderdash, but that the well-being of your body, or your mind, No drugs are 100% safe. Before we get into the effects of weed smoking to tell you about weed in general: the fact And we mean, some people might have a very especially if they do as many impressionable checked they have a vehicle (brain) suitable You need to know that weed is a psychoactive It affects your nervous system. It can alter how you think, what you see, It gets you high. How high is up to your tolerance, if you have course, what kind of weed you've been smoking? It's well known that weed today is often a century ago. Some people seem very sensitive to weed, and on psychedelics, not always very pleasant, but not be all that out there. We all react differently. Start slow, is our advice. There are 483 known compounds in weed, but (THC), the one that is mainly responsible presently being sold as a possible antidote and various diseases. We'll get back to this topic soon. Weed might not be for you at all, and we mean, a risk. There is evidence that it can cause psychotic before or they run in your family. It's rare, but be aware. There are plenty of scientific papers that schizophrenia. Still, according to one such paper published events and a valid model of neurobiological That means they weren't able to figure out went wrong. They couldn't find the actual cause. Nonetheless, it is well established that people If you smoke weed and you begin to think all to control your mind in the 21st century's people who should stay away from weed. We don't think the CIA does such things anymore. For some, the craziness is fleeting. They might find after a particularly large My thumbs have gone weird. My heart is beating like a BEEPED-up clock." That's from an old cult classic comedy movie It's a film, but the writer obviously had Put your hand up if you've ever sneakily felt something ain't right... It can cause anxiety, and with some people, about something that's gone wrong with their Again, we know some of you are now nodding Studies have shown long-term use of weed may doesn't cause your heart to beat fast enough That's the anxiety talking. Others say weed makes them feel disconnected hallucinate or just have some really disturbing, We're not trying to scare you, but this It's hard to understand how many people experience. In a Danish study consisting of thousands who'd had a psychotic experience in their not ever ingested weed. Still, many people will not have such negative take it in small amounts. Millions consume weed every day, and they A world drug report in 2013 said 180 million It's thought there are about 219 million The CDC says about 11.5% of Americans smoke In England and Wales, a study said 13.5% of 40% of those people said they'd used it Most of them would have been fine, but some Another study we found said people who smoke people will harm them than people who don't Then, there was the study that tested people or a placebo, meaning nothing. The researchers found that the weed consumers paranoia. Other negative experiences included lowered about themselves. So, with all that in mind, you should start Let's say you like it and want to smoke Day one of weed is over. It's now day two. You may have noticed some forgetfulness, especially Unlike those times you were wasted on alcohol, a penis scrawled on your cheek, but your memory There's a reason for that. Cannabis affects something called the hippocampus, new memories. Studies on rats that were given regular doses how to do various tasks. There was even long-term impairment, but these lives. You are not a rat and haven't been smoking to bear in mind. Studies have shown that regular weed use in develops, but such cognitive impairment, like more. Your month on weed almost certainly isn't in any significant way for the rest of your You may have some short-term memory problems need to sweat the long-term stuff yet. In fact, some studies have shown regular weed that affect memory, like Alzheimer's and Let's say you've now been hitting the Sure, you have some patchy memory days, but who likes weed and has positive experiences You haven't really experienced any changes. We mean, the middle-aged, long-haired guy always wearing that old Ween t-shirt, says and he says he's fine. Well, he does seem to have some motivation Many people do, which is why Afroman wrote "I was gonna clean my room until I got high/I I got high/My room is still messed up, and Again, that's not scientific, but many people We'll come back to the topic of motivation Another thing you've noticed is you've As the rapper Master P said in a song: that dinner, I got the lunch. Hit the weed, pass the blunts. Your eyes red, you got the munchies." A paper in the journal Nature, again based cause changes in the brain's hypothalamus, There's evidence that smoking weed can lead Ghrelin, which can create hunger pangs. Not only that, but weed leads to increases experience of eating that food could feel If you're a weed smoker, we don't need to You've all raided the fridge at 2 am like Still, while you've put on a few pounds, not generally lead to weight gain in the long In fact, some studies show pot smokers might We should just add here that there are so that figuring out the mystery of weed is going You could literally spend a day googling all the answer to all the world's problems. You could do the opposite and soon become It's always best to analyze various studies Let's also remember here that people wouldn't As the book (and movie) Trainspotting said it works for all substances: desperation and death and all that [BLEEP], forget is the pleasure of it. Otherwise, we wouldn't do it." Sticking with the positives, for many people a Godsend. You yourself have had neuropathic pain in smoking weed for a few days, there's been The reason for this is that a person's peripheral contain lots of receptors for cannabinoids. Scientists now think that cannabinoids might Studies have shown this to be true in animals. Still, as you might know, the mind plays a You may have heard of the nocebo effect when feeling pain. A good example is the case of the guy who his work boot. He was screaming and screaming, telling doctors weren't working. When they finally sawed his boot off, they gap between his toes. Embarrassed, the guy was suddenly pain-free. But for him, he really did feel that pain. And with cannabis, there's now good evidence concerned. Studies have shown that when people with pain like weed, they felt a reduction in their We've known for decades that when someone are released in the brain, including what But there have also been some negative reactions, ten days. You seem to be less motivated. Studies have shown that after weed consumption, One study showed that participants who'd for a reward. Still, this study showed that if people waited Now you've realized that taking a long break Long-term smokers of weed don't need studies bit sluggish and not exactly in the mood to It's the same with reaction times. You've noticed that when you're stoned, sting like a bee. Researchers have said that this might have circuit. The Nature Journal tells us this controls reward." Receptors in here bind with THC, and this In a study in 2012, scientists said 70% of seemed like a stretching of time. Time moved more slowly, and this might have Studies have shown that performance can be These are controversial studies, given people or machinery. One study we found showed that when users for four days, only had slower reaction times It seems that they got used to it. Another study, a meta-study, concluded, "Some day' effects of THC on cognitive function However, most studies, including some of higher But you've been taking it easy, so your usual, certainly after 12 hours from your You also seemed much more prone to slowness This seems to be getting better the more days Like most people in the world, the effects four hours, but another thing you've realized started to get more anxious. This is because a part of your brain called The studies on anxiety and cannabis use can For some people, weed helped with their anxiety, in anxiety after long-term use, although the In a 2017 survey consisting of 9,000 American noticeable health benefits, with almost 50% Others said it helped with their PTSD. Some said it had a positive effect on their and social anxiety, but others said it caused with high levels of THC. It's a bit of an each-to-their-own situation. In your case, the anxiety has only been fleeting, a lot more weed than usual. It's around this point in your 30 day experience on your lungs. This is mostly a silent effect, although admittedly, made you think of the movie Ghostbusters. Just be aware that chronic weed smoking can You've been smoking for quite a while now, of the large airways in your body, which has Still, you don't mix the weed with tobacco make those huge baseball bat spliffs in their The question is, is smoking weed safe just A 2021 study showed that 44% of Americans for you than smoking cigarettes every day. Of course, the amount you smoke matters. People generally smoke way more cigarettes Still, smoke from weed is still not great Scientists say it may still cause lung cancer The problem is scientists haven't figured Not enough studies have been done, something this show. One of the studies was conducted at the Ottawa Researchers compared 150 lung scans from weed The researchers reported that rates of emphysema, higher in weed smokers than they were in tobacco Still, we are talking about 75% compared to Only 5% of non-smokers had it. As for the big C, the Mayo Clinic says cannabis not enough evidence right now to say that Then again, there's also evidence that the been shown to kill certain types of cancer prostate, and skin cancer. Again, we must reiterate that there have been some people, so we definitely can't say cancer. One thing it seems to do for scores of people more and more countries have given it the instaces. On the other hand, you also have the genotoxic when you burn cannabis, which has been said lead to a carcinogenic state. A paper published by the National Institutes four times as much tar to the lungs as tobacco that it's because, in these joints, there to hold weed smoke in longer. In short, when you compare weed smokers or of respiratory problems is much higher; one to one in twelve, but we still can't say In one study, a big one, out of 65,000 people, effect on prostate cancer but not any of the The participants were aged 15 to 49 only, have to be done since cancer is more common We are not going to tell you that regularly are also not going to tell you it definitely What we will say is your month on weed is ever do in your life. But you are inhaling smoke, and while it might might suggest, it's very possible that this As things stand, with you now having smoked there will be any substantial damage. If you smoked joints every day for years, Just how much, we just can't say. It gets even more confusing when you read Vaporizer devices activate cannabinoids, but of combustion. You might read this and think, great, the articles such as this one from Johns Hopkins "Emerging data suggests links to chronic between dual use of e-cigarettes and smoking But that same article also said we still don't is for your body. We do know that when you do vape, you also in the US have said they've seen more and that could very well be related to their vaping You all probably know former smokers who now of the day. Still, no one vapes weed in such high quantities. You've now been smoking weed daily for almost Will it be hard to quit? Is weed addictive? Yet again, this question is not easy to answer. Not all substance addictions and withdrawals If you have a physical addiction to alcohol off after a long time can actually be very You might not only have seizures that can you might think you've been plunged into This is related to the effect these drugs In layman's terms, if a substance makes you chemicals that usually make you chilled, so relaxed happens to you. It's the same for people who stop taking depressed. But what about weed? Does that kick the poop out of you when your Actually, with cannabis withdrawal, you are like we just mentioned. But there is something called marijuana use People have been known to become dependent Their body craves the physiological changes They can develop a tolerance, so they need Still, it's said only 10 to 20% of daily There will be some mild withdrawal symptoms These might include cravings, irritability, restlessness, and other kinds of physical A paper in the National Institute of Drug 4.0 million people in the United States met disorder; 138,000 voluntarily sought treatment With any psychoactive substance, there's and how much you can actually consume before Everyone is different. There are cases of people smoking weed for maybe just mild issues. Then you have people who've smoked for shorter stopping. But on the whole, in terms of withdrawal symptoms, substances we use to change the way we feel. Weed withdrawal is a gazillion times safer such as Xanax, Percocet, or Johnny Walker. Still, you should be aware that becoming dependent this is a disproportionately bigger problem Ok, so your one month is up. To be honest, since you've taken your weed You are aware of all the psychological dangers it seems, for now, you are not one of those That said, if you keep this up, there is a lungs, and there's also a possibility you'll Still, since you feel better, are sleeping hasn't been negatively affected, you think you're going to limit your smoking to small Many people don't even know why they smoke They might tell you, "The reasons? There are no reasons. Who needs reasons when you've got weed?" One person interviewed in The Guardian felt She got to the point that she didn't even She said in the interview, "I smoked to for chill time." In the end, she said her lungs started to She didn't know why she wanted it, but she One day, she realized she'd gone two days is enough. She craved it for sure, but with the help And guess what? She started dreaming again. That's something you noticed when you smoked You didn't dream. Many people don't regularly smoke weed because in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep - when most Dreaming was one of the big changes for her, is concerned. These are some comments made by people who "I just quit after 10 [years] as well... "The withdrawals have not been fun, I've hard to eat. Mentally, I feel really clear and happy." "My boyfriend stopped smoking weed like behavior is different. He is more angry and not as sweet as he used And this one: every day. It made me anxious and awkward in social situations. I would overanalyze things and think really Forget about talking to girls. I couldn't handle it. Since I quit, all these things went away." As it said on the walls of the Temple of Apollo With weed, you have to educate yourself and while adding up the pros and cons as to how If you absolutely want to experience weed, straight into the deep. It can be a mysterious ocean out there, and As we've told you many times today, scientists Jane, not entirely. For a more indepth dive into the withdrawal To Your Body When You Stop Smoking Weed" Body?"