We have been searching for Master Yan for so many days. We have run out of water and food. If we continue the search like this, I am afraid that the brothers will all be left here. Lafayette gave the order and if we can't find it, we will die if we go back. We continue to look for Master Yan. Look, everyone, be careful Weiss. This is the Huayan Sutra opening Buddha of the Tang Dynasty. Wu Zetian had such a mouthful. Look, what is engraved on it is the opening of the Huayan Sutra that she made back then . O West, I can tell you that I spent a lot of money on this Buddha statue. West worked very hard to get it. Anyway, this is a national treasure among national treasures. West, let me tell you, if you can get this Buddha statue, I guarantee you will make a fortune. Brother Li, do you need help with such a big thing ? You boy is still haunting. Who are you ? A nosy brat. Cannon, get out of here. It's a bit slippery. You damn fat man, why don't you fall to death? His grandma dares to say that. I'm such a damn fat man. You scumbags are talking about you. What's going on? How many ways have you blocked my money? I'll kill them. The patrol is about to arrive. Leave it to them. Brother Li , you said it's not good to find a job when you have the skills and feet. You have to do this job, do n't you know? There's no way I'm going to work part-time in this life. What do I mean? Just show these scumbags a gun and it'll be over. Why are you still putting so much effort into it? Okay . See you in prison. Fei Ge. Fei Ge. Fei Ge . Please calm down. Look at this. We have been friends for many years. You can treat me like a fart and let me go. Brother Fei, let me play with you here. Let you go. I have information. Brother Fei, tell me about the Japanese. As long as the matter comes true , we will The candidate to establish the new Emperor of Manchukuo has been decided. As for Lord Yan, we will arrange suitable important positions for the new Manchukuo. You can imagine how long it has been since the Qing Dynasty was destroyed. This is not a bother, Lord Yan. You really have to worry about it. If you want to take these things away, I advise you not to die. The emperor also asked them to designate it, which is also in name only. Master Yan , my, my, my, the money given is not enough , I have no money. Young Master, he owes money again. Talking about money hurts brothers. If you have feelings like yours, you should be locked up with Brother Li . Stop playing. I just received the news that the Japanese will take the train to Shanghai tonight. Get ready to go. Sir, how long does it take to get to Shanghai? It's about an hour. Thank you. Thank you for coming. - A bottle of red wine. Okay, please wait. Miss, you went to the wrong place. This doesn't seem to be your private room , and it doesn't look like yours. You bastards, you guys , you can't eat it. That's not necessarily the case. Get out of the way and leave quickly . What's going on? Why is there an extra foreign woman lying down to take you for a ride? Luffy, this foreign woman is repaying a favor with a grudge . Is n't this good? I told you that you can't eat this food and you haven't told me your name yet. My name is Luffy. Do you know how? What happened to Uncle Hong who came back to look for me ? How could this be? This box has never left my sight. Do you know the origins of those people? I only know that the leader is named Luffy. I have heard that this man built a plank road secretly to Chencang. He let you so easily. Bring the box back. This means that they have seen that there is someone behind you. You are too careless. I'm sorry, my uncle. Uncle Hong has given instructions to get the gold jade plate no matter what. We must not let these people ruin our operation . It's a gold silk jade plate and a big green bowl. What's the origin of this? This is the best of the best . It's the only one in the world made by Zhang Qingyan of the Ming Dynasty. Come on, come on, come on, everyone, look at this. This is the best jadeite, as bright as gelatin, warm, delicate, flawless, and inlaid with dragons and phoenixes. As the old saying goes, beautiful jade is hard to find, but the key is that it is valuable to be able to coil gold threads into such exquisite patterns , and the jade is inlaid into it without leaving any traces, so it is seamless , ingenious, and ingenious. What is so good about it? Great, isn't it just me eating the wontons from that broken bowl? Do you have a spoon? / Get a pair and bring them. You, you are ignorant. It is said that Zhang Qingyan hanged himself from a beam afterwards. The technique of inserting gold wire into jade has been lost since then. The gold silk jade plate is also It has become a unique product in the world . Because of this, this golden jade plate is priceless, isn't it? It's a priceless treasure. After talking for so long, doesn't it mean that the Japanese know the goods? They mobilized so many people and set fire to it. That car is not a simple thief . This matter is not as simple as we thought. I'm sorry, Lord Sato. Please forgive me, Aota. Why don't you stay in the dojo and come here? I heard that Lord Sato made a mistake. I came here to try my best to be a bastard. I still need the help of a samurai. This is what the general wants to do next. I will assist Sato-sama in the following actions. Please ask Sato-sama to say goodbye . Boss, come and bring me two cages of steamed buns. Sir, your steamed buns are ready. Come slowly, come on. Hot steamed buns. Hot steamed buns just out of the pan. Madam, madam, madam. Wait a moment. Your husband just said that you should give me the money for the buns . Come on, come on. I want yours too. I want it too. I want it too. This is yours. Everyone has it. Don't grab it. Come and give it to you. Thank you, uncle, for the buns today. This aunt bought them all. What should I say? Thank you aunt . Thank you to my wife for the buns . Who is your wife? Shameless , I told you that you would come to me and I didn't let you follow my things. Didn't you take them away? You went there knowingly . I'm a lowly soldier , so I'm giving you free lessons. I'm warning you, that thing is really important to me . Can you tell me what use that thing is to you? I can't make the decision. This is my address, so don't worry. You and I have been so tired that someone who can take charge came to me and said, Master , stop, you still know that when you come back , pack your bags and go to Hong Kong with me. I told you that I won't leave. If I don't leave, I will leave it to you to do any business here. I don't care if I know how to combat the smuggling of cultural relics all day long. Is that your business? I have indulged you before. Today you have to go with me. I came back today not to argue with you. I just want to ask you one thing. Are you leaving in such a hurry ? It has nothing to do with the Japanese. I robbed the Japanese things last night. What did you say? Are you going to piss me off? Do you know who you are messing with? Some time ago , the Japanese Sato had a secret meeting with us. Sato said What kind of regime were they going to establish to win over us? Boss Peng fell out on the spot and dreamed of your grandma. I refused to accompany you . Within a few days, Boss Peng and the others were silenced. If I had left with Boss Peng and the others that day, you would have been in the Huangpu River by now. They are all important people in Shanghai , but they were beaten to death by the Japanese. What kind of dignity do you have when you run away? Even if you lose your life, what is the use of dignity ? I will provide you with education and send you to study abroad. If you stay in Qingshan, you are not afraid of running out of firewood. You don't understand such a simple principle as &quot;burning &quot; to benefit the country's life and death, how can you avoid misfortunes and blessings? You are the one who doesn't understand . When you arrive in Hong Kong, please report yourself safe. What do the Japanese do? I don't understand. You want me to say just give it to them. If you smash it or just throw it into the Huangpu River, no one can find it. It's called a hundred. It can't be used. It's a priceless treasure. It's a priceless treasure. It can't be used. You know it every day. If you can't use it, let me see. How about we catch a Japanese ? Come back and ask what you said makes sense . Bai Zhongfa, who hasn't said a word for eight hundred years, said it's OK. Let's see how this works. The two of us will catch them and come back from Japan. We'll beat them up and beat them to death. We already know everything . You don't need to go to so much trouble. After waiting for a long time, Mr. Lu is going to Hongnan. Fang Qiu , whom you have fought against before , has long heard of your righteous deeds. He is a young and promising young man. There is no need to say more polite words. In the late Ming Dynasty , a group of dignitaries thought that the situation was over and took away most of the treasures. Hidden secretly. If the Qing army enters the pass, future generations will have no worries . If the Ming Dynasty survives, it can be retrieved . If both the Manchu and Han Dynasties lose , they can re-establish themselves on the mountain and reap the benefits . Yes, you are saying that the secret of the treasure of the Ming Dynasty lies in this golden thread. In the Jade Plate, it seems that Zhang Qingyan did not commit suicide. Our intelligence department has learned that the Japanese are planning to invade. The oppression of the foreign powers is still fresh in our minds. If they find the treasure first, the consequences will be disastrous. Now that we are full of waste, the only thing we can do now is to be the first. Only by finding the treasure can the situation be reversed. They must be cautious . More than ten years ago, the imperial guard Yan Song was ordered to find the whereabouts of the treasure . When he was in danger, he rushed into the desert before he could unravel the secret. The last few dozen people in the team were almost the entire army. Run away, run and hide, make a fortune , make a fortune, make a fortune, wait for me, you guys, go quickly, make a fortune , make a fortune , and you can't leave if you don't leave. Make a fortune, make a fortune , brother, stop. How the hell did this little Japanese find it so fast ? Why don't you leave quickly ? Dad, you're fine. It's fine. You 're fine. Hold on, I'll take you to the hospital. It 's too late. I won't do it. The country's life and death depends on what you say. Dad understands , but Dad can't see that far. Dad , as a father , wants you to do business . He doesn't want you to take risks outside. Dad , hurry up. The Japanese won't let your dad go . Time is running out. Qingtian-kun, please shoot. Qingtian-kun, do what you have to do. Go quickly. Damn , how are the injuries? Thank you for saving me. Do you still want to take revenge? Don't you think you Such behavior is very reckless. Manna and Papa are both dead. As long as you can get revenge , don't deceive yourself. You just blame yourself for their death . You feel ashamed , so you want to escape and want to die. This is not like you, Luffy. What would you do if it was your brother or your relative who died ? If you want revenge, the best way is to stop the Japanese conspiracy. Do you understand? Think about it, Luffy. I can understand how you feel now , but the most important thing right now is The important thing is to find the treasure before the Japanese. Master Luffy. Master Luffy is fine. That's great. How did this little bitch Japan hurt you like this? He's fine. He's fine. He's got a slight concussion . His head is concussed. Do you still remember me? That's good, damn little Japan , there is this piece of shit, listen to me, just smash it, won't it be fine? Now it's like this, today, I will smash it today, so I can't smash it yet, I ca n't Didn't you smash it? Someone come and take it away . You and I didn't smash it. Everyone knows that the gold silk jade plate is a priceless treasure and it will not be destroyed. It is precisely this that has been used to hide the treasure map for hundreds of years. This is solved. Luffy really won't come with me? I haven't seen a samurai commit seppuku for a long time. Why didn't he inform Aota-kun ? He should die on the battlefield for the glory of the samurai . Have you ever heard the Chinese saying? old saying The mantis stalks the cicada and the oriole is behind. Give way, give way. Don't block the gunman in the hot weather. Take the risk. It 's so late. The train has to leave. Don't look at it. Get on the train. Wait for Master Jia. What are you waiting for him to do? No words. Tell the truth. Master , please take care of yourself. Master, what's wrong? It's strange. According to the map and historical records, Huangsha Town should be at this location. I 'm lost. Everyone, pack up and prepare to die. You're talking so much nonsense . Did you miss something? Ah , it's impossible. The pattern of the golden silk jade plate is highly consistent with the astrology. The location pointed to is right here. Let's spread out and look around. It 's too far away . Let's go over there and walk over there to see what there is to see. There is sand everywhere. What are you looking at? Master, what's wrong? Everyone, be careful. Look for something. Catch Luffy. Where are you? Catch me. You can't see anything. What's wrong with you ? It's okay. Catch me . Be careful and hold on tight. Don't let go. Qiyue Qiyue. Luffy. Qiyue Chi. I'm here. Cannon, let me go. This sandstorm is too big. It's okay. It's okay. I'm going. You guys, look quickly. This is Huangsha Town. It's so interesting. I said that we searched for the exact location on the map countless times but couldn't find it. Why did it take a long time to find it under our feet ? This is thanks to the Great Sandstorm. Thank you. Why do you think there is an ancestral hall here? The Huangsha Gazetteer records that in the late Ming Dynasty , not only internal and external disasters but also natural disasters and epidemics often occurred . In the 13th year of Chongzhen , a huge plague broke out in Huangsha Town and almost wiped out the entire population. Later, the people in the town buried hundreds of corpses together and built an ancestral hall on it to worship the gods. It was so weird that this place happened to be three months and four years later than Zhang Qingyan committed suicide . After Chongzhen hanged himself, the Ming Dynasty was overthrown in three months. The distance was too close, cannon. What would you do if you hid the treasure here? If I hid the treasure here , I would have to find a lot of people to watch such a big town. Let's not talk about this for now. What should the people in the town do if they want to keep this treasure in the store? What if something leaks out one day? Oh my God, what are you thinking about? I am afraid that if I am not wrong, the plague back then was just a cover like Zhang Qingyan's suicide. If so, then this ancestral hall might be our breakthrough point. Everyone, be careful. I'm going to your grandma's young master, Chi Lao. Go, go, go , go, hurry up . Close the door . What is that thing? No matter how hard you hit it, you can't kill it . I have never seen such an ugly thing in my life. Red Man, Red Man, Red Man. Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, Master , it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, I'm going to Chi Lao Chi Lao, hold on, I'll take you back right away . Wait until the toxin has started to spread. At this rate, even a quarter of an hour can't be delayed . What should I do if I want to save my life? There's only one way. Say it quickly. No, Chi. I'll take you back. I think it's okay. I think it's okay. Having no arms is better than having no life. Chi, it's because of me that it's like this. What are you yelling at me ? Did I bite you? He's like this. Don't you feel bad? If you are unhappy, you cut off your own arm after going out and put it on him. Have you ever complained about your brothers who have been with you through life and death for so long ? Do you know why he blocks for you? Because he knows that in the same situation, you can block for him. I'll block it for you. Shut up. Master Luffy , I don't have time. I really don't have time. Come on, Master. Are you still blaming yourself? Have you found any clues? There is a pattern on the base of the golden jade plate. I don't know if it points to a specific treasure. Click on the picture of a girl full of bullets and bullets. I 'm not like you. Some people chose it. My father was a revolutionary with Mr. Zhongshan. One day he sent me to Uncle Hong's house and never came back. Later, I was in Uncle Hong's study. I found a newspaper with the news that my father was assassinated. Uncle Hong said that he sacrificed his life for prosperity and democracy. I didn't understand before . Now I understand what's wrong. It's okay. Just a scorpion. I'll give you a scorpion. You're so scared, aren't you? You want to scare me to death. What's going on? Luffy is hiding . Where are there so many scorpions under the Buddha statue? Why are there so many scorpions under the Buddha statue ? There must be something fishy . Fang Qiu, what did you just say to me? What did you say about the golden jade plate ? I said that there is a pattern on the bottom of the gold silk jade plate. I wonder if it will point to the specific treasure spot. Give me the gold silk jade plate. In those days, Huagang Temple built 500 golden Buddha statues and sent them to India . It was also the thirteenth year of Chongzhen. I think this is also related to treasures , but this place is slightly different. Don't use the traps. Be careful. You've heard too many dramas about tomb robbers. This is a treasure trove. People want to come back to get it. It makes sense to set up so many traps to kill yourself. Continue to be careful . This is What is it? Once the sealed space of paint is broken, the outside airflow will flow in. When the paint on the Buddha encounters the air, it will fall instantly and rush outside along with the airflow. I just said, it almost scared me to death. Why is there so much in this place? Buddha statues. It seems that these Buddha statues were used as cover for transporting treasures. Luffy, how many kilograms does this cost? It's so good. It's worth it. Luffy, don't you think it's too much of a loss for us to hand all these things over to the country ? Let's keep some for ourselves . It's just right. I'll go back and change my car. There are some things here , but this household bone looks like it's been eaten. These may be Yan Song's men back then . They shouldn't be here yet. It looks like they were dragged in by something. Why is such a big thing used? Do n't touch this thing. I feel like the water is weird. Is it the same as before? The monster has something to do with it. It's very possible that it has so many treasures. Didn't you tell me that you have helpers? When will they come? Who is Uncle Hong? What's going on? Will the child's reinforcements come? All the previous information was leaked to the Japanese by A Bin. Have you given up on your mission? Stop dreaming about your mission . The party-state is hopeless. Instead of watching it continue to corrupt, I think Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity is a good choice. Besides, there is also a considerable amount of income . Bastard, it turned out to be you who told me The location of the Japanese base. When did you turn into a dog? I don't know , but I know you have to die tonight. Mr. Hong, that's the venom that can create monsters. Yes, alchemy reached its peak in the Ming Dynasty. There were warlocks who used heaven and earth. The meteorite was accidentally refined into a liquid that can produce poison. This is why I found this record when I was investigating the treasure. I didn't expect it to be really good . With this thing, I can create a powerful killing force. Sato , go and daydream. Come on, Uncle Hong, I hate people who sneak attack on me the same as your father . Why are all Chinese people like this? Today I will reunite your father and son. It turns out that the treasure is mine. Do what you should do. Go to Abin, Chilao. Let me go to this thing. It's unscientific. Use explosives, Master Qiyue. Don't do it. Luffy is trying to save the life and death of the country. Why should he avoid the good and the bad? Master , these days, there are many people who are still working hard to have enough food, so there are many things that need to be done by those who are full. What would you do if it was your brother or your relative who died? Do you want to benefit the life and death of the country? How can you avoid misfortunes and blessings? I think Bai Zhongfa, Qiyue , and Boss Lu have all understood deeply. Don't worry, your sacrifices will not be ignored. If the world forgets it, it will awaken more righteous people to fight alongside us. Yes, we will inherit your legacy, protect the national treasure , and protect your beliefs. Even if it costs our lives , we will continue to take risks.