Transcriber: Maciek Sterkowicz Inspired by the last talker I'm going to have a little song No, just kidding. The widespread use of Internet porn most global experiments ever Nearly every young guy becomes an eager test subject. Canadian researcher that most boys Driven by a brain that is suddenly Now, users perceive Internet porn than porn of the past. Why is that? Unending novelty. In this Australian experiment, it's not mere nudity but novelty Subjects watch 22 porn displays. That's where the researchers the guys hadn't seen before. What happened? Why all the excitement? Mother nature likes to keep as long as any new ones are around. In that top line the ram, he needs more and more time But if you keep switching females - He can get the job done in 2 minutes flat and keep going This is known as the Coolidge effect. Without the Coolidge effect This old mammalian program, each novel female on a guy's screen To keep a guy fertilizing the &quot;go get it&quot; neurochemical dopamine Eventually the ram will tire but as long as the guy can keep clicking he can keep going With internet porn a guy can see than his ancestors could see The problem is he has A heavy user brain rewires so it carefully becomes associated Such behaviours that are associated voyeurism, clicking, fast-forwarding, constant novelty, As one young guy once asked: Are we the first generation Now, real sex, in contrast, being touched, smells, pheromones, interaction with a real person. Now, what happens when our guy Well, researchers don't know of Internet porn for several reasons. In 2009, when Lajeunesse he couldn't find any college age males So the first serious dilemma Now, this creates a huge blind spot. Imagine if all guys and there were no groups that didn't. We would think that lung cancer Undaunted by his lack of non-users Is Internet porn affecting you They answered, But they've been using it pretty much non-stop. This is like asking a fish Which bring us to a second problem. Researchers haven't asked porn users Zimbardo described in Arousal addiction symptoms for such things as ADHD, concentration problems, OCD and a host of others. Now, healthcare providers often assume perhaps the cause of addiction but As a consequence they often without really inquiring about Guys never realise symptoms simply Now, the third problem sexual activity can cause addiction But Internet porn is not sex. Internet porn as today's video games are from checkers. Watching the screen won't automatically protect one In this Dutch study - here's the title - they found that in fact of all activities porn has the most potential Here's why. This ancient programme, evolved to drive us towards such as sex, bonding and food. As a consequence extreme versions have a unique ability to capture us. For example: high-calorie foods give us extra dopamine. Too much dopamine though can override For example: give rats unlimited access to junk food and almost all of them This is also why 4 out of 5 Americans and about half of those are obese. That is addicted to food. Now, in contrast to natural rewards, cocaine or alcohol only hook whether they are rats or humans. This binge mechanism for food or sex In essence, it is getting it while Now, you can think of wolves packing or it's mating season What if mating season never ends? All those hits of dopamine can tell First they say, &quot;Man, you've hit Second, they kick in a molecular switch I know it is a fancy word, and that starts to accumulate Now, with excess chronic consumption this build up a Delta-FosB and promotes the cycle If the binging continues and it can lead to brain changes So the dominos are excess consumption excess dopamine, One of the first changes It kicks in, and so everyday pleasures At the same time other make the brain hyper-reactive to porn. Everything else in the porn user's life but porn is super exciting. Finally his willpower erodes I can't emphasize this enough. All addictions share and the same molecular switch Now scientists have used these changes in drug addicts. Up-here these scans show a reduced These and several other changes food addicts, very recently and now in internet addicts. I apologize for filling up the slide Just notice the dates. But I want you to know that they exist. So far all brain research points Constant novelty at the click We know this because former Internet addicts they found that these brain changes Unfortunately, none of these studies but they do include them. Here's the game changer. At last we have a group of guys That's right! Heavy users are voluntarily These guys are the missing control group They're showing experts what changing I call it &quot;The Resurrection of Guys&quot; Now, before I continue why any porn loving guy Two words: erectile dysfunction. Internet porn is killing Now, Zimbardo said young guys this survey by Italian neurologists what we have witnessed Sexual enhancement drugs if they ever did, because the problem isn''t Nor is their problem really psychological. It's due to physical changes Those addiction related changes. Their numb brains are sending weaker (Laughter) As doctor Foresta says, &quot;It starts Then there is a general drop in libido, and in the end it becomes impossible There are 3 take-aways from this. First, Foresta is describing gradual desensitization. Second, Internet porn is qualitatively Widespread youthful ED And finally ED is often the only symptom The question is what less obvious symptoms Most don't figure Here's a guy in his late 20s. &quot;I've been to psychologists have been diagnosed with depression, severe memory impairment and a few others. Have tried Fexer, Ritalin, Xanax, Paxil dropped out at two different colleges, used pot to calm my social anxiety. I've been approached by quite a few women I guess due to my looks and status but they quickly flew away I've been a hardcore porn addict For the last 2 years and finally realised I stopped it completely 2 months ago. It has been very difficult I've since quit my remaining medication. My anxiety is nonexistent. My memory and focus are sharper I feel like a huge &quot;chick magnet&quot; I seriously think I had a rebirth, This is why pockets of guys are peering sports sites, pickup artists sites - In essence, they are seeking Here's a group on reddit.com Fapping is slang for solo sex, but what they really mean They've added about 2,000 members This movement to unhook from porn In fact, groups are springing up But there is a bizarre fly Guys in the early 20s aren't regaining their erectile health How can a 50-year-old get his mojo back The answer, even though older guys they didn't start Now, we know the older guys didn''t start until after they got Now, today''s young teens when their brains are at their peak of dopamine production This is also when they are but there is another risk. By adulthood teens strengthen and prune back unused ones. So, by age 22 or so a guy's sexual taste This can cause panic or porn that no longer matches Fortunately brains are plastic so his taste can revert As a guy returns to normal sensitivity his brain looks around for the rewards such as friendly interaction Here's one more example &quot;I feel like the next Sir Isaac Newton Since I quit a month ago, I've literally: started a business, taken up piano, been programming, drawing, and I have more awesome ideas My confidence is sky-high. I already feel like I am the same guy who took 2,5 extra years because of procrastination I'll conclude with a wish: I'd like to see Zimbardo's guys who are wiping out and their listen to the thousands of men about arousal addiction by escaping it. Thanks for listening. (Applause)