Where I live in New England in the winter summer heatwaves, it can reach over 100 F (40 for that, and in the United States, we aren't do we deal with heating and cooling our I'm crazy about heat pumps, but I came that opened my eyes to the potential of cascading pumps can't work in the cold isn't true anymore But what's a cascading heat pump? I'm Matt Ferrell ... welcome to Undecided. This video is brought to you by As I'm sure you could tell if you've seen just lookout for new and exciting tech advancements, this year. So when I stumbled upon a local some interesting work with heat pumps, I had heat pumps aren't a new idea, I haven't seen so this really piqued my interest. But what version so special? To understand that, we We've talked about heat pumps many times before, some of those episodes. Here's a quick refresher. heat exchangers, using a working fluid to move this, but it's moving that heat in just one the outside). Thanks to a reversing valve, a they're just using a little physics exploit they have a high coefficient of you get more heat energy out of the system The higher the COP, the more energy efficient the higher the COP, the more money you can What's better than one heat pump? Flooid's working as one. It's not a new idea, but their is pretty cool. The company refers to its use system. Each pump or loop has a different overlapping operating temperatures. By working ordinary single loop heat pump. It's not a like having multiple gears on your bike versus of Research for Flooid. He showed me around "So this is going to start pumping out some see that we're at minus 11, which is lower than that our capacities are still high and our CLPs you energy... if you're above a COP of two or so, other advantage of this particular system is when heating season, which would be around 40 degrees, 200 to 300 percent. So when it's normal heating 100 percent capacity. We're doing 2 or 3, so our 2 even a 5 ton system at times. But, it still How do cascade heat pumps punch above their heat pump or loop #1 warms to a target that's when pump or loop #2 takes over. This so it's not very hard for pump #2 to take it air that's too cold for pump #2, and ever could by itself. Teamwork! Also very If that's still arcane sounding, think of it like stream, just like it's hard to heat a space up. A up, and a loop can do the same with temperature. or loop can be made much easier by having a bunch or the temperature, up. Then passing it onto turn. And locks and loops are both reversible. easily downhill, and you can use a cascade This kind of teamwork means that cascading single-loop heat pump. It lets them handle bigger cooling, such as large commercial or residential an extra loop, what would happen if we Speaking of loopier, I got thrown for a loop charged for a video streaming service I hadn't that happen? Well, today's sponsor, Rocket Money, finance app that helps you cancel subscriptions, signed up for Rocket Money, the app highlighted told me when it was set to renew again, and even app with just a few taps. I didn't have to worry has helped save its customers up to $740 a year, They can even help you lower your bills just cellphone bill, and tapping a few buttons. Rocket the best rate. I've also been using the app to in check. It's automatically monitoring my and letting me know when I've exceeded my limits. finances today. Go to Rocket Money.com/undecided and to all of you for supporting the channel. What happens when we add even more loops to our the system's range larger, and thus makes its Flooid's system isn't a single, or even double them that impressive degree of flexibility, cool temperatures beyond HVAC units and even other But first, we have to deal with the superheat all heat pumps (really, their compressors), one What is the superheat refrigerant issue? Put only supposed to return to the compressor in vapor it will kill the compressor. How does that happen? then our compressor needs to hit and maintain a But it's hard to stay perfectly on target. So, its speed to be as close to the goal as possible. (and temperature!) and then has to back off. As the goal, so it has to rev back up and ends up it goes, overshooting and undershooting How about an example? Let's say we want to boils into a gas around 200 F (about evaporating coil - where warm air flows over evaporating into vapor. We want to keep the refrigerant remains a gas when the compressor it creates too large of a superheat, meaning More importantly, the hot refrigerant can damage we will flood the compressor with liquid, compressor is constantly trying to This balancing act creates that oscillating there's a space in the lower part of the liquid to start forming in the compressor. As so often happens in engineering, this creates isn't well optimized, it's going to overshoot creating greater oscillations or waves and this oscillation can build, called resonance, become larger with each cycle. Every Then how do heat pumps avoid this? The safest entire cycle so the lowest portion of the sine preferred temperature. However, turning up the equating to poor COP and energy efficiency. control systems around it, the less of an offset That's exactly what the Flooid team tight control software that closely limiting it to a single degree of variance. having to burn extra energy. The control system micromanaging each loop and ensuring the Using software to optimize your HVAC system but it contributes to Flooid's great performance For instance, Flooid can deliberately make Seems counterintuitive, so why would you loop so good at its job, it covers for It also lets Flooid customize their "But basically this is our technology and we, to virtually any situation ... we can do what no replacement for baseboard hot water. We can And while Flooid's customizability and the control it's their performance range that most heat pumps struggle in the cold, and Flooid has a cold climate system capable of I personally got to see it take -31 F (-35 C) air a COP of 2.3. They also have a system that prefers to 49 C). That's perfect for temperate regions was able to hit a COP of nearly 4 in milder Also, being a heat pump and all, it works in around 110 F (43.3 C) and cooling them down to maintaining a COP of 2 or more. Flooid claims the up to 130 F (54.4 C), and their president, Ben up to 140 F (60 C). Working at crazy high temps though if it's that hot outside, we've you average residential air conditioner hits really start to struggle above 90 F (32.2 C), At higher temperatures of 110F+, Flooid can to get 1000 kWh of cooling, you can expect with costs exponentially increasing if it of 2 provides a good buffer in summer months This all sounds fantastic, so there right? While it's not a specific to heat pumps, we know from a lot of other technologies, this is of tech work phenomenally under lab conditions real-life application. Because of this, finding off the ground can be very challenging. Flooid has a path to make cascading "...everything here is off the shelf ... so there's Everything is, the industry already builds, it's not like we have to wait for the industry to Using readily available parts should avoid supply Because their custom control system operates shouldn't need to spring for a backup heat don't work in the cold" myth. They do, but as they they can struggle to keep up with our heating so many heat pump systems are hybrid. They include heat for those handful of days where outside up. If a heat pump can handle temps down to -30 then hybrid systems go away. That could Another thing that should help with the are available for homeowners looking While the initial upfront cost is there, "We are ready to certify our cold climate and the boiler, the forced hot water but it's expensive. We're a very small company, going to certify it. Once we're certified, then Speaking of boilers, Flooid also showed me a versatility of heat pumps and cascading heat pump alone. Several companies are offering cascading Kensa, or the air-slash-water source heat pump nimbler companies coming at space-heating has a similar air and water source cascade literally just daisy chaining separate heat and condensers on the outside of the building. is tightly integrated and doesn't need "If you want to see what an actual we can come over here. This is that system. In the you would take your furnace out. You would air conditioning of your house. This would stay would go outside. But it would completely replace That's a much more elegant solution than I've question, if cascading heat pumps are already out why aren't they everywhere? Well there's no cheaper, single heat pumps have It's going to take time before the upgrade gets In previous videos we've noted that the big thing is their cost. Even with rebates, they're with their more powerful and complex technology, you're more likely to find cascading intense demands that are also able to hospitals, semiconductors plants, and Even with its customizability, a cascading every job. Flooid's 2-ton system might punch but if your needs are satisfied by a traditional ownership. Flooid says you should come out ahead vary. A study from the University of Ontario's cascading isn't always the most efficient you might be better off just running two identical It could also just be a matter of economies cascaded heat pumps are gearing not residential homes. This might be be newer construction with modern insulation. there for commercial spaces. Some of which, like offer savings per square foot, so the So while multi-cascading systems aren't residential market. If Flooid can make their it could make a big splash in that But what do you think? Would you be for your home? Jump into the comments and let podcast Still To Be Determined where we'll to all my patrons for your continued