- When I think of vacation, I think of the South which is an area of the South of France was known for the color, for the smell. It's really a special place to be. And when I think of that town where the pope when the Pope move in and eventually, the whole for the wine and the food of the area. It is also very well known for a famous painter, Van Gogh live and died in Arles, did some of his best painting there, and our menu today is And what I want to start that is a type of stew of beef Arlesian, in the style of Arles. And what we're going to do first is to start with that piece of beef, which is a shoulder blade steak. It's very lean, and I'm cleaning it up, even of any other type of sinew You could do a steak with It's very moist and tender. There is a large sinew in the and that sinew, I will leave If I were to do a steak, a regular steak, I may cut it along the sinew. There is a bit of fat, Not really fat, as you can see, it's more what we call silver skin, which we want to remove in this way. And, the piece is probably a bit too big for four people here, which is the recipe I'm going to put a little about a tablespoon, and we The steak, about six ounces this way. This is called different name in different part of the country. In some place, it's called the flat iron. In the New York area, for example, this will going to be and those chicken steak are part, again, of the shoulder blade, a So we want to make it brown to then season it with maybe a And that should brown, probably for five minutes on each side. While this is browning, what we wanna do is the And I have here, I am counting and the potato, what you would to have them all about the same size. You could probably also use but in that particular stew, I think that I would want to peel it. I have a cup and a half of water here, so what you would wanna do start in cold water, bring it to a boil, and boil it approximately eight minute. Eight minute, it won't be cooked, so you continue with the And, I have here little carrot. After eight minutes, you which we can peel this way. You would do this, trim the end of it. And the same thing with the onion. I have eight pearl onion, So first, you cook that and then you put the You see you want to do that at the beginning of your stew because while this is browning, and we want to cook the so that they're almost totally soft because we will add them But what we wanna do, which I think is a very good idea, is actually to use the in the stock. You're going to have a lot of nutrient, a lot of taste in the and you may as well use it as So basically, that's I have here those vegetables, as you can see, boiling now, and I wanna use the juice in there. So the first thing that I wanna do is to turn that on the other side. As you can see, start browning nicely now. You really want to brown it four, five minutes on each side. After it's browned, four, chop the onion. So I put about about a of medium onion, chopped onion. In there. That go all over. You want to brown that, again, the onion, for approximately two or three minute, just to tell you, which Then we add the Herbes de Provence, which is that mixture where you even have tiny little Then, about 1/2 cup of white again, a dash of salt. Then you want your liquid which I put as our cooking liquid. After that, you cover it, and you cook it for an hour. While this is cooking, what you want to do is and that thickening agent is what we call the Arlesian mixture from Arles. And this is done with hazelnut. I have bread, I have So I put the hazelnut in there, and I wanna roast them in the oven. They will take about 10 Have another one ready here. And the roasting of the hazelnut is going to develop a lot of taste. You can use hazelnut. You can rub them in a towel like this after they've been into the oven, and that will tend to if they have been into the oven. For our case, we don't really but what I'm going to into the food processor here, and you see the type of which is very good for that. The parsley. That pieces of bread, which so you can see, it's pretty dry. This is a country type of bread, and so, you want a strong blender to ground all of that together. And garlic. We close all of this and (food processor whirs) Perfect. Beautiful mixture that I have in there. And what I want to do now is to add that to my stew. I have a stew, which has been So in that stew, I want to put that mixture other thickening agent. You see we didn't have any stock in it. For that, you do that at the end. Your vegetable, which have been cooking, as you know, here, so those And the last addition to our stew is actually tomato, which I have here. So you can put about a cup of tomato also in little dice, and that, of course, would have to recook about it give you some color. And with the tomato, we are putting black olives and capers, and this is the finishing of our stew. And this, as I said again, is You would wanna do that on a big table in the type of Sunday meal, casual, casual with friend And this putting the beef, the beef daube on top of it here. It has a lot of color, as you can see, all the different type of vegetable, and maybe on top of it, a And this is our homage to van One of the most extraordinary are the market, beautiful market, colorful product and all that. In summer, I mean, you have all of those and many more than this. I wish I had half many in my garden. Well, I have some in my And what we wanna do is that fan here, which is really classic, with the zucchini, the garlic, the parsley mixture in it, everything. And what you do first is to take one of those small zucchini. You can trim the end of it, if you want, and cut this into a very about four, five cut, depending on the size of Then you spread it out like this to put the tomato in between. If you have a larger and you wanna do smaller one, what you can do is to cut and use half of it, and again, cut it into those type of fan. I miss this one, two, three, four, five or six, it depend And you wanna spread it out right there. You see this way. Then I'm using a plum tomato here, again, cut into thin And we want to insert it in between, in between the zucchini, like this, inside. And, of course, I have the green one, but you know with a yellow one, and it's good to do a variation like this. The vegetable are so flavorful in Provence and the fruit also, The sun, which have painted by van Gogh, and the light of Provence So, you put that in between. A little bit of Herbes de it's a mixture of different type of herb, from rosemary to thyme to savory, and all that that there is in Provence. And on top of that, we put garlic. I have garlic here, and we have sliced, very like this, you see. And we insert that in between a couple of slice of garlic Then we put a bit of salt. All we have to put on top of this is a little bit of oil and maybe around on this and this. Remember, a great deal of will also be left right by the time it cooked. Now, I wanna talk to you about garlic. Garlic is a magic food, part of the Allium. The garlic, chives, onion The garlic is great. It tend to lower blood pressure. In Europe, many many years ago, they had the pill to lower Smell a lot, but it was good. It tend to lower the cholesterol as well. It is good for vampire. It is good for everything, so we use a lot of garlic. If you take a whole head and you smell it, you'll not think that basically, You need to crush the garlic. And there is two essential oil, which get together and of what we call garlic. So unless you crush it, if it's going to be very mild. To separate your head of garlic, you hit it on the side like Many dish we do in France, like a chicken with 40 clove of garlic. It's an arbitrary number. You can have 80 clove of garlic. We put them unpeeled and you suck the flesh out of very, very mild. If you want to peel that garlic, however, you cut the end of the stem right here, because the end of the the end of that stem here After you've done that, if you crush it a little bit like this, that will release the skin. See, will come out. Again, crush it a little bit, The garlic can be used at that point. It will already be If you use it, as I have done before, very thinly sliced like this, the garlic will be stronger but still mild. By the time you crush it, then you release the essential oil, and it gets really strong. And to crush it, you bring because when you use that knife If you wanna use it flat, So you put it here, the palm of your hand, down and forward again, to really make a puree of that garlic. Now, that garlic will be very strong. Then, if you wanna chop it further, again, on a rocking motion like this, then you clean your knife on top of this and continue in the same way to really have a puree of garlic. Now, the puree of garlic, we do also in the South of you make a puree like this. This is where the garlic The least you cook it, If you mix that into a by the time it cook, it kind of oxidize, and you have a fine taste of garlic. But like in escargot, you just mix that with butter, and mix it or put it on shrimp or whatever you want at the end, that will be very, very So the least you cook The more you cook it, the finer it gets. Another thing too, when the very, very in puree like everything will test strong and acrid. So, be careful not to burn it. I wanna show you that there is those, I don't really use those but it works perfectly fine. But I'll show you the when she does a salad. She put her fork directly into the bottom of the bowl for a salad, and she rub that at the and make a puree of garlic directly into the bottom crushing it, you see, And that's a neat trick My aunt does that also. Another way that my mother also cut it is to cut it into thin slice like this, and then after in stick, and then cutting it into tiny square. And believe me or not, the tiny square of garlic like that, don't have the same taste and quite different. So there is all of those greater quantity, smaller quantity. If you cook it more, if you cook it less, if you serve it raw. Garlic is a fascinating, or seasoning to use because it can be used in so many different way. I put garlic in everything and again, sometime I may What we wanna do now is to cook this, so I'm gonna put this, you put that into a about 400 degree oven. Whoop, I have one cooking here, which is ready. Beautiful, you want that nice and soft of this one here. And you wanna serve it flat this way. Maybe I'll dare to turn to look at the other side. Here, the other one is nice too, but I would probably prefer where I had more of the So maybe I remove that one and put this one, which look good. Here, I like it well done, as it is now, soft and very fragrant. I can smell it. What you wanna do, if you a little more calorie, put a if you want, it's optional. And that would be a beautiful, really Provencal type of first course. And now, let's move to our dessert. I have a nice dessert from Provence also. I'm going to do a dessert The cassis, I have it here. This one I made. I do it sometime at home, and And we do a drink in I have some cassis in it. Very known in in Dijon, named which is called the Kir. And, it's a little bit of cassis. We do it with a blackberry also And I'm using here a Swiss wine. (Jacque speaks foreign words), which is very astringent and all this. So in the Dijon, they call that a Kir. In Leon, where I come from, the proportion is good, don't put any ice and no lemon peel in it, that the way it should be. In Leon, where I come from, a cassis with, and there is another and with red wine we call it (speaks foreign language), so we do it with a Beaujolais. So what I do here, I cut and strawberry in there, We want to put some kind the a little bit of sugar. You want maybe two tablespoon of sugar, maybe a little more Creme de Cassis. And we are into wine here. I'm using another wine This one is actually from around here. It's from the Contra except that it's a Mourvedre. It's a type of grape, which is very particular or to the Rhone Valley, in Bandol, for example, The greatest wine there are the Mourvedre, which is a grape which was unknown in this And now people are starting to use those very interesting from Viognier, Mourvedre, Syrah, Cinsault, Grenache. All of those are different grape that are not used that much or were not used that much in this country and now are getting to be used. What you would want to do with that is to let that marinate a little bit, maybe an hour, an hour and a half. And before you serve it in goblet. I would like to serve You can actually use the top of your berry to do a little bit of Always use the fruit that you're using. We have another type of, from blueberry to raspberry, so you could use those around also. You can put a couple of Actually, it is hard to but if you've had the black currant, it looked this way, you could use that. Of course, since we it would be good to put There is many other type of fruit, any other type of berry that you could do with the same red wine type of mixture. Try to use a wine, which as we have done here, except from the Swiss wine, that we are serving as an aperitif here. And I'm using it because and it works very well on it. So what I'm going to put maybe is a little piece of mint And this will be an for our homage to van Gogh the South of France. We had a real relaxing menu today, and when I relax in the kitchen, I like to have a little aperitif, what we call the Blanc-Cassis So in our menu of Provence, we are coming with that dessert of fruit with the strong taste of the cassis. And today, the menu that we did, that homage to van Gogh, South of France, Arles with the daube, is really a classic menu, which exemplified what we You see, we started with the zucchini, and the zucchini here and the garlic, a little bit of olive oil. Those are very good roughage, zucchini. The garlic, a lot of it lower blood pressure, part of the Lily family. Then we move to that named after that town Now, this is quite low in saturated fat. In fact, in that recipe, we have 1/3 of the daily which is 300 milligrams. So we have about 100 milligram which is quite low, and it's There is a lot of vegetable in it, and you should enjoy it without any guilt. And with this, we have a salad. We always have a salad in the kitchen with beautiful bread all the time. And finally, that dessert, we have the Creme de Cassis And, of course, to go with that, we have the real classic with the Chateauneuf-du-Pape. And the Chateauneuf-du-Pape, this one, the (speaks foreign language), so called, as mostly Mourvedre in it, and sometime, up to 10 different This is a very full wine, which come right there I'm sure you're going to enjoy it with the food that You can have it as an aperitif, or you can have it with your meal. We have had several type of wine today, and very often, I like to I really enjoyed doing that menu for you. So relax, open a bottle have your friend come over, I love to do it for you. Happy cooking.