[ Laughter ] [ Stately music plays ] [ Cheers and applause ] -Good evening. I'm your moderator -- [ Cheers and applause ] And I think I'm going to do a First, I want to lay out which both parties Each candidate will have -Boring. -But, M-Mr. President, I haven't even introduced -Tell that to my Adderall, Now, let's get this show and off the rails. -And you did take the COVID test you promised to take -Absolutely, scout's honor. -Well, President Trump has already so let's now welcome -Boo. Here comes the booing. -...former vice president -Allegedly. -Not even a real state. [ Cheers and applause ] Mr. Vice President -- Okay. -It looks like -- It looks like -Absolutely not. I've got the beginning Now, let's do this. I'm holding my bladder. -Tonight we'll be discussing none of which anyone We begin with the Supreme Court. President Trump, 2 minutes. I'd like to begin People are mean to me. Chris Wallace is mean. to keep losing jobs, The China virus has been And that statement to haunt me later this week. -And -- And what about about the Supreme Court? -I think We're very excited Amy Cristina Barcelona. And it was so nice, so nice with open arms -Mr. Vice President, You have 2 minutes. -Thank you, Chris. -No, it's not. -Excuse me, please. -No, whatever -Mr. President, -He let you speak. -But he's lying. I can't point out -I-I said two words, No, don't do it, Joe. It's exactly what he wants. Don't let your inner Just flash them all that smile they taught you -Now, Mr. Vice President, and only Mr. Vice President, adding additional justices -He won't even answer. -You won't even answer it, What about his son Hunter and the mayor of Moscow? And Obama was spying on me, -Mr. -- Mr. President, no one You're just listing terms And it sounds like you're saying from season four of a show -Sheriff of Portland. -Mr. Vice President, -Now, look, here's the deal. -will you just shut up? Sorry. I'm sorry, I misspoke. What I meant to say was, if you could just allow me as opposed to sabotaging with the toxic geyser that you cracked out, turd-hurling sack Losing control. Back to you, Chris, -You still have 2 minutes, Joe. -Oh, really? Where was I? -You said, -Oh, right. Look, here's the deal. Nope, lost it. Come back to me. -Chris, can I say one thing? Am I allowed to say one thing? -Yes, Mr. President. -What we need in this country When someone breaks the rules, they need to face -Okay, what about your taxes? -There have to be exceptions, The terms &quot;law and order,&quot; and rules It's the same with masks. I've got mine Okay? My mask. Alright? It's like a seatbelt, though. You just wear it when you're then you take it off, okay? But Joe wears And he's standing like Oh-oh. -Look, man, I'm a nice guy, but if you give me I'll rip your face off I'll knock that thing bury it in the pet cemetery Stop it, Joe! Stop it! God, you can't lose your cool just 'cause this joker's raising The country's counting on ya to just stand here I know it. I know what'll calm me down. My new Harry Styles -We dip our toes -Nice -Cleansing. -We let the waves -Ah. -Hey. And I better listen to, uh, -Ladies and gentlemen! Leaders and voters! For freedom and liberty The best is yet to come! Aaaah! -Alright, can we please Debates are and the bedrock -You're gay. -Mr. President, if you keep I'll do absolutely -Okay, okay, I'll be quiet. -[ Sighs ] I don't want to be dictated to, and I'm not gonna be by this clown tonight. Okay? But I'm definitely I'm gonna try to keep my cool. What -- What is that? Get down! -Mr. President, please, -It's not, it's not. This is a wand -Boys, boys, boys, boys, [ Scoffs ] The both of you, Alright? You do not treat my Joe He's a nice boy. -Kamala, I got this. -Unh-unh, Joe. Let Mamala go to work. Now, Donald... I want you to apologize to Joe. -He started it. I don't care who started it. I don't even care Now, you apologize to Joe now. -Sorry. -I said &quot;sorry.&quot; -I think if there's one thing it's that America needs a WAP -- But for now, I'll settle hot vice president in charge. So, why don't the two of you or whatever the hell this is, And when you're done, some PB&amp;J and apple slices -Yummy! -Thank you, Senator Harris. -Oh, I am not done with you, You will see me in my office Now, where the hell -Oh, uh... Finally, just to ensure that this is the worst I'd like to close -Oh, baby, come to papa. -Mr President, do you condemn -Condemn them? I mean, who The Proud Boys, the White Boot, I don't even know I certainly wouldn't even know -America, The president is literally blowing -I don't think I don't hear anything. -Mr. Vice President, -[ Sighs ] Well -- -That is so unfair. Why don't I get to make After all, I am the pres-- -Sorry, but I think we all needed a break. Isn't that satisfying [Sighs] just not to hear his voice for a single goddamn second? Let's wallow in it. Let's bask in the Trumplessness. Now, Chris, could I speak to the American people? -Is it gonna be weird? Totally weird. America... ...look at me. Look directly into my eyeballs. You can trust me because I believe in science and karma. Now, just imagine if science and karma ...to send us all a message about how dangerous I'm not saying But just imagine if it did. Mmm. Mmm. Hmm. So, this November, which is literally and we can all make America Okay... now I'll unpause him. -...antifa. Gonna leave him on pause. Oh, and one more thing. -Live from New York,