Thank you as always. I am Yonaga, the captain of the Takuei Maru. Catch 12 tons of scallops in 4 hours Take your own photos of scallop fishing in the Sea of Okhotsk. We also covered processed products made from large quantities of caught scallops. Please watch until the end. Due to the hot weather in Hokkaido, the departure time was 30 minutes early. There is a quota of 12 tons per boat for this scallop fishing. When the sea is calm, you cannot return to port unless you catch 12 tons. Boats gather where there are many scallops. Once all boats arrive at the fishing location, fishing begins at the same time. roger that. start fishing The first scallop fishing has begun. On this day, the water depth was 32m. The current was 0.3 knots. Also refer to the data from the previous day. Ship speed and wire length The speed of the ship is 3.2 knots. Wire length is 393.7ft What you can see is a fish reef. It's in various places On the bridge, I am inputting data into my ipad. The time it takes to tow fishing gear varies depending on the conditions of surrounding vessels. If you tow for a long time, you will catch more fish, but the number of shells will also increase. The captain of the boat decides what to do with today's fishing. Now that the first towing is complete, let's check the catch. The fishing gear was towed for about 21 minutes. I always get nervous at this moment Please give me a big catch The first catch was over 4 tons, which was a good catch. We will immediately prepare for the next fishing trip and catch scallops. While the captain is on his second fishing trip, the crew sorts the scallops. suspicious obstacle While towing fishing gear, a suspicious obstacle appears on the fish finder. This is the fishing reef you saw earlier. I was able to avoid it successfully last time, but this time it was right in front of me. strike It hit me directly. But I'll get through it, so I'll work without worrying. Now that the fishing gear has been towed, the captain also joins in sorting the scallops. There's still a lot left The second sorting work has been completed, and it looks like the quota will be achieved on the third fishing trip. Lay out the net for unloading and prepare for the next fishing trip. I finished my work by sorting this out. Is there only one scallop on the ticket? Tickets are special scallops sold by the association. This ticket also covers the 15 kg of scallops that a fisherman receives per month. This specially selected scallop is also used for the scallops sold online. This means scallops selected by scallop professionals. Special scallop selection completed By choosing on the way home, you can ensure that it is shipped fresh. On this day, the scallop fishing started at 4:28 a.m., and the quota was achieved in three catches. The scale of the scallops was 14,402 kg. Arrival time was 8:30am. It's still breakfast time, so let's eat breakfast using the privilege of being a fisherman. Scallop quality check There are a lot of inspections very beautiful sea water The most delicious condition right now Fisherman's privilege activated I'll have breakfast Serve generously on top of rice. Wasabi and soy sauce using scallop shells Fisherman's breakfast completed We have safely arrived at the port and will unload the cargo. Weigh the scallops while they are loaded on the truck. After weighing, cover the scallops with a sheet. This is to prevent harmful birds and to control the temperature of the scallops. Maintain freshness Afterwards, we will head to the scallop processing plant. This time, I was able to take pictures with the cooperation of Tatsumi Refrigeration Co., Ltd. First, divide the scallops you brought into special cases. It was fun watching this Transport the scallops with a forklift and let them rest in a cool storage room. In the hot summer, this place becomes a paradise This time we have special permission to take photos. I will be visiting with full protection. I have to pass here and wash your hands here washing hands get out of here Please be careful with the volume as the machine is loud. This is the place to peel scallops Wonderful technique Flow work starts from here Wash with sterile seawater Trimming the scallop Detailed work is done by hand This is the first inspection station. Wash again with sterile seawater Wash for 30 seconds There are inspectors in each department. Enter the tunnel freezer from here and come out in 14 minutes and 30 seconds. Quick freeze from here Tastes like freshly caught because it is quickly frozen in a fresh state. Should I wash it again? This is glaze. Treat the scallops with an ice coating to preserve their freshness. Second inspection station There is a problem and it can be avoided, but amateurs do not understand it. Third inspection station There is also an inspection here. Awesome Inspect the inside of the scallop using a machine Is this the product that was avoided during testing? There are so many products that don't pass inspection. The rest comes by size. and pack it This is Tatsumi Frozen Foods' frozen scallops. The inside looks like this, it contains very thick scallops. These are dried scallops made by the Sarufutsu Village Fisheries Cooperative. Here is a video of the processing factory where this is produced. I came to the processing plant of the Sarufutsu Village Fisheries Cooperative. Freshly caught scallops are delivered to the processing plant. Load over 13 tons of scallops at once This is a scallop boiled in seawater. From there, it is dried to become a product. Actually, this state is the most delicious. Some of it becomes processed products, and most of it becomes dried scallops that are sold domestically as well as exported overseas. Things that take time and effort are delicious. Scallops dried in the sun take on a great color. The products listed here can be purchased online, so if you are interested, please check the overview section. Other hairy crabs milk or butter Dairy farming is also popular in Sarufutsu Village, the northernmost village in Japan. You can also purchase dairy products made from dairy cows raised on vast pastures. Now, let's make fisherman's meal using the products here. Rehydrate dried scallops with water Let's cook right away First, chop the onions in one go using editing. This is a scallop egg. This cannot be purchased online This is also an edit I will also cook this live scallop. line up once Using a scallop peeler just a little salt and pepper Place the frying pan and add the butter It's okay to put a lot ignition melt the butter Next, fry the onions just a little salt fry until heated through When the fire goes through, add the scallop eggs. Add the water in which the dried scallops were rehydrated. Once the flavor is absorbed, transfer it to a large pot. Add the remaining water to the pot Loosen the scallops that have been rehydrated and add them to the curry. It's okay to add a lot because the soup will come out. Dried scallops have a salty taste, so we recommend adding them to ramen. Boil slowly Try adding frozen scallops too. Frozen scallops from Tatsumi Frozen Foods that are flash-frozen. simmer for 5 minutes Maybe there was a lot of water I'll use this soup later. Turn off the heat and add the curry roux. mix Not enough roux feels very nice Finally, add milk as a secret ingredient. sample delicious Completion of scallop curry Next, 2 items Place frozen scallops on scallop shells and ignite. Add some of the soup from earlier Kelp soup stock Shimeji mushrooms Then heat it up. It looks delicious When it's cooked, sprinkle the cheese on it Cover with a lid and let the cheese melt Finished grilled scallops with cheese Cooking will change She's an ordinary person so she doesn't talk much. It's time to drink beer Thank you for your hard work today. cheers Beer is delicious today too! nice. I hear the sounds of winter It was fried 15 pieces is just the right amount. Completion of fried scallops It's a little loose though No, it's okay. feel well Why not put the fly on first? That's completely different This is how I do it. I guess I'll put it on top of that. If you pour curry on top, you won't be able to see the fries. I'm going to put the fly on top of this. That's a lot of calories That's a lot of calories Completed fried scallop curry made by a fisherman Try starting with fried scallops It's so delicious that my voice is low very delicious! I only added salt, but it was really delicious. Try eating scallop scallops Frozen scallops are easy and convenient to use in cooking very delicious. Frozen scallops are the best Perfect for hot dishes This time, I tried making fisherman's meal using special products from Sarufutsu Village. If you are interested, please check the overview section Thank you for watching until the end! See you next time