We're trying sausage dishes Let's talk about that. ((Intro Music)) Good Mythical Morning. And welcome to season 25. ((Crew Cheering)) What? That's right! What? And of course, since the gift for 25 is silver, we gift of two silver foxes. Oh, one of us is trying a Yeah. I feel like you're infringing Oh, I'm sorry. But you do look fabulous. I feel great as well. It's not like this circulation to my brain. Is it? It is. Really? Yeah, but you know what? You need all the ((Laughing)) Hey, it's a new year. When we start new Sometimes I go on That's true. And I need this one today. But first, I need to Okay, okay, yeah, It's pretty big, for real. I mean, this is really could be the biggest But maybe this is it. I'm certainly very We're gonna go on tour. ((Crew Cheering)) Not just any tour. This is the Good We are taking this actual You can cheer again. ((Crew Cheering)) It was a little, it was to cheer with the way that We're doing this This summer, the And it's going to be, it's and doing this show just just, hey, we're at the desk We have taken what we do on the kind of experience that so you can enjoy it in a We're going around the a number of cities. And the pre sale for 2nd and members begins on Wednesday, time for each city, okay? So if you want the best the limited VIP packages, with us or some of your the Mythical crew, you And then the general January 12th at 10 A.M. your local time. Just go to goodmythicaltour.com for tickets and We want you to come It's going to be awesome. We're bringing crew members. Oh yeah. We're bringing, we're bringing That. What are you? You It's not like you got that you're bringing that We're bringing lots of things. Including my surprises. I, yeah, I got some surprises. Okay. I was recently shocked world, sausages come in Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Wieners between buns the sausage iceberg. Just the tip. So don't be shocked when encounter today look a Oh. I will try my best. Alright. Where in the Sausage Dishes Come From? ((Music)) - [Stevie] Okay old chaps, as always, international dish and map to guess where you Chase! The sausage link cartographer you are to the correct answer. - [Rhett] I get it. He's like another Link. He looks just like him. Yeah, Got your shirt. You got the links. Got the links. You got the silver. Got the silvers. ((Laughing)) And the &quot;glaxes&quot;. And the &quot;glaxes&quot;? And the &quot;glaxes&quot;. ((Laughing)) - [Stevie] The winner today will get Link, you, oh, sorry, I thought about it, but then - [Stevie] Okay, you lost last How many times That was last year. - [Stevie] That'd be four, Old news! - [Stevie] The Veto Cheeto, as has not been used. So you have to use that today. And then also, Rhett, you're disadvantage, which Link may Ha Ha Ha. - [Stevie] And, you're up first. That made me laugh French. Okay, Link, I've got That is a, that's a pickle Hold out your breads. And I'll wiener ya. Okay. This, these, black balls Pepper corianders? You're afraid of them, I see. The way that, look at made this sandwich. I mean. You're welcome. I mean, you just I'm a natural when it Okay. ((Laughing)) Sausage placement. Here we go. Everything's pickled! That's pretty dang good. Pickled sausage. It's like you used to you'd see the Penrose. And I'd watch you eat Not bad at all, though. This is what you were Pickled onions, pickled and pickled black things. Now, pickled sausage this is something that In North Cackalacky But I think I'm gonna that seems to make sense. Because when I think big Nope. What? That's an obvious guess. Too obvious for you? See, I think, I think I'm I'm gonna veto your throw, too close to Germany. So, I'm going to leave that and you have to throw another going to remove that one. I've used the Veto ((Applause)) - [Link] Oh yes! And that? It was good, it worked. Alright Chase, go ahead attempt, which was better attempt, off the map! I vetoed! Hopefully it's Finland. And won't you feel bad. Which exists? No, it's fictitious, Germany is so obvious. I mean, would they serve us obviously think Germany? You think they're tricking us? I think they're luring. Now that I've done it, it because they can Quite a conundrum you've But it's around one. So maybe it is Germany. Maybe they thought that I thing that they were thinking. Hold on. You're gonna think We don't have time for this. I'm going for Germany. - [Link] Oh, yes. A little closer than you. All right. What do we got? - [Stevie] You just had utopenci Directly translating to believed the inventor This popular dish, pickled spices, can be found in in The Czech Republic. Oh, Czech Republic. You're pretty close to that. Yes, am I closer? I think so. Rhett, you've had 8. Link, you were a 2. Yes! Oh, wow. That's right! Good start for the Linkster. But not Germany. ((Music)) This is like something a microwave in 1995. It's like a saucy It's like you got beanie What is that, cheese? Is it cheese? What? It's creamy, man. It's so creamy. It's good. Good for you too, I can tell. Is it just thousand I mean, I'm not complaining. It does seem like it Like it's a mayo based thing. That's quite tasty. Tastes like little smokies. I'm going first. It's not spicy, it's not Evocative of an area. I feel like it could thinking this is Greece. Oh, it is a little Greece-y It is Greece-y Yes! Link, you're really Yes! Maybe it's one of those strong and then slowly fade. I feel, I do feel that. I feel like I'm gonna I want to be a Inevitably fade. If I can be a part of There was one year where, I but you had a good solid two Go for it. So what are you thinking? I mean, people really I'll put an end to that. Man, there's so But one time we went we asked for, nachos. ((Laughing)) Do you remember that? Yeah. And they brought us the worst made these chips anything You know what I'm saying? It was horrible. It was just like, it UPS boxes or whatever It's not the same The United Postal Service UKPS. And then they side, which was ketchup. So they're just kind of known You know what I'm saying? Ketchup, mayonnaise, It's just like. Wieners and sauce! You want me to hold you hair? It's a lot like This feels like, could be a problem. This feels like it It feels like you're gonna rein me in like a horse? No. Is this the secret pull on my neck at This is what I did for all my ((Laughing)) Are you gonna pull I'm not! Are you gonna pull I'm not! Oh, I was, hold on. Was that the disadvantage? No, I didn't do anything. I thought that was I was fully expecting him. I told you I wasn't. Listen, I'm part of Link's fine with that serving I was helping you. Okay, I'll hold your ((Laughing)) Okay. You just had nakkikastike This dish features sauteed similar to frankfurters, brown sauce and usually onions, carrots, and cream. You can find this common Finland. Ouch. Yeah, Rhett, you But Link, you're the wiener Yeah, yeah. I will say that I actually doing because I thought that on my hair at the last minute So, I threw it ((Music)) Oh, look at this, Link. That is, this is fancy. This looks like We got a big meat stick. Let's see if I can with my lettuce wrap. That's a good idea. Just sheath it off. There we go. Then you just hold this. Maybe you get a cucumber And then some carrots, like, pepper sauce. Just a little dippy dip. Little dippy dip. Now what does this evoke? As you do this, where Yeah, I gotta go first, right? The sausage. Real good. The sausage is Like, what kind Well, I'm not going I think I know, but I'm But I kind of feel like pretty good guess on this one. It's very sweet meat, but that makes me uncomfortable. The phallic nature of it? It's not even that. It's actually the taste. The taste is making me scared. You think it's a little gamy? That this is like, this actually want to, I Well, I ate the one whole one. I felt like I needed It's a bit grody to me. I'm just not, I because now I'm scared. I like this. I think you're wrong. But I like the fact discombobulated right now. It's definitely sending like this, the lettuce sending me to Vietnam. So. I gotta go over to that area. I'm doing it. You wanna hold my hair back? You can do that. Because that wasn't ((Laughing)) It's not a disadvantage. It's actually, it's Throwing it! Okay, good. I'm not gonna pull. Alright, here we go. Vietnam, here you come. Oh, a little high. See? See? Well, that's what I That's what I was gonna guess. I just think it tastes But you think it's got It's like they put it, sort of organs in there. That's what I'm afraid of. Well, that could be the case. I quite liked it though, my, was my guess as well. Maybe I can get closer. I haven't had a lot of. So I do not want you Hold your hair back. I'm having a little trouble. Can I touch it at all Oh! Snack. Oh, oh. I got my hair in my sausage. See? Exactly. Could have been Yeah, you should - [Stevie] You just had nem nuong. Nem nuong. - [Stevie] Made from grilled - That's it? What makes it weird? - [Stevie] Garlic, shallots, sugar, soda to puff up the meat. Oh, that's what you tasted. This skewered appetizer is sauce and fresh veggies We both had excellent guesses. You had a more excellent aim. That's one of my You think it was my Well, here you go. Now that you know I'll dip it in But you know it's This is good. New year, new you. ((Clicking Tongue)) ((Laughing)) Does that noise help? I'm not in a petting zoo. ((Laughing)) Rhett, you had 2. Link, you had 10. Two, homie. Okay. ((Music)) We got, we have, Julienne cut things. So this. Is that That is cheese. And pickles. That is a pickle. And then this is. well, a This is bologna like. It is bologna like. You can make a Okay. I mean, I guess one big Is a sausage. That's right. Bologna is a sausage. Bologna is a sausage. Oh my gosh. You heard it here. All right, so I am still. It's like pickled pasta. Going first. All right, so we were Republic for round one. So, I'm gonna go back Good. And then I'm gonna Good. Again. Good, good, good. Because it's basically Basically. But it's not Greece-y Y'all could do one that cut a different Greece, oh. ((Laughing)) Greece. Now, I think. My hand was greasy. I think what happened is the country as you threw it. I did. And then, and then, but then Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You notice that? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I liked your technique. I'm gonna try it. Say the name of Greece. I'm not gonna say Greece, Oh, it isn't? I think Greece Thank you. But because this is so similar country that is closest to So I'm gonna say Germany. It's even closer. Say it as you throw it. Okay, okay, I'll go. &quot;Ger-many&quot;! &quot;Ger-many&quot;? Yeah. I can't do two things at once. So, I said - [Stevie] You just had wurstsalat A traditional salad made It's a popular dish often in beer gardens or inns. You can especially enjoy this Germany. Well, I didn't have too great still in the lead here, Link. Link, you had 15. Rhett, 8. Oh, close game. Close game. ((Music)) Sausage balls. Fried balls. In a dip. Oh, boy. This has got a Anytime I see balls and That is a soft sausage ball. That's good. There's like, is There's rice. It's like a rice ball. With sausage. Is that a hint? Is that something I I have to go first. So, I need to. But what already understand? I need to keep my mouth shut. Listen. There's plenty of stuff I say It's a ball, and it's Probably wouldn't have Where am I gonna go? That's not labeled it's a mystery round. Or is it? Rice balls make Rice balls also make of anything else. So do I just need I'm on the boot. Right, Chase? Yeah, you're telling salami. ((Laughing)) That's pretty good, Chase. Once I said the maybe think of you and And then that's what you said. Okay. Here we go. Italy. Oh, that's a little high. That's a little high. And. What is going on there? What is that? ((Laughing)) ((Laughing)) Hold those on your eyes. Pull this back. Oh, you look real good now. ((Laughing)) This is how you Now, tell us what's happening. Well, I can't see quite But, I'm sure Come back this Okay, wow. Okay, let me see. This way. A little bit. Hold on, hold on. Why do I have to So you can pick your feet up. Now if you want to know we can show you what he's you that, which I guess we're And now. You're spinning me? No, you is spinning and you So, what's your answer? You know what's up, dude. ((Laughing)) Okay, I see, just to kind into my world right now. - [Link] What's new When I look at, say, see one, two, three. I see three of them. Take your pick. I see three United And, not that it's a mystery round. That's a mustard sauce. When I saw the rice balls I like that thing I've had at But then the mustard sauce So I actually think that thing by guessing up there a good answer, but just in Oh yeah, that You're way up there in. Oh Greenland, that's what I was hoping for. Well maybe it's, Probably not. Well you looked - [Stevie] You just had Boudin Balls, rice, onions, peppers, This fried ball is served an appetizer with a mustard state of Louisiana, in the United States. Whoops, Link. I think I may have beat you. Alright, Link, you had 26. Rhett, 13. Oh, dang! - [Stevie] That means Rhett ((Party Music)) ((Laughing)) After all that? ((Laughing)) It's a great start to the Thanks for subscribing You know what time it is. ((Laughing)) I'm Emily. And I'm Jared. We just had a very And it's time to spin Woo hoo! Congrats! Click the top link to watch from just their crumbs And to find out where is gonna land. - [Link] We're going on tour. Visit goodmythicaltour.com Hope to see you there.