How did Gautama Buddha meditate? When I first became aware of the conflicting ill-informed they are -- I felt inspired but at the same time dismayed over their views: nibbana and the paths leading to it still passed away and can no longer be attained. This because a desire for nibbana is what has led the Buddha's teachings in the first place. If to be especially sincere in our practice; and if as far as the benefits the Buddha intended for us in teaching was to liberate living beings from way in as parasites on his religion, it would run Each and every one of us aims for what is good, lead to release from suffering and stress. Don't By and large, from what I've seen of people who in ways that mix right with wrong, and instructing their pupils in line with their nibbana, and the stream leading to it. The with their own views and opinions that their for example, that we don't that we've been born too late for nibbana and up our practice. (Opinions of this sort run But no matter what level a person may know, if he'll have great difficulty in making his though he may have good intentions, if he progress will be difficult. knew the capabilities and dispositions of his they were ripe. He then tailored his teachings able to get good results. Even though he only where he knew it would sprout. If he saw he wouldn't plant any seed at all. But as for us, along a mountain spine or in the belly of the sea, Thus in this book I have included teachings and advanced -- leaving it up to the reader to pick out the teachings intended for In practicing meditation, if you you'll see results in the immediate present. you'll reap harm in the immediate present as well. that comes from associating with those who are deluded or schizoid in a variety of ways. How the signs or visions that appear to them, to the and minds. Playing around with an external kasina lack sufficient training will tend to hallucinate, letting themselves get carried away by what they making it difficult for any sort of in this guide I have taught to focus exclusively not to fasten on or become obsessed with whatever There are a wide variety of meditation teachers the Buddha. Some of them, hoping for gain, with magical formulae and strict observances, of the Buddha. (Our Lord Buddha isn't a god of we have to develop ourselves so as to reach forms of rapture, or else visions of this or that you attain the first level of the path, and and fourth levels, and then once a year you fruit, and a pig's head. (The Buddha's not that we would propitiate him with offerings. any sort whatsoever.) Once the pupils of such they run out of levels to attain, and Private Buddhas or Noble Disciples, and thus they their hair stands on end, and they get excited When you study with some teachers, you have to incense sticks, or maybe ten, plus so-and-so on this or that day of the week, at this or preferences. (If you can afford it, there's poor people or people with little free time will Once you finish the ceremony, the teacher tells until you get the vision he teaches you to look water, fire, a person, the Buddha, a Noble making assumptions that follow the drift of the you've seen something special or have attained where you sit still, in a daze, with no sense of you become attached to the pleasure, or stillness or a vision or a color arises and you become nothing more than uggaha nimitta.) Perhaps a thought arises and you think get carried away. You may decide that you're a and no one in the world can match you. You giving rise to pride and conceit. (All attached to them, are wrong.) When this happens, So you have to keep digging away for decades been practicing a full twenty years, and so thinks he's better than you. So, out of fear even more stubborn and proud, and that's as far When it comes to actual attainment, some the Triple Gem into their hearts. Of who know better than this. I don't mean For this reason, I have drawn up this book in If you see that this might be the path you are didn't teach like the examples mentioned above. without requiring that you had to offer five or puffed rice or flowers or whatever. All the Buddha and a willingness to practice his some candles and incense as an offering to the two if you had two; if you didn't have any, you have you repeat the formula for taking refuge book. His approach to teaching in this way has I have been practicing for a number of years now, have a sense of pity, both for myself and for the right lines, we may very likely attain knowledge that will make us marvel at the good or we may even see the paths and fruitions leading is always present. It lacks only the people who don't know how; others know, but aren't interested thinking, for example, that nibbana is is beyond the powers of people in the present how could we possibly attain it. This last is already Noble Disciples, what purpose would we If we don't despise the Buddha's teachings, of the matter is that though we worship which is the same as despising it. If we we may tell ourselves that we can wait to or at least anytime by right now. Or we may take have to abandon greed, anger, and delusion before we take our work as an excuse, saying that we'll reason that meditation should get in the way of the heart. There's no need to dismantle our homes and if we did throw away our belongings in this Even though it's true that we love ourselves, if we vacillate and hesitate, loading we make our days and nights go to waste. So that bring about the paths and fruitions then examine the procedures explained in section seems to correspond to your own level As for myself, I was first attracted to the lay claim to physical and mental phenomena as teaching that the body is anatta -- not-self over the nature of the body. I examined it far as my understanding allowed -- the Buddha's considered how the body arises, is sustained and (1) it arises from upadana assumptions -- which forms the essence of kamma. our parents; and since our parents have nothing of search for food -- two-footed animals, four-footed land -- either buying this food or else killing animals abused in this way are bound to curse and just as we are possessive of our belongings Those who don't know the truth of the body take diseases we suffer in our eyes, nose, mouth, I concluded that we've probably been cursed by parts come from the food we've made of their suffers pain with no recourse for begging mercy. suffer pains in the eyes, pains in the ears, pains until in the end we have to relinquish the whole still living, some of them -- like mosquitoes force. If we don't let go of our attachments lives to come. This is one reason why I felt (3) The body passes away from being denied us is without a doubt a result of our past living beings, denying them food to the point feel such affection for. When the results have to break up and disband in the same way. feel even more attracted to the practical methods letting go of our clinging assumptions so that we claimed by ignorant and fixated animals. If we it's the same as cheating others of their and blood and then, forgetting where these very own. When this happens, we're like a child in another family with a different language, is name. If someone comes along and calls him by his because of his ignorance of his own origins. we latch onto it, assuming it to be the self. addicted to physical and mental phenomena, These thoughts are what led me of the Buddha so as to liberate myself From Keeping the Breath in Mind 1. Start out with three or seven long the in-breath, and dho with the out. Keep the 2. Be clearly aware of each in-and-out breath. 3. Observe the breath as it goes in and or uncomfortable, broad or narrow, obstructed or cool. If the breath doesn't feel comfortable, breathing in long and out long is uncomfortable, As soon as you find that your breathing feels spread to the different parts of the body. at the base of the skull, and let it flow all let it spread down your right leg to the sole of the air. Inhale the breath sensation at the base spine, down your left leg to the ends of your begin with the left side first, because the Then let the breath from the base of the past your elbows and wrists, to the tips Let the breath at the base of the throat spread past the lungs and liver, all the Inhale the breath right at the middle of the chest Let all these breath sensations spread and you'll feel a greatly 4. Learn four ways of adjusting the breath: a. in long and out long, c. in short and out long, Breathe whichever way is most comfortable comfortably all four ways, because your physical 5. Become acquainted with the bases or spots of the breath -- and center seems most comfortable. A few of these bases are: a. the tip of the nose, c. the palate, e. the breastbone (the tip of the sternum), If you suffer from frequent headaches or nervous of the throat. And don't try to force the breath and naturally. Let the mind be at ease with the 6. Spread your awareness -- your sense of 7. Unite the breath sensations throughout the keeping your awareness as broad as possible. Once you already know in your body, you'll come to know by its nature, has many facets: breath those flowing around and about the nerves, pore. Beneficial breath sensations and harmful To summarize: (a) for the sake of improving the body, so that you can contend with such things clarifying the knowledge already within you, leading to release and purity of heart -- you because they are absolutely basic to every aspect you will have cut a main road. As for the meditation -- there are plenty of them, be perfectly safe if you stick to these seven Now we will summarize the methods of breath Jhana means to be absorbed or focused as when we deal with the breath. 1. The first jhana has five factors: (a) breath until you can recognize it clearly object (ekaggatarammana): Keep the mind with the Watch over your thoughts so that they deal only becomes comfortable. (The mind becomes one, at Gain a sense of how to let this comfortable breath breath sensations in the body. Let these breath body has been soothed by the breath, feelings with good breath energy. (The mind is focused These three qualities must be brought together to jhana to arise. This stream of breathing can Directed thought, singleness of object the causes are fully ripe, results will appear fullness and refreshment for body and mind, going (e) Pleasure (sukha): physical ease arising (kaya-passaddhi); mental contentment arising unperturbed, serene and Rapture and pleasure are the first jhana thus come down simply As rapture and pleasure grow stronger, the stay focused and absorbed, the more powerful directed thought and evaluation (the preliminary on a single factor, singleness of object -- you 2. The second jhana has three factors: rapture, This refers to the state of mind that has tasted you have entered the second level, rapture rely on a single cause, singleness of object, focusing on the breath so that it becomes more a sense of refreshment and ease for both body intent than before. As you continue focusing, to expand and contract. Continue focusing on subtle level to escape the motions of rapture 3. The third jhana has two factors: pleasure motionless and solitary. No feelings of pain arise The breath is refined, free-flowing and broad. A entire body, stilling all feelings of physical and nothing but the broad, refined breath. The mind it. The mind stands out on its own. The four in harmony throughout the body. You could almost because the breath has the strength to control keeping them harmonious and coordinated. object, which acts as the cause. The breath Focus on in: The mind is bright and powerful, still. Your sense of the body feels steady and so you can let go of your sense of pleasure. because the four properties are balanced the cause, has the strength to focus more 4. The fourth jhana has two factors: or mindfulness. Equanimity and singleness focused -- solid, stable and sure. The breath gaps. The mind, neutral and still, lets go of all which forms the present, is still, like the ocean You can know distant sights, and sounds, and so acts like a movie screen, giving a clear Knowledge arises in the mind: You know but stay the breath, neutral and still; past, present true singleness of object, focused on the parts of the breath in the body connect so that have to breathe through the nostrils, because of the breath in the body form a single, unified and full. The four properties all have the same The focus is strong; the light, aglow. The mind is beaming and bright -- which unobstructed by clouds or haze, The mind sheds light in all the mind fully radiant, due to The focus is strong; the light, aglow... The frames of reference are gathered into one. There feeling... That's the mind... That's a mental This is thus called the great frame of reference, The mind is firmly intent, due to the strength of its focus. This is what is meant by the one path properties and frames of reference, four in one, the purifying inner fire (tapas) that can As you focus more strongly on the radiance of the preoccupations enables the mind to stand alone. of a mountain and has the right to see in all which supports the mind's freedom -- is in a all things fashioned (sankhara) clearly in khandhas, and sense media (ayatana). Just airplane can take pictures of practically reached this stage (lokavidu) can see the In addition, awareness of another sort, in the or the skill of release -- also appears. The (kaya-siddhi); the mind, resilient power. When focus the mind heavily and forcefully on the strikes the pure element, intuitive knowledge will a record player, as it strikes a record, will focused on a pure object, then if you want images, whether near or far, matters of the world or past, present or future -- whatever you want want to know, and it will appear. This is nana present and future -- an important level of The elements are like radio waves going through and your skills highly developed, yourself in touch with the entire world, When you have mastered the fourth jhana, 1. Vipassana-nana: clear intuitive insight into remain and disband. This is a special sort mind. It can occur in two ways: (a) knowing and (b) knowing from having thought of the as in the case of ordinary knowledge. Think for an a piece of cotton wool soaked in gasoline, when flame. The intuition and insight here are that 2. Manomayiddhi: the ability to 3. Iddhividhi: the ability to e.g., creating images in certain instances that 4. Dibbasota: the ability to hear distant sounds. 5. Cetopariya-nana: the ability high or low -- of other people's minds. 6. Pubbenivasanussati-nana: the (If you attain this skill, you'll no death is followed by annihilation or rebirth.) 7. Dibbacakkhu: the ability to see gross 8. Asavakkhaya-nana: the ability to reduce and eliminate the effluents These eight skills come exclusively why I have written this condensed based on the technique of keeping the breath come from these things, you should turn your