Narrator: From cooking for 100,000 people daily at the Golden Temple in India to making the world's biggest we traveled the globe to behind the world's Our first stop is Onam Narrator: This crew of 20 chefs is working against the clock as they prepare 150,000 sadyas for Kerala's harvest festival, Onam. Every sadya is made of 20 and requires the team to prepare at least a month in advance. It is a huge task, and for delivering it successfully Narrator: We visited to see how Chef Mahadevan and his team prepare an Onam sadya in such big batches. Among the 20 dishes they make, one of their most popular is a dessert called palada payasam. Narrator: Making this and begins with making rice flakes out of a brown rice that is Coconut oil and sugar are and the mixture is placed where it is rolled, tied, and steamed. Narrator: The resulting rice flakes are pressed in the morning and set aside. Also in the morning, 120 liters of milk are poured into a large pot and boiled. Narrator: Another popular dish which has traditionally been made with 13 different vegetables. At Vinayaka, avial is made in batches that can feed 500 to 600 people. Narrator: Because there everything is washed and Narrator: In the morning, inside of the giant pots Narrator: At this stage, turmeric, salt, raw mango, and sour curd. Then they cover the pot Narrator: Once all of the the avial is ready for more spices. Cumin paste, green chili paste, and curry leaves are all Narrator: But achieving this flavor is easier said than done. Narrator: Another popular dish is sambar, which also requires a day of prepping before anything is cooked. Heaps of lentils are washed, Once the lentils have cooked, a mix of spices is added to the pots, including tamarind water, coriander, turmeric, asafetida, green chilies, curry leaves, and jaggery. The sambar is brought to a boil, and coconut oil is added Narrator: But the most lies in its masala, which black gram, Bengal gram, long chilies, chilies, curry leaves, and asafetida. Narrator: Chef Mahadevan's sadyas for 32 years. It began cooking for and eventually grew serving thousands of meals every month. Narrator: Today, Chef of 20 people at the height of Onam to meet the demands of his customers. Narrator: While feeding this Chef Mahadevan remains humble about the art and craft of his work. Narrator: When all of the they are packed and where they are served as Banana leaves are placed on At a traditional sadya, must always face to the left of the eater. Once set, workers scoop the dishes into exact positions from left to right, and papadams, which are are added as a final touch. Narrator: The smallest portions are also served on the left side, and larger portions are Narrator: Onam is a that marks the first month and commemorates the return from the underworld to his home in Kerala. His return is celebrated traditional dances, boat races, and the Onam sadya. Vinayaka's Onam sadya and the amount of food Throughout the meal, servers refilling hot rice in the and spooning out more dishes. While many Hindu communities in Kerala opt for a purely vegetarian meal, other Hindu, Christian, especially those in the enjoy their Onam feast with The meal concludes in with a variety of sweet payasam puddings and a fragrant, digestive paan. Narrator: Every day, and stamp 8,000 loaves of bread. Shaped like wheels, these with a golden crust and an airy crumb. Weighing in at 1.5 kilos, and shared around the dinner table. While you can find countless across Uzbekistan, the are baked in the city of Samarkand. Here, bread is sacred and Narrator: We visited Samarkand to see how these loaves are made and what it takes to Making these loaves begins by combining 62 kilograms of flour, water, salt, and yeast After about 40 minutes, kneaded, and left to rise for four hours. The dough is then cut into 1.5-kilo balls, which are then left to rest and rise for another hour and 20 minutes. Narrator: One bowl is of an average American loaf of bread. Once the dough has risen, This is where master bread He has been making bread for eight years and can make 600 loaves a Narrator: Similar to workers use needle-tip manpas in the center of the loaf. When the bread is cooked, steam is able to escape from these holes and prevent the center from rising. But there's more behind these These patterns are also decorative and are used as a way for Once a loaf has been rounded and stamped, sesame seeds are pressed Narrator: While the bread waits, giant tandoor ovens are heated. Once hot, they're sprayed with water and brought down to a Keeping the oven at the right temperature is done entirely by feel, and it is one of the most important parts of the baking process. Narrator: Before the bread bakers rub a small amount of so it can better stick to Using a cloth to clutch the bread, bakers dive headfirst into the oven, sticking loaf after loaf until every square inch But this acrobatic baking Narrator: While falling bakers must be incredibly One false move and they could lose a loaf, or worse, they could burn themselves. Each of these ovens can or up to 72 small ones at a time. Because of the oven's high temperature, these breads only need When the core is crisp the bread is ready to be scooped out. Unlike conventional tandoor ovens retain heat and require less fuel. The use of vertical ovens like these is believed to come who spread across the Middle Relics of these ovens have Narrator: Once baked, onto delivery trucks and Here, locals can shop for produce and pick up this legendary depending on its weight. Narrator: Because of its unmatched taste, legend has it that the air of Samarkand is what gives this bread its Beyond its distinct taste, Giant loaves are often split in half during wedding ceremonies to symbolize the unity between families, and Uzbek children are often taught to pick up bread from the floor so that a single crumb Fresh-baked bread is typically And after a few days, the firmer loaves are for dipping in hot soups and gravy. Luckily, Samarkand's breads and can last up to 10 days. So if you ever need one sent by mail or plan to travel for an this might be the best bread for you. This is the largest free Open 24 hours year-round, this food hole feeds 100,000 And on religious holidays, Just one of these huge bowls is enough to feed around 10,000 people. We visited Amritsar in India to find out everything that goes into and to see just what it takes This is Harmandir Sahib, often referred to as the Golden Temple. It's the largest Sikh shrine in the world. But despite being part of the holy site, this kitchen doesn't discriminate. The food is completely free to anyone regardless of religion, Narrator: Community kitchens, or langar, have been popular across South Asia since the birth of Sikhism. And the langar at the Golden Temple has been serving meals since 1577. Each dish is cooked in giant metal vats. Over 100 gas cylinders are burned through every day And there's only one short 30-minute break in the cooking, from 4:30 to 5 a.m. Thousands of vegetables have by volunteers before And while the menu can vary or the donated vegetables it is always vegetarian. But keeping this many people fed takes a lot of ingredients. Narrator: If you've never heard it's 100 kilograms. So that's a total of 2,000 kilos, or 2 tonnes, of dal per day. Narrator: That's over 375 kilos of onions and 100 kilos of spices every 24 hours, just for the dal. To make it, chana dal, or split chickpeas, and urad dal, or black and repeatedly washed. They're then moved into even larger vats and mixed with the onions, spices, salt, and ghee, a clarified butter, and cooked together. The kitchen spends over And it's not just the dal. Each day, the kitchen offers the lentils, a vegetable dish, bread, kheer, rice, pickle, water, and tea. Kheer is a sweet pudding sugar, and almonds boiled together. But one of the biggest demands Unlike the huge vats each chapati needs to be rolled out separately before cooking. Once rolled, each one to add flavor and keep it from drying out. To keep up with demand, the work is split between machines and Producing the bread alone [machines buzzing] Narrator: And to keep this it takes a lot of volunteers. Narrator: This selfless service is an important part of Sikhism. Sewadars, or religious volunteers, are key to keeping this From peeling and chopping vegetables and even donating food to serving and cleaning, almost everything is volunteer run. Narrator: Using metal trays but it makes a lot of noise. [metal plates clanging] The scale of the kitchen has to accommodate more and 20 years ago, the kitchen would use 3,500 kilos of flour per day. But now that number has tripled. It now costs over $4 million a year to keep the kitchen running. But with a constant stream the langar has kept up with demand no matter the number of visitors. Narrator: In less than an hour, everything inside of this These are samsas, a popular made of dough, meat, onions, and spices. And here at Samsa Markazi, in Namangan, master chef Qobiljon Gofur hand-roll and cook 3,000 Narrator: We visited these famous snacks are Making samsas for the weekend Large bags of strong a mechanical mixer and Markazi uses strong flour because of its high gluten content, which is helpful for But not all flour passes the test. Narrator: While the dough is being mixed, large chunks of beef and lamb then cubed and minced. Over the weekend, Qobiljon and his team will cut up to 500 pounds of meat, a process that takes around 15 hours. They also prep eggplants, onions, green peppers, cilantro, tomatoes, and cucumbers. When the dough is ready, workers pull pieces into that they then slap on These shapes are what they'll And by the end of the weekend, about 3,000 of them in While Samsa Markazi makes 20 one of its best-selling a colossal meal that weighs Narrator: Head samsa chef Tokhir Khamdamov starts making the deluxe samsa by adding beef into a large bucket, seasoning it with black and and mixing it with the green peppers, cilantro, He scoops and weighs before placing it on top of the dough, which has a quail egg in the center. He tops the mound with meatloaf, beef tongue, and horsemeat sausage, which before wrapping the entire One of Markazi's other popular which literally translates Narrator: They then Narrator: Markazi is also well known for its samsa with cheese. Narrator: When all of the they're placed on long wooden and sprinkled with white which give them a nutty finish. Workers then carry the boards outside, where Markazi's nine tandoor ovens have been preheated with wood. Determining when these ovens are ready is done entirely by feel and experience. Narrator: Unlike the conventional tandoor ovens retain heat and require less fuel. Narrator: The kosa samsa and is the first samsa Bakers rub a small amount before diving into the to every square inch of the wall. Each of these ovens can hold After about 20 minutes, the tops of the kosa and the oven is sprayed again with water before it's covered The samsas are then steamed But knowing when they're Narrator: At 10 a.m., is ready to be served. The metal lid is removed from the oven, and the samsas are scraped into metal catchers. Cooks slice open the flaky and pour a hot veal-tongue broth inside before serving them to customers. Hungry groups who want begin queuing an hour before opening, while other guests take a seat and have their samsas Every samsa is enjoyed spicy tomato-chili sauce, The deluxe samsa, which is the costs around $6. And while each samsa has a and shape, the most important are the crispy dough, juicy Narrator: While it is now in the US to eat horsemeat, Today, horsemeat also remains Canada, and East Asia, including Japan, where it is considered a delicacy. Eating samsas is always a social event, and many people come to samsa restaurants like this multiple times a week. Narrator: The samsa is in the 10th century, when a Persian word that refers of the original samsa. Because of its portability, a popular snack among Through trade, it eventually made its way across the Middle East and Here, it evolved into the samosa, where it was no longer baked While these differences remain, both countries share an absolute Narrator: This is Akshaya Patra, the world's largest This kitchen alone makes enough biryani for 75,000 children daily. Across India, the foundation's 65 kitchens serve 2 million children every day in over 19,000 schools, and has served over 3 billion meals since its inception in 2000, something which Vice Chairman Sri Chanchalapathi Dasa is very proud of. Chanchalapathi: It's like Narrator: We visited a mega kitchen to see how they make vegetable biryani and moong dal payasam in such big batches. This mega kitchen is located in Bangalore, the capital of India's and staffs 230 workers We start on the top floor, where all of the food is cleaned, cut, and prepped. Every day, workers prepare the following day's raw ingredients and then store the food in a cold room that can hold up to 5 tons of food. Shridhar Venkat: On an average day, we use about 25 ingredients and one very important is the menu design. Narrator: Today's menu an Indian rice dish that with a mix of vegetables Workers begin by running the crates of prepped vegetables through So, because we are preparing and we have to do it very quickly and we have to do it we extensively use a lot of technology. Narrator: This batch of green peppers, cabbage, carrots, potatoes, and squash. Shridhar: If you look at these crates, every meal which goes to a child at least has minimum 50 gram of vegetable for a primary-school child and 75 gram of vegetables for an upper-primary-school child. Narrator: Alongside the and prepare rice for this dish. The rice is then washed thoroughly with water before it's cooked. On an average day, the kitchen can handle about 7 tons of grains The washed rice and precut through a chute that This simple use of gravity of this facility, as it reduces the amount of manual labor and keeps things clean. The ingredients land into 51 of these stainless-steel cauldrons, where the cooks use massive stirrers to mix everything together. Workers then close the lids that generates steam to cook the food. Shridhar: So, biryani takes right from preprocessing to finishing it, and the cauldron, which you see here, can feed about 1,000 children. Narrator: For food safety and cleanliness, the vegetable biryani is And next to each cauldron, a small stainless-steel of each batch, which is then tested 24 hours later for microbial growth. Once a week, children with a sweet treat. Shridhar: And here, moong Moong dal payasam is a dessert, and children love So, each of these cauldrons can handle about 1,200 liters of dal, or lentils. Narrator: 1,500 pounds into each of the six cauldrons Milk and raisins are also added Finally, jaggery syrup, natural sweetener made from sugarcane, gets stirred in to the cauldrons. Shridhar: Typically, moong 1 1/2 hours to one hour 45 minutes, right from boiling the moong dal till the final dessert is made. Narrator: Once the vegetable biryani and moong dal payasam workers transfer the dishes from the cauldrons into these carts, which are then taken that connects to the ground floor. The food drops down, then gets portioned and packed into individual Shridhar: These are food-grade vessels. Each of the vessels can handle food for about 85 to 100 children, and one of the important cornerstones of Akshaya Patra is hygiene and safety. So, you can see, each vessel where food is going to be stored is getting washed or cleansed with steam. Narrator: Then they're and get loaded onto Akshaya called &quot;buses of hope.&quot; Shridhar: These are insulated vehicles which keep the food warm. Large quantity of food Over a period of time, Akshaya Patra has developed So, for example, from this kitchen, we have about 32 vehicles. We handle about close to 650 schools, and we are feeding about though the end-all strength Narrator: And that is When you include the 64 they feed over 2 million children daily. Chanchalapathi: It had We started serving 1,500 children in the outskirts of Bangalore and gradually, we saw there from the headmasters of the schools, who would write to us and say, &quot;We see your vehicle carrying food pass in front of our school. Can you please stop And when we saw these requests, we kept increasing and and that's how, today, in Bangalore city, we serve about 200,000 children. Narrator: So, how does to pay for all of the Chanchalapathi: So, we of support from the government. We top it up with some more money that we raise from to ensure that the meal is hot, nutritious, safe, tasty, so that children are delighted Narrator: Today, they serve 19,000 schools across 14 states and two union territories in India. Kitchen staff will create menus based on the students' preferences For example, Akshaya Patra's kitchens in northern Indian like roti or flatbreads. In southern India, rice as a staple food, and the children love prepared by the foundation. Shridhar: Another important we want to give what otherwise their mothers will give to them if they're at home and Of course, no one can replace a mother, but Akshaya Patra tries to come as close to what a mother can cook. Chanchalapathi: You know, of this kind in a All of the personnel involved come with a deep commitment of compassion and kindness for children, and so it is that compassion that keeps us very highly to see that we do our tasks and duties with a lot of heart. Narrator: Every weekend, make and sell 500 pounds of lamb barbacoa to nearly 1,200 people. Narrator: Wrapped inside and slow roasted for 11 hours, this lamb barbacoa is and its sweet and smoky flavors. We visited Saul at his in Texcoco, Mexico, to see and what it takes to Narrator: Making enough begins at 8 a.m. on Friday. Saul and his team begin by adding large cuts of and stripping pieces of Using a lighter, they set the and place them into When the flames reach the top of the oven, they start off-loading fresh maguey leaves and placing them across the ovens. The agave leaves are roasted until they become more flexible. Meanwhile, another team and places it into the meat-prep area. Using a machete, they cut so the meat can better fit All of the ovens El Pica 1 uses are preheated for seven to eight hours. But knowing when the oven is ready is based entirely on feel. Narrator: When the oven is ready, the remaining pieces of wood are removed and a smoldering pile Workers then take the and line the ovens. These leaves contain a sap, which will infuse the meat when combined with the wood embers. Narrator: Once the oven has been wrapped, a large steel pot filled with chickpeas, guajillo chilies, secret spices, and water is lowered into the bottom. Narrator: They then place a to hold the stack of meat inside the oven. Narrator: When the oven is full, the maguey leaves are folded over the meat and a large metal lid is placed on top and sealed using wet mud and sand. Narrator: The barbecue for 11 hours, braising in Underneath, the consomme helps steam and infuse the meats with flavor while collecting fat drippings. By morning, the team at El Pica 1 will have a rich consomme the smoky, sweet lamb barbacoa. Narrator: They start serving the barbacoa at 7:45 a.m. the next day. Narrator: Using two plates, workers dive headfirst into the oven, scooping large pieces of tender lamb into plastic-lined boxes. The meat is sold for about $10 per pound, and customers can choose Narrator: The word &quot;barbecue&quot; originated with the Taino people of the Caribbean, who used a wooden platform set over a fire to cook their meat. And barbacoa, which directly has been cooked in pit ovens in Mexico for more than 500 years. Narrator: Inside El Pica 1, customers buy the consomme and vendors sell other condiments and tortillas to complement the barbecue. Narrator: Even though El of its lamb barbacoa every weekend, the restaurant has no plans Narrator: Sandwiched in a this is Argentina's attempt to fry the world's largest torta frita. But before this dough it takes a team of 24 people to prepare the bread and all so it can be served who came to Mercedes, Argentina, to eat the biggest torta Narrator: We visited Mercedes to see how this torta frita is made and what it takes to Making this torta frita begins with a dozen weighing 9 kilograms each. The flour is emptied on a table, and a team of 12 kneaders make forming a crater in the center. Once formed, another and adds a large ladle Kneaders then mix the gradually adding about a pitcher of water as they mix and knead the dough. But kneading this dough isn't easy. Gabriela is the head and has been making giant Narrator: While the dough is being formed, another group of volunteers underneath the 5-meter pan The pan itself is full of which festival organizers have collected over the course of three months. Narrator: After the into a single massive ball, it's covered with a cloth and The next step is the most flattening and shaping the dough. Working together, bakers walk around the using their feet and body weight to push the edges of the dough out until it starts to resemble a giant disk. Narrator: Working together, uses a 6-meter-wide rolling pin to get the dough as flat as possible. Standing in the center of the roller, two workers use their feet to help apply even Going section by section, the bakers then rock and roll the pin to gradually flatten the dough. [crowd clapping] Narrator: While the bakers try their best to roll the dough into it's easier said than done. Parts of the dough rip Narrator: The metal grid and helps sandwich the torta frita so it can be lifted by the crane. Narrator: But it could all go wrong if the grid isn't tight enough. [crowd cheering] It takes about 10 minutes And after all of that, they spin it, and cook the other side. Narrator: When the bread is done, workers peel off large sections and hand them out to the hungry crowd. Narrator: In Argentina, torta that's often enjoyed with Narrator: The Fried-Cake as a way to honor and remember veterans who served in the Falklands War. And in 2009, festival the world's largest torta frita. Over the years, Uruguay and Argentina have passed that record back and forth. And while this annual tradition was paused at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mercedes' torta frita returned in 2022 to reclaim the world title. Narrator: Weighing 350 kilograms, this is one of the largest Locally known as plov, it is the national dish of Uzbekistan. It is enjoyed year-round as a weekday meal and prepared on huge scales Its popularity and cannot be overstated. It is so beloved that nearly 3,000 people come to Besh Qozon to have it for lunch every day. Narrator: We visited Besh to make such big batches. Making plov on this scale Workers start by peeling and cutting 100 kilograms of carrots and placing them into large buckets. In the morning, master chef Mirkomil, who has been making starts cutting 100 kilograms Narrator: He then ties the Tying the meat helps during the cooking process and prevents it from splaying. Just preparing these While the meat is being prepared, a large cast-iron cauldron and filled with 40 In Uzbekistan, it's said that the best-tasting Once warm, those chunks of beef and mutton are slid into the center of the qozon and cooked until golden brown. When the beef has browned, chefs work together to lift and dump 100 kilograms of cut along with onions. This blend of carrots and and is the general base for all plov. This base is similar to soffritto in Italy and mirepoix in France. Plov recipes used to beans, and dried fruits, but most of these ingredients At Besh Qozon, soft dried barberries, and water are added. After about 30 minutes, 100 kilograms of a local is added and covered which help steam the rice. Unlike many Middle Eastern the steamed rice in plov But achieving this texture doesn't stick together is difficult. Narrator: When the rice is done, the steaming plates are removed and the rice is fluffed into the mix. The entire cooking process and is a labor of love. Narrator: Once mixed, are loaded onto plates. In Uzbekistan, there are that use some combination of meat, vegetables, salad, and raisins. Plov in Uzbekistan is typically served with a fresh tomato but there are plenty of other condiments and toppings you can add. Narrator: And everyone has their own part they enjoy the most. Narrator: Each plate And while plov is now a relatively cheap and ubiquitous meal in Uzbekistan, it wasn't always this way. Up until the 1930s, plov was mostly eaten by wealthy families and reserved for special occasions like holidays and weddings Today, many Uzbeks eat plov and sometimes skip the meat altogether. Narrator: Plov is adopted and akin to the Turkish word &quot;pilaf.&quot; The first-known recipe of plov is believed to come from where it was adapted from a barley dish that used similar ingredients. Legend has it that Alexander after he conquered modern-day Samarkand. He apparently loved the dish so much that he brought the By the 15th century, had established themselves India, Turkey, and the Caribbean, where they remain a staple. While it's now a more common meal, plov is still the preferred During weddings, guests generally help prepare the meal for everyone on a similar scale to Besh Qozon. Qozons on much smaller scales were first introduced by Turkish nomads and are now just as common in central Asia as a frying pan is in the West. While household qozons aren't as large, they can typically feed 12 to 15 people, and many families have to feed large groups of guests. Despite countless varieties of plov, Besh Qozon Pilaf Center in Tashkent draws a faithful crowd. Narrator: Whether you call the core ingredients of revolve around rice. And the one served at Besh Qozon is the ultimate sign of the Narrator: Every day, a team of chefs spend nearly 12 hours to make over 700 kilograms of halwa for the famous sweet The sweet and soft milk-based dessert may be time-consuming to make, but people travel from all over to get it from Ji Halwa Wala. Narrator: While you can find all across India and throughout the world, this shop has continuously been praised for its dedication to the craft We visited the shop to and how it prepares gulab Chain Ji Halwa prepares three at its production workshop This process begins at 5 with the coal that piles Narrator: The coal comes And Chainsingh Rajpurohit, believes it gives the Narrator: Workers use mallets into smaller pieces. Narrator: The dominant which the shop sources To get the creamy taste and texture, only full-fat milk is used. The milk is then strained into kadais, which are deep pots similar to Narrator: The whole cooking process takes about four hours and a full staff. Four workers are dedicated while 10 to 12 chefs work on the furnaces. They use ladles to for two to three hours until While the stirring movement it actually takes a seasoned Narrator: Once the milk sugar is added. Narrator: And the stirring The chefs will continue to for another one to two hours. Narrator: Eventually, are combined into four to Narrator: When the thickened and clarified butter starts the halwa is finished cooking. Narrator: Workers scoop into these individual round serving plates and pick out any burned bits with tongs. Narrator: As the final touch, each dish of halwa is Narrator: When Chainsingh he sold about 20 to 30 kilograms Narrator: The shop, for its small, old table set up out front, sees about 500 to 600 customers every day. Narrator: Once they're at the table, customers can choose how Narrator: Halwa is in Arabia around the 13th century, but has since become an ubiquitous The recipe varies from region to region, but some of the common include semolina, carrots, But it seems like Chainsingh's has won the hearts of all sweet lovers. Narrator: Over 160 kilograms and rice go into this massive pan to make one of the But this paella is just half of what Vicente Martinez and his team are making for Quesa, Valencia's, At the end of the day, these paellas will feed all for free. But the size of this paella isn't the only thing that's special. It also has a unique ingredient that makes this paella So, what does it take to make Narrator: This is known as On the morning of the festival, Vicente and his crew offload and wheel two 2.35-meter paella When the pans are secure, Narrator: Each paella is cooked with 8.5 liters of olive oil, 75 kilos of chicken, and 30 kilos of rabbit. Narrator: When the meat is done, 40 kilos of frozen green and white beans are added into the mix, along with 5 kilos of snails. Narrator: Once everything 135 liters of water Narrator: After the water has been added, 60 kilos of a local medium-grain rice called arroz redondo Cooking with wood means need to be constantly monitored so that the rice doesn't burn. Narrator: In Spain, bomba, are commonly used because they can absorb more liquid and flavor than regular rice without getting mushy. Narrator: Paella pans often but the general shape and round with sloping edges. This shape is important because it helps the rice Narrator: And many Spaniards agree. Narrator: While everyone enjoys paella, the exact ingredients for what constitutes a true paella is still hotly debated. Narrator: While the and celebration today, the origins of its birth are much darker. In 1690, Quesa experienced a devastating outbreak which left only a few members Resilient, the surviving to anyone who moved back to Quesa. Narrator: Paella is thought to have come from farm workers in Valencia who used shallow pants to and added in ingredients to create a cheap but Over time, the elites of Spain started to enjoy paella and it became more popular And while paella is now recognized as a traditionally Spanish dish, it wouldn't be what it is today without the introduction of rice by the Moors in the 12th century. Since then, paella has taken on many iterations across Spain, but the classic ingredients and beans remain integral for - Narrator: This is the Shantivan Complex, a mega kitchen in Mount Abu, Rajasthan belonging to the spiritual The kitchen is run entirely by volunteers, who cook enough food to The operation spans four floors and includes 14 dining halls, which can seat 15,000 people at a time. We visited the complex during a special celebration called &quot;Baba Milan&quot; to see how it prepares these meals in such big batches. Work in the kitchen begins at 5:30 a.m. with hundreds of volunteers cutting vegetables and peeling steamed potatoes by hand. During Baba Milan, 2,500 volunteers prep and cook the festival meals. But that isn't something Bhanu Prakash, who's head of the bread department, is worried about. - Narrator: The cut vegetables are loaded onto crates and wheeled into the main kitchen, where they're washed again in large metal containers and strained. All of the vegetables the kitchen uses are seasonal and bought directly from farms. And the food is prepared following the sattvic diet, or the yogi diet, which is rooted in ayurvedic practices. Today the chefs are cooking rajma, vegetable sabzi, chapatis, and theplas. While most of the prep some vegetables are Crates of tomatoes are pureed and spinach is chopped finely. On the other side of the kitchen, another team uses that tomato puree to make a sauce. They pour five liters of peanut oil into a giant pot. Then they mix in whole wheat flour, curry powder, handfuls of cumin seeds, asafoetida, bay leaves, and chili powder. Buckets of pureed and tossed together with garam masala, a common Indian spice mixture. The chefs then scoop the sauce out with buckets and place it into large metal containers so it can be delivered to another section of the kitchen. The tomato sauce is rolled to Chef Nilesh Bhai, who has been working here for 17 years and is in charge of making rajma, a curried dish made with kidney beans. - Narrator: He soaks the kidney beans for 10 to 12 hours before boiling them in this pot for three hours. Once they're cooked, Nilesh uses a small scooper to examine the beans' tenderness and gauge the broth's consistency. When the beans pass the test, he tips the pot and of the tomato sauce. He then fills the pot with more water so it achieves the same consistency it had before the tomatoes. This is something Nilesh determines with his eye. On the side, he mixes oil, cumin, coriander, garam masala, asafoetida, gram flour, and chili powder into a bucket. He then pours this into the pot and adds salt. After he adds the first round of spices, he tastes the rajma and decides if it needs more flavor. Once Nilesh approves of the taste, he mixes in finely chopped spinach. - Narrator: Cooking all an immense amount of energy. Since 1990, the kitchen has used a concentrated solar array on top of its roof to heat water and generate steam, which can be used to cook most of the food the kitchen makes. The cooked rajma is drained through a spigot into smaller containers, which are then covered and wheeled to the dining halls. One of the most important dishes made in the kitchen is sabzi, a mixed-vegetable dish that varies depending on the vegetables Cooks heat oil in a massive pot along with cumin seeds, curry leaves, and asafoetida. Next, they add turmeric, cut chilies, and chopped bottle gourd. They mix everything together before adding in chopped potatoes, scarlet gourd, and cauliflower. Then they add water and season the mix with salt and chili powder. Next come green beans, a pot full of tomato sauce, peas, cut green bell peppers, and shredded carrots. It's finished off with a Like every other dish this kitchen serves, the vegetables are taste-tested and seasoned accordingly during the cooking process. Once the chef at hand gives the flavor a thumbs-up, the mixture is scooped and wheeled to the dining halls. Bread is essential to every meal. The bread department at can make up to 26,000 flatbreads every hour. To do so, bakers first pour 50-kilogram bags of flour into mechanical sifters to remove large clumps of flour. - Narrator: The sifted flour is then taken to mechanical mixers, where different types of dough are made. Today, the bread department is making two types of flatbreads, chapatis and theplas. The thepla dough is whole-wheat flour, turmeric, chili powder, ground spinach, and fenugreek seed. Once mixed, the dough is wheeled to volunteers, who use their hands to roll it into palm-sized balls. These balls are then brought to a team of 200 rollers, who flatten them so they can be cooked. Chefs rub the flattened theplas with ghee and slap them onto flat griddles to cook. Together, this team can On the other side of the bread department, machines are used to make The dough is top-loaded into the machines, which chop, flatten, and bake it into crispy chapatis. - Narrator: Like everything the breads are placed to keep warm and wheeled to the In the dining halls, the rajma is served with rice, chapatis, and bhindi masala, a side dish made of okra and spices. During Baba Milan, the hindu god Shiva, who is recognized as the father of souls, is believed to visit practitioners. - Narrator: Many of the devotees have been coming here for years. - Narrator: Imbuing the food with positive intention is one of the biggest responsibilities during the cooking process. Narrator: Every weekend, Samgeori Farms in Damyang County, South Korea, cooks 1,700 pounds of inside of their 40 wood-fueled woks. The final result: dakbokkeumtang, a spicy chicken stew full of and a secret chili sauce. Narrator: We visited chef Kim Chun-gu and his crew of 21 cooks to make dakbokkeumtang Cooking this dish begins Workers coat the tops with soybean oil and add into the base of the grills. Narrator: When the grills are ready, workers use propane torches After five minutes, the woks reach their optimal temperature and an entire bucket of is poured inside. Narrator: While maintaining it's worth the flavorful payoff. Narrator: Oakwood has a smokier flavor than apple and cherrywood, with a lighter taste compared It also burns at a high temperature without emitting too much smoke. Even though this dish it still takes a while to cook. Narrator: Thinly cut onions and cooked for a minute. At 11 a.m., the first is ready to be served. Workers wheel the woks out and scoop the stew into metal bowls. And a single order costs around $55. Narrator: Samgeori Farms and since then, business has Preparing for a weekend of cooking starts early in the morning, cutting vegetables and Narrator: The restaurant uses potatoes, and carrots every weekend, along with 1,000 green onions and onions. Narrator: But the most is the locally sourced chicken. Narrator: Once the chicken and vegetables have been chopped and it's time for the most the secret seasoning. Narrator: The bright-red help create the dish's signature color and spicy red-pepper flavor, while the red wine helps Narrator: Dakbokkeumtang has been a staple of Korean cooking since the 20th century, following the mass production And while chicken might be the famous red chili has been grown and eaten in Korea for over 1,000 years. The stew used to be called dakdoritang, containing the Japanese The National Institute of to change it to dakbokkeumtang, literally translating to Today, it's typically cucumber pickles, and chive pancakes. And in some cases, there At Samgeori Farms, when most the remaining sauce is pushed back into the center of the wok. Ramen noodles are added in and enjoyed, so nothing goes to waste.