Prophet Muhammad and by Nabi Asli Al-Ifk means 'the untruthful talk'. The Al-Ifk incident was the revelation of Qur'an, It was time for Prophet to launch a 'ghazwa', that was led by the Prophet himself. To cover his living expenses, he had to do this It was customary for Prophet Muhammad to take one of This time, he picked in his campaign against The Tribe of Bani Al-Mustaliq The campaign was an easy success, because the Muslims suddenly attacked the people of Bani Al Mustalik when they watered their cattle. Most of the men were killed, and their wives and children were taken as slaves. Among the captives the beautiful wife named Musafi bin Safwan. The Muslims killed The Islamic history Juwayriya was one of the She was an eloquent woman, who was brought up as a princess. I hated that woman because of her stunning beauty. I know what will Prophet Muhammad, sees her. Aisha couldn't be more right. Prophet Muhammad Juwayriya from slave to his wife. In just a short time he Zainab and Juwairiya. The Prophet and his troops stayed in that land for three days. When they invaded a town, they would not allow to Islam for three days. During these three days they would collect the booty. The Prophet got his 20% share, and then he divided After three days, Prophet Muhammad left to go back to Medina. According to Aisha, as the Muslim army on the way back to Medina, she felt the need to answer the call of nature. Oh, I need to go now. Her return to the camp was delayed because she lost her necklace. Oh, I think I I better search for it. When she came back to the camp, she found the site Oh no! They already left without me! I hope Prophet that I am missing, and he will return to look for me. As it turned out, Prophet Muhammad did and did not even notice her absence until his arrival to Medina. Maybe he was too beautiful, and young Juwariyah. What now? Luckily, Safwan bin al-Muattal, the rear-guard of Prophet arrived there. Oh... that's Aisha. What is she doing here? Safwan bin al-Muattal offered Aisha a ride on his camel. After that, he According to Sahih Bukhari, that was the story told by Aisha. It implies that she in that desert it took the army and actually leave the place and completely It also implies that she did not hear or sense the movement of an army of seven hundreds horses, camels, captives and slaves. The sight of Aisha and the city of Medina was considering the situation The incident set although the couple Of course there is Allah is our witness. According to `Abdullah the leader of Al Khazraj tribe, Aisha committed adultery. The Prophet said that whenever a man and a woman are alone, the Satan is their third. I and my friends Hassan bin Thabit, Mistah bin Uthantha, and Hamna binti Jahash, saw what happened between Aisha and Safwan bin Al Muattal. They committed zinah. That was a very serious accusation, because the Islamic is rajam or stoning to death. After she arrived at Medina, Aisha was ill and stayed in her parents' house. I was sick and the ill-rumours about me. Rasul Allah didn't as usually when I was sick. Prophet Muhammad if Aisha committed adultery, that was why he did not come to visit Aisha often. This greatly disturbs me. My favorite wife is with so many witnesses. By Islamic law, I will have to but I can't lose her. What should I do? Out of his confussion, Prophet Muhammad and Usama bin Zaid Should I divorce Aisha? O Rasulullah! She is your wife, and we do not know anything about her except good. O Rasulullah! Allah does not impose and there are plenty of However, if you ask her slave girl, she will tell you the truth. Then call her slave girl! Barira, Aisha's slave girl, was summoned to meet Prophet Muhammad. O Barira! Did you ever see aroused your No, Rasul Allah. Where was she on I don't know, ya Rasulullah. Tell the truth! I don't know what else to say. How come Barira didn't know that Aisha's howdah was empty? Why Safwan bin al-Muattal was so far behind? This problem would if bin Salul hadn't spread the news that Aisha committed adultery. I will punish him! Prophet Muhammad in his masjid. He asked for a `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul, the powerful leader who were the Muslim This is proof that the to kill his Muslim followers who hurt his feelings. 'Who will support me to punish `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul who has hurt me by slandering the reputation of my family? By Allah, I know nothing about my family but good. and they have accused about whom I know and he never entered my house except in my company. Sa`d bin Mu`adh, the chief of the answered O Rasulullah! By Allah! I will relieve you from him. If that man is from the tribe of the Aws, then we will chop his head off, and if he is from our brothers, the Khazraj, then order us, and we will fulfill your order. On that a Muslim named Sa`d bin 'Ubada, who was the chief of the Khazraj tribe, said, By Allah, you have told a lie. I won't let you, and you will never By Allah! you are a liar. We will certainly kill him; and you are a hypocrite, defending the hypocrites. Watch your mouth, you filt. Stop it! Stop the fighting! Hey! I said stop, okay? After that, Prophet Muhammad These Muslim muhajirun want to spread chaos in my city? We will not let them hurt our chief `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul. No way! The residents of Medina to be resolved immediately because they believed had a direct contact with the 'all knowing' Allah. Some urgent revelations but never happened. Why don't Allah messages to clear things up? Yes, it has been almost a month, but we heard nothing from Allah and His Messenger. The lack of revelations as a sign that Aisha was guilty and fueled suspicions Prophet Muhammad had his suspicions as well, because he neglected Aisha, who was ill and for nearly a month. I have to wait to see if Aisha got pregnant or not. What if I reveal a verse to exonerate her, only to find out later that she is actually pregnant That would be a To Prophet Muhammad's relief, Aisha did get her menstruation and pregnancy ruled out as was the prospect officially named and shamed. After that, Prophet Muhammad visited Aisha at Abu Bakr's house. This is the time to the long awaited O Aisha, If you are innocent, then Allah will declare but if you have committed a sin, then ask for Allah's Forgiveness and repent to him. I didn't do anything wrong. I am innocent. Oh... I got a revelation from Allah to exonerate you, o Aisha. Qur'an, Surah An-Nur, verses 11. Indeed, those who came with falsehood are a group among you. Do not think it is bad for you; rather, it is good for you. For every person among them is what [punishment] he has earned from the sin, and he who took upon himself the for him is a great And also verses 12 and 13. Oh, I'm so happy. Thank you, ya Rasulullah. Three men and one woman claimed they witnessed After this happened, the Prophet stated Surah An-Nur (24), verse FOUR MALE eye-witnesses to precharge zinah Failure to bring four will bring the Qadhf punishment of 80 lashes upon the persons who report the zinah. In this case, a woman's testimony and not even counted as half testimony. That is why Prophet Muslims to punish Mistah bin Uthantha, with 80 lashes each, for reporting the Muhammad doesn't dare to mention my name in Qur'an, because he knows among the Khazraj people. He didn't even dare to give me that eighty lashes punishment. The requirement of to proof zinah is almost impossible to fulfill. That is exactly Prophet He could not bear It might not be the case had it been his other wives, particularly Sauda or Umm Salama. Prophet Muhammad knew that Aisha was not completely saved yet, because there is for zinah in Qur'an. He knew that Aisha and those people might use the verse against her in the future. That is why when to write a Qur'an verse regarding the stoning penalty, the Prophet declined. This hadith explains that Umar ibn al-Khatab came to Prophet Muhammad to ask him to write down the The Prophet turned him down by saying he can't do it now. Aisha still had a copy of the Qur'an stoning verse, but that verse is nowhere to be found in Qur'an nowadays. How come? The Verse of stoning and of breastfeeding an adult ten times was revealed, and the paper was with me under my pillow. When the Messenger we were preoccupied and a tame sheep came in and ate it. It is strange that could enter Aisha's then go under the pillow to find the exact paper to eat, and Aisha knew It is possible that the stoning verse After Prophet Muhammad died, she lost his strong protection. She might have known that her enemies would possibly use the stoning verse to retrial and find her guilty. Therefore, she might destroy the stoning verse herself. There you have it, folks. Thank you for watching. Please don't forget so he can produce more story about me and your