This is stupid! Can you understand anything, don't do this, you can't win. Today we're speaking with Jeffrey Sachs. He's a best-selling author. Economist, Professor, and Director at Columbia University, Ukraine is not going to join NATO. And the United States leaders need to get it that they have to stop pushing this because there can't be peace otherwise. These wars may seem intractable, This was all predictable. And this current situation's no good least for Ukraine, of course, which is lost territory now but because of the war, it's claiming it. It's more like the cartoon character doesn't realize, You could be Democratic at home, Hi friends and fellows. Welcome to this special series involving personalities coming from including Stanford University. The purpose of the series is really that I think would be of tremendous value I wanna thank you of your support so far, Hi, we're so honored today who is the director for the Center of Sustainable Development Professor Sachs, thank you so much It's great to be with you. I usually ask our guest and I want to specifically ask you. You grew up in Detroit, Michigan. And talk a little bit about some of the upbringing and how that has led you to succeed academically and as to how you become what you have - Please tell us. I'm very much a product of Middle America. I grew up in a suburb of Detroit, Michigan, When I was a young person, Detroit was actually a booming center of And my father was a labor lawyer, he represented the trade unions and other industries of Michigan I went to public school. And the community that I grew up in meaning that most of the people had migrated approximately 75 years before I was born or 50 years before I was born. So, it was a community of new arrivals that put a very high premium on education And so I was lucky to have that spirit I went to public school, it was local as in America rather than national, and the community provided a good education And based on good results in school, went to Cambridge, Massachusetts, and ended up staying for the next 30 years my master's, my PhD, becoming an assistant professor, chaired professor, so, I stayed for the second phase of my life raised a family. And then I was invited by the UN Secretary General, to become his advisor on economics And invited by Columbia University So, the family picked up, and we've been in New York now But most of the time, rather than being based at home. We've been a beneficiary of many of In the last few decades, from a very much unipolar You've talked about this at length I want to seek your views on why is it ironically multilateralism, seems to have dwindled? What has made it more difficult? And what do you think can be done We need a little bit of history to understand where we are right now. Starting actually five centuries ago, when Vasco da Gama voyaged and when Columbus voyaged westward and discovered for the Europeans the world changed decisively. It was the period in which the West so-called really meaning the countries of the North Atlantic region began their Imperial Pursuits, that is Trans-ocean Conquest Of course, Indonesia fell to the Dutch became part of the beginnings of global capitalism with the Dutch East Indies Company. And Britain began what would be with the British East India Company And this began global capitalism Of course, it was a very gradual process, But things really accelerated in the 19th century which came first to Britain, and then spread to the US And with industrialization which was essentially the economic and military power of Europe but became utterly predominant. And so, it's in the 19th century it was sometimes called Pax Britanica but it was the opposite of pax, it was war just about everywhere; wars of conquest, the Dutch played a role At the end of the 19th century, and it joined the imperialist club right away, grabbing colonies in Taiwan and Korea, But all of this I emphasize because it was really a Western-led world; Britain was still predominant institutionally, and the British Empire was empire number one, then came the French, the Germans, and Portuguese still had some empires and Japan were the new budding imperial powers. Two World Wars essentially drew an end but greatly empowered the United States and also greatly empowered in the form of the Soviet Union. What was really decisive and the end of the European Imperial age Indonesia, India, Indochina Africa in the 1950s and 1960s. And while every post colonial history lots of instability, It was the beginning of a big rebalancing because what happened under the British was a complete predominance of Western power, and the rest of the world was essentially exploited for raw materials, and the imperial powers had no interest that was not an era of development, So, starting with Independence, and they began the process of especially This is the single most important step In 1950, the literate world was basically of course, I'm exaggerating, but it was incredibly concentrated By 2000, that had ended; literacy was extensive, the spread of technology was arriving everywhere, and there was a fundamental rebalancing So it was no longer a western system, Now, that is all the backdrop to geopolitics, because in 1945, what had been became the American imperial system. America didn't conquer territory its mode of operation was to overthrow governments. So it put client states everywhere The US engaged just between 1947 and 1989, in 70 regime change operations 64 of them by the way covert. This was the era of the CIA and the CIA essentially was and still is of the president of the United States that can be deployed to overthrow And so the US was the imperial power, it did some good things for the world, it didn't block economic development, it was a relatively open international system except for the Soviet part of it, but it was very much US-led system. And when the US didn't like it would overthrow the government and usually it would do so covertly, even though everybody knew what happened. So, that had a special character the new government would be attacked internally but the US, &quot;No, we had nothing to do with it, And so, it really also poisoned politics Now, that continued, because the Soviet Union, disappeared from the map, the US seemed to be the unipolar power; the US actually accelerated just about everywhere that it could; there was more overthrow of governments not less with the end of the Soviet Union because the US said, "Okay now we can But of course, the rebalancing of and the most important dimension of that which the US completely missed the point and couldn't understand what was happening, except China was making up for lost time after having been bludgeon for 100 years from the Opium Wars until independence in 1949 China made up for lost time, and accelerated its technological, educational, quite brilliantly by the way, So, all of that history lesson is just to say but an underlying rebalancing of which spread technology, knowhow, And by now, we are in an economy the US doesn't dominate at all economically, technology is quite sophisticated though the US has still some leadership by no means because China is extremely sophisticated But the US hasn't understood that so-called unipolar world has ended because of the underlying economic rebalancing, and so we have a lot of geopolitical tension that comes from the fact but we still don't have the understanding between the US and other countries, or the institutional reforms globally becoming truly global institutions. So these days, we're really seeing that's the rise of the bricks, that's the war in the Middle East, this is really a set of as almost like plate tectonics-- because of the deep underlying economic That's a fascinating answer. I would make the argument are much more used to multipolarity, and I would make the argument that are a lot more used to multipolarity which seems to be struggling And I want to tail this to the context of diplomacy Diplomacy seems to be a tool that many parts of the world are not using anymore And I want to build that in the context of and what we're witnessing in Gaza Talk about that. Well, geopolitics has a lot of culture... statecraft culture in it, and the United States and Britain have that are changing themselves, of course, but should be understood as Evangelical Protestant societies. That means they had a self image saving the rest of the world. So, the British empire as it was exploiting said it was civilizing the rest of the world, it was the White Man's Burden to save the rest of the world. And the United States has a lot of And it's a very distinctive kind of culture remember that British, colonists, puritans at a time when it was basically, of course, this wasn't an empty place. And during the roughly 300 years period, this white Christian Evangelical group in a kind of crusade And in the middle of the 19th century, that this was a religious destiny of white people and there was definitely always to the imperial transoceanic rule as well. So, it wasn't just that Britain and the United States They really believed in a mission of civilization, the French had their own civilisatrice And there was a lot of grotesque pseudo science that followed Darwin, but in a pseudo scientific way which turned into Nazism but that was also part of the idea Now, the United States is geographically separated from the rest of the world. Global geography is not exactly the strong suit I don't think that one in a 100 Americans because we're between two very large oceans. And so when you combine several things, First, the US was absolutely dominant economically It was the only place still standing, and the war had been phenomenal The US had one day of a direct war, when Japan attacked the naval base Other than that, the US was unscathed built up incredible industry, had one scientific breakthrough after another; radar and rocketry and so many other things, and semiconductors that would become of technological breakthroughs and so forth. So first, there was the US dominance. There was the geopolitical dominance. There was the evangelical spirit that Who else? That's a deeply believed view. And there's a lot of ignorance because ... I can tell you growing up in Detroit, Michigan, I didn't learn a lot of global history it took me a lifetime to learn what I know, and only in part by travel in the world because it doesn't come naturally So, when you put all those pieces together, even Biden expressed it, of course, he's an old man decades out of tune but he said, "We're the indispensable country, Huh? I travel the world, No. The world looks to the US for, Don't overthrow us! Cooperate. But in the American mentality, that the US is the leader, So there's a lot of culture in this. By the way, there's a lot of culture everywhere If you look at Russian politics, you see If you look at Chinese statecraft, you see statecraft that was formed it's not something ... This is fascinating for me but cultural ideas are really deeply embedded and are not well understood Now, you ask, therefore, about diplomacy, Diplomacy for the US is: And even when the US is so far the mentality is still that. And so I just think American diplomats are rude, first of all, because, I've learned in 40 years something about dealing with other societies; But the American approach is not respect, the American approach is: Now, with a small country, although even not so often. But with China? Are you kidding? To be rude to China, you think you're going to get something positive And yet, that's the American approach. So, America's extremely weak at diplomacy I would start with a course in etiquette frankly. I would start with a course in good manners I've worked with 3 Secretary Generals of the UN, that's a very tough job, but the first rule of that job is be polite, you've got 193 countries and everyone from the tiniest to the largest So this is the first thing I would try to teach Wow! Look, the situations in Ukraine and we're witnessing the futility of and if one looks at the budget of the UN we're looking at about three to four billion dollars. You contrast that with 800 to 900 billion dollars that the United States is spending and you put that in a much more where all countries around the world on defense, of which the United States, spent about 2.1 trillion dollars. What's the prospect for diplomacy in many parts of the world in the future? Well, first I wouldn't call it spending I would call it spending on military because it's got a lot of offense in it, And I think there's another problem which is generals want to try out And when you have a large military, it's very hard anyway you could do training and so on, but part of the fact weird as it sounds, and I don't think I'm being naive, when you have a huge military outlay, and the US is constantly using it It's quite exaggerated and dangerous. Remember, because of this history the US has 800 overseas military bases My God, that's a lot, much too much. I actually think there should be that nobody should station their troops Wouldn't that be interesting? We couldn't have these wars, and it makes perfect sense; and it should not be for offense, you should not have networks of vast By the way, the only two countries the United States and Britain. Britain completely as a legacy, of course, not very economically strong right now, but it still has a military bases essentially used by the United States by the way, these are places where US aircraft or get rearmed and so on. But I think the point is we need There's a doctrine that I really like Back to the UN Charter, but then really amplified in international law and that is non intervention. The ideas don't intervene in the internal affairs you can have diplomacy with them, Now, if we abided by that norm, If the United States did not have there would never be a war in Ukraine now, because the war in Ukraine emerged because the United States was trying and actually into Georgia in the eastern boundary as part of a strategy Britain already had the idea that you should surround Russia to limit Russia's capacity to project power. And Palmerston pursued the Crimean War the Russian fleet out of the Black Sea. And so, it was eerie to hear Zelenskyy talk as the focus for Ukraine is to kick Russia Zelenskyy, of course, is kind of just the puppet who's mouthing the words of but what he's mouthing is the words It's unbelievable, still talking about we need to reduce Russia's influence Little trite! Come on! Let's grow up. So, I think that the point is in which the major powers back off, stop spending hundreds of billions of dollars Look what's happening in your region it's becoming militarized, everyone's supposed to choose sides; there's a new Aukus: the Australia, to have nuclear powered submarines to please the South China Sea. Are you crazy, US? Come on! Or the Quad which is supposed to This is like playing a board game, Okay! But this is the real world! we should have diplomacy, we should stop trying to corner each other, and we should back off, so that we're not on each other's borders And the United States now ... what surely is absolutely is shipping increased armaments to Taiwan, exactly the way that it did in Ukraine that eventually led the Russians to say, we're going to clean this out.&quot; You think the Chinese are going to sit back and just watch the US arm Taiwan It's so naive, so dangerous, so provocative, Jeff, I want to take you back to about the US politics being influenced And I'm curious as to what your views are with respect to what would unravel and I want to also make reference to that have been made by your good friend, What do you think will unfold in Ukraine given the obvious limitations of politics Just walk us through what could happen We have to understand The Ukraine war is really about a proxy war over influence in Ukraine. Look at a map, who would you expect Russia or the United States? - I'll go with Russia. First of all, it's the next door neighbor. Second, actually, Ukraine was part of Third, it is linguistically, culturally, But the United States gets this idea, This is a typical Evangelical Imperial idea; because the British had the same idea Literally, Britain and France teamed up and that was the Crimean War, and we're in the second one now. So, we have this very weird idea. The United States could not leave it decided, "Well, we need to push our military That idea came already in the early 1990s, and it was actually explained in detail the US geopolitical strategist, And then George W. Bush Jr. by announcing in 2008 that NATO would enlarge to Ukraine Quickly Russia beat up Georgia, And in Ukraine, a cascade of crisis emerged, but most importantly, Ukraine elected a president who said, "We'll be neutral. Thank you very much. But the United States couldn't stand that, And in February 2014, So, Russia's watching the US pursue Think of it from a US perspective: overthrowing the Mexican government, so that the new government could announce on the real grand, the United States might be a little unhappy that was the situation as it unfolded in Ukraine, Putin took back Crimea he wasn't claiming it beforehand, But then when the United States moved in, and worked to overthrow the government, Putin said, "I'm not going to let Are you kidding?" So, he took Crimea back. Then, what ensued over the next 8 years which I won't go into detail but essentially the US arming that had been installed in Kiev, and building up towards war. And Putin kept saying "Stop this!" There were the Minsk treaties, and then there was Putin's proposal at the end of 2021. And the US position was: Russia, as they said, is a gas station but it's a second rate power Putin said, "Okay, we'll see." This is where we are right now. Now, this war should never have happened, it is a war based on American stupidity, The offramp came in 2008, in 2014, when Ukraine said, "Okay we'll be neutral," and the United States said, "Hell, no, we'll keep arming you, you keep fighting." Okay, that's why we have this war going on. Ukraine is never going to join NATO. Because Russia is going to defeat Ukraine But if for whatever reason that didn't happen, Ukraine is not going to join NATO. And the United States leaders need to get it that they have to stop pushing this because there can't be peace otherwise, and this current situation's no good least for Ukraine, of course, that Russia didn't even claim 3 years ago, but because of the war, it's claiming it. And Ukraine is losing hundreds of who are dying or becoming severely wounded, the society and the economy has broken apart; I called it right at the beginning, I wrote an article called because I said as soon as this started, Can you understand anything, don't do this, you can't win, Ukraine will lose. And I tried to talk to the Ukrainian authorities because I know a thing or two. I actually advised Ukraine's president I advised (Boris) Yeltsin, I know the region. They said, "You're just a Putin apologist." I said, "I'm trying to help you. You don't understand, you're getting into and I'm trying to help spare you Well, they couldn't understand it, they thought I was just But the point is all of this disaster And I tried to talk the White House I mean, I'm just one person, an academic, and I told them at the end of 2021, Negotiate with Russia over this. Well, they couldn't hear that. So, here we are. And I say every day Biden needs to and say to President Putin, &quot;You know what, that NATO enlargement we're not going to do that, we'll say that publicly, we'll stop this fighting, let's work this out politically.&quot; And I keep offering, he can use my zoom account, any way he wants to call, he can do it, but they don't do it yet, Wow! let's switch to Gaza. How do you think Zionism has evolved since the mid part of the 19th century? Well, unfortunately right now, not in a way What happened in Israel was several steps and even culture in a way, because Zionism started as because of discrimination and hardship in Europe, and the Holocaust proved but it went from a homeland to a state; a state could have been manageable but that didn't emerge. What emerged was Israel. The Palestinian side rejected the compromise Israel won a war of independence so-called hundreds of thousands of Palestinians and never were able to return to their homes. And this then proceeded in series of conflicts but then especially in 1967 to another war in which Israel proved its predominance which mean three areas: Gaza, And these are the three areas Now, what happened after 1967 was of course, even more unfortunate But what happened for Israel was that by creating disaster for Palestine. And that is that after the 67 War, a cultural change emerged some secular but many religious "Okay, now, we should dominate the whole region." The religious Jews said, &quot;That's God's blessing, God's backing the hyper religious Jews.&quot; Many of them, everything's complicated, &quot;If you go back to the Hebrew Bible especially the sixth book of the Bible it says that all of this land is promised to us.&quot; And so a religious movement started that said "Well, we conquered this land, this is our land.&quot; And at the beginning, it was a fringe idea because really the origin of Zionism it had to do with people of a particular religion, but it was led by people and it was a secular idea about a homeland, but starting in the 1970s, it became This is very unusual and hard But what happened was became the most Ardent; And over time, they actually became And this is not well understood, in Israel's major backer because the US has backed Israel But most people in the United States that is in a dangerous neighborhood But what they don't realize is what a weird ideology based on that claims as a God-given right; and not only dominate them, or kill them or do whatever Israel has to do so-called Well, this is completely unacceptable And Israel is not acting rationally, it's acting in extreme violation of international law in the quest of a Messianic idea and therefore, is in a creating, but also disaster for itself. Because its politics are totally unacceptable And Israel's left with one backer, And inside the United States, because the young people in the United States They're not part of this at all. They're saying, "Are you kidding, And they see the massacres going on, And so Biden is finding to his real surprise, this isn't good politics because American politicians also thought but it's not good politics to back zealotry That is so extreme. That it's leading to massive war crimes. And Biden is absolutely losing support So, here we are at the start of 2024 But one should understand Netanyahu is not because his whole cabinet is filled with This is not rational calculation. This is irrational belief in God's gift of the right to control all of this land which is whatever they think by the rest of the world, by the Arab and Islamic world, So, the way to stop this &quot;Look, you can believe what you want, but not with our ammunitions.&quot; That's all. And then the Israel can't do this Israel can't fight this war this is a war fought on US military industry. I want to push on this a little bit. What happened on October 7th but what's happened thereafter the moral authority of Israel and the West at large and we're witnessing some sort of In the context of all this and not to mention the political disconnect and what the White House is doing what is the prospect of a two-state solution now which has kind of like disappeared I think it's almost never right even an event as shocking as October 7, as a standalone or as a beginning of something. By the way, even 4 days before October 7, Jewish religious zealots had stormed one of the holiest sites of Islam, and so there was an immediate provocation But as in any conflict, this is unresolved political It never had a quiet moment. So, it needed a political resolution it's not an event that started at that moment. And it's the same thing about Ukraine. Ukraine crisis did not start with Russia's special military operation; and we need to understand that to deep and ongoing wounds, and that don't have a one day explanation So this is the first point. Now, Israel in this government that I very quickly summarized of deciding has put itself in a situation There's no solution on the basis of I'm a believer in the international order I don't believe that the highest politics I think the highest politics And in this case, and actively for 56 years and after dozens of UN resolutions my own view is that the Security Council should impose a solution, it should impose the two-state solution, it should do it today as far as I'm concerned. I think the UN Security Council should as a sovereign state UN member with the borders of the 4th of June 1967, meaning Gaza, East Jerusalem, the UN Security Council should mobilize it can be Arab, it can be US, it can be others to keep the two states apart from each other, but it should just impose this now. And there are hundreds of thousands but they settled there after having been told You're in someone else's country, So that's going to have to be resolved. But they're in part, not everyone, because they are religious zealots who think that God gave them the right But they have no legal right to be there. And so this needs to be resolved not by these two parties Jeff, I got to end this discussion posed to an economist. We've seen many parts of the world running on the wheels of massive is this something that you believe is sustainable? Or do you believe that there's that would be more feasible Well, I think the the first point is The monetary system is there to facilitate You can't make an economy rich This is the first thing we study and learn So there are short-term debates about but focus on the real economy. Second, the real economy in the 21st century So, if any country wants to be successful, the single most important thing to do by far It's the number one, two, three, four, your children should be highly literate, they should be aware of the world, they should know the world and many of them are going to be helping So education by far the most important Third point, given our technologies solutions even a country with the population, doesn't go it alone. ASEAN is really important for Indonesia. Indonesia is really important for ASEAN, but even ASEAN's not big enough, definitely good close relations with China, build infrastructure connect with rail, The region that I really like is the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership which has 10 ASEAN countries, three Northeast Asian countries and two oceanic countries (Australia and New Zealand). Now that group, that's a terrific group, if the RCEP region got together and said, we're going to interconnect with we're going to interconnect this would be the most dynamic region Instead, the United States is saying, You need to divide, you need to keep separate. We need a military alliance." So tell the United States, &quot;Go home! And then you'd have this incredible dynamism And there's no reason why China, Japan, And Japan's hostility to China In 2,000 years of being neighbors, except with the footnote that when the Mongols they tried twice, but China never invaded Japan. So, Japan should realize just cooperate, And the United States which knows should be told: We don't want an arms race, we don't need all your military bases here, And then you really have prosperity That's very hopeful. Jeff, I know you got to go. You've been so kind with your time, Well, happy new year to you, - Thank you so much. That was Professor Jeffrey Sachs