- We are entering what I call 'The Next Golden Era We have not just new and money coming we also have a new For Elon Musk of SpaceX, it's to create However, for Jeff Bezos he wants to make so that all all the pollution goes And Jeff Bezos wants to set connecting the Earth And so he wants to lift off the planet Earth to and to put all the heavy Now, I always talked and he said that is in the middle of asteroids and it's inevitable that we will Something like what hit the We need an insurance policy. Now, he was clear to say moving the population of that costs too much money. And we have on the Earth like We have to deal with those not fleeing in outer space. But as an insurance policy, that humans become These are the words And now of course, Elon by talking about He wants to put up to a million- a million colonists sent to Mars by his rockets- financed by a combination of including fusion rockets, including anti-matter rockets. Some of these rockets, their technologies till the next 100 years. However, the laws of physics postage stamp-sized chips So think of a chip, perhaps and have thousands of them energized by perhaps By shooting this gigantic into outer space, by energizing you could then begin to about 20% This is with doable It's just a question It's a question of political but there's no physics. There's no law of physics from shooting these chips That means Proximus Centauri, part of the Alpha Centauri could be within the Now think about that- that means that within 20 we might be able to go to a nearby planet. And it turns out that is an Earth-like planet the closest star What a coincidence. So it means that we've our first destination by an interstellar starship. And that is a planet that goes in the triple-star system. And so this could be the of starship designs, we're talking about If Elon Musk wants to put you have to have You have to have You have to have to begin the process unless you create the first With one self-replicating then four, then eight, 16, 32, 64, until you have that can build cities on Mars. And so that's the weak link. Everyone dreams of having these as part of our but who's gonna I say, they're gonna be built robots that can make by mining the minerals And then beyond that, Maybe our destiny really Remember that on the eventually go extinct. Extinction is the norm. We think of Mother Nature and for the most part she is, but sometimes the savagery and if you don't believe me, Right under your feet the bones of all the different the 99.9% that were doomed And the laws of physics also and that's why I say, given and the laws of physics have that ultimately our destiny In the history of science, that galvanized entire nations. First, we had which gave us the atomic bomb. Then we had which allowed us to map And President Barack Obama a project to map It is possible directly to a computer now. Stephen Hawking, the late if you watch videotapes of him you'll realize that there that communicated, right, the chip in turn and it allowed So we can now we can now combine send memories, send emotions and who's paying for it? The United States Pentagon. The United States Pentagon over $150 million for GIs, who have spinal cord injuries. We can now bypass and connect the brain directly And in fact, Iron Man an 'Iron Man exoskeleton.' At the World Cup games there was a man who and started the soccer games. Now, what's so That man was paralyzed. He couldn't move. At Duke University, with an exoskeleton and he was mentally able to initiating the World Cup games. Now that's today. You can imagine what it's when we have direct Eventually computer which is the cost They'll be everywhere including your eyeball You'll blink and And who are the first people College students taking They will blink and see right there in and this could be very useful if you're at a cocktail party and there's some very that could influence but you don't know In the future, you'll know at any cocktail party. On a blind date, because, of course, your that he's single, he's but your contact lens says that he's three times divorced, and the guy is a total loser. So yes, we're gonna have And then beyond that, we That is, we'll be able think about images, memories, Already, we can We've been able short memories in mice. Now it's being done on monkeys. Next, Alzheimer's patients. They'll push a button and into their hippocampus, and maybe one day, and have that vacation So we're entering a new era could become 'BrainNet.' BrainNet could replace Instead of zeros and ones, memories on the internet, and, of course, Instead of putting a happy face at the end of every sentence, they'll put the entire emotion. Their first dance, their first kiss right And that's gonna Because remember the talkies? When the talkies came, went out of business. No one wanted to see when you could So movies are nothing Think of what'll happen emotions, sensations, feel Then the movies They'll seem such like once we have BrainNet emotions, feelings I think we're entering of scientific innovation. The first era was steam power, when we physicists worked out we could calculate how from a lump of coal to or a steam engine or a factory. That was the first The second wave of innovation was electricity and magnetism. When we physicists worked out that gave us the light bulb, it gave us the electric age. The third revolution took place when we physicists worked out opening up the world The fourth wave is and that is artificial and biotechnology. In fact, I think the synergy between biotechnology and artificial intelligence everything around us. First of all, the job market 'cause baby boomers are aging, and baby boomers have they want answers now to and so there's gonna be with people who wanna find like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's. At the present time we but tremendous amount of toward illnesses of old age. Also take a look We're gonna have a magic using nanomedicine, that in the cells that can target using nanotechnology. And the next big thing becomes intelligent. In the future, your first line of because your bodily fluids, contain signatures of of maybe a few hundred maybe years before Think about it for a moment. There are people watching right now, who have cancer Maybe a few hundred but they won't know it when you have 10 growing in your We will have what is DNA chips that allow the signatures of cancer Cancer genes, cancer circulating in our So in other words, one day, your toilet will tell Do something. You have 10 years to do it. So in other words, what I'm trying to tell the word tumor will disappear We will have years of warning that there is a colony of cancer and our descendants will wonder how could we fear Cancer's gonna become that is we live with it doesn't really kill anybody, except maybe if but for the most part, we 'cause it's too 300 different In the future, we may There are probably thousands of different We can't cure every single we'll tolerate it, in the same way that we