2D Mario games, are quite simple games. All we have to do to beat them, is to jump We already took a look at whether the left bros u. But after beating the game with the minimum if it is actually possible to route the game To beat the game without ever going into the So as you probably can imagine, not only does it also makes stuff we always took for granted So today we are going to take a look at all when playing the game with only half our moveset, minimum amount of right presses needed to So are you ready? Let's do this! Okay so there are a lot of evil little problems best start at the beginning. The very first problem we face, is the very As soon as the small intro cutscene ends, to press right in order to reach the very Yup, the first input is already a right press. So there are two types of nasty right presses the game, namely right presses on the world couple of stages. I'd like to call those right presses, meta Meta right presses are all the sneaky right of the game. We are going to avoid them whenever possible, The main focus today is to beat the game with right presses that actually happen while platforming Getting the amount of required gameplay right Nonetheless we are going to try to minimize one is the one required to reach the very Luckily 1-1 is easy to beat without painfully This level already showcases the three main without pushing right. First and most importantly, wall jumping off As soon as we play the game on anything that to summon helpful magical blocks into the Those platforms can be used to wall jump, and allows us to get closer to the flagpole. This is our main form of movement for the Tapping the screen and then jumping off a So whenever the game forces us to act fast Luckily this isn't the only way to get momentum momentum by slope ground pounding. This time we team up with all the slopes in on a slope it accelerates mario into the direction This is incredibly useful, and we will happily today. Hooray! Thirdly and finally, acorn suit updrifting Whenever we press ZL while wearing our cute and gathers horizontal speed moving into the right by default. This is by far the best option we have to soon as we take damage. Most of the levels on our route don't feature can luckily be avoided by finishing all levels If we touch the famous flag pole at the end timer display a 77 we are rewarded with a have the option to regain a lost acorn outfit Okay, so 1-1 doesn't require any right presses, 1-2. 1-2 is where stuff becomes super complicated, but because the optimal world map movement So 1-2 features a secret exit that first leads lair, and afterwards directly to world 5. We obviously want to take this shortcut because a lot of tricky levels in world 2. We are able to reach this secret exit without secret lair, because the stage sadly takes We can't move underwater without pressing As it is known, wall jumping doesn't work or dressing up like a squirrel and pressing We don't have the tools to make it through Luckily we have another option to beat the this is where this little dilemma starts to If we pick up one of the adorable baby yoshis, While carrying a baby yoshi we are able to This makes beating underwater levels without The only problem is, we have to get our hands Luckily one of those adorable baby dinosaurs How convenient. Getting our hands onto this tiny dinosaur to reach the crushing co... *sigh* to reach and another two until we reach blooper's secret That's the best solution I found, while the best possible way to handle this little Huge thanks to youtuber Everything ABC. We were chatting a little bit about how I a way to not only beat blooper's secret lair the pink baby dino, but he was actually crazy amount of directional inputs. No right no left no up no down. Yup! The trick everything ABC used was the multiplayer He basically used the fact that our plumbers multiplayer to make it through the whole level The link to the whole clip of how he did it checking it out, it's super bonkers! Anyway this makes it actually possible to Hooray! 5-1 is a really relaxing stage for our very Not only are there tons of slopes in the stage, gigantic enemies in this beautiful jungle that makes it really simple to keep our momentum 5-2 isn't much of a problem either. At the end of this poisonous swamp stage we brick block bridge. Generally speaking, having to do something section can be somewhat cheated by carefully plumber. We are making really great progress here! Next up is the snake block tower already. This stage was quite problematic while playing the level becomes quite easy when doing the We simply once again build a magical bridge Sadly, however we are forced to go through meta right press count up to 7. The jungle ghost house features the secret gives rise to almost no problems. It's really easy to do the level with only Ladies and gentleman, we still haven't pressed in the seventh world! So when I started to route this I really wasn't the option to run towards the flag-pole. I honestly expected that about a third of But here we are. Almost in the seventh world and our gameplay Maybe, just maybe, it actually is possible game without the right button. Just maybe. Anyway we need another meta right press to And this level, is where everything starts Holy fuzzy. We aren't prepared for para beetle parade. The problem here aren't the parading para pit nor the gigantic bullet bills. The problem here is something different. Ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce you Autoscrolling. Autoscrolling, hates us. So the thing is the following. We really can't play fast without the option We always have to set up a platform at the the platform and only then we are able to This takes seconds to plan and to execute. As long as we aren't under pressure this way. It takes forever, but we aren't at a real But if we are forced to act fast, then, well, So the auto scrolling in para beetle parade As soon as we hit the screen border the auto That would generally be welcome, if it wasn't get any right momentum afterwards. There is basically a death zone at the left area we can't place platforms to wall jump To make matters even worse, the beatles act The best way to cancel our momentum is to beatles is basically suicide because we slide So whenever we want to cancel our momentum cancel our ground pound before we hit a beetle. All the while we are never allowed to set level auto scrolls us towards our doom. I was stuck here for many many hours. The first strategy I gave a try to make it the softlock, and to get carried by it to in the level, and just bridging mario to the In theory this should be possible, as long acorn suit would allow us to end the softlock But sadly I wasn't able to reach the end damage because there are two gigantic burning and always damage us. There is just no easy way around it, we have pressing right. So it is possible, thanks to acorn boosting, real problem here, isn't that this stage The real problem is, that from now on almost We need a meta right press to reach 7-1 and 7-1 is another auto scrolling level. Not only is there a pipe which forces us to also stupid cloud platforms that move at a hard once again. The worst part here is this section, where block corridor, while the cloud slowly travels It is possible to make it through this corridor, of patience, but once we made it through the I tried racing the platform here many many it took me forever to realize, but luckily All that we have to do is to wait on this go away, and then to fly forwards while praying This little trick allows us to make it through opens up the path to the next level, and to 7-2 starts tricky and ends horrifyingly. First we have to make our way over a couple This isn't too bad since the platforms can all we have to watch out for are the jumps But then we face one of bowser's nastiest Then we have to deal with a lakitu, while The platforming alone is really difficult, throws endless waves of spineys towards us Seriously, where does the lakitu even find The only way to beat this level is to play If we jump off ten platforms in a row we are Sadly this isn't a permanent defeat since gives us enough time to do a couple of tricky This is incredible tedious, but it allows Hooray! Next up, my favorite level slide lift tower. *sigh* So slide lift tower, is, uhm really Thanks to acorn boosting we are able to play makes it still a bit annoying, but possible. The same is true for the ghost house which number 11. Here only the section where we are entrapped but this section can easily be cheated. All that we have to do here is to press down chasing ghosts until the end of this section. The staircase is no problem either, since down. That's so satisfying! Ludwig's clockwork castle features the next The moving blocks here, are set up in such without running to the right. They just always align in a pattern that makes Luckily a solution for this problem exists! As it turns out we are able to change the If we tap one of those stupid blocks it stops Because of this we are able to perfectly set to pass the stage rightless. Hooray! The airship stage is luckily super easy, which and still haven't pressed right during gameplay There are only five more levels standing between Meteor Moat is beatable but super annoying. It's basically playing the lottery. Making it through the level itself is easy, down from the sky. Those may or may not drop down in such a pattern We are able to improve our odds a bit by tapping top of us. There is nothing we can do here. We just pick up all the power ups we can grab, until the evil RNG lines up in a way that The magma river cruise is another level that This level is one that had me incredibly worried boat trip ever sounds like the recipe for There is another meta right press required 8-3 isn't too problematic, nor is the red Here we cheat this red hot and presumably towards the top. At the end this level features a pipe, which press in the game. This means we actually made it to the final Before we reach bowser and find out whether we have to make it through this section where This area is surprisingly tricky, the best was to try to stay above bowser jr for as head as a way to reset our ZL boost, so that And then it's time for the final showdown. It's us or bowser. It's a successful run versus failure by It's all or nothing here. So ... allright. This boss fight was by far the hardest part again, but this time without the right button I just can't imagine a way to do this fight So there is a reoccuring theme with the left/right Namely: All the levels that caused us headache easy without going right. And most surprisingly, the final battle is Ladies and gentleman, it is possible to defeat I wouldn't go as far as to call this fight The way his shell phase is setup just allows the air where his clever AI always decides This means that we actually did it. Ladies and gentlemen, New Super Mario Bros during gameplay! The game is beatable with 0 gameplay right Hooray! That was quite a challenge. So yeah, here we have it, it takes 0 gameplay new super mario bros U. Hey, it's ceave from the current present I just quickly double checked everything and press required to enter a pipe in para beetle the para beetles in red luigis version of This brings the total meta right press count Also, as it turns out, Everything ABC decided directional inputs, but he is actually currently the option to go into any direction ever. I can't wait to see how this works out, in the description as soon as his video goes So with that being said, let's travel back I hope you enjoyed this little video, if you and maybe you feel especially like not looking button as well. I hope that all of you have a wonderful new Goodbye!