It's been over 50 years since the United moon, in what was a highly competitive and the former USSR. We choose to go to the moon in this because they are easy, but because they Now there's a renewed interest to return players involved. Russia launched its first moon landing India has become the first country to the fourth country to ever land on the China sent its youngest ever crew to its country reiterated plans to put decade. This morning, history is being made. The first U.S. Lunar lander in more than 50 years is Japan has made history as the fifth There's renewed interest in the moon. We're going back to learn to live in a of time, so that we can go to Mars and The moon is a proving ground. We need to get to the moon. Humanity needs to get to the moon in In order to learn how to utilize the And that is really the stepping stone universe. And who gets to the moon this time as well as the cosmos. Whoever gets to establish a significant about their political system, about ahead in the geopolitical competition. But a second, newer part to this is the resources on the moon that are useful spaceflight. The United States was the first country this day is still the only nation to In 1959, the Soviet Union beat the U.S. To become the first nation to reach the spacecraft. This all happened during That's one small step for man, one giant Spacecraft sent to the moon are mission types. A flyby mission passes orbit around the moon. Think of it as An orbiter mission allows the continually taking detailed photos or A hard- landing mission is where a Those can be intentional, with the be analyzed, often by the instruments unintentional when an attempted soft Soft landings are typically the most spacecraft must make it to the surface instruments fully intact. Since the late 1960s, there's been over Six of those were NASA's manned Apollo lunar missions are expected to take A major reason for this renewed finding concrete evidence of a valuable For years following the Apollo water on the moon. But it wasn't until sent an orbiter and impactor to the confident that the moon was not as dry When we thought that the moon was really concept of sending somebody to the moon just colossally expensive, and there But now we have water so we can send them on the moon without having to send The altitude is being brought down from the lunar surface. In August of 2023, India made another to successfully soft land on the moon's think is the most likely to contain Earlier that month, a Russian probe en crashed into the moon after it spun We're pretty sure there is water on the We're pretty sure that most of it is in lunar south pole because no sunlight Aside from being crucial for human rocket fuel by splitting its liquefying them. When these two chemical reaction results in a burst of rocket. NASA is using this fuel type in astronauts back to the moon. With access to water, the moon could rockets and a springboard for deeper Private companies and countries are also metals. And then there's the isotope abundant on the moon and can fusion reactors. We haven't figured out quite how to do There's a lot of theories about it, but the moon could seriously power the The entire Earth for centuries. The presence of water on the moon and motivated a number of nations and In the last few years, Japan, South and India have all sent spacecraft to success. Most recently, Japan became spacecraft on the moon. On the heels of landing, India has also said that it 2040. Russia two has expressed a desire in Russian, on the moon between 2031 media. But the biggest competition is who can set up a presence on the moon Once you have a human presence, you That's just human nature. And really the question then becomes, What will be the common language of Will be English, or will it be Chinese? The U.S. Effort to return to the moon is The program is spearheaded by NASA in and international partners, and is billion through 2025. Artemis is all about getting people back eventually we want to get people on the And it's first about science. We want to understand the south pole of to. And we also want to test our gravity environment before we send As has become the norm, NASA is working build out its Artemis infrastructure. Some of these companies include Rocketdyne, Northrop Grumman, Blue Aerospace. NASA's first mission, NASA's Space Launch System rocket and carry astronauts to lunar orbit. More recently, NASA, in partnership launched the country's first lunar technical anomaly shortly after launch. The Artemis II mission, which was but has since been pushed back to astronauts into orbit around the moon the moon's surface in September 2026. Flying back to the moon is very hard, harder. Creating deep space systems to on the surface, it takes time to prove As part of its Artemis objectives, NASA will orbit the moon, as well as surface. We've talked about setting up something that would be a space station that that would orbit the moon. And every so the Lunar Gateway station to the lunar have shelters and habitats and things Meanwhile, China is a relative newcomer having conducted a manned spaceflight But China has since made tremendous The country built its own earth all scientific collaboration between lost access to the International Space Along with a number of partners Pakistan, China has also announced on the lunar surface, and has said it around 2030. United States' aerospace leadership has ambitions, especially if the country before the U.S. I think the space race is really between interests of the international You see the actions of the Chinese They go out and claim some Sea, and then they claim them as So naturally, I don't want China to get then say, this is ours, stay out. The Outer Space Treaty of 1967 is often space law. Over 100 countries, are party to the legally binding governing the peaceful exploration and The Outer Space Treaty of 1967 said, Nobody can own a natural satellite, the something like that. It said that you destruction. But parts of the Outer Space Treaty can President Obama in 2015 signed a law which is that article that says you that you can extract resources and So once you take the resources off that They are your property at that point. Article nine of the Outer Space Treaty, activities, quote, with due regard to been ambiguous. We don't know exactly what due regard The United States has said, well, we respect an exclusionary zone or a or any objects that we have in space. It's not difficult to imagine such an country around a place rich in natural If you get to some of the most because there is no formal legal system If that first mover also is the first mover is going to control not just the they will have the access and be able In addition to the Outer Space Treaty, come up with their own sets of rules. In 2020, the United States introduced This is a non-binding multilateral government and the over 30 other world U.S. In the Artemis program. Notably missing from these signatories, Russia and China objected to the Artemis Russia, of course this was during Ukraine, said, oh, this is the United We're gonna have none of it. And China Artemis Accords because they were Nations, which is the only place where But even if everyone on earth was to enforcement right now would be another Think about enforcement of international We we know that we don't do a good job Imagine a violation of international people to the moon right now. And so enforcement is going to be very But before any nation can establish a riches, they have to overcome some For China, the big challenges are this developing some of the key technologies For example, a heavy lift booster to consumables that would be necessary not bring them back. The challenge to us is The Chinese approach is one based on stability. We have had repeated studies on not only going back to the moon, but But budgets change every 4 to 8 years more frequently if you think about who One of the things that was really Trump is that we did not lose Artemis. It was like the one thing that the administration. But despite the challenges facing to push the boundaries of what we can The exploration and use of space by supposed to be for the benefit of all Competition isn't necessarily a bad We need to have a lot of countries as a human race versus as a Chinese person, a Kenyan person. Right? We need to stop thinking about And space is the way we're going to do that.