- Watch the end of this video, it's just like broken console. I think I saw smoke. (David laughing) - I suck so much. - Yeah, this is a nightmare. - Ooh. - Yes. - It's not that David and I set out to waste a whole bunch it just kind of happened. We were having a conversation and David tells me, he's like, &quot;Hey, did you know-- - That you can upgrade and make it modern? - And not just a Game Gear, And I was like, &quot;Oh my God, I've wanted to do that for years.&quot; So today we get to go through everything that we bought on some combination, I think it's AliExpress and eBay. - Yap. - To get our hands on everything we need to upgrade the displays - Well, the Vita. - Oh my God, you're gonna - Well, this is already upgraded. - You upgraded this already? - This was the inspiration - You know what the real Telling you about our sponsor. - GlassWire. Are you worried someone GlassWire can alert you Use offer code LINUS and at the link below. (upbeat music) - Holy crap, this is outstanding. - [David] Right? (laughs) - I mean, I imagined what might look like on a better display, but I've never had a chance I mean, this wasn't my childhood. My childhood (clears throat) was a little larger, (David laughing) not two, AA batteries per charge. So then did you do this yourself? - I did it myself. - Now what do you need to I can see you've already hacked it, so that's good. That's how it always was. And so I bought it for - Oh, it is really beat up. - Yeah, (scoffs) it's really beat up, but it's like $300 for So I figured I should buy a beat up one and then buy the parts to And the total would be less than half of what it would cost - And it won't be authentic like original. - No. - But who cares? - No. I don't care. - Okay. Well, let's begin then. I actually have no idea (David laughing) all I did was tell this guy-- - Hey. - To get me set up. And apparently I'm getting - I didn't order the chassis, that came with the battery replacement. - I'm getting... Wait, Oh my God. Are these lithium batteries? - Yes. You might be able to run it - What? - No. That's not the authentic experience. (David laughing) No. I should spend on AA batteries. - Oh, and you're not No. That's illegal. - I did even back then, even though the battery, like (mumbles) Now, one of the biggest is not just that the it's that the cover in it has gotta be... You talk about how this - This is scuffed. - You talk about how this is This is scuffed I don't know. (David laughing) It looks less durable than acrylic. And the best part is where you at? Here you are. If you actually crank the brightness... - [David] It's like completely unusable. - What? I even know how to play it. Like I can't even see what I'm doing. You know. (David laughing) - [Adam] See the camera can't show it, but this actually looks pretty - Man, that sound of collecting the apple takes me straight back to my childhood. Let's get this freaking - Have you looked at all to do this? - Adam gave me some clues. - Okay. - It is going to be I will say that much. Holy crap. CleanJuice GG is a USBC - [Adam] That's so sic. - This is gonna be the I'm so excited. - So-- - Where's your stuff? - My stuff is-- - Dump it. Show me what you got. We're doing a hall video, David. (David laughing) This is guys, there's no This is just David and our old consoles and needed an - I'm gonna be real. I pitched this video because I knew this was for me to do alone. And so I want Linus' help. So basically what I got is I that has the screen included. You can buy just the screen, but like you have to put That's not [indistinct] - Probably have to heat - That's way beyond my skill - Oh yeah, that's a good call. - Because it's just like - If you're gonna be in - Yeah. - Battery technologies come a little way. - Yeah, I've looked at the, I fixed it, this assembly guide and they and I've done some stuff And you know, that was a bit of a stretch, but this is a five when I looked at it, all the way at extremely difficult. - No. We got this. Don't even worry. (David laughing) Don't even trip, dawg. - I'm hoping too, that we can pop open the Game Boy Advance but I didn't solder the because I don't have a So I was hoping to sneak So we'll see. - Well, where the hell - [Adam] The Netflix show Queens GameBit. - No. (David laughing) - Did we seriously not... Wait. Hold on. Is it included? - No? Yeah, this is like. - Oh, that's super kit. - Okay. - And I shout out to you I fixed it. - Yeah, I know, right? Okay. There we go. So this is a four and a half Sega, I know your hardware from the depths of hell where but this is bad. Okay. Don't do this. You've got all the screws out, right? - Yep. There's only four screws, right? - And you're quite certain of that? - No. I don't know. Maybe not (laughing) - Well, here's some screws. - [David] Yep. - All right. You should That's good. Yep. - It was a test. He passed (laughing) - [Linus] Oh my God. Okay. - [David] Ooh. - Wow. I've never seen the inside And like, obviously not. When I was this age, it to rip apart my freaking game console. That was my like most valued possession on this earth, right? But as an adult, that's the first thing I do (chuckles) (David laughing) so it's just weird to that I've never seen before. Man, I think mine's gonna Is that open yet? - Oh yeah. Are you ready to - Yeah. For sure. I've actually - Oh, that ribbon kit is real short. - It's actually kind of beautiful. It had a web cam and everything? - It has two cameras, a - I never had one. - Oh, it's so cool. - Yeah, I skipped many This is the last handheld I owned until I bought a switch. Wow. - Wait. No. I lied. I had a DS. Everything here is That's the nice thing is everything's kind of So I guess I'm just going and put them in my old chassis 'cause there's no way I'm gonna use this lemon yellow chassis. This is ridiculous. What if I would actually I guess I could do that. - You really prefer - Yeah. I love AA's. - Okay. - I mean, I guess you and I - Yeah. - Re-Xbox versus PlayStation controller. And I'm still right. And you're still David. - I mean, I don't hate I don't want a whole bunch of - [Adam] Wow. (David laughing) - Both have drawbacks. I don't think one is Also I need your help, I have no idea how to - Oh, fun. (David laughing) Well, it looks like it's of some sort. What the devil are you doing - [David] Oh, it's 'cause - Of course it does. - Okay. I don't know Is it possible that like it's almost double the capacity - Battery tech has come - Hey, that's pretty cool. That's actually freaking sweet. - Is anyone feeling a (David laughing) I don't look at this yellow face plate, but I also don't feel like from the original black ones. - [Brandon] Two-tone. - Two-tone. It's just like Linus and (David laughing) but not perfect consoles and - That's my real expectation. (grunts) Oh my God, I'm too strong. - Did you just break something? - I don't know. - Let's see. You only broke the latch and So you're good. No. You're probably good on Let me see. You know what? Screw it. No. I'm going OG chassis. High risk, high reward. I'm doing it. These springs are making it so I can't get my so they've gotta come out. Ah, all right. Well there See you later, buddy. - Bye. - I should be able to Yep. Easy. Okay. Supposedly this is hot enough, I need to remove this battery contact. So we're gonna see how this goes. I don't think I'm gonna be until the... Oh, okay. Nevermind. That was very easy. Oh my God. This is so amazing. There's a little 3D printed block here that just acts as a filler, so you can go from this nine and the original red rocker (gasps) stays and just goes over top Should I make sure it's still working? - Sure. - I'll do everything but power that'll be fine. Oh God. Did you hear that? - [David] That sounded really bad. - I think I saw smoke. - [Brandon] Oh no. - I smell it. What did I just fry? What could I possibly have just fried? (Linus sniffing) Where are you coming from? Honestly, it smells What the crap just happened? All we did was power the CleanJuice GG. - I always knew I was great at this. Look, I'm still making progress (laughs) - All right, David. - I suck so much. Okay. Let's go. - So you can see it's warmed up here. Okay. And then right on the other got pretty toasty. I wonder if it may just be defective 'cause I really don't - Here's my one tech tip for the day. When you have your things disassembled, that's a good time to clean it (scoffs) - That's a good tech tip, David. - You got one. - Every indication I have is just working, now that a little bit. I'm going for it. - Yeah, what's the worst - I mean, my kids could and then the lithium and I could-- lose my house and my family. You guys ready? Got a fire extinguisher handy? - [Adam] No. Where do we hide-- - There should be one around here. - There should be one here. - Good luck everybody. 'Cause this really does not Oh yeah, this is very... Tray is different. Back to the guide. (Adam chuckles) (David scoffing) - They didn't have a better take in that? - What? - [Adam] Should we drop the battery and go straight for the screen and then-- - No. (David laughing) I'm sold on USBC charging now. - That's pretty cool. - Yeah. - I just wanna celebrate the taking things apart to a not working-- - To a broken device. (Linus laughs) - Well, I forgot 'em. - Well, I mean even in my Intel upgrade, one of the things that I was finally fixing my PS3. I didn't. Update on that, it's still broken. I bought a different PS3. Not a backwards compatible one - Oh no. - Maybe we'll do another - [Adam] I think I've had about your Game Gear. - What horrible realization - So when you look here, - I see how it says VA5. - That's a different version Luckily Anthony has another one here. - Oh, really? - And so maybe we're gonna (Adam laughing) - What? (David laughing) Okay, so what do you need to - [Adam] They just don't - VA5's are just (beep) - [Adam] Well, the thing is that the VA5s have the better screen already. - That's the better screen? (David laughing) (Adam laughing) His is like in way better This is VA5. - [Adam] Wow. It looks so different. - Are we FUBAR? - Not me (chuckles). - Do we just need to like like right now and go buy a Game Gear? - [Adam] I'm on Facebook - Give this trash back to Anthony. - Okay. - Get it out of my site. Can I help you at least? - Yeah. - Can we have some success today? - Let's do it. - I wanna see something fire I have eight more minutes, into a meeting. - I don't think we're gonna do that. - Okay. Holy (beep). No way (gasps) Okay. I knew he got a Game Gear. It's the next morning. I can't believe how fast - Yeah. That's pretty good. - But you got that carrying case. How much did I pay for it? - Oh, I robbed the guy. - What? No. Shut up. (all laughing) - No, 150. - Okay. - That's pretty good. - [Adam] Yeah. No. It was really good for plus the other things that are in there. - I'll buy this off you for 150 right now, Adam. - Shut up. Oh my God, it has - [Adam] That's pretty cool. - Okay. It included games for 150? - [Adam] Yep. This is all in there. - Wait. Is this a Japanese - [Adam] Sega. - Wait, the screen is - Is the perfect candidate - It's okay. (David cheering) Yay. that there were updated those came out four days ago. One-- (David laughing) - One person has done the mod (Linus laughing) and there's no guide for it yet. - [David] That's wild. - So it's really good - We found it after we they have a replacement for the A4 and A5. (David laughing) It's right on their website. He's like, &quot;I have no (David laughing) - I was on the Game Gear so I've read it and I saw the post from two days ago where someone's like, &quot;I did the mod with the new Bennvenn screen.&quot; And I was like, &quot;I've been vindicated.&quot; I'm like, &quot;I'm okay.&quot; - Honestly, I think I'm ending anyway, just because of David and I discussed that we'd rather have and the higher color screen. - These ones have a better Sega wanted to cut some costs. So they did a bunch of revisions, and now on the later revisions, the screen only puts out like 512 colors as opposed to like 5,000. - I can tell I'm less 'cause I spent about 20 minutes trying to get this but I did at first try today. So maybe that's my second is sometimes stepping away (soft background music) Although there's the one piece here that I have no (beep) clue where it goes, and I'm a little bit worried about that. - [Linus] (laughing) This guy right here? - Yeah, (beep). - No. You are not. it's an outside piece. Like where does this go? I can't see it in the tear-down either. - Okay. Let me see. Geez, this guy. - Doesn't that look like an outside piece? - No. - [Brandon] Definitely does - Definitely not. - I don't see it in the breakdown. - [Linus] I'm not gonna lie... - You're starting to feel like - No. (David laughing) I'm starting to feel (David laughing hysterically) (laughing) but I don't `All right. I'm sorry, I've lost interest. (David laughing) - I really want this - No. I believe in you. - Oh my God. I've been trying to figure why it's on a shock mount. It has a CFL back. It has a tube. - [Adam] It's no wonder the - Yeah. And no wonder this - Yeah. - That's why the Game Boy - Yep. Because it - Because we didn't have power Obviously for anyone of handheld gaming or display technology, you're like, &quot;Well, yeah, obviously.&quot; (David laughing) But it's just the kind of Like why did the backlight in suck. This is amazing. Hold on. I wanna get this out. Adam, make sure that I - [Adam] Oh God. Well, stop. I don't know. (all laughing) - Check it out. - [David] Wow. - It's a giant freaking CFL hoop in the ceiling of your Well, in the context of I'd like to see you-- - fit one in there. - Nope. No. (Linus laughing) That's so cool. - And then it's got this This is amazing. The whole motherboard has to come out. - [Adam] That's so cool. - That's not adjusting the brightness. Maybe I need a game. Smell something? - [Adam] Is that just me? - [Adam] That is just - [David] Oh my gosh. You can see it. - Yeah. And the diffusion sucks. - [Adam] Sucks. - [Linus] That's just like sort of. Okay. I gotta run to my meeting. - While he's away, I might put it together and see if I break it. - Let me turn this off 'cause and I don't need a hot other than this hot thing right beside me. - Oh. - Oh. - Oh, it turned on. - You did it. - Yeah. I'm not a moron. Take that dad. - The issues that I have Linus-- - Sorry. - No. get it out. (Adam chuckles) - Yeah. - Did you ever find where that piece went? - Yeah. For sure. - Yeah. It goes right - Yeah. See, it's not here, so where could it possibly - You're full of (beep), you totally just threw - I did not throw it away. - [Adam] He ate it. - Adam took out my motherboard, well, wait, how do we even Oh my God. Do I have to solder - Oh no, you don't have you have to solder wires. (soft background music) - How many? I think 10. - [David] Like eight or nine, yeah. - Ah (beep). - Oh, that's not even... you're looking at other stuff. You gotta solder onto this. - [Linus] Oh no. - [David] Oh no. - This is a pretty advanced tier mod. - Luckily, I've called in the cavalry. - This is Dan. - Hey. - You don't know him, but - [Adam] He's awesome. I like Dan. - Oh, thanks guys. - Do we have our hotter station? - I'll go grab it if you need it. - Yeah. This is very bad. What I just did is extremely bad. It's recoverable, but it's really bad. (David laughing) - [Brandon] Linus. - (beep) It pulled the pads off. Okay. Where do I need to solder to? - It's on the left side it looks like. - (beep) Fortunately, this but the pads are now - [Brandon] It took him 10 seconds. - Do you mind if I have - No. I'm good. - Oh. (David laughing) - But is Dan good? - I just need the hot air station. - Okay. Let's get that going. - Yep. This is definitely better, what I'm doing right now. See how it leaves like the pad behind instead of ripping it away? - [Adam] Yep. - That's good. - Okay. While he's doing that, I wanna show you guys how much better-- - [Brandon] Alex, (mumbles). - This new bad boy is. It - [Linus] That's amazing. - And that wasn't that hard. It was hard. Like this is slightly above what my skill level is, but being next to you gave to make this happen. - Which is really amazing, considering the state - Well, I assumed that this because it's older tech like you... I just thought it would be like remove a couple of ribbon - (laughs) Yeah. Oh, I like that. - May I have a look? - Oh yeah. Those are pretty (David giggling) Okay. So I have a solution for that. We have these guys, which But you cut the ends off - of those and then... Or we could just go directly on to the-- - Yeah, I would just go directly on. - Okay. Sure. Stick it in. There you go. Wiggle it around a bit. And in case you screw up even more, we have this solder mask. - In case I screw up even more. - Yeah. - Okay. What is it about people who just get off their and just like what's - It's 'cause it's They've been thinking (laughs) - You say that as though - No. I'm trying to break the cycle. I'm trying to be nice. I'm trying to be positive. - Shut up. - [Adam] I just wanted to - This is not gonna be easy. - [Adam] That's why I got Dan to do it. - [Dan] Yeah, I'm working - All right. I want the Dan review. Is that adequate? That's actually pretty good. - [Linus] Thank you. - So we've got 40 more of those to do. - Yeah. (David laughing) It's not 40. - No. It's like 10. - [David] Well, looks like the - Okay. All right. Mr. (scoffs) - Okay, lemme just have a look at this. - Oh, don't just do that. What did you... Stop. Oh my God. See, this pad's - Oh no. - Stop. - Oh God. - Stop moving it. Wait. - I'm not. - Yes. You are (laughing) - Yeah, I mean that's about eight. (Linus screaming) - So if we get everything wired what's the risk of it totally destroying? - Oh, like 10 outta 10, it's gonna happen like immediately. so this is like-- It'll probably explode 'cause the picture's - These are really, really tight. I don't know if these wires - Yeah. That's (beep) wrong. - So I basically have to - No. Just put another one in. - Oh yeah. Oh, that green one is so good. Okay. Man, I'm getting like Yeah, I have to go. Okay. Bye. - Okay. Bye, Linus (chuckles) Let's see if we can get this done. - Dan. - Yes. - This is not what we - I know. The wires are the wrong size. - Mm-hmm. I mean we did discuss that. - Yeah, you really screwed that up. I mean, I really screwed that up. Sorry. (Linus laughing) What I did discover is that this board is kind of slightly different than every other duo lasik board. - Mm-hmm. Yes. - So you see this little guy here? - Yeah. and whoever we bought it - Right. - So-- - That was added by hand, - What? - So in all of the tutorials and every other picture that I've found, there's on all of the boards. If you see on that one over there, there's a big brass circle on the duo lasik variety as well. So this is your single lasik, right? This one has two. So basically we could have gone and we still would have had the same issue because there's some - Oh. - And there's some and over here. - Because. - Because what we discovered is one of the first 300 units produced. We can't identify what The first digit is the Z, which is the manufacturing the second digit is the year 2, 1992, and then the third place is the model run of that manufacturing facility. So we have a first edition So it's a 318 Game Gear - Hold on. This says 1990 on it. - Hmm. Well, I don't know then. - That's very early. No, that's earlier than '92, remember? - That's a couple years I think. - Yeah. (David chuckles) - I'll have to check that later. So anyway, yeah, this is the clock signal from the microprocessor, which is that chip next to your thumb. (Linus chuckles) And in the later schematics, that goes to ground, which You see it's tied into of that-- - capacitor there. - [Linus] Oh, amazing. - So this wire that was supposed to go from here to the clock source, 'cause this is a little crystal If you flip it over, I had to And it took me hours-- - to figure that out. - [Linus] Oh, cool. - And yeah, (Linus laughing) I used some into the video chip there. - What are the odds - My confidence in Dan is very - Yeah, Dan's pretty much a wizard. My one question is that, is that orange wire supposed - Oh good God. Okay. - I'm really good at finding problems. I'm not great at providing solutions. - [Adam] Linus. (David laughing) - So where is it supposed - Supposed to go on pin 16. Yeah. This is a nightmare. If you're gonna do this at home, (David laughing) make sure that's different than every and get the right size wire and don't do it in front of your boss. - And I can't even keep is which anymore. So where does this go now? - That? I don't know. - That's the front, I think. - Yeah. - You're the one that took it apart. Yeah, I guess so. Oh, now there's buttons everywhere. - Oh my God. - Oh. - Oh, you took it away. - Sorry. He screws up for the Game Boy. - Game Boy. Oh my God. - Is this-- - Is this like what you're - I literally do not know. - Oh, I think this might be glass. Like look at it compared to this. - [Adam] Well, yeah, that bubble. - That's what an acrylic one looks like. Should we scratch-test it? - Yeah. (David laughs) - And I tried to scratch it with my nail, which I would be able to do - Okay. Yeah, that's true. This has been such an Most fun I've had in a - [Dan] I'm really glad and dry as just plopping a screen. - I mean, I could've (David chuckles) excitement than this. And I'm really stressed out that smoked at some point in this process. Yeah, we might just maybe - [Dan] Yeah, don't put that in. - Don't put it in. - We don't trust it. - You sure? 'Cause it seems to work. - It also catches on fire and - When we tested it, it worked once. - It did? - And then the second - We can go AA batteries. - That's for now. - You wanna put the original back on? - Yeah, I can put the original back on. Did it burn a different trace? No. It just burned this one more. Yeah. This thing is clearly defective. Did you finish your Game Boy? - Dan did (laughs) - Oh my God. Although you did screw so it's just floating. - Oh, is that what those - Yeah, it's okay. So now I can control the - Those are on. - [Dan] Moment of truthiness. - Okay. I'm gonna blow all so that if it burns, I get at least that out of on this Game Gear plus have been destroyed. - No. I've got a good feeling. - Is that why you're - Yeah, definitely. And it might also be the fact that it's almost the weekend. I'm sorry, what? - Nothing. Don't even worry. - Is it a problem that this down on this pad? - [Dan] Nope, those will be okay. - Oh. - Oh yes. - Dan did it. - Make sure you get that sound. - Yeah, there it is. This is so awesome. My Volume control still works. - Volume control. - Does brightness control work? - Yes. I made sure of that as well. - It totally does. - You should also have And you be should be or not if you want. So this is what's interesting it uses the crystal oscillator, so it's gonna be lockstep - So no tearing? - No tearing, no missed It uses the same clock source - So after three days we still - There's definitely one small issue. Something is interfering... Ah, yes. Nope. I was right, Dan, and you were wrong. - You do need to move it? - We do need to deal with are so thick. - Oh. - And it's making it so that It's lifting this part off. Okay. So I just need - Yeah. They should be long - Oh, hold on. I'm gonna power it off. One sec. - (scoffs) Good choice. - Okay. I think I found a that's a little better. And I think I got this now. - And that's done it. - Wait. - Okay. - Holy crap. Are we good? - Yeah. So I didn't destroy it. - I wanna see it actually do a thing. - Yeah. - Holy bananas. Okay. We're getting there. It is actually closed. - Nice job. - That is so much better. No. You nice job, I didn't do anything. - It's too crisp. It's too good. - Well, you can make it and push up and down. - Like now? - [Dan] Yep. You can do a whole bunch - Wait, what just happened? - The scaling settings. - Whoa. This is scan line things. Yeah. It's pretty cool. It's an amazing little product. - I think I like the clean look. Look at this, I can No perceived additional latency, I mean, I still, I'm but okay. Which one? This one? - [Adam] It's on two. - Okay. You ready? - That's the Sonic. Look at that difference. - [David] Dang. I'm a little on the glass. - Oh, I'm not even gonna I can actually see what I am so stoked. - Look at the refresh latency - [Andy] Can you hold - Freakin' amazing. I don't think I could possibly - [Adam] No. That's fantastic. - [David] It's pretty incredible. - [Linus] Oops. I've been pressing-- - [Dan] Oh no, I found a mine cart. - [Linus] Okay. Yeah. I think I found the exact same mine cart at the exact same time. - [Dan] Careful. There's a-- - [David] Have you managed - [Dan] No. - This was so much fun and so worth it. Shout out to Dan, just like this shout to our sponsor. - Manscape. Manscape has partnered with to help you take care down there. While you're down there trimming, Manscape and the Testicular Cancer to check yourself for testicular cancer with easy once a month routine This year, for a limited time, you can get their new special electric and waterproof trimmer. There are only 10,000 units in existence. And with this launch Manscape the testicular cancer society by testicular cancer. Head to manscape.com/tcs to grab yours and as always, use code and free shipping. - Did you guys enjoy this video? Check out the one where small scale soldering to fix a CPU that had the pins sheered