Lima Airport, Peru. At the registration desk, Their target? European passengers He's a Romanian. It's because he's Romanian Yes, and also The passenger palpated, The police understand quickly The Romanian traveler Especially since at the same time, another passenger shirt, this 34-year-old Spaniard But this time, In the lining of his jacket, Within seconds, investigators The reagent turns blue. It's cocaine. I got screwed, Were you stressed? A little. You are afraid ? No, I am not afraid. Now it's done. What quantities do you have? I have no idea. I did not even know Where were you going? To Madrid. What are you thinking at this moment? Nothing so far, nothing. I do not know, For the Spaniard, This is Juan Mendoza, present day and night at the airport, We have a positive case. The reagent was positive. It happens often ? Yes, it is frequent. It happens every day. They try to pack the dope to avoid For the police, Through mobile phone they hope What numbers do you have here? I have two, but there is one, he's just a guy This number has nothing to do with it. What number did they call I do not know. He must be there. They phoned me this morning. You came often It's the first time ? Yes, it's the first time What are you doing in Spain? Nothing, Are you unemployed? How much were you offered? 7000. 7000 euros? Where were you going to be paid? The low. Once Europeans arrested here the phenomenon They use people How was it detected? By his profile. Generally, as it is people we dress them. His shirt, That's what intrigued me. And the suitcase she is too small A few hours later, is transferred in the police station, placed in custody. In his cell, other Europeans. Where are you from ? I am English. Were you picked up at the airport? No, I just had I wasn't going to do anything else with it. Here, all who are arrested face a minimum sentence Lima, is about to become the new hub So far mainly the cocaine market Coca leaf plantations are sold In an attempt to stem the traffic, the Peruvian state Commando operations in the jungle to hit But also where smugglers compete in inventiveness by ingesting capsules, or handicrafts. I don't know anything, I just bought souvenirs. More and more Europeans and, for a few thousand euros, agree to transport the drugs. Peruvians call them Often, and they end up in jail. This is the case of Alain, He got caught at the airport Since then he had to learn the rules the prison Here you have a person, here you have a sleeping person. From the doorway, Among these new traffickers, who sometimes see their destiny without support, a dutch while she was pregnant Sentenced to an exemplary sentence, Here, this is my daughter. I felt so weak. I sat down, At this moment, Who are these Europeans to do drugs And at what price do they pay it today? Right in the center of Lima, the seat of the French Embassy Camille Poli is vice-consul. On the phone, All that, we'll talk about it You will explain to me again We will come. We will arrive. See you soon. The French detained in prison a new priority Newspapers, books, medicines, the vice consul Today, she goes to one Four French people are detained there. All got caught We go there as soon as we can. When there is a problem, we go there. And otherwise, on average, But I'm all alone so it's not obvious. We are in Callao, at the Sarita Colonia prison. Today is visiting day Which embassy? Wait a minute. It's always like that. Yesterday we called to check They had lost him. objects, you What do you have ? Tranquilizers. An inmate has a toothache. After the dig, it's in space that camilla In front of distinguished guests, It's red carpet today. Here are the French. Among them, Alain, from Aix-en-Provence. Won't you say hello to me? Are you pissing me off or what? Arrested at the airport in possession it's been two years Around Alain, Diego, all arrested for the same offense eight years in prison. But if you want to settle down, For everyone, it is hope What inmates want i.e. mattresses But they will be disappointed. The Embassy of Chile these are countries but they bring colchones to their prisoners, At the embassy, they have a budget soaps, deodorants. Give as the Spaniards do it's not always France does not give The help that Camille offers them Study with them the means or parole. End of the visit. Camille returns to the Embassy, but his vision is limited. She doesn't know A thousand leagues away detention of his compatriots. In the court, Planned for approximately 500 detainees, the Sarita Colonia prison, It's one Here there is practically no more than 60 nationalities Most inmates fell For two years, Alain The first of them here, So to win, prisoners Laundry a laundry set up Can you wash my towel? It's this one. She got Hello, We work every day Here, Here, it's the guys who And to pay for that they go Alain has no choice. Here we have to pay but also to eat. The only free meal here it is : It's the best cuisine in the world, Peruvian cuisine. To eat something else Look at the quality, Many detainees and sell their own dishes prepared thanks A meal for five soles, Five soles for a dish Only five soles. But five soles here, Meals, cigarettes, here, with its own business, Within the confines of the prison, Alain knows everyone. He knows who to contact. Give me two. He just bought some marijuana. The transaction took place a few meters away who prefers to look elsewhere. Right now, which obliges certain detainees Alain, he wants to share his joint It's really quiet, almost. Everything is happening here. Among them, Laurent, Obligatory, Still in place Marseille, Laurent was a steward, arrested with a kilo of cocaine he has been here for a year. I lost everything. I really had everything. I had a business here. I lost everything I didn't I was riding in New York It's better otherwise I would have and I wouldn't be there, In this prison, and what is forbidden Regularly, the guards What are they looking for? Cellphones ? Yes. However, there are many laptops To keep them, You have a phone ? We all have a phone here. It's forbidden ? It's forbidden, but here is Peru, Paradoxically, in the jail In this overcrowded penitentiary, is the number of beds Where do you sleep? I sleep there. There, I put a hammock here to here, From here to there, And your hammock, where is it? During the day, I leave it at the gym all mattresses. but all night Each square, From here to the bottom Most inmates In Sarita Colonia, have a cell Hello all French people. How much did you buy your cell? $5000, A bed costs 1400 dollars. Up to $1500 Oldest inmates redeem to those who can afford it. Wait, I'll pass Once or twice a week, it's by phone The opportunity too its sesame under better conditions. Hello Anne? Angelina told you if she sent me Christine is with you? Tell her if she can put me On the line, friends All his relatives who remained where he grew up. It is in this city what Annette, his mother, saw. For two years, Alain Then, how are you doing. You know we don't forget you and don't do We love you. Go on, and I'll tell you next time. I love you, goodbye Alain. What's the hardest To talk about Alain. Does he call you often? He does it as much as possible. It's very hard and to know Because we can't do anything. We cannot move. We can't help it. All we can do, It's Alain that I just had. Come, How is he doing ? How are you, Because he needs And he asks This mother of three so that his son can to a story Furthermore, I thought that 'Cause I'm told, We're the embassy of Peru. Where is Peru? And fortunately I was in the middle of They told me But where is Lima? It's in Peru. Mrs Mary, You give birth to children because they left and we find ourselves alone. 10,000 kilometers from Lima, that her son would be caught up in the war to drug trafficking. "Anti-narcotics" operations, We are in the center of Peru. Carlos is a police lieutenant. He is one of 450 men specialized Since the beginning of the year, 200 laboratories almost two tons Today, about fifty men, Such operations are carried out with US financial support. This year, Peru received aid to fight drugs. We take to limit the risks. What are the risks here? In the corner, it is a terrorist group. But also traffickers There, you see, All around, This plantation could shelter In Peru, provided that Basic elements coca leaf, which serves as a tonic. Hello grandmother, at the head of the plantation, like all the peasants in the area. There in front, How many plots do you have? You do not know ? Wait, Operation seems to be in order. It remains to inspect the house. On the inside, No trace of a laboratory. Just a breeding fed to Today, But in the neighboring town, since several weeks. According to their informants, Commander Montes There's a lot We must remain vigilant. Rapidly, The arrest must take place in the middle of the population. The progress of the police But then the two traffickers A chase begins. The police take advantage. Where are the packages? Where did you put them? I know nothing, Walkers In their bags, weapons Look, motherfucker. The reactive test is conclusive, it's cocaine. It's positive. There must be Four five, And that's not all. The police men Whose rifle is this? I do not know. You don't know anything, do you? No, I don't know anything. I'm just passing by. I want to stay free I have my wife and children. It's necessary I know nothing, For this Peruvian suspected of trafficking, the next destination, With more than two kilos, Where was this drug going? First in Lima. And then after, mainly in Europe. Successful operation Since the beginning of the year, nearly a thousand arrests Return to Lima airport. What do we have A direct flight to Amsterdam. In his fight against traffickers Juan Mendoza, does not lack resources. Lima airport from South America. Search, baggage, parcels, And there again the airport was to equip An ideal high-tech material to prevent ingestion of drug capsules But the traffickers To avoid checks they use They know that we could take This 21-year-old Spanish girl, eight and a half months pregnant, with five kilos of cocaine and of which a layer Few weeks later, the young lady We are in Chorrillos, behind its walls, is reserved for women. On the inside, We find there Patricia, the young Spaniard There, that's my son. And there is my sister. My son is also Spanish. How old are you ? 22 years old, What's the hardest for you? All, His father I still We had clothes good, If I had known, I would have come It's been 18 years In this women's prison, so there are detainees children, the age when they no longer have In all, to the extent that had to open a creche. Most were born here, no, actually They were all born here. They were born then I do not understand why who take such risks. As in any nursery, the children are divided Animators come to work hard to imagine The children spend the day here. In the evening, they join their mother reserved for them. Wendy also gave birth here, but she no longer lives This young Dutch girl was 19 years old Some months later, she gave birth to Johanna, At four months old, the little girl live with her grandmother. For three years, Wendy As a cell, one of many beds Do you often write to your mother? Sure, My daughter was born on August 15 and in December, It was hard Yes, I believe it was the day I am separated from my family, my mother took my daughter. I know that But it still got me because it is They took my baby away from me. Hold on, Looked, she is my daughter I told my mother and of course, she believed me. As if I were in Germany, I called from Peru But the day I called I was afraid to call her. It was he who told him and that I was pregnant. She did not know ? She didn't know. The father knew No, no one knew nor that I was in Peru, I really do not know I was a psychology student I do not know. I think it's madness. Here, look, my daughter sent me this Wendy was arrested and sentenced to 14 years in prison. A hope keeps her going. In a few days, his sentence could be reduced, 11 years in prison Come on, stop Over the past three years, Wendy has learned of this prison like no other, where the administration tries as much as possible In this building, I make myself a new face. I asked him to make me She wants a braid on that side. Same as last time? Hairdresser, We could believe ourselves Next to Wendy, come to sell their products. For her, prison, Here it is different, Every week, At the other end of the prison, a young woman is still Lucia is 31 years old, charged with drug trafficking. Lucia was arrested Filmed here by the cameras Arrested as she was getting ready In his luggage, the police Lucie intended to bring back from Peru several sachets But concealed In all, Two weeks after his arrest, It's hard. I got arrested in my suitcase, I assume. Lucia does not speak Acclimatization to detention To occupy him the prison provided him with what His threads and his pearls It's at her place, in Metz, He was offered 5,000 euros At the beginning, But once there, Now that I've seen from what i saw, They sent me For me, With four kilos of cocaine, Lucie will bail, like most Still in shock, she's struggling In the next yard, it's stretching class A teacher comes here This surreal atmosphere, it's the new daily In Peru, At the other end of Lima, in the prison The four French just learned Diego, 24, the youngest of the gang, Here, I have no visit, nothing. It's nice to know and that she will answer me. I am far from my family, it's hard to be alone here, to be without family, without anything. How do you imagine this girl? Like the Parisians, a very beautiful girl. Give their news for these French A loop-hole where tensions between prisoners A fight has just broken out. Our camera Why are they fighting? It's just two idiots, apparently Today, Alain decided of his cooking skills. For two hours, he has the right under the supervision of a guard. Are all knives allowed here? No, there is special permission It is considered Do you want to taste my dish? Are you going to taste it? What ? Are you going to taste my dish? Yes go ahead. Try talking to me in French. We're lucky here Like Goudard, On the menu : Olive oil ! A dish that Alain thanks to the parcel that the French And here, for homesickness to set in. The country, the smells The Mediterranean Sea, Do you miss France? Enormously. Family, learn from my mistakes. It's just missing And as expected, Come on, sit down. We are in a difficult situation, When you're playing with fire You must not cry. It's clear. You assume, and then that's it. There is much worse. As we say in Peru: "Cavallero". To assume their responsibilities. It's just missing Return Between the two establishments about thirty kilometers a mail system And this morning, Lucie received the letter It's written in it's common here that we write to each other And you know him? No I do not know him. But OK, with someone coming For Lucia, She made demands But no agreement exists His steps To prevent prisoners the prison multiplies the activities. In the auditorium, a dance troupe Among them, Wendy, The girls train to try to win the competition organized this year you are women A choreographer even Normally, we should rather I do not know, We have to feel it. For Luis, the choreographer, to restore the confidence of these girls. Try to bring out to interpret them, It is very serious. If you must laugh, laugh. If you have to cry, cry. Same if you have to be serious I want you to try to do as if you were For Wendy, dance, She is waiting If he fails, it's within his walls, that she will pass A week later, it is Peru's national holiday. For the occasion, within the premises of the establishment, and Lucie is part of the procession. Each workshop scrolls for the National Day. Wendy is not in the ranks, but for her, Are you not participating? No. Why ? Because there are other girls To the court, In few hours, To support Wendy one of his classmates We made a romantic setting. There are even flowers. It's for me ? Yes. But you are absolutely crazy. Yeah, crazy about you. Maria is Venezuelan. She and Wendy are a couple In the jail, At the slightest gesture of effusion the guards keep watch. The supervisor, But if they take you you go to the mitard. Because here, it is forbidden. How do you do then? In secret. In the court, prisoners all dressed up the colors of Peru. An unusual party atmosphere Away from the crowd, Wendy waits You see the lawyer, A few minutes later, Wendy is already done And it's to his mother, in the Netherlands, the result of his call. But the news I have just been confirmed How do you live it? Did you have any hope? Sure, But here it is over. For her, there is no more But the young woman does not crack, armored by his three years of detention. Other prisoners, however, and prepare for their release soon. In the men's prison, Alain's conditions, Alain has found who reports to him But above all he hopes conditional release. For this he needs And precisely here We are a few kilometers away an unfavorable neighborhood This is where Luz Maria lives. She's Alain's girlfriend. Hello my love ? Listen to me, I take you to eat? I can not hear you. What else ? Soup and what? For several years, the young woman is doing business In exchange for money, food It's like that It's been two years I knew him when to imprisoned foreigners. I have since stopped Here in Peru, foreigners, We treat them Today, in Sarita Colonia prison, Among them, wives, I am in love with you, Three times per week, But this morning The young woman helps Alain and hope for its release And Alain has plans for her I'm waiting for my wife The lady doesn't want to. You don't want to have a child Yes, I will have one. Nor in France, You think of leaving Not in France, but in Spain. She loves Italy. But she does not understand that Italy, Yes, I want to go to Italy with my son. In Spain, but life You would like ? As he works in the kitchens, He can have lunch with Luz But he has a little trouble qualities of French cuisine. He made me a meal who gave me diarrhea Supposedly a French meal. If he says that in Peru, why is he with a Peruvian? Thanks to Luz Maria, Alain and as he performed more it should soon get before leaving At the women's prison, to announce to Wendy's dance troupe, The girls, all thirteen, you are invited I am touched, it's been so long For Wendy, it's an unexpected gift if only for a few hours. And icing on the cake, to a Peruvian TV show. When I told my mother, I had tears in my eyes because my mother, When my daughter grows up that his mother was young Nope, I have makeup. Stars for a day at the hair salon, A few minutes later, it's handcuffed that the young women are getting ready Head to a TV studio Looked, On the spot, the police force The movement of prisoners are extremely rare. Look at this table, But it's a bit like home. In the lodges, a TV star in Peru, Thank you Lord, who today are Lord, you who transform Lord, May you bless us today, Are you nervous? For young prisoners, The parade tonight house inmates Live on Peruvian TV tonight, to the great joy In all, ten minutes of show Back in the van, direction as for these other inmates the evening will have been and forget the mistake and they will pay