Hey smart people, Joe here. Today I'm going to teach you how to read. Which obviously, but you probably have no But first I need to let you in on a secret: There's a trick being played on In fact it's right in front of Let's take a closer look at just a couple Here's just the C and T. These two or "size" in this typeface, so you'd But watch what happens when I lay them on top It's true for other letter pairs It's even true for other typefaces, like this one. Letters that look the same size And this... is on purpose. Because if they actually were the they wouldn't look the same size. Letters with rounded tops have to be slightly them to appear the same size. in just about everything you've ever read. Your letters are lying to wasn't there, words would look really weird. And that's because we don't read with a ruler. We read with our brain. And The reason all this happens is related to This line appears longer than this one. But This is one of the most famous And there's lots of different versions powerful illusions I've ever seen. Even it doesn't change the story your brain tells you. So what does this have to do with letters? Well, we can explain what's happening here if we turn the Muller-Lyer illusion on its side: This line, with its ends, The other line is more like an I or a T. Our brains decide round letters like O look so we have to make the O bigger So that's a really cool hundreds of times a day. And it shows us we recognize letters and words and turn In other words: Reading is really weird. Now, a good reader can recognize And once you learn how to do it, most of us It just happens. But while it feels automatic, there's Or under the skull really. You're just not consciously aware of any of it. When ya think about it it's actually I mean, our brains evolved, pretty much in their But writing is only a few thousand years old. And standardized movable type, that was only And then Gutenberg invented I mean think about this: As recently as the 1800s It's clearly not something that we evolved Luckily I happen to know a language expert, and So I asked her. Dr. Erica Brozovsky, sociolinguist and we delve into the amazing facets and the ability to read is How can a brain that evolved like a hundred at a skill that we only invented 5,000 years The answer may be that we've repurposed It's a theory neuroscientist Stanislas By studying the neural patterns of monkeys, their brains identify and make sense of the A corner here, an edge there, some intersecting &quot;alphabet&quot; of simple shapes that their brains What's interesting is these shapes are make up most human writing. Whenever one shape. Corners of objects And an O can be found in anything from a What these shapes have in common is that of toothpicks on the floor, very rarely would So if you see this pattern in real life... and our brains are especially Each pattern in this "shape and when certain combinations they trigger higher order neurons that help So this combination from our shape "cat". And so does this combination. and one is just a collection of lines on paper. Early alphabets that used such shapes allowed eventually replacing cumbersome pictographic As Dehaene says, &quot;...our cortex did writing evolved to fit the cortex.&quot; That... is amazing. So let's take a closer look at what's happening when your brain decodes all these shapes How do we read?! One thing that we know about reading is that your brain isn't sounding speaking them in your head. I mean, you might One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish That's not how it works. When you read, your brain is directly Now, words are made of letters. And we've already seen that we're really sensitive to the shapes combinations of So the big question to figure out is: When we recognize it by its shape? You can think of the question this way: When I see it's big, it's gray, ears, trunk, Or do I just see the whole thing To figure that big question flashed words or letters in front of And people more accurately recognized And later experiments in the 1960s flashed either then asked if they recognized And people recognized the right letter These were a pretty good hint that, to our whole words over just letters. And this is kind of strange when you think we make words by sounding out the letters or av-o-cah-do That's the "phonics" in "hooked on phonics" But the word superiority effect we don't actually process words like that. Now, at first scientists thought we Like if your brain sees this shape it descending characters, and the And this makes sense! We tend to where the letter shapes aren't as prominent. And (unless you're super emo) we are terrible But that word shape explanation turned you can't spell READING... without the eye. Because . . . eye . . . reading . . . never mind. Now, obviously your eyes move when you smoothly across lines of text. They jump These little movements are really fast. One jump takes 20 to 35 milliseconds. You don't even notice this jumping because to register in your brain. But why can't we see So here's the crazy thing about saccades: three times a second, and in between saccades, they're making little tiny jitters. But you can't see the whole world streaking by. Why not? Well it's because when your were actually seeing that it would look like So we don't experience that. Instead we It's a very deep reason actually. is your internal model of the outside Because it actually takes time for your So what happened to that time? Well it turns out your brain says okay i'm going to fill When your eyes land on the thing and so your brain Thanks David Eagleman! Your eyes stop then they jump forward 7 to 9 letters. And some types of words: like short words Your eyes just skip right over them altogether. Now, how much information we gather each time The fovea is the area in the center of your vision and where your vision is the sharpest. It at arm's length. Around that is The photoreceptors are less dense, and it can And beyond that is basically your peripheral just tell that there's something there, but Each time your eyes stop, gathering information from three different zones. In the center, your fovea clearly where your eyes stop. This is usually The second zone is in the but can get at least a hint at what the And beyond that is an even blurrier zone. No you are sensing how long the next word or two is. This gives you enough information to decide word is short and can be skipped, or whether it's While you are recognizing the word you another part of your eye is already reading All in all your eyes only stop on somehow you still read all of them. AND YOU HAVE NO IDEA YOU'RE DOING THIS. So we seem to recognize words not because of their Which maybe isn't that surprising, except we're seeing most of those We think the way we recognize When your eyes land on or near a word, say SOAP, you see ALL the letters, that is, you process You don't scan the letters as if your brain is looking You know, the first letter &quot;s&quot; the second Your brain simultaneously compares each letter position with those in Think of your mental dictionary as a pool in common gets a little jolt in your brain's The words with two letters in common get a Then the words with three letters Until finally, the strongest signal in the rises to the top, and that's the This happens over and over as your eyes taking in different kinds of information from ahead in your brain, activating countless neural And then you move your eyes, and do it again, evolutionary ability you have to recognize And the coolest part of all this is you won't even think about enjoy a good story. As long as the I's Stay curious. And as always, a huge thank you to You guys know how Patreon works. That is really what helps us make these videos, we couldn't do it without you. If you would down in the description where you can learn Hey guys, if you liked this video, then It's over on PBS Storied. You can click the show all about language and linguistics and the that we all take for granted when we're moving You know, who among us doesn't enjoy the turn of A bit of vocabulary sprinkled here and there?