Hi, i I'm Steve Balmer. I spent 34 years Clippers basketball team. I love computers, data, understand what our government is up to and what's and data, all from our government, you make up immigration. But first, a quick disclaimer. but the data you see on screen will be more exact. swirl of activity on this issue that things mid June. I can't predict the future, but I'll have an immigrant story. My maternal grandparents father came from Switzerland. What we're focused and what the data says about how many immigrants into three groups. First, authorized immigrants, includes people allowed here on a temporary basis While visas are also given to tens of millions of like vacation, I'm going to focus on those who States. Category two is authorized immigrants citizenship. This includes those sponsored by have been granted asylum or refugee status. This is a government term that is a bit misleading it included those who are here in violation of our according to laws as they have existed since 1980, to the United States due to humanitarian crises, are others in this unauthorized category that are on this later. Okay, now that we have identified one. In 2022, the federal government awarded just have a path to citizenship-- but do allow people to include everything from temporary agricultural at Microsoft, reserved for those who must have took up another 700,000 visas. People coming here those living here on an authorized basis with recipients of about 500,000 immigrant visas, a citizen who lives here. Some of these visas also are adopted, or who are among the 50,000 people held to diversify America's immigrant pool. Once they are transferred to Green Card status. immigrants who received green cards who are &quot;adjustment of status&quot;. A green card is kind an immigrant, it allows you to stay in the US and it does provide a path to citizenship. and about 26,000 of them came to the United who are already in the United States, were granted green card. In 2022, about a million people became authorized immigration, based on the 2022 data. 2 and 500,000 people arrived with a path, add to 2.6 million new authorized residents. is an unauthorized immigrant? Some examples: or snuck into the country but then later asked for border and asked for asylum, people who have come people who have overstayed their temporary visas. the total unauthorized population living in the is around 11 million people. In 2010 that estimate Customs and Border Protection officials intercept or when they apprehend someone who snuck in a &quot;border encounter&quot;. There were 3.2 million 25 million--or 77%-- were at the Southwest border. 189,000 people through the northern border with borders. Right now we're going to focus on the big Southwest border. What exactly happens to encounter is called inadmissible, and these can United States. These encounters occurred 430,000 type of encounter occurs between ports of entry two million of them at the Southwest border if a person deemed inadmissible at a border asks for asylum, immigration law requires we United Nations protocol relating to the status of of the 22 million encounters at the Southwest million are permitted to enter the United States Immigration Court, or they are admitted into people will remain in the country--potentially of the individuals encountered at the Southwest This includes expulsions under Title 42. Title encountered the border were expelled as quickly during COVID-19. There were 200,000 expulsions in and 600,000 expulsions in the first half of 2023, emergency and Title 42. 311,000 migrants were and Customs Enforcement, or ICE as it's known, been detained or released. ICE--on average-- has 118,000 migrants were unaccompanied minors, who Human Services for care and custody determination. unauthorized immigrants that crossed the Southwest Department of Homeland Security estimates that the Southwest border, without being intercepted by check on unauthorized immigration. 2.5 million Southwest border in 2023, of these encounters 1.3 430,000 more people were transferred to ICE or repatriated or expelled, plus an estimated 600,000 million new unauthorized immigrants came over the how many unauthorized immigrants may have left numbers at the Southwest border ranged between reaching nearly a million in 2019, after a dip at the border went up to 1.7 million in 2021, we discussed in 2023. Now I'm going to admit to have been flat for a number of years at 11 million country has increased. But our government needs understand that. Since many of the unauthorized looking at the asylum system. Looking at asylum waiting for a court hearing, these migrants can after their asylum application has been in this means many unauthorized immigrants have court there was a backlog of 2.5 million immigration down decisions on 222,000 asylum cases--granting there are a few other groups who are part of the hear a lot in the news about Deferred Action for which 545,000 people are living here in the United temporary protected status, or TPS. Unauthorized deportation, if the state department deems their 864,000 immigrants were in the United States visas. DHS--Homeland Security-- estimated 850,000 However, there's no data on how long these people authorized and unauthorized immigration, in the has 335 million people, about 46 million of whom third year in a row where immigration has been the million people in total. Out of that, 1.1 million more people being born than dying, a consequence almost one in five workers-- is foreign-born. want to come to America, it's been that way for is our system working? What level of immigration The more we know, the better voters we can be.