Nicotine is, you know, the driver of use it's so addictive. It activates the Just like when you get a Like on a from your best friend, like that little burst. Nicotine does the same we're seeing is with the extremely high generation there's a lot of activation Such that people are not actually found that kids are becoming soccer or play with a puppy but that that high level of nicotine is. So, that's research is really focusing in on now. are changes across the body, that they cause. So, we've talked about that So, the e-cigarette, the battery heats up a coil has no water in it which is a common It's actually propyline glycol which is then nicotine, are the three big chemicals studying and they get heated by this create a particulate cloud which is an So, e-cigarette vapor is the common mice to these aerosols for days, weeks, answers of what use of these e-cigarettes long run. So, going back to what John said causes stroke, heart disease, lung disease the skin, DNA, and so we're really just will do as well and I've been shocked to months we can find changes in every part concept of them being safer because they like a shorter list of known be pan out to be that much safer than different. They're going to cause decision making, where is the US products does it align with what's going Well, for e-cigarettes England only allows 20mgs in something like that. So, you know that's allowed in it. And Australia e-cigarettes at all. I told them to go and because everyone's using them. said you can't trust the industry. And so sort of nicotine use behavior that was knew about the hazards. When people were And they can use these and and enjoy in ways that people So they can pop them back in and so they And it's been difficult for used. Yeah, wow, and I think we'd be nicotine concentration limits to the yeah some of the smaller ecigarettes cigarettes worth of nicotine but one called The Flum, The Flum Float. And it cigarettes. And I recruit human them and asking about how many they're per week so they're using 13 packs of packs per day smoker so it's really devices because they can just use them your research about the effects of the Our most recent study found for a month which is the equivalent of that had inhaled these aerosols for a couple decades, and as John can give us an idea of what's going to inflammation in the brain especially in where your mood is controlled. And so e-cigarettes to cause changes in behavior So that's the main brain tracts, so the colon in particular, we of the GI tract. And what this looks which you know many people are affected driver, e-cigarette use. And another tract, when the wall is not really well such as the bacteria that were colonized cross over into the blood stream and One of the key protective measures intervening on this type of advertising. bit about how social media comes into real facilitator to us, rethinking Absolutely, you know the in terms of placing advertisements near make them sexy, make them cool. And so if advertisements you know from 2010 to They had young people, like, partying. So they had those they were allowed to put them in magazines other places but young people you know they don't look at at the TV they're on Instagram, Tik Tok, Facebook. And the e-cigarette companies they'd get people who have a huge number cool e-cigarettes were how they were to model them yes to model them but industries after the Juul campaign came amount in their budget to media wow because they know it works and to 30 really, and this is the best and the people that they admire so it's we've been glad that advertising in more little bit harder to control the So, let's talk a little bit more about why know there's harm also with tobacco and important in this moment in history to of these other Well, I mean, the history of of nicotine Because it's so hard to quit. say the California Hotel: everyone checks it's so hard to get people to quit so it initiation. And so initiation occurs only shouldn't say only, user has used by the time they 24, with the age of 18. And that hasn't changed. So I was saying what's happened in high schools on smoking it went from 30% So, the industry is going to be when we had when they got it right and and the the high nicotine e-cigarettes in of the young people. That's why, we're the industries way to keep people that the public doesn't know that much and depression. So, a lot of people reach it calms them down and it treats their long run it actually drives anxiety and we're really worried about on the those same pathways. So, when you ask like e-cigarettes is because you know it is a We believe that these people that inhaling this cloud of chemicals to drive a multitude of disease. And so, nicotine does look like it is a to cancer. And inhaling it might have it through other routes. And so a lot of And so far on the e-cigarette side when cancer models, the e-cigarette inhalation tumorogenesis, so cancer development, and lot of people you know believe it to be that the cancer being driven by regular same degree, there is a lot of concern e-cigarettes are going to drive it anyway You know nicotine is not most effective horticultural And it's marked that way. And yet we we're putting it at very high kids are using. I mean, it's