. Catastrophic! We have a completely broken, neglected, dirty apartment here. There is no other way to describe it. No lights work, no lamps. There are no beds, only mattresses on the floor. And we have several children, not clothed, that we are taking with us now. Minutes earlier, the police and a team from the youth welfare office had entered the house on the outskirts of Berlin. Occasion: the announcement of a relative. A family with 6 children is said to live in a completely neglected apartment, a total of 9 people and a dog. In addition, a subtenant, a sex offender known to the police, is said to have abused the 14-year-old daughter of the tenants. *dog barks* Can you lock the dog up? The crisis team of the Marzahn-Hellersdorf youth welfare office is now facing serious decisions. As official child protectors , in extreme cases they have to separate parents and children and take the children between the ages of 3 months and 14 into state care. The children are unclean, dirty, unclothed, thin, pale. This is an acute danger to the life and limb of the children. They can't stay here a day longer. They must be given a clean, safe environment. The mother needs support, she is overwhelmed and at the end. Consequence of pandemic and lockdown? Grandmother's attempts at explanation: She needs a lot of help from the youth welfare office, which she has recently been denied because there are no people. And all she can do is ask for help. She saw for herself that it was no longer possible. And thanks to Corona, I don't want to blame everything on Corona, but that's why it got so bad. All 6 children are, as the official German says, &quot;taken into care&quot;. Mother and children are in despair. How long they will remain apart is uncertain. Mommy loves you. The crisis workers at the youth welfare office have to intervene, also because the clerks in many authorities are hardly available during the pandemic, not even the youth welfare officer who has been responsible for years in this case. (desperate) You could only reach her by email, not by phone. She didn't even reply to some emails. (crying) Last time, when I texted her , she didn't reply either . I asked for help! And if I don't get help, something like this happens. (cries) Intermediate station for the children: the playroom in the youth welfare office. Instead of their parents, strangers decide how things will continue with them in the future. It's a shock for everyone, no question. But I want all the kids to settle down first, settle into the facilities, I'll tell her sister that her decision to report this to the police was the right one. Consolation and explanations for the aunt who temporarily stayed with the 14-year-old. The police and youth welfare office have now confirmed the suspicion that she was abused . We observed that this man, he was a bit older, much older than the children's parents, was lying there on this bunk, on this bed with some children around him, a child in his arms. Some of the children were also only half or lightly dressed and he was cuddling and stroking one child. The girl, I found, he touched very &quot;familiarly&quot; in the chest area. He petted her there and didn't seem at all impressed by the police and our appearance. He carried on like that was okay. While the 14-year-old is staying with her trusted aunt, the crisis workers are looking for a place to stay for the siblings, but that is difficult. Even in the large capital region there are not enough places for child protection. We definitely want to try to get you to stay with your big brother. There are great rooms, nice beds, lots of toys. Who drives us? I might have a look. Even being separated from your parents is stressful. Now tearing the siblings apart might scare her even more. (boy) My little brother needs to be put to sleep. They're all good at that, you can believe that. Despite all the efforts of the crisis workers: this time it only remains to accommodate the children far apart, in three different districts. Sometimes you feel like you have to beg for it because there are so few places in the facilities. I believe that although we live in such a large and rich country, in the system in which we work, where children, education and help for families are concerned, we have major deficits and gaps, a lot is going on Financial looked. Trying to save a lot. It starts with the staff everywhere, not just in the youth welfare offices or other offices, but also in the landscape of independent providers, in the daycare centers, schools, there is a shortage of staff everywhere. Sometimes I have the feeling that all the social issues surrounding the children are not seen as important. The fact that the crisis team has a company car for transport to the facilities is thanks to private donations. The temporary separation: maybe a chance for children and parents? Months will pass. Another day: another tip from the police, this time after a domestic violence call. Sandra Jeuthe and Lisa Brettin from the crisis team are on their way to a mother of 8 children. 7 children have been taken away from her over the years. The woman has recently been living in Marzahn-Hellersdorf. Here, the supervisors only know them from the files of other youth welfare offices in Berlin. 8 children have different fathers and were always, little by little, housed in the course of the first years of life as an inpatient. In Reinickendorf's documentation , the word &quot;Munchhausen syndrome&quot; was also mentioned. &quot;Proxy Munchausen Syndrome&quot;, referring to the mother. So intentionally making children sick to get attention themselves. If such a syndrome exists or if we perceive indications today, then the child could in any case be in acute danger of life and limb. Marzahn-Hellersdorf district office, would you please let us in? As a matter of routine, the first thing to do is look in the mailbox. A lot of unread mail is sometimes an important clue to everyday overload or neglect. * Knock * But instead of the feared Messi apartment , there is a surprise: almost meticulously cleaned rooms. And contrary to the files that have been updated for years: An apparently well-fed, sheltered 1-year-old. i'm just nervous You don't need that. Yes, I'm nervous about the youth welfare office. But you don't have to expect anything bad from us. Is this woman really a danger to her child? Or is it rather the life partner from whom she wants to separate? He really kicked the little one. With full force he kicked him there. He flew backwards onto the back of his head, diagonally into the corner. I immediately went to him, he of course screamed to the max. He was yelling stuff in the hallway: &quot;I'm crazy, I'm psychotic.&quot; The ex-partner denies any violence. Nevertheless, the police expelled him from the apartment. Which version to believe now? So far, Natasha has not really been heard in any office. I'm telling too much again. No, everything is OK. I'm always accused of that. We've only known each other for two minutes. Take a deep breath. So, back again. Where I gave birth, they also claim that I have Munchausen, somatization disorders, etc. The crisis team is primarily concerned with the well-being of the child of a woman who, according to the documents, is said to be a bad mother. The little one follows her every step of the way and is supplied with toys. Sandra Jeuthe and Lisa Brettin see, at least on this day, no indication that the young woman could be dangerous for her child. That's all mine, all he likes to eat. I have more from &quot;Alnatura&quot;. He gets that at night, with the oats. This here, this here. Basil. Something with a banana. Understood. Yes, there is enough. I can cook. I log what I've cooked so people don't say I only cook once a month. That's also an accusation. Okay, that's enough for us for now. (Reporter) Why were 7 children taken away from you? I still don't know for sure. But the youth welfare office says you can't talk to me. It is said that I would torpedo everything. It is said that I only have the children to sexually assault them, and then my children are gone. And then I'm limited, of course I'm traumatized, of course I'm in deficit, then I react differently. I seem different then, I seem crazy then. Then I'm in the &quot;crazy&quot; column. When children get away, it's self-dynamic, it just happens by itself. I don't get a chance to prove that I can do it anymore. With an unbiased view, the crisis workers do not see any acute danger for the child on this day. Later, however, we find out: the young mother first loses the apartment, then her eighth child as a homeless person. The daily morning round of the crisis intervention team. One of more than 2,000 emergency reports a year in Marzahn-Hellersdorf alone: A new ad with photos from a neglected apartment, made by a concerned family friend. Three children, 9, 11 and 13 years old, live here. That would be great if someone asked where the children go to school so that we can then drive to the schools. Exactly, that at the same time we are already looking for facilities where we can accommodate the children. Ideally, there are also family resources, grandparents... You can definitely check that out too. Derelict homes: an ever-growing problem. We have the impression that families are psychologically much more stressed. Depression, that's something you've noticed in recent years: It's steadily increasing, both in children and adolescents as well as in parents. Mentally ill parents, that has increased. Of course, the pandemic has exacerbated that. In any case, Corona has reduced the inequality of opportunity for children who come from families with little education, who come from poor families, for these children. Everything that society, i.e. school, daycare, could compensate for, that wasn't there. While a team is looking after the children at school, Anja Schauer and Sandra Jeuthe make their way to the family's apartment. An unannounced visit to get an unadulterated impression. The family has actually been looked after by the youth welfare office for years, but contact broke off during the pandemic. Now the crisis team has to go. We would like to speak to you. (woman) Why? We got a message. First official request: smoke less in the apartment. It really smells like smoke. This is not healthy for the children. Full ashtrays, the smell extends into the children's room. The mother was completely overwhelmed by lockdown and homeschooling, she explains, she wanted to ask the office for help, but couldn't get anyone there. (Reporter) Why did you cry about Corona? Because that's why the ceiling falls on my head. I don't know anymore which is front and which is back. There are 3 children and they are exhausting. The big one wants something, then the boy wants something, then the little one, then he wants something ... yes. Can this be a way to get help, also for the children? I've had it for years now, this &quot;help&quot;. None of the supervisors I had at the end ever came. All the children are doing well, reports the colleagues from the school. Nevertheless, the youth welfare office now wants to initiate &quot;household organization training&quot;. The specialist who comes is not a cleaning lady, but does it together with you. So you really also look: where can you get structure? Especially in the children's rooms. You should be a role model for your children. Then I hope that we were able to make it clear to you that we do not want to take your children with us. So don't worry, you just have to be ready for something to change here, okay? Then we're off again. We hear from each other. Yes. Understood. Do you have another question? no * Sobs * The crisis team sees no acute danger for the children here either. The mother will keep her, but she has to make an effort. If lockdown comes again, what does that mean for you? The same as before. Then I'll collapse, and then everything will start all over again. So you don't have the strength to endure this? What do you expect from politicians and authorities, for example? That they send support to socially disadvantaged families, and not that we have to do everything on our own. The ladies from the youth welfare office have come to help. I have a feeling you're scared anyway. That they take my children away from me. I grew up in the home myself, I know what it's like. So your fear is greater than your hope for help? Yes. Despair, although the children stay with her. * quiet crying * The crisis workers are also depressed because their own authority had apparently lost sight of parents and children. In my opinion, the pandemic is making what is already difficult in the system, in the social system, even more difficult, in my opinion, so that those who have already been hit hard are hit even harder. In principle, we are the ones who are on the road as fire brigades and check whether a child is at risk here. The personnel situation was already dramatically bad before, and now even more so in the context of the pandemic. So in principle we are the ones who are supposed to put out the fire, but with little hose and little water. Before there was almost no hose, now also little water. For example, there were six of us in the emergency vehicle before, now there are only two. For many years there have been protests against understaffing and overloading in the youth welfare offices. Because of the meager pay for social workers compared to their training , many positions are vacant there. At that time we also met Anja Schauer, who dared to make a public call for help on rbb television in 2019 because, as she says, state child protection was no longer guaranteed. You can't agree with yourself. You go home in the evening and think: &quot;Was it right that I first drove to the 6-month-old baby in the garbage-covered apartment today? Or should I have gone to the 6-year-old who might be abused every day?&quot; Because the protest changes little, Schauer throws 2019 down. As a speaker in a trade association, she hopes to be able to achieve more. A mistake, as it turns out. After a few months , she returns to the colleagues of the crisis team. I quickly noticed, also in the areas in which I was supposed to work and in the groups I sat in, that I could no longer look in the mirror because it was about cost centers, calculations and practical constraints. So completely away from the people, from the fates. In fact, it was only a question of financing and wording. I think I'm done with being able to change something politically or professionally. I tend to think I'll do it on a small scale here. That was the reason why I came back, because I think to myself, every child or every family that I can help, that can organize the help that is necessary in individual cases: That's a win, I can't do more. Now Anja Schauer is on the road again. A &quot;check home visit&quot; to the mother in the smoky apartment. We hope that the mother has had enough energy to clean up in one week. The aim is that we can avoid out-of-home accommodation. That's what we &quot;want&quot; as the very last thing. Children should grow up with their parents, but grow up well. No full ashtrays this time. The soiled carpet: cleared away. The life partner even shows the crisis workers new furniture. A friend gave it to us. Nice. Completely? Yes, complete, her mom came, a mate came. Then another buddy came. Then they helped. Okay, how did the situation get so... Corona. Honest? I was in the hospital then too. Then came the school closures. Then the subject of &quot;work&quot; was done again. They took care of the children. Nothing else remained. (laughs) Then the endurance test in the kitchen. Oh god, the stove. (Friend) I'll clean that up in a minute. (laughs) I forgot to clean it up quickly. Yes, better than last time. Good. Then to the children's rooms. Cuckoo, can we take a quick look? *sound of protest* No? Only a moment. Did you tidy up the room? (child) Yes. (Mother) With Grandma. (Reporter) When you're not working , don't you have time to clean up and take care of the kids? Yes, but if you always have to do the same thing, you don't feel like it. Constantly just sitting around at home, chatting, you don't do anything else anymore. You're really just at home. You see the same thing, you do the same thing. Always the same, day in, day out, 24/7 a day. Probably the losers, even before the pandemic and now even more so: children whose parents set little examples, also because they didn't learn it any other way themselves. The long-term consequences of this pandemic period are not foreseeable. They will continue for years and decades. (Reporter) What are we risking as a society as a whole? (sighs) That the gap between families that are doing well and families that are doing very badly is getting wider and wider. In good German you then have more people who say at the job center: &quot;I couldn't do anything.&quot; How are they supposed to do it? The possibility is very limited. A longer period of probation is pending where the youth welfare office took all 6 children from the neglected apartment . Control visit two weeks later. First impression: The parents want to change their lives. They even started renovating. Still mixed feelings. Proud that we've come this far. But also afraid because of the children. Because they are not there, we worry anyway. I try to call every day, to ask when we weren't there, etc. It still hurts a lot. But the success we're already seeing, how far we've come, makes us all proud. You put everything away here. Exactly, first of all. It all comes out and away. We have to have a place where we can put it first. The living room, does that come last? Or have you already worked here? We worked here, we made the corners. The material chaos has to be managed. Will it also succeed in the case of the psychological damage caused to the daughter who was abused by the subtenant? Tell me, we're no longer in contact with the gentleman... ... Ever since the day my mom can tell you we threw him out. The LKA will invite you to testify. You must also agree with the facility who will go with you to the appointment. I'd love to beat him... until he's nappy. No idea I do not know. It's just hate when it comes to that. (Reporter) Why didn't you notice? It always happened when we weren't around or sleeping. That's why we didn't get it. Unfortunately it is now. I hope we make the best of the fact that she can be helped, that the Lord is condemned. The fact that she can finish it, she will always have something to do with it, but that she finishes it if possible. Well, you can actually see a development. It's nice that you see it that way. But we'll be back. Sure, of course. Keep it going. We do that. It can take months to determine if and when parents will be allowed to take their children back in their homes. The families may also lack recognition and appreciation in everyday life. If they find out about it from the youth welfare office when they make small advances, that leads to motivation, to much more change, which can also be sustainable. Schools and day-care centers are a kind of early warning system for endangering children's welfare , which is why there are regular network meetings between the youth welfare office and teachers and school social workers , like here in a school auditorium . Nationwide, 152 children died violently in 2020. Again, this is a number that is extreme and really worrying: there was a 53% increase in the dissemination, possession and fabrication of child sexual abuse. In order to recognize neglect, violence and abuse, schools and day care centers must also understand the smallest clues. The boy is afraid that his parents will separate. These are all relevant social factors. Stealing and giving back, not just stealing per se, but also teasing to be in the conversation somewhere. You don't have to be able to answer everything. Okay thanks. Even before Corona, the child protection officer warned of the consequences of the lack of staff in youth welfare offices. Now not only the number of emergencies is increasing dramatically. I think the cases are getting more intense. It is clear that we cannot adequately fulfill the social task that the youth welfare office has with the existing staff that we have, with many vacancies, that becomes apparent when we have to work according to a list of priorities, that means: we cannot fulfill everything that we are required to do by law. Understaffed, at the same time bears considerable responsibility. Another night: The team took care of three terrified siblings in a youth center after abuse by drug-addicted parents. Anja Schauer must now inform the parents. She is depressed because she organized help for them years ago. Is that why you are so upset? I think so. To see how things went now, that nothing really happened, that the problems that the children suffered over the years remained, of course it's hard to see. How can you not be such a professional? no no no And now? The burden is sometimes difficult to shoulder, even for professionals. Because the parents are probably on drugs, police protection is necessary. Extreme situations in families affected by violence and addiction can quickly escalate. The light is on in the apartment, but no one opens the door. Police, open the door! * loud knocking * afraid that the parents might have done something to each other. So the police open the door. Anja Schauer gets weak knees, she says. I have jelly knees. It's awfully straight. heart palpitations, i'm sick. The police opened the door. Something is there. We don't know how... There was a light in the hallway, it's a string of lights. They are in, we don't know if the children's parents are in. But then the all-clear: nobody there, nobody has done anything to themselves. The news that the children are in state care ends up in the mailbox. This family drama will also be continued, like other dramas on the fringes of society and with helpers at the limits of their possibilities. Subtitle: rbb 2022 Petra Winkler