Imagine every picture you took over the past year, from a ballpoint pen. Well, this is approximately drive, and in this video, we're going to open one able to fit within the surface of this metal disk. detailing the components inside. After that, we'll the read and write head, and in the process, we'll of the metal disk. Finally, we'll explore some of data to fit within every square inch of the on them later, but for now let's jump right in. components. Here's the disk or platter that storage capacity of the drive, might be multiple magnesium alloy with multiple coatings of other this 120-nanometer thin layer of a cobalt chromium regions whose direction can be manipulated via on a spindle which spins at a speed of 7200 Next, there's a head stack assembly, with and with a slider and a read/write head at the such that it catches the airflow generated by air flow to float or fly the read/write head so away from the surface of the disk. For reference, Because the arm assembly flies on top of the surface when it's at full speed, and when parked to the side on a small piece of plastic. of wire and two strong neodymium magnets above assembly. When electric current is run through is influenced by the neodymium magnets, thus across the disk. When a reverse current is sent opposite direction, thereby enabling control of 30 or so nanometers. Additionally, the magnets and the lightweight arm stack assembly and read/write across the platter up to 20 times a second In order to connect to the read/write head, a side of the arm and down to this connector which enclosure and to the printed circuit board or PCB. a DRAM chip, which is used as a scratchpad for outgoing data. Additionally mounted on the PCB brushless DC spindle motor, and then on the edge the motherboard for communications and a separate Additional important components are the gasket and two filters that catch any stray dust the read/write heads are just 15 nanometers away can be up to 10,000 nanometers large and could the 7,200-rpm disk. Now that we've looked through To begin, the disk is divided into concentric have more than 500,000 tracks on just one side. in each sector is a preamble or synchronization speed of the spinning disk and the length of each address which helps the read/write head know which After that we have the actual data that's stored, an area for an error correcting code, or ECC, the block is accurately written and properly read, the next which allows the read/write head some Now let's zoom in on the read/write head written and read. Writing data to the disk magnetization of a localized region or domain disk and forcing the region to be magnetized This tiny magnetic domain or region is around 90 all the atoms will have their even tinier magnetic In order to magnetize a single domain, which a current is applied to a coil of wire at strong magnetic field back here. The magnetic focused into a small point at the tip and then the disk. When the focused magnetic field passes all these atoms are forced to align with the applied magnetic field from the or region into a permanent magnet. The key is the direction of the magnetic domains in this and they emit a permanent magnetic field which can you read out the data stored in this sector. That rewrite a new bit of data to the domain by either Let's explore how we read data from the disk. Thus binary 1 and pointing down as a 0. While this case. Rather the read head is designed to detect pointing in one direction and then the adjacent is because emitted magnetic fields from adjacent much stronger than the emitted field from just a Therefore, each change in magnetic domain direction is assigned a 1, and an absence is assigned a 0. Therefore, the write head would Or a sequence of 1101 1110 like this, where the So then, what's inside the read head that is a multilayer conductive material composed non-magnetic materials. This multilayer material GMR, and, put simply, it's a material that strength of magnetic fields that pass through it. measuring the resistivity, and when there's a low fields below the read head resulting from a change there's high resistivity and no change it's a 0. of dozens of non-changing domains can result in each sector the preamble is simply a to set the size of each domain, and then the sector is used to ensure no data is lost. in hard disk drive technology that improve the can fit within a given area. In this graph, by over 50 million times throughout the past 60 the cost to store trillions of bits of data has if we were to time travel this hard drive 4 billion dollars, and now in 2022 it costs more reliable than the disk drives from the 60s! inexpensive, and yet incredibly reliable printed you're prototyping your next project, or ready to PCBWay can quickly manufacture your PCBs with Additionally, if you don't want to spend weeks PCBWay provides PCB assembly services where the PCB for you. They'll send pictures throughout with PCBWay's engineers to provide programming a project and want to save both time and and populate all your Printed Circuit Boards. and supporting engineering education. Check out Let's now return to hard drives and see to store terabytes of data. First, around 2010 the horizontal to vertical, and with it the write and This change in orientation is due to the fact it becomes more easily affected by temperature. the domains or magnetic regions can utilize the the area on the disk that each domain takes up. is called Shingled Magnetic Recording or SMR, 2020. Before shingled magnetic recording, Classic Magnetic Recording or CMR, where the guard bands on either side of the track. the tracks are written to partially overlap with separate each track. Thus, we can fit many more Note that the read head is much smaller than the can be reliably read at a time. The issue and the upper track of shingled data is still to read and store that valid data in the DRAM new data and the upper track of valid data. And, write steps can result in a loss of performance. is heat assisted magnetic recording or HAMR which this technology utilizes a small, focused laser to By heating the domain, the magnetic region can in a particular direction. This is necessary electromagnetic field are incredibly small coerced using focused heat, we can continue That's pretty much it for how Hard disks work. Membership Sponsors for helping to make this 3D animations that dive deep into the technology video by clicking one of these cards or click