Prior to my NDE [Near-Death Experience], I was very focused on work and career. I was happy, I would say. But looking back now, It was still lonely My NDE was on August 22nd, 2009. I was 34 years old. I woke up with a tremendous amount I was burning up and we didn't know A family member took me to the hospital and trying to figure out I remember when I was in for my CT scan. They were trying to adjust my I.V.. I could feel myself detaching. I could feel myself coming out. I would drift out almost the way you see a balloon But that pain kept pulling me back in. After my CT scan, in the emergency room where we were And that's when I really started dying, at that point. I started convulsing and I could feel The pressure in my head The pain was excruciating. My fever was high, so I was burning up. But I was also freezing I remember convulsing and I had the thought of, I don't know I don't think It was at that moment from everything that was external The people that were around me, the machines that I was hooked up to at that point - I lost the knowing that it was even there some of the pain, And I started doing an internal It felt like I was watching a movie. I could see the blood pumping. I could see my cells. I could see my internal organs. And it felt very factual. I didn't really have any emotion Then I had that awareness of This is what it feels like. At that moment The next thing I knew, looking down at myself And I could see that there was no life I knew that that was me, but I didn't see me there anymore. My soul was no longer that I saw on the hospital gurney. It was very real. I knew that it was happening and I knew Everyone and everything was very clear and in focus. But it did feel like I was a little bit As I was taking all of that in, I started to very gently, very slowly start floating up and backwards. Everything that I was looking at I felt that I was looking down and I saw these little balls of energy Those were souls that I was seeing, and they were all connected by this very thin, iridescent line, the way that a spider web looks, if you That's what it looks like, which I now realize is oneness And I remember the way that these souls were buzzing around, because I thought, I didn't understand And as I continued to float backwards, It was happening very quickly now, where I felt like I was in this void or in outer space. It didn't feel scary, but it was black. Then I immediately felt myself It was very black, I wasn't scared at all. I was moving very fast. It was exciting and it felt exhilarating. The tunnel ride was very quick and I popped right out of the tunnel and I was immediately in the white light. The light was so bright and beautiful and powerful to adjust and understand As soon as I started to settle into it I understood that it was heaven. I started to feel the light more and feel the energy of what that was. I immediately felt this overwhelming sense of unconditional love. Love like I have never felt before, no matter what I had been through in my life, It was just complete love for me. I was bathing in it. It was wrapped around me appreciated and accepted. The next thing I felt that everything was okay That all is well. I was getting a healing. I started to notice all the areas in my soul where there were wounds All of those areas and they were getting filled in with love. I was being replenished, and it was the best feeling. It just made me feel like This is who I'm supposed to be. This is what my soul is all about. As that was happening, this white light that was all around me, that was taking such loving care of me - that I am that white light. I'm not separate from it. I just had the illusion So while I was a part of it, I really sensed that separation I knew that I was dead. I knew that my physical body was no longer working And I was fine with it. It didn't scare me. It just felt like It almost started feeling like my life was becoming a distant memory. It felt so much like home that there was no other place There's no place that feels as good as that light feels. At that point, I wasn't thinking a lot I wonder if I had stayed longer, if that would have come into play. At the time of my NDE [Near-Death Experience], I wonder a lot to have a child that I had left behind. There's just a sense Everything's happening the way that it's and we're all taken care of, and that it's all perfect Even when I say that now, now that I'm back in a body when I say, "I knew all was well," there's still that part of me It doesn't make sense to me But when we're out of our bodies, you have a 360 degree perspective. You're not limited by your body. You're not limited by your brain. You're not limited by your ego And when you do have that broad feeling that "all is well" makes sense. You understand that everything Everything is happening And there's a lot of peace That need to control completely disappears. You just allow everything After I was bathing and really soaking that up I did start to notice what I think were other souls coming in around me. It felt like a crowd coming toward me. It felt like a friendly crowd. I wasn't scared or intimidated, to understand exactly what that was. Because at that moment say to me, You need to go back. And that's not what I wanted to hear. No, no, no. I don't want to go. Please don't make me go back Then I heard the voice again. I get emotional about it even now. I heard the voice again. It said, You need to go back. It was loving, but it was a firm voice letting me know It was time to go back. I persisted with the protesting. I said, No, please don't make me go back. And right at that moment, I felt almost like I was nudged I went backwards very quickly back into my body. I entered my body It felt like I was being sucked I felt the pain returning. But it was very quick. It was just enough for me to know I'm back in, I'm back in this world. Then I don't remember anything When I woke up in pre-op [before surgery], this was on a weekend I think it was at about nine or 10 p.m.. That part of the hospital was very empty. I knew that I had died. I knew that I had gone into this beautiful white light that loved me. But when I opened my eyes and I thought, This is odd. It didn't make sense to me, what was going on around me. I was trying to figure out because it was almost like of what these machines were But I wasn't able to communicate But as I was receiving last rites, I had all these people around me. The way people look at you I've never been looked at Family members and my doctor, my surgeon, I remember especially the look I've never seen that before and I remember I wanted to say, If I was supposed to die I would've been dead before, I wouldn't have been sent back. But I wasn't able to communicate The next morning, when I woke up my fever had been 106 [41degC], which is very dangerous. The doctor explained to me that had become lodged in my ureter So everything... all of the toxins were going back into my bloodstream. My entire blood supply had become infected and I had gone into septic shock. They were saying We needed to watch and again, I just Everything's fine, I'm going to be fine. I know that, or I wouldn't be back here. I was still very sick, though. I was still having a lot of physical pain But I was having this dance with myself where I was kind of floating out It was almost like I was trying And I was uncomfortable that was man-made: the supplies that were The only thing that felt okay to me at that point I could identify with other souls. I was very fortunate in the hospital room that I was in I spent a lot of time because that was what that nature is what felt the most I was sick for about I had surgeries that followed. My adrenal system was really taxed and I was experiencing I was also still taking and I had the effects of my NDE. I was recalling what had happened I tried to talk to two people that And they rejected. They rejected it. I think it's because when your family watches you die, Then they see you recovering I don't think that they wanted and they didn't want to hear Then I also made the mistake and he laughed at me. So I just kept quiet about it and doubt I was on heavy duty pain medication and I thought, Maybe and these experiences Maybe once I'm off the pain pills, life will just go back to normal again. But as soon as I was fully recovered, fully off the pain medication, The memory of the white light, that led up to going into the light, What I now realize is pain medication was clouding everything for me And as soon as I was off of all of that, things started to become crystal clear. The memory of what happened, really started to sink in. I started noticing the morning after my NDE that I had these People that were I was picking up on their thoughts. I knew what they were thinking. I could feel In a way, I didn't know or if I really was picking up on these thoughts if I really was an empath. I would have conversations and I would say something to them They'd go, How do you know that? I started realizing the experience was different than what But I was picking up on thoughts because they didn't know how I knew that that was And that was a lot, a lot to navigate. The hardest part was, and still is, feeling what everybody else feels, very overwhelming at times. I was having a harder time going out, leaving the house. It was too chaotic there, I was becoming so overwhelmed by everything that was going on around me and I had no idea how to manage Everything felt so loud that I started staying home more and more. I only left for work, But I was only 34 at that time and I knew that I had a lot of years ahead of me and I knew that I couldn't I had to figure out I lost a lot of relationships I was a completely different person after that happened, I didn't know who I was, at first. And so, when you become it's really hard to relate to people. Relationships start to change. I had this really big extraordinary and I realized that I couldn't And that's very sad. That hurt. We all drifted apart, friends, family members. It was very difficult, very complicated. I needed to make a career change Selling real estate, I see the significance to raise their families in. But the business world, I couldn't It was a little too harsh for me. I was no longer competitive at all. I went from being to someone who just wanted and there's not a lot of space for that in the business world. I knew I needed to make a career change. I didn't know what it would be. So I did some hospice work as I was in the middle And hospice, that was a great and it was also a great way for me to get back into that white light. Because when I was working with patients that were especially pre-active or actively getting ready that white light is all around them, and that presence of love, of what they're experiencing. They all had different religious beliefs and they were all different ages It's not uncommon for people to have that fear They all have various Sometimes they're very attached Sometimes they may be worried their lives, and so they have fear But, no matter what, as soon as they're 24 hours out from passing, They're all beginning their transition and they're feeling that love. They're in process I remember I worked and I would always go at night and that's when I liked to go But there was one morning, where I got a call Jane, is there any way We've got a gentleman here a single family member or friend He's been alone this whole time Can you just come and sit with him She said, He's not conscious, I remember when I walked in the room, I could feel that love, We knew that he would probably pass We knew it was very soon. When I walked into the room I felt like I needed to stand back because what I was feeling I felt that if I moved in too closely that I would almost be beautiful experience He didn't feel alone. He could feel all of the love around him. I wasn't needed at that point, and then I felt like and to let his soul have that moment. Because he didn't have anybody So he must have led some type of And there's pain But what I saw him experiencing at the end was that he was completely loved and he's completely That was one of the most doing hospice work. I needed to do my own healing work before I was able to fully move into this. I was still dealing so much from the pain of isolating after my NDE. And so I learned a lot I started realizing that I was able to move energy and that scared me at first. I didn't know what it meant I didn't know who to talk to about it. A therapist that I was seeing, she said, Jane, when you talk, I can feel the qualities She said, I bet you one day a whole room I was intimidated by that, but I thought that would be amazing She said, And I thought, I don't know But I just started playing you know, filling up a corner just channeling, really, and trying to fill up It took a lot of practice but once I was able to do that, with my own energetic space I wanted to be So I took classes with healers that I really trusted, healers Reiki was the first thing that I did. I just learned how to use my body almost as a map for what then learning how to move out what's low vibration or what's harmful how to process that and move it out That's what I got during my NDE and it took me, I would say, at least a few years to start feeling okay So that's how it got started and then it just evolved in ways that I couldn't have dreamed up It was donation-only healing work. People started telling me, I was very resistant to that. But they were saying that how this energy work Maybe they had done years But this was the missing piece. This was what was lasting. The energy healing that I got during that was what really worked and really changed and impacted my life. The white light has the answers Questions that we didn't even know Once I got into that white light, a lot of the questions that I had But the answers were still there. Everything just made sense. And all of that love that is a part of who we are That's the answer to everything. Because love is the best healer that there is. So any way what we're doing and we're tapping into healing All of our worries just melt away there. The intuitive and psychic part of the healing work I couldn't do the energy work that I do without having heightened Because I'm really tapping of everybody's energetic space blind spots, what is deeply unconscious That's why the intuition Intuition has become because that has helped me live more from a heart centered space and drown out the voice of ego and really caused a lot So step one for tapping into your true self, and your higher self, or your soul - We didn't come into this world with egos. We came in as our true self, Ego is always talking to us. It's who we think we are. There are all of these running scripts subconscious, reels, thoughts, It's mental chatter Once you can start listening to that, that those messages ego is feeding Ego talks over that intuitive voice. Learning to name those thoughts as ego is step one to getting closer to your true nature Because once you can that subtle and peaceful and loving intuitive voice gets a chance to be heard. Any type of quieting practice There are all different Mantra meditation, I use the mantra. Some people like to do Breathwork is a form of meditation. that's a quieting practice that will bring you so much quicker It's a little bit every day as you change Your quieting process The more you practice getting quiet, the easier it is to get there each time. That's when we can notice the messages, the synchronicities, and we can get in the flow of the natural processes of life. But if our minds are busy it's very hard to tap into those subtle but powerful messages That's how we can get closer and get closer to our true self, and what we were put here to do. A lot of times or if the Light is so good and so loving, We won't fully know the answer to that But the one thing that I do know we can control by stripping away ego and getting into that space of love as often as we can. Other times, for reasons that aren't always clear, there is some suffering It's painful for me to say that because I don't like experiencing devastation and suffering. So what you can make That's when you always pray do whatever you need to do to get through it or help and know that with every breath you take, So when things feel really good now, And when things get hard, That's where faith is important. I do believe that we are ultimately meant to come here and experience abundance and joy and love. It's not a punishment to feel happiness Part of this Earth game that we're all playing, So look at the bright side too, Acknowledge everything that's going on, there's suffering, there's pain and there's joy and there's love It's all happening at once. To see the whole picture as much as Somewhere along the way, that there is strength or action But really when we're in fear, Fear is resistance and fear is glue It's very hard to find solutions Thinking that fear gives you power, or means that you're taking action because there are very little that fear sits. So I consistently clear my energy. in a low vibrational space, or in my emotional space for whatever reason - I'm constantly Because that lightens more easily focus on the And gratitude. Gratitude and self-love, Because whatever you're focusing on, that's what you're going to see. that's what you're going to see more of. A gratitude practice first thing when you wake up, where you're going to really absorb If the first thing you do is you're probably going to have If you, when you wake up can lie in bed and think of five things that you're grateful for, I don't know why it's so hard But give it a try, because I have noticed I can see more of the positive Things just start to flow my way That's why gratitude is important. Self-love is incredibly important, too, whatever in your heart If you're telling yourself or being critical about yourself, So taking some time notice the beauty in yourself. We are in a dark time in the world It's very challenging. There are a lot of traumatic events and it feels like we're for a long time, but I don't see it that way. I see it as in order to hit that reset button. I see this as, we're coming out of it. It's just going to take some time. The more you can go inward when you feel those triggers the more you can heal and get into a space of light The way that all of us is just by being yourself, Do your healing work to get back to your true self. Where you are today is exactly and you are in your soul purpose, I could look back at my life or before my NDE, and although I'm I look back and I know because I needed to go through that to get to where I am today. And so, offering yourself honoring where you're at and continuing to grow, That's how you can make