This is a high-speed drone and this is me moments Record for the fastest drone in the world. Last original Peregreen drone but this year we're crush the competition that came before it. There to creating a high-speed drone but I've decided in this video. Which by the way was the most on. The first design aspect is the frame. For our of its wide availability and incredible strength. Cape Town using a CNC machine. Also just a quick I'll be using their Go3 camera to shoot loads of finished and you'll see we've got these really CNC is you get really high precision so you'll perfectly with the actual mounts on ... the motor! CNC cuts so I'm out in the garage to drill new makes it super easy to mount to a bunch of random The second design aspect is the powertrain. This drone because it's what pushes it through the I was able to select the ideal Motors propellers the theme is simply bigger is better. Now it's components and yep on our very first bench And the first time we got smoke it actually certain that this battery must just be a dud that so clearly that isn't the case. I've actually and as you can see here's the burnt portion. so hot and couldn't handle it that it just battery here and you can see it's failed We ran the thermal camera on these batteries and so no wonder they were popping. Just a reminder what their products can handle. After trying to new batteries and thankfully these stayed below cool enough to fly, we found another issue. Our full load. Eventually during one of our bench So as we have now very dramatically learned the not quite thick enough for our application. experiment and I've got the original wires As you can see the thin wire got so hot that it so we opted for the wire with medium thickness. drone is time to move on to the third aspect of with stability. So one of the big problems we had going at really high speeds. So what we've done scale rough model of the new design and we've got here's the short tail and then we've also got a to attach the Go3 to the car so that we've got By allowing the model to spin around the center of pressure is behind the center of gravity to our surprise that neither the short nor the long weird angle so we played around with some fins on keep the drone pointing straight. We then further create our final shape this left us with an outer low drag coefficient. My dad drew up the model finally finished putting the drone all together can see it is quite a lot larger than the version just going to do some test flying give it its enough that didn't go as well as planned. After minutes the only thing left to do was to reprint ground up. After a couple days the drone was fully This is the face of a man whose work from the twice! It was during this time when my dad electronics to arrive that we decided that we drone body. We didn't feel good about what improve it. My dad has made a separate video process and what choices he made when designing you finish this video. What we were left with of course we did our classic car window test to our parts using the Bambu X1 Carbon. I have to and it did an incredible job with this project. things I'll print with this thing in the future it creates they're super mesmerizing to watch. fly. Which brings us to the 4th and final aspect started out looking positive but soon took of issues during flight and to help fix this we expert and YouTuber in the field of FPV drones. to me this is something that I've seen before. It questions to help me diagnose the problem. If you trouble socializing with the other drones. Do you other drones for being weak and pointless. Yeah actually been showing that kind of behavior. I to deal with in the industry. Sometimes it just you know. Oh you're the fastest. You're the best basically get spoiled drone syndrome. This can don't tell it to do. Attempting to do tricks just showing off. Yeah, wow, I didn't even know With any top athlete it's a psychological game. I can see why they call you the Drone Whisperer. face in the industry. All jokes aside and after guides we managed to get Peregreen 2 in top shape after literal months of prototyping trial and Worcester Gliding Club and you'll probably And what we're going to do now, is basically here because we just want to make sure the world record attempt. We've just got tape going to be glued on when we actually fly on this is it all together and it's looking at the end which might look weird but you'll While we didn't get any failures midair, the drone only reached around 400 km per hour which is fast to give up now we decided to go for the timely and ones of a slightly different KV value. As well So right now I'm sanding basically every transitions between different materials are smooth and basically everything just So the time finally came to see what this get. The attempt has to be done with multiple the 2 100 m speedruns need to be to negate the effects of wind. 3 Months of ultimately come down to a few seconds of Oh my God 500 km an hour Ok we ready... and [Music] So we finally heard back from Guinness and they've officially the new record holders for this title in progress that to get that result and get that We're not done just yet we of course want some did some pretty cool rigs and some setups to try and I'm going to show those to you now. So is give the camera a perfectly clear view so dome previously. And hopefully that means we can This fight was actually a pretty monumental one unusable footage. But what we got was kind of kmph without even pushing the throttle to 80%. cornering at speeds of 300 and even 400 kmph. No created the fastest camera drone in the world. to improve stability the potential of shots an endurance run and managed to get a flight of of 180 kmph or 112 mph. The insta 360 Go3 made drone because of how small and light it is. And some relatively slow flybys of about 360 kmh or how the drone is only at 60% throttle for these We also took the drone to one of my some more scenic footage. The 1st 20 20% off for the Go3 as well as a free gift the video from my Dad about the in-depth you subscribe to see what epic plans