- [Jimmy] This is the first we're gonna help hear again. And she hasn't heard her mother's voice in four years. Can you hear? - I love you. - [Jimmy] Aww. Next we helped Kayleah. - What? - Whoa! hear their loved ones again. But they are only a few of the 1,000 people that we're gonna help hear again today. We got our hands on over $3 million worth of cutting-edge hearing technology, that unlike old hearing aids, analyzes people's specific hearing needs, allowing them to hear again without causing any damage. - Can you hear me talking now? - Yes. He can hear me. - [Daughter] You just saved my dad's life. - [Jimmy] And our 10th person was Aisha. - I used to watch him like a lot. Like I'd like.... - No. Stop. Hey, you know what? This is over. - No, (laughing) no, no, no. - Go ahead. Do a test. - [Jimmy] She can't hear you yet, but she will in three, two, one. (check mark clicks) (mother gasps) - I can hear my voice in - [Jimmy] How's it sound? Ha ha ha, he's dancing. - Oh my God. - Can you hear that? (shutter clicking) we've helped over 40 people hear again. But on top of that, we wanted to give them a little surprise. This is $10,000, and it's yours. (recipient laughing) We also want to give you a little bit better. - Are you serious? Just don't have a heart attack, please. (heart beating) Which is better? Hearing or the 10 grand? - The hearing, 'cause I can hear my baby. - Do you watch the channel? - Can you guys close your eyes and can I borrow you for one second? Can you tell them you Okay. Open your eyes. - You won $10,000. - Oh my God. - I'd get home and have a heart attack. - Please don't, what is with everyone and having heart attacks this video? Turn around and look at the camera, and you just go &quot;Subscribe.&quot; - There you go. Ivy's Why don't we give you $10,000, as well? Here you go. - [Recipient] The hearing aids was enough, but that is awesome. - Not only did we want to help you here, we also wanted to give (senior gasping) - What are you gonna spend the money on? - Jelly? - You mentioned you have 12 grandkids? Now, um. - In here is $12,000. - So now you can give a grand to each of your grandkids. You can just tell me my - What do you want me to do with this? - Is there something you wanna buy? - Lots of things I want to buy. - Well, now you can. (laughing) When we were talking earlier, they mentioned you guys Is there anything you want but you don't wanna spend the money on? - Jet ski for him. His jet ski broke down. Who are you? Seen any of the show? - Wait, did you just realize who I am? - Yeah! - I had no idea. I'm the one who helped you hear. Well, now that you know who I am, can I surprise you guys with something? - Yeah. and I bought a brand-new - I was gonna sell my - Oh, really? I got you. - [Jimmy] And while we were I sent Nolan to give a gift to - I've got some custom - Look at those. - Listen, what do you say (child laughs) What do you say, we just You just go crazy, all right? - It's Jimmy's money. (Nolan laughs) This man. Yes! - Ooh. What's that? (toy screaming) Orbeez. This time, my best day - This is darnedest thing I ever heard of. - Pretty cool, isn't it? you know? - I can hear really good. (upbeat music) - Try talking to him from back there. - Colton, who's the - Peyton Manning. (all laughing) we got you tickets to the upcoming championship basketball game, for you and your whole family to go to. (family laughing, exclaiming) What better way to break than going to a Taylor Swift concert? (recipient laughs) with your new hearing. - [Announcer] Welcome to - [Father] These are like for a basketball game. (buzzer ringing) (crowd cheering) (rousing music) - But we didn't only want to help people in the United States, which is why we flew to Mexico Come on. Leo Bardo and Selmai have always wanted to hear their daughter's voice. But are unable to afford However, today that's about to change. - Their saying repeatedly, they're so excited to hear for the first time. They're flicking 'em on. Okay. 3, 2, 1. - Papa. - [Interpreter] Papa? Papa? You can hear? - Yeah. doing this for me. Thank you. - [Jimmy] You should be able to hear now. What's it like? Aww. Aww. She hasn't heard properly for 67 years. 3, 2, 1. (Jimmy speaking Spanish) - Bien. (patient speaking Spanish) How much different is it? - Wow. - Wow. - Oh. (recipients laughing) - [Jimmy] Great. And we (recipient laughing) And we also helped hundreds Malawi, and Indonesia. And I learned while filming this video that providing hearing isn't - [Together] Go team! - [Jimmy] Sign language connects people whether they can hear or not. But access to learning sign language is still very limited in many places. So we're gonna donate around the world that are But aside from that, we still have our final (slow piano music) (check mark clicking) - Subscribe.