Hello friends! This recipe will help you young cabbage. Turn on subtitles to find out more! Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? The vitamin K and anthocyanins in kale help improve cognitive function and support brain health. Some compounds in cabbage, such as indole-3-carbinol and sulforaphane, help protect the body from cancer. These compounds support the detoxification process and protect cells from damage. Salt. Onion. Onions are rich in antioxidants, especially quercetin, which helps protect cells from free radical damage. Do you have a favorite recipe? Write it in the comments! 1 carrot. I use a special grater. Carrots are low in calories and high in fiber, which helps you feel full and control your appetite. This makes it a useful product for those who want to maintain weight or lose weight. Olive oil. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Onions are rich in fiber, which promotes healthy digestion and stimulates intestinal motility. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Carrots have a low glycemic index, which makes them good for people with diabetes. Tomato. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! Tomatoes contain few calories, which makes them an excellent dietary product. They fill up and add flavor to dishes without increasing the calorie content of the food. Tomatoes contain folic acid, which is essential for DNA synthesis and maintaining a healthy nervous system. Tomatoes contain folic acid, which is essential for DNA synthesis and maintaining a healthy nervous system. This is especially important for pregnant women as it helps prevent neural tube defects in the fetus. The antioxidants in tomatoes help reduce inflammation in the body, which is beneficial in preventing chronic diseases such as arthritis. Olive oil. 1 cup rice. Rice is rich in carbohydrates, which are the main source of energy for the body. Fry for 3-4 minutes. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! Rice, especially white rice, contains very little fat and is therefore a healthy food for humans. 2 glasses of hot water. Let cook for 10 minutes. 3 chicken eggs. If you want to lose weight, be sure to subscribe to my channel! Salt. mix. 2 spoons of yogurt. mix. Add tomato and stir. green onion. Spring onions are a good source of vitamins A, C and K. Vitamin A supports healthy skin and vision. C strengthens the immune system and vitamin K is essential for normal blood clotting. mix. 2 spoons of flour. mix. Controlling calorie intake is important, but it is equally important to consider the quality of food. Try to eat natural foods. Salt. Parsley. Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! Parsley is rich in antioxidants such as flavonoids, carotenoids and vitamins A and C. These substances help neutralize free radicals and thus prevent cell damage. The vitamin C and carotenoids found in parsley help lower cholesterol and support heart health. mix. Vegetables and fruits are a source of vitamins, minerals and fiber and are low in calories. Add them to any meal to bulk up your meals without adding extra calories. Add 4-5 tablespoons of rice. mix. Incorporate regular physical activity such as cardio exercises into your program. Physical activity helps burn calories, improves metabolism and improves health. If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! Fry for 10 minutes over low heat with a lid on! It is very tasty and healthy! few calories and many benefits! Eat as much as you want and get rid of belly fat! Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! 2 recipe! Eat this for dinner every day! I use a special grater! Grate 1 zucchini. Be sure to subscribe to my channel! Low in calories: Zucchini only contains around 20-25 calories per 100 grams. green onion. Despite their simplicity, green onions contain vitamins A, C, K and B, as well as minerals such as potassium, calcium and magnesium. 2 chicken eggs. Pepper. Salt. 2 spoons of flour. a glass of rice. 2 glasses of water. cook until done. It is important to maintain a positive attitude and believe in yourself. 3 tablespoons rice. Mix. Losing weight is a marathon, not a sprint. Focus on making incremental progress and don't let temporary setbacks discourage you. Olive oil. Olive oil contains large amounts of monounsaturated fats, which help lower bad cholesterol (LDL). Under the lid 3-4 on each side Large quantities of healthy foods can also contribute to weight gain. Learn to control your portions and use smaller plates to avoid overeating. Eating regular meals with small snacks can help maintain energy levels and prevent overeating at dinner. It's delicious and healthy! Can be for breakfast or dinner Lack of sleep can slow your metabolism and increase your appetite due to increased levels of the hormone ghrelin. Be sure to follow this recipe!