As you may know... This country has had some issues with race. Oh, okay. [LAUGHTER] Sphincters are [LAUGHTER] We've had some issues with race. there was that incident in... 1619 and then... Had a few hiccups Mostly it's been fine! We've all been chillin. It's been chill. Until a couple of years ago... Another rare, bad thing happened to Black people - George Floyd's death - The death of George Floyd. It sparks this global movement. This racial reckoning - We here in America certainly in the wake of George - A growing number facing a racial reckoning... - As America confronts a racial reckoning. - A racial reckoning... - It also comes at a time of racial Oh! [LAUGHTER] So, you guys are finally racial reper... Uhh.... Reckoning. [LAUGHTER] We don't... We don't wanna... [APPLAUSE] We don't wanna right the wrongs. We just reckon we're gonna [LAUGHTER] Well, not to worry! This egregious, midday murder will not be in vain. Let the work of righting - Aunt Jemima is being retired. [LAUGHTER] [APPLAUSE] By any means necessary. - Cream of Wheat is removing the - Chris Harrison, has announced - Every NFL stadium, you're going - Tonight we know the Dixie - The village of Hempstead renamed "Main Street": - We will now kneel for our moment of silence. [LAUGHTER] [LAUGHTER] Worst production of Lion King ever. [LAUGHTER] But more than kente- and some long-overdue there came another, even more meaningful - I think white people - White people should listen - White people, we need to listen. - We are listening, I am listening. - Now it's time for us to have ears to hear. [LAUGHTER] Oh, good! for fucking. [LAUGHTER] Two at a time. I likes my ear-fuckin' like I like my Pink Floyd albums. In stereo. [LAUGHTER] Yeah... Yeah, we changed it from [LAUGHTER] The crew, they got out of that one. [LAUGHTER] Yes, apparently, that so divides America could have just been solved if only Black people [LAUGHTER] So... Okay, white people... Ears to hear. - This is the harsh in America today. That we are expected to participate in democracy, while receiving conditional citizenship in return. - When ZIP code determines what kind of school when ZIP code determines These are the vestiges - So when they say, &quot;Why Why do you burn down your own It's not ours! We don't own anything! - It's amazing to me. Why we keep loving this country and this country I mean, this stuff is hard to hear. But these are And I would probably in its impact on our culture, if those same exact sentiments hadn't already been over and over and over. Like, one year earlier - They never, never, never addressed the primary Our primary problem was or civil rights. The primary problems The legacies and Or by Viola Davis at an award show in 2015. - The only thing that from anyone else, is opportunity. Or in the 90s explained this directly and Larry King. - The thing that kills is not what white people Their policies, their actions... See, white people are pretending that this problem is new. And we're just hearing about it now, because we love to discover stuff that's already existed. [LAUGHTER] It's kind of our thing. [LAUGHTER] "America!" [LAUGHTER] "Where did you come from?" [LAUGHTER] "First!" [LAUGHTER] As a matter of fact, many times just by Chris Rock! - Shit! There ain't a that would change And I'm rich! - You had a full hundred-year - See, the Black man gotta... - Fly! to get something that the - A Black C-Student can't even be the manager of Burger King. Meanwhile, the white the President of the [APPLAUSE] He's a very good comedian. [LAUGHTER] But you know what? Maybe you don't want to hear about our racial divide Would you rather Black people invent an entire genre of music just to explain it to us? But you know what? It's wonderful that white to sit back and listen. But damn! The Black people speaking out now are just sampling the classics. - Racism is so deeply embedded into the fabric of the society. Thank you, Angela. James Baldwin went all the way to England to explain it, because he wanted to do it at white people headquarters. It comes at a great the country, which and to which you owe your life and your identity, has not, in its whole evolved any place for you. For fuck's sake. Frederick "The rich inheritance prosperity, and independence bequeathed by your fathers is shared by you, He said that in 1852. And now, 170 years later, suddenly we're like, "Hey." "You seem upset." [LAUGHTER] [LAUGHTER] "We're still cool, though, right?" "Did we do something?" Black people have given us step-by-step instructions They didn't even do that Which, by the way, three steps and then you bend- [LAUGHTER] And yet, even after all that, the wealth gap: worse now. Homeownership: worse now. Segregation: worse now. On average, a white is wealthier than a Black college graduate. Forget about them telling you. Even the stark facts - Black Americans if they study and work hard, they will likely succeed Just not as much as white people who don't study as hard. [LAUGHTER] We have been told over and over and over that this country the original sins of But the response to - If Barack Obama can make it as the son of a single white mom, then so - Oprah Winfrey is, perhaps, the best example who made it on her - LeBron James is a great How can America be racist if Cleveland has a championship? [LAUGHTER] It doesn't seem to matter what Black people tell us or how many times they say it. It lands on deaf ears. Because a large swath believes that Black Americans are solely responsible And the bias is so pervasive, we don't even notice it! - Crack... Who's responsible? Let me tell you straight out: everyone who uses drugs. Hmmm. [LAUGHTER] And perchance, who would this, "everyone" be? [LAUGHTER] - Crack has become a chemical McDonald's. You want to get high, you see the guys in the gangs, in the red and blue outfits... - The front line - There are tens of thousands - Crack babies... - Are gonna to overwhelm every social service - Before, we could afford to ignore the hopelessness But now, we're afraid our kids, our streets. - It's as innocent But it's turning our And it's murdering our children. What kind of fucking [LAUGHTER] Now, this is not to downplay, at all, the effects But we are of an equally corrosive opioid epidemic. Although that affects a slightly different "everyone." And how is that portrayed? - America's addiction to opioids is playing out Every type of person successful people, funny people, moms, dads, grandparents, injured athletes, cancer patients, war veterans. Chances are greater than ever you know someone directly affected. Why are opioids so hard to quit? Well, that's fucking easy. It links opioid receptors that... I'm not gonna But the point is: And the people who made it But that's drugs. I'm sure poverty doesn't - Inner city is a as in, "Black ghetto." [LAUGHTER] And that's the [LAUGHTER] So... Uhh... Just out of curiosity, why is the Black ghetto poor? - Intelligent Americans know, it is the collapse that is wreaking havoc in - 72% of Black babies - If they would start talking about the responsibilities - The dependency on welfare - The breakdown of the Black dysfunctional, toxic, "Inner city." Excuse me! The politically-correct phrase is, "Black ghetto&quot;! [LAUGHTER] Good day! [LAUGHTER] Uh, by the way, how do we portray poverty in the... Outer city? - Ruggedly beautiful and deeply poor Appalachia, for decades, has struggled. - People here have struggled as their factories have shuttered and their coal mines have closed. It's been a slow, painful drip of job losses for decades. - It used to be, with a you could get a job that actually could provide And the disappearance of those may lead people to feel a lot more stressed. - So that low self-worth, along we start seeing So how do you relieve You can relieve it - White people are because something has Black people are poor 'cause they won't just Everything that happens is viewed through that filter. - What started as peaceful protest beyond that. - An explosion of violence today. - This is not what we want people of the City of Philadelphia. But, makes perfect sense. How would you like people - The Eagles' victory touched off a wild celebration - The celebration quickly got rowdy. Fans pulled down traffic lights. - The awning, in front of the - Started fires and tipped over cars. - Now it looks like there last night. [LAUGHTER] And thus. The problem with white people. [APPLAUSE] [APPLAUSE] [APPLAUSE] I'm just gonna stop for a second, and pose, so you can [LAUHTER] Get a good picture For however sincerely the truth is, America has always prioritized white comfort over Black survival. Black people have had to fight so hard for equality that they've been irreparably set back in the pursuit of equity. And any real attempt to repera... Reperat... Repair... A ton of... That damage... (Jon whispering) [LAUGHTER] Sets off white people's "They're coming which we would know ourselves, had we actually been listening. - My feeling is, white people have a very, And they should start thinking about what they Take me out of it. Understood.