Europe, summer 1941. Germany had secured most of Central and Western defiant on the islands. The only potential threat to Germany in Europe In order to break the stalemate with Britain Hitler decided to cripple the military capabilities resources. Germany planned to achieve this goal by capturing before the onset of winter 1941. The main attack would take place in the center attacks in the north and south. By the middle of june 1941 the Germans had invasion was about to begin, meanwhile the and were ill-prepared to resist the German First we'll look at the southern sector. The Soviets had deployed their strongest units the Pripyat marshes and the Black sea. They were to be confronted by the Army Group The first objective of the Axis troops was On june 22nd the invasion began. The Soviets immediately gathered their armoured massive counterattack in the area of Dubno of the units involved, it failed and the Soviets The German advance continued and this created in the South and they had to be withdrawn After the main attack had tied down the Soviet the offensive. The main spearhead now made a dash towards think that the main German effort was directed However, the Germans had stuck to their original When the Soviets realized the German intentions, forces and the Germans encircled and destroyed of Uman. The Soviets now abandoned Western Ukraine Dnieper. They deployed the first wave of freshly mobilized river line and also clinged to the port of At the same time, operations were being carried German soldiers from army groups north and In the beginning of the invasion the Army at the border and then advance towards Smolensk Meanwhile, army group north was to advance trap the soviet forces between them and the On 22. June the Germans attacked. The Soviet western front was deployed forward forces encircled most of its formations near In the Baltics, the Soviet counter attacks then they attempted to pull back and establish Germans reached the river before them and in the west with encirclement. At the same time Army group center had finished infantry units began to reduce the pockets, almost unopposed. The Soviets attempted to plug the gap by deploying them, but it was not enough and as the German the Soviet lines and trapped these units near By that time, the first wave of Soviet mobilization to block further German advance and attempted However the performance of these newly created to liberate the pocket. The Germans managed to close it up and eliminate The Germans had gained the upper hand in the faced with two options. They could continue the push towards Moscow Center first and then continue the offensive They decided to do the latter and the armoured to aid neighbouring army groups. During this time battles had been raging in to pull out large encirclements and their and bad infrastructure. Nevertheless, they were making slow but steady they reached the approaches to Leningrad. When the help from Army Group Center arrived, cut off the land-based communications to the Further north, Finland had entered the war the Finnish troops took advantage of the Soviet winter war. After that, they established forward defensive Even further north, the Finnish and German city of Murmansk and cut the Murmansk railway to the Soviet Union. However their attacks became bogged down in The front became static. Meanwhile the other armoured units of the South. The Soviets had anticipated, that the Germans and concentrated their troops on this direction, to push back the weaker Soviet units on their The German advance southwards forced the Soviets Pripyat marshes to shorten their line. In Ukraine the Soviet troops were occupying resting on the Dnieper river in the west and Yet the Panzers from Army Group Center were into the Soviet rear. The Soviets thought, that the German spearhead unbeknownst to them, the Armoured formations the Dnieper from the south into a German bridgehead up with the spearhead. As the groups met, most of the Soviet units 750 thousand men were trapped in the pocket. When the pocket had been liquidated, the Soviet After these operations, the flanks of Army didn't have enough time to reach the objectives decided to go for more limited goals. In order to reach them, they began a full In the south, the Soviet resistance had been this allowed the Germans to carry out another forces on the coast of the black sea. Then they pushed onwards and established their Eastern Ukraine and conquered the Crimean but clinging on to the port of Sevastopol. At the same time the German forces were pursuing Their goal was to sever the remaining supply forces. The initial advance was successful and reached supplying the city. The main German effort was in the center. All this time the Soviets had anticipated 000 mobilized troops to this sector. During the German operations on the flanks, Group Center back to improve their defensive But by the end of September the German armour to carry out a new attack. Once again, near the towns of Vyazma and Bryansk, resulted in halving the soviet strength on After reducing the pockets, the Germans closed Then they attempted to encircle Moscow with long advance had exhausted their offensive cold. The Soviets managed to halt their advance, in numbers, the soviet proficiency in winter The Germans were forced to abandon their vulnerable back in order shorten the front line. During the retreat, they had to abandon some At the same time, the German attempt to cut to retreat to their starting positions and In the South the German advance was also checked their forward positions in Rostov. The first year of the war was over. The soviets had stopped the Germans far from their own military capabilities. The Red Army had been decimated and it would the army. The Germans wanted to use this window of opportunity to the Eastern front to deliver a knock-out 1942 would be the decisive year of the war.