Fresh food galore. In Germany, we're used to But often it has come from far away. The war in Ukraine is We can tell from the empty shelves We need to feed more But intensive farming and our survival. If we use traditional - the next two billion people we will need a land Itis time to switch to sustainable If we want to support the global then we need to What food will we Farmer Jonas Schulze Niehoff has Itis something special he This is going to be a Iim going to cut it into little Then Iim going to fry it a bit, Itis a meal made almost entirely - apart from the spices - Chickpeas, or garbanzo from the Middle East that the farmer He thinks agriculture and How should we eat in the future? - and it probably isnit good to eat I think thatis the That means we donit But it means that our food At his farm in the German Jonas Schulze Niehoff Today, heis sowing quinoa seeds. The grain is native to the but feels increasingly If we keep on growing what we always Climate change means getting used Thatis why I find it really interesting. Iim enjoying doing this and I If you enjoy something, When Schulze Niehoff took over it produced traditional crops But he decided to switch to He is gearing up for the future with better suited to new On the one hand, I and, on the other hand, I want to have My father always said farming and I try to live So-called superfoods like due to their high But demand for quinoa here is and threatening their supplies. Yet this hardy pseudo grain It makes much more sense to A certain degree of globalization But we save an amazing by avoiding unnecessary And, of course, it would be great if New drought-resistant In Saxony-Anhalt, and summers are getting hotter It needs a third of the Agricultural scientist Urte Grauwinkel Together, theyire checking how the This has come up quite well. Yes, itis coming up but thereis a lot of weeds and we canit see the rows So we canit use Crops new to the and practically forgotten ones like Things can go wrong. There's risk with all crops. If the weather isnit right, From that point of view, I am It is unlikely that all my Of course, there are costs We are investing in something with an uncertain, But itis an investment Quinoa is a superfood. It has And bringing it here is also an Urte Grauwinkel wants Saxony-Anhalt The agricultural scientist has set up Joost Woutersi vision doesnit involve Hey, Captain Kajak! On board with him are German and developer Lineke Hohmann. Their One, two, three, Down in the water, that they would like to see enriching There are estimated to be hundreds of Only a fraction has Seaweed can be Sylvia Strauss quickly identifies Thates sugar kelp. This green one And thatis wakame. It weighs at That is a nice piece, Sylvia! In Europe, this slippery stuff is In many parts of Asia, by contrast, Wouters would like to see - and help make our diet Now, the world mainly eats That promotes the rise of on just a few types of food If we want to support the global or relieve the stress yeah, then we need to Four years ago, Wouters Before that, he worked for and drinks industry - he was a The birth of his Now Iim making plans to get children but if my boy gets older, I And then I realized that it is very hard for them to change. They want to. They write it on their social Currently, his company cultivating the species that are The beauty of seaweed we donit need land, it It doesnit need fresh water. Seaweed also A lot more than most things grown in So if you roughly calculate every it has absorbed 120 To help popularize it the team is also developing The area around Magdeburg is Urte Grauwinkel wants to use Together with her team and she is introducing new She is using his The problem is that most but because there is no scientific You are only deemed important The researcher from is using her standing to back At the moment, just under 16 directly ends up on our plates. And 11.7% is used as biofuel We have to move towards producing more Above all, we need vegetables. At the moment, it is brought And I would like local and become more If we ate less meat, there for another four billion people. That is another reason why are looking for plants Whatever flourishes could help guarantee We need new species. Thatis why So farmers donit have to We are doing a bit of the Yes, it works and you can try it Or, no. Letis take one step back. Or chickpeas need The students are Theyire amazed at how many in this part of Eastern Germany. We are trying quite a lot of For example, the potato bean, Really wild. Zukunftsspeisen, or future It promotes quinoa and hemp seeds and lentils. Some were Now theyire making a comeback. The idea of Zukunftsspeisen - to get farmers and cooks trying out different systems, the local cultivation But system change can only - she's is convinced of In the local youth hostel, is giving cookery courses together Lene, what are we Today, weire going to make a quinoa At the workshops, local are learning how best to If agricultural system change is It only makes sense if you can onto peopleis plates. So we are showing people who to show bakers Thatis the basic idea. To put The baker is trying his hand at Thereis too much Itis absolutely new for me. Iim a regular baker who uses But Iive got 30 years working life My children might take and I want to Itis a nice alternative. The hostel cook is also It doesnit always Why not use something - that can be just Something from the Quinoa salad with beetroot A local choir is getting All the ingredients are So the cook doesnit and can put on a really good So how is it going down? My daughter cooks like this, And I think itis good. But, I would also make a We know it from falafel and Now weill have to see what And weill need to continue But Urte Grauwinkel has An inconspicuous building - could it be the solution for Owner Anders Riemann The name of his new-fangled My background is as a financial And 8 years ago I was sitting, doing an incentive program which gave them the opportunity to if they were high Is it ok just to sit and earn and not do enough for society? The banker became a farmer and in the Danish capital. For Anders Riemann, vertical of ecosystems and feed the At the moment, 38 percent for food production, it consumes - and is responsible for 30 percent At Riemannes eco-friendly vertical These are the roots The roots absorb nutrients from So they need less fertilizer. The facility is also It uses almost 95 percent less But the biggest challenge One day on my way home from after going out in the town, I Have they been developed enough so you can grow And, in actual fact, 20,000 LED and stimulate plant metabolism. The light looks purple because different light spectrums We have LED-diodes, which and the aluminum plate will absorb The temperature here is - ideal growing And the electricity supply is Inside, things There are 15 harvests a year. Vertical farming is independent of Itis more secure. Now after Corona we are very vulnerable for So, we need to be able to have as part of the infrastructure. Shorter journeys also mean and avoids CO2 emissions. Itis just a few meters from the Most of the work is But the technology A full-size facility for us would Because itis a technology So, when itis developed in other countries of the world. They are not yet using but already supply When up to speed, the farm could - 250 times more than conventional At the moment, Nordic Harvest - but more vegetables and fruits, German plant scientist Lara Smigielski She is working with bacteria I think that we have all and we have to ensure that we also We are doing good pioneering work Population growth means is becoming more and more At the Oosterschelde Joost Wouters is tending In the waterside facility, or is kept fresh in water So what you see here is the This is the end of the season. Beautiful leaves - oh basically So this is nice. So you and then we cut it and then He's already - in glass flasks in a Here you see the beginning This is where the seaweed babies and kept and this is where we start The spores will later be that will be dropped But today, he and his team they intend to use to Finally some food! Wow - that looks so good. Seaweed sausages I cannot wait! Barbecued meats with seaweed. These but include 15 percent seaweed. This Joost Wouters and that not everyone is prepared And seaweed helps to cut CO2. It means you can use 30% less meat. of course, itis much Cattle farming produces lots of On average, the has a carbon If you replace 30 percent of the the carbon footprint would Marine biologist Sylvia Strauss also in Europe: itis a kind It turns green immediately. I love it it is In restaurants we can So you get some fresh you put a fondue on the Sometimes Wouters how he and his Ten years ago, he was still a and now heis working to create He is moved by the thought I thought, if we can cultivate seaweed and benefit from what seaweed for a food chain - I think So I hope everything fits. Great. So what do we have... Organic farmer Jonas Schulze Urte Grauwinkel have been working Today, the superfood expert is and drought-resistant I think itis important to get and ask them whether they like the Do they have questions? I want to listen to people and I and into the field of research. More and more people Over the last ten years, Grauwinkel would like to And gain more chickpea fans. We freshly milled the flour Iive hardly ever seen Theyire lovely, And if you can eat chickpeas, but Itis my mission to create farming I want to get other people on Yes, to get them on board and tell Jonas Schulze Niehoffis The idea of growing a new Pulses contain a lot of protein, but domestic types like garden It's more difficult now because the weather, With the mild winter, we I was on the lookout for alternatives Now Iim growing chickpeas. The farmeris homegrown chickpeas And recently he has acquired - who is using them to make We need to eat less meat We need more And then I think we will be able to Thatis what we have to aim for if as human beings. Jonas Schulze Niehoff is already One that could ensure that