In June of 2022, the level in Lake Mead, the formed by the Hoover Dam, reached yet another a level that hasn't been seen since the lake was boats, and even human remains have surfaced from doesn't stand alone. In fact, it's just a drop in in the western United States are at critically low started. Lake Powell upstream of Lake Mead on the Lake Oroville (of the enormous spillway failure largest reservoirs, are at critical levels. full. Even many of the westernmost reservoirs People use water at more or less a constant unpredictable sloshes of rain or snow that considerable dry periods between them. If the And at least one study has estimated that the past than a thousand years for the southwestern United Dams and reservoirs are one solution to this But what happens when they stop filling up or (in when they never fill up in the first place? On today's episode we're talking about water This video is sponsored by Brilliant, the best way to learn math and science The absolute necessity of water demands that city If you have a dry year (or even a dry day), weather comes back. So the biggest question when yield. That's the maximum amount during the worst possible drought. Imagine you're the director of public works for clean, you build a pumping station on a nearby treatment plant where it can be purified and constant rate. There's lots of flow during the but the flow declines over the course and rain showers are more spread out. In the flow in the river nearly dries the river has no firm yield. It's not a dependable water to be used most of the time, but most of So what do you do? One option is to store some pumps running and the taps flowing during the A clearwell at a water treatment plant or an one day's worth of supply. Those types of in demands over the course of a day (and I have for the reliability of a water source. If the a water tower won't do much good. For that, you order of magnitude (or two). That's why we build hold trillions of gallons or tens of trillions of volumes. You could never build a tank to hold across a river valley allows the water to advantage of mother nature's topography to form Let's put a small reservoir on your city's river supply. If the reservoir is small, it stays isn't stored simply flows downstream But, during the summer, as flows the reservoir can supplement the supply by making years, you won't have a lot of water stored for meaning your supply has a firm yield, a safe under the worst conditions, roughly equal to the Now let's imagine you build a bigger dam to hold more than just a season's worth of supply. driest few months, now you can make up the deficit water source goes up even further, approaching the eliminating the idea of a drought by converting into a perfectly constant supply. Beyond this, any to yield. After all, a reservoir doesn't create Of course, dams do more than merely store water citizens. They also store water for agriculture demand. Reservoirs serve as a destination for Some reservoirs are built simply to provide are constructed larger than needed for just water event (even when the reservoir is full). Every when and where water can be withdrawn or two are the same. But, I'm explaining an empty reservoir isn't necessarily a bad thing. Dams are expensive to build. They tie up huge structures that must be vigilantly monitored, they have significant impacts on the natural bigger than what's needed. Empty reservoirs Dried up lake beds are ugly, and the "bathtub water scarcity in the American Southwest. But, be considered a lack of good stewardship of the sometimes. Why build it so big if you're not going Storage is the whole point of the thing... Engineers and planners don't actually know what lifetime of a reservoir. In an ideal world, we streamflow records to get a sense of how long And in fact, some rivers do have stream gages that a century, but most don't. So, when assessing planners have to make a lot of assumptions But even if we could look at a long-term there's another problem. There's no rule that anything like the past one, and indeed we average streamflows in many areas of the world climate - are changing. In that case, it makes Like I said, reservoirs don't create water, so through precipitation is decreasing over That brings me to the question of the whole video: It's a pretty complicated question, not only are relatively independent of each other and decisions in the face of scarcity), but also of time. Most utilities maintain long-term supply and demand, allowing them to develop well before the situation becomes an emergency government or public administration, you're not have flowing water. In reality, water We don't so much run out as we just use more more money on infrastructure like pipelines that wells that can take advantage of groundwater convert brackish sources or even seawater utilities might invest in advertising and various to use less. Either way, those costs get For some, like those in cities, the higher water climate that would otherwise be inhospitable. For water might offset their margins, forcing them So, while drying reservoirs might not the impacts trickle down to increased costs of food, and a whole host of what's happening in the American southwest to In 2019, all the states that use water from plan that involves curtailing use, starting will force farmers to tap into groundwater Eventually, irrigated farming in Arizona There's no question that the climate as years continue to be hotter and drier than connect cause and effect for such widespread and but I have one example of an empty reservoir In 1978, the US Army Corps of Engineers River in Oklahoma. The dam is an earth embankment 5 kilometers long. The Beaver River in Oklahoma or nearly a cubic meter per second of flow sending huge volumes of water downstream. it became clear that things were rapidly changing. River were from springs, areas where groundwater pumping of groundwater for cities and agriculture slashing streamflow in the Beaver River as it did. on this massive earthen dam, the reservoir mostly high and dry in the Oklahoma Panhandle, as a monument to bad assumptions about water planners, and everyone about the Drought seems really simple when you're just this video helped you appreciate the technical supply for a large area that involves hydrology, a lot of civil engineering. In fact, I've found most important projects combine the expertise and And the way you get exposed to those different It's by doing the thing, coding the program, by to have Brilliant as the sponsor of today's video. technology, engineering and math, that is super science, math, and actually my favorite is this pulls back the scientific curtain on aspects of school (for example, one of my favorite obsessions go try Brilliant yourself completely free at pay anything to sign up, and the first 200 annual premium subscription. Thank you for