On July 22th 2023, a paper was posted ambient pressure superconductor. LK-99. The world is now trying to synthesize findings. The LK-99 Wikipedia The quest for a room temperature century. It has seen some amazing highs and lows. In this video let us dive into history of technological progression ## Superconductivity Resistance is a material's opposition to A conductor has low resistance move through them. Insulators do not. In previous videos, I have mentioned that all real world materials have some amount of about superconductors - perhaps because I We have known about superconductivity the Dutch physicist and Nobel prize students started performing experiments at At the time, people speculated electrical resistance of metals Sir James Dewar - inventor of that electrical resistance would Lord Kelvin on the other hand thought that it towards infinity. His reasoning being that the So Kamerlingh-Onnes did an experiment it was the only metal they had And unexpectedly, the experiment showed just below 4.2 Kelvin. Kamerlingh-Onnes The temperature at which the material achieves ## Disappointment The first superconductors triggered It was the electrical engineer's wet dream 1913 Kamerlingh-Onnes traveled to Chicago plant in pursuit of smaller, more efficient Optimistic, Kamerlingh-Onnes continued his temperature was 7.2 Kelvin - In 1914, he then made a coil of lead wire, froze through it. But to his disappointment, powers when the magnetic field got to be As it turns out, superconductivity requires not enough magnetic field and a low enough amount of material can only maintain their superconductivity Today, pure metal or simple alloy fundamental weakness. These are not good electrical systems encounter Kamerlingh-Onnes must have been scientists to have fallen victim to the sirens ## A Curiosity Research on superconductor The need for liquid helium cooling stood as commercialization. And there was no Many people worked on the concept Through them, pioneering science was more superconductors - tantalum at Which has the highest transition In 1933 we discovered the Meissner Effect. magnetic fields as it transitions In other words, the magnetic field material rather than permeate through you see of these things are And then a second major discovery that the Soviet Ukrainian scientist Lev in the Netherlands. In 1930, he returned to There, his experiments discovered what are now called Type II superconductors. These superconductors - today called &quot;Type I&quot; Type I superconductors fall back to normal But Type II superconductors can display a mix at certain magnetic limits. So Type IIs can higher magnetic fields than Type Is. These are Sadly Shubnikov never got to see the benefits in 1937, the NKVD targeted him for his accused him of espionage and shot him. of the superconductor community recognized and ## Post-War World War II had shown the entire value of turning sciences into technologies. Shortly before the war, MIT professor liquefier system. Widely introduced after the war, the Collins made liquid helium more Yet the search for higher temperature temperature one - remained quite theory to tell us where to look. So most low amounts of resistivity - In the early 1950s, a pair of scientists different approach. They embarked on a The two pioneered the method of finding superconductor's tendency to expel magnetic field to a sample as it was being cooled and Matthias and Hulm systematically eventually testing over 5,000 compounds. This was how they discovered the atoms and 1 atom of either silicon, tin, or these would hold the record for the highest Matthias eventually formulated the &quot;Matthias like the Pirate Code - are more what Rule number six was &quot;Stay away from theorists!&quot; ## BCS As you might expect, Matthias theory - calling them just &quot;descriptions&quot;. But the physics world wanted a theory to three scientists proposed a John Robert Schrieffer, Leon Cooper one of the Recognize the name of that last guy? Physics as one of the three inventors of the The theory was named BCS - BCS also stands for Bowl Championship select the match-ups in top tier Cal hasn't won a football championship know why I cared to mention this. Let's move on. Anyway, BCS theory suggests that when a their electrons pair up. This is weird But in that superconducting state, we phonons. Phonons are measurable, energized Thanks to the attractive the electron pairs create a brand Cooper Pairs are exempt from which explains why two solid objects can't be all matter does not simply collapse into mostly empty space. I think I asked Thusly, Cooper Pairs allow these they usually do - traveling through the crystal theory has generally held over the years - The energy bonds holding these Cooper Pairs are quite weak. So they can be easily BCS theory does a good job of explaining Superconducting materials whose behavior is explainable by BCS theory are known By 1960, we knew about 35 elements and shown superconductivity under certain conditions. ## Superconducting Wire In 1961, scientists discovered a retained their superconductivity in the These were called high-field superconductors. large superconducting wires that performed Such wires can produce very powerful High-field superconductors achieved the original even so, it took the industry until early 1970 to Such superconducting wires eventually became the widely accepted method for producing remain the single biggest and most important ## The Breakthrough In 1986, two researchers at an IBM lab in Zurich, Switzerland were collaborating Alex Muller was a senior research fellow at IBM before retirement. He had gotten interested in There, he observed IBM's massive project. That was a $300 million effort on superconducting digital logic I will talk about Josephson and his superconducting circuits and their computers. Upon returning to Zurich in 1983, Muller look for superconductors in oxides. After a they came across an article from a team electrical conductivity at a rather high That was interesting. Ceramics are traditionally experiments, the duo produced a ceramic compound achieved superconductivity at 35 Kelvin (-238 As is so often in the land of superconductors, and Muller first kept their results away from They decided to first publish their results journal (Zeitschrift fur Physik) apparently In April 1986 they submitted the paper, which &quot;Possible High Tc Superconductivity They chose this title because the two were the Meissner effect had not After some time, the paper was finally had been circulating since July, and they shook Not only because ceramics like as I said But also Bednorz and Muller were seen as outsiders backwater of the IBM research machine. One by false claims over the years - was tempted to These new ceramics also violated the previously not follow the Matthias Rules. And not only By then, physicists had largely adopted of superconductivity. And because superconductivity in general was regarded as This discovery heralded a new class higher transition temperatures. Higher &quot;High Temperature Superconductors&quot; or High-T. Research teams around the world raced to some 2 months after publication, the Asahi Shinbun of the University of Tokyo had successfully ## Cuprates A few weeks after that, Paul Chu of the Chu's results made the he believed that there were other materials A race for new superconductors soon 77 Kelvin, the temperature of liquid Tokyo, and the United States Then in January 1987, Dr. Chu a transition temperature above 90 Kelvin. Chu held off publishing for as long as possible Finally in February 1987, he announced This class of high temperature superconductors because they have 1 atom of Yttrium, 2 There is also some oxygen attached but These things are also more generally cuprate superconductors or Oh hey, more rare earths stuff. Wonder Anyway, all cuprate superconductors share the same like cakes. Layers of copper-oxygen separated The superconductivity happens within aren't exactly sure how it works. but differently from how it is in BCS theory Cuprates broke the nitrogen barrier, which cool them rather than liquid helium - which is benefits. Liquid nitrogen costs about 50 cents On March 15th, the American Physical on high temperature superconductors Several thousand physicists gathered at the Hilton The highlight was a special evening on Wednesday night in the Hilton Grand The session started out at 7 pm and ended ## A Gold Rush A &quot;gold rush&quot; was on for new Superconductor related headlines hit the media &quot;Superconductors! More important than The fever swept over Japan. Multiple ministries rapidly directed R&amp;D spending MITI's single biggest R&amp;D expenditure The United States too. The White Conference on superconductivity in July 1987. Reagan proposed an 11-point plan to build Tens of millions of dollars of federal On the corporate front, IBM and Bell Labs fray alongside a bunch of new startups with buzzy Conductus, Illinois Superconductor Incorporated, ## Hype Fades The discoveries kept coming throughout 1987. By playing around with the copper, and oxygen ceramic formula, superconductors with increasingly But the gaps between science and technology can As it turns out, transition temperature was have to consider when building For instance, take superconducting wires High-Temperature superconductors was liquid helium cooling systems for cheaper But as Kamerlingh-Onnes found out long before, superconducting wires need to also be able very high magnetic fields. In other words, The cuprate high temperature superconductors do but their other critical parameters There was also a substantial Cuprate superconductors are ceramics brittle to work with. This by itself They also work differently. If you and all the superconducting happens within This imposes big challenges on how we might to produce a wire using this material in order to maintain good alignment So it took a substantial amount of time Temperature superconductors. They do exist and are used for things like cables for power And there are certain applications where the of established technologies. Niobium Titanium - to dominate superconducting wires for MRIs. Mostly The slow speed of commercialization high temperature superconductors could not stimulate more investment into the space. clear that the cuprates did not present a way The scientific community did not forget after their discovery, the two won the Nobel Prize in Physics - the record for the fastest ## Iron &amp; Beyond Superconductor research continued for another high-temperature alternative In 2001, a Japanese team discovered an interesting Its transition temperature was 39 Kelvin. Far below the cuprates, but at least temperature superconductors. Unfortunately its The next significant high temperature when Dr. Hideo Hosono reported a Fluorine-doped iron-based superconductor with a This opened up a new branch of separate from the cuprates. At the A few months, another iron superconductor was But progress there has since stalled. And then recently in 2015 a team in superconductivity in sulfur hydrides Interesting, but again nothing that And there have been some ... questions about One recent controversial room temperature claim ## Conclusion The search continues for a room Or even a relatively high temperature compromises than what we already have. Is LK-99 really it? I don't know. But will it really the next transistor? It When we dream of room temperature like levitating trains, compact MRIs, Well, they have been citing these things technically possible with existing But there are real economic For instance, magnets for Maglev trains. The financial cost for these machines. It is the extensive planning, and the construction. And then there is always the superconductor - whether LK-99 is it or not Look at the MRI. Intuitively, you might think this sweep out the old superconducting wire tech But it turned out to be far more subtle 80-90% of today's MRI machines are still Just working these things into these things are layered cakes. Imagine Real world applications might be But hey, I hope I am wrong. I love the outcome, the fascinating science of one of its unique moments. This only happens