I think it had better go back in the bank. - Really? They look to me as if they've been excavated. Are you a sort of amateur archaeologist? - I work on building sites. And where were these from? Excavations we'd done some place in the City. I can't remember the site, though, sorry. - How long ago was this? - 15 years. And you dug these up? - Yes. - And kept the bits? Do you know what it is? No. OK, well, let's get rid of this one first. This is 17th century. Could be English or continental, And it's of no interest whatsoever. This is Delftware. This is a tin-glazed earthenware. And the idea of this was to produce a You can see, it's a very yellowy, creamy colour. And to make it white and more like Chinese porcelain, they put a tin glaze on it and they could then paint on it. Now, mostly, they were just flowers or scenes. But occasionally, they did commemorative pieces. Have you tracked down who this is? No. You don't know who it is? - Just a couple of letters. Well, that &quot;I&quot; stands for Jacobus - James. And that &quot;DV&quot; is actually D-U and there should be an X on the end, Dux - Duke. And this was when James II was Duke of York, during the reign of Charles II. This is about 1665. So, it's a very early plate. And it's a very rare plate. The nice thing about it is that the portrait is so good. Normally, they're very cursory and really rather silly. But that's actually quite sensitively done. And very rare. Although it's damaged, this would be wanted desperately by a museum. London Museum would want it, And I don't think... I mean, how much would you accept for it? You dug it up, you got it for free. How much would you... If somebody I don't know, I... - PS20? No, I... PS100? Are we getting tempted? After the information you've given me, yeah. PS500? PS1,000? PS2,000? Probably be tempted to get a value first, maybe. PS2,000? Yeah. PS10,000? Serious?! I think it could make PS10,000. It's such a rare, desirable piece. It was my great-grandfather's. So how long ago would that be? Maybe 1910. But we don't really know when but we think maybe around that date. And it's just been passed down through the family and it now belongs to my brother. Mm-hmm. And do you have any idea We've just been told that it's a And apart from that, we don't know a thing. Well, it's actually interesting because nowadays most people But in fact, diamonds were originally found in India. And all the diamond mines were worked out about 1725. And then, very conveniently, around And the Brazilian mines went on which was not until pretty late in the 19th century So, it's very likely that this diamond And did they specifically find Well, they find white, white-yellow, After white diamonds, the range goes And this is actually quite a good colour yellow. It's not a really, really strong fancy intense yellow. Also, the cutting's quite interesting You see, it's not round like most It's more what's called cushion-shaped, And also, if you look through the stone, you'll see that there's a slice off the bottom... - Yeah, you can see right through. And that's something you don't get So do you think it's always been a ring? No, I don't think it's always been a ring because actually, the stone is much And with diamonds, they tend to get unset and reset and unset and reset, and it happens all the time. - So what kind of date's the setting? Well, the setting probably dates from And platinum's a great material for mounting But they hardly used it at all because until around 1900, when they improved their technology. It's quite a big stone. I've got a little gadget here that sort of very roughly measures the size of diamonds. But it only goes up to two and half carats and two and a half carats goes nowhere near that. And also these stones are quite heavy because So, I think that this stone probably weighs which is quite sizeable. So, you don't actually have this insured or It's on the household contents insurance. - So, you'd get PS500 for it if it was stolen. If it was a really, really strong yellow colour, it would be worth a huge amount of money. But even with this pleasant yellow colour, weighing between four and five carats, Well, at least PS12,000. Anything between PS12,000 and PS15,000, Yeah, that's quite a lot. - It's really... It's really a super ring. - Now, would you be upset if I told Would that... Would that...? I might well be. I don't know where it came from. It was just sitting in the bank really. I don't know where it came from at all. - How amazing. Well, originally, it came from Rome. And it's the sort of object that would a first-class grand tourist visiting Rome. And it's perfectly obvious that it's a Roman ruin. I mean, there's no... At least, an Italian ruin. But what's more significant and points us towards the fact that is that it's laid out in micromosaic. Have you thought about this technique at all? - No, no, I know nothing about it. - No. Well, it's made up of tiny, tiny pieces of glass and some perhaps hard stones too, that are laid into a background minutely And it's a sort of miracle of... - ..human craftsmanship. - Hmm. And it refers back to the mosaics of ancient Rome - the Byzantine mosaics, the Roman mosaics - that such a man would go to visit. And so, he might well have brought this who had not had the pleasure of But this is quite a lavish thing. There's quite a lot of plate powder in the surface of it, which prevents us from understanding immediately Solid gold, it's marvellous. I didn't know it was gold. It's actually a very matte gold. And gold is a very malleable material. You can push it around and engrave it and texture it. And this is exactly what's happened here. There are two marvellous sort of neoclassical griffins, rather fierce-looking chaps with beards. And it's lined with a very smart band of enamel, which is an echo of the band of enamel on the front. What about date? Any thoughts? Any ideas? I don't know. it was just in... My mother died a few years ago So I know really nothing about it. What would she have put in it? - It's a snuff box, notionally. Because it's tiny, isn't it? I mean, - No, no, absolutely not. No, snuff it is. And this is a very, very eloquent and Now, having said that it was almost the great surprise is that it's not made - Oh, really? And all they've done is incorporate It's hugely enviable. I think everybody behind us would love wouldn't they? - and run away with it. I would. And because of that, it's really quite a valuable object. And so, goodness, what shall we say? PS15,000? I think it had better go back in the bank. Perhaps I'll go with it. Brilliant. Absolutely marvellous. - Thank you so much. Fabulous. - I was drawn to the drama of the scene and the line, in particular. And I discovered that Michael Ayrton Honed his skill through studying Durer's woodcuts. And I see this etching here, beautifully detailed. And then the drama - the sweep of the gulls. - It's got a lot of movement... - I love the light against dark, dark against light. The whole thing is beautifully balanced I think, the tide is on the turn, possibly. - You think it's been ebbing, it's coming back in? And for me, it captures the sort of I don't think he's had the recognition he deserves, really. - Because what was he? I mean, he was a great critic. I mean, perhaps he's first and foremost to - Theatre designer. as their leading critic, wasn't he? - Theatre designer. - And then a sculptor in later life? I think I can see that coming here with... You mean the way he's used the brush to leave those marks from the brush in the slabs of paint. And then he seems to have filled those with colour. That's not dirt. - I don't think so. - Don't tell me to have it cleaned! - No. I think cleaning pictures, until you fully Now, this one, if you cleaned all that off, I think you may be losing quite a lot of what the artist wants to put across. twilight mood, you know. But I love the way these seagulls come out of... They're almost like bits of seaweed Organics are growing out of it. And I think the whole thing's very moody. A very 50s colour, but it's actually dated 1946. But at this moment in time, I believe that he was very highly regarded, much more so than any of his peers. He was seen as the great white hope of British painting. How does he rate now? Because one Less so, less so. I mean, it was probably reflected in I mean, what did you pay for it, - No, I paid PS250. - Yes. - Well, an auction estimate might But I think the correct price for this I think worth every penny. I haven't finished looking at it myself yet. - There's a lot to come, isn't there? It's a very complicated picture and - It's a very intelligent picture. - I think one can spend 20 years and And I certainly intend to do that. A pair of whatnots. Curious word, isn't it? It is, yes. Do you know the origins of it? Actually, no. I mean really they are etagere - stages, platforms - and were developed in the latter part of And then, during the 19th century, in every shape and size, In the 1880s, they started to get very much more elegant. A renaissance of classical style came in and And I think it stemmed, that name stemmed, &quot;Where shall I put this, Mother?&quot; And they'd say, &quot;Well, oh, put it on the whatnot,&quot; and the name stuck. Absolutely, I can think of no other reason. Now, this very style is typical of the The top quality - there was Crace &amp; Son, And they followed this line of ebony And then you'll see here, outside this is this strong ebony colour, black ebony. And then this beaded edge, which actually sparkles. And the note of quality is the amount of And another piece of quality are two drawers in each. Usually one either in the base or sometimes And nice to see the original little knobs here And when we open the drawer - there you are - you've got Gillow &amp; Co, the magic name. The magic name. If you pull the two together, there are just slight differences in the pattern. You can see there you have Here you have a little heart at the top, little heart shape. And there's a slight difference in the size of the turned feet. So, not quite a pair - a matched pair. Gillows had innumerable differences, It really, to all intents and purposes, matters not. Now any maker's name on a piece Not only the historical value, And in this case, of course, Gillows - in any name on a piece of furniture, Now I... Have you had these a long time? No, we've just had them about three years and... - Oh, really? We saw them in a local antique shop. We thought they looked so neat and well-proportioned and then we realised that they were Gillow. We just liked them, thought they were very attractive. - Oh, they're charming. They're as good as you'll see. If we take this little piece here, that would cost today in the region of probably PS4,500 to PS5,000. Without the name on. With the Gillows name, double at PS9,000. A pair - even a matched pair - would be certainly PS22,000. They are so desirable, they're so fashionable. These are ideal pieces of furniture. - Wow, that's amazing. And you bought extremely well. - Given to us about 10 years ago by a man who tried to teach me and who subsequently visited us often in Greece and Italy, where we lived some years. And when he became too old to live at home, he went into a nursing home. And he decided to give various pieces of furniture to friends and to a number of his ex-pupils. - What a lovely present. Absolutely gorgeous present. What date do you think it is? I think it's about 1700, but I'm not sure. I think you're absolutely spot on. It's a lovely example of a walnut And this convex moulding just underneath the hood here is really a sign of either prior to 1700 Are you a bit of a botanist or not? No. No, I'm afraid not. - So you can't identify some of these beautiful flowers. And again, down here and also on the plinth. I think that is a lovely example. That is where it starts to go just a little bit wrong. Because the initial thing here is, barley twist ebonised columns on each side of the hood. They've obviously come off. They can be replaced. So, the clock is signed by William Threlkeld of London. And although I haven't got my tape measure with me, that is an 11-inch dial. Most of them were 12 and a little bit earlier, The 10-inch obviously being the most desirable And other things to look for, for an early clock, And you've got tulip engraving here between the spandrels on north, south, east and west of the dial. You've got a lovely rosette in the centre and you've got ringed winding holes. Let's just - not actually quite that heavy, And we've got five ringed pillars, And some... Well, not the best rebushing That's had a hard life, that movement. They've also used some fairly modern When was this last restored or cleaned? Right, so the clockmaker might have done - Yes, I think he might have, yes. Well, he's also sadly left you with a rather squat, That should have been a lovely, slender one. And that hand is not original either. Just opening the inside of the case Yeah, again, you can see very clearly how the lovely original hinges would And you can see the two holes The main thing is, it was a lovely present. - Marvellous. So, he gave it to you roughly how long ago? About 10 years ago. - Just before you had it restored? And did you have any sort of indication of Well, we had it valued subsequent to his death. And they thought it was worth something Right. Well, that was probably a reasonably These things have shot up through the roof and there aren't actually that many left in nice condition. Retail, you'd be looking, for a nice 11-inch marquetry, somewhere between, ooh, sort of PS18,000 and PS24,000. Really?! It's a jolly nice clock. And he wasn't a very wealthy man. He had no idea, I think, of the value - James Anderson, who owned retired in Sutton, where I live. - Sutton, Ontario? And a lot of his descendants still live there. And they gave us some artefacts and some furniture and this jacket. - I assume you're aware of who Mr Anderson was? Yes, he was the chief factor of the - That's correct. - And not just any chief factor. He was appointed by the Hudson's Bay Company he and Mr Stewart, to try and find - The Franklin Expedition. We have here... to search for Mr Franklin. - So, Mr Anderson, not only a very but led a fairly important search, which was a very tragic event in Canadian history. Here, we have a letter inscribed on stating his honourable service for the when he retired from Fort Resolution, And that brings us to this object here, dated to the middle part of the 19th century. And if we can look here, it's got all of this wonderful leather fringe. And if we can look at the back here - If we can just pull this fringe out of the way... We have this band of woven porcupine quill work decorating the back of the jacket. Really quite fantastic. This on its own, would be a fairly important thing. But when we add all of this together, I've been doing this for 24 years and we search for history associated with objects. And we almost never get this sort of thing together. I can tell you, I am very excited. Beyond just the monetary value, is a fantastic thing. Well, I understand you have a couple of his other things that were too large Yes, we have his portrait. A beautiful portrait I almost am hesitant to talk about this sort of Canadian history here. I've been told that his retirement letter would be worth in the neighbourhood - Really?! Oh, my goodness. Oh, isn't that... And we're not finished. And we're not finished. Oh, my goodness. Here, we have a wonderful old travelling mirror. The mirror's not original but we have dated 1831, and the ship Dewdrop... - Dewdrop, yes. This would be worth in the neighbourhood But then, we get to the piece de resistance, as they say. This jacket would easily command a value in the neighbourhood of PS15,000 to PS20,000, - Really? we have in the neighbourhood of about PS25,000, or $50,000 to $60,000, just for this. But beyond that, the historical importance and the fact that Bravo. Bravo! - It belongs to a friend of mine and it was inherited by her late husband in 1940s. And I presume it had been in the family - Quite a long time. Would be interesting to see how far It has that look of something that's You know, that sort of aura about it. It's just a cupboard with, when you look A fairly shallow bow front. And you could actually walk past it. You know, it doesn't stand and say something. And then one starts to realise that these oval panels are in the centre of a rectangle, And when you start to look at that, just any veneer, this is satinwood, which was an extremely expensive, exotic veneer when we first started to import it and use it. But it is the most expensive sort, So a man was using this almost in it would crinkle and crack. Here, he'd had to put a piece in. And if you come to the top, you'll see these wonderful, almost dark as a conker look to this, And yet it's this rippling, deep satinwood effect, Little bit of damage to the top with a Now, you then come to the oval panels themselves. And they are bordered and delineated with rosewood, a thin piece of ebony and a thin piece You see that repeated on there. There's a good example here. When this was new, the satin was a and then black, white and then this grain satinwood around the outside forming cross banding. Now, at the end of the 18th century, there were two designers of furniture in the classic style. Both Hepplewhite, George Hepplewhite, Sheraton is the name that would come to mind, When we open this... here you have what could be straight rather than Sheraton. The use of mahogany inside here, with two drawers which are 1775, 1795 in period and in shape, with a pop bead, original handle. you have adjustable slides. Faced up with mahogany, the back of which is pine. Absolutely traditional. And there it is, simplicity itself, but total use. So what at first looks like just a nice, well-designed cabinet or cupboard is in fact an exceptional piece of furniture. So goodness knows, this was made by an important maker. It could be someone like Ince and Mayhew, - I don't think my friend knew that. If one went into a good gallery, where you'd have to go to buy such a piece as this today, you would have to give between PS25,000 and PS30,000. - Well, I think she'll be rather startled. - It belonged to my father-in-law. I know that he bought it in 1943, from a dealer in Tenby. - Right. Well, indeed. It is certainly by James Webb. I looked at the signature, as one always does And you can't actually make &quot;James Webb&quot; from it easily, but the clue really, for me, was the quality of the interpretation of this boat being hauled in and the figures. And indeed, the view through to the beach huts here - the typical sort of Victorian beach huts of the 1850s, 60s. Images, similar images in fact, It must be one of the best pictures that It shows... I think this is Lexton Terrace and a view right across the bay to A fantastic picture. There are a few points that I must say, Its condition. No holes, but it is dirty, it is cracked, the paint is drying out in places. So, it could do with some tender loving care, Now, have you ever had it valued? Well, in its present condition, I would confidently value it, at auction, between about PS20,000 to PS30,000. - What's marvellous about this table, apart and the burr walnut, the construction, you have this great Gillow stamp, All the way into the solid mahogany frame. Both around the underside of the frieze Now, they were a fantastically established in the 18th century, who worked And they really reached arguably the height during the Regency period and into And this is a sublime example of their work. - I've been left by my late mother. And she purchased it by auction from Barlborough Hall sale in 1938. And we are given to understand that there was only two that was made. - The best thing of all about the table couldn't be a better example of specimen marbles, if you were to try. Are you a chess player yourself? - Er, not at the moment. You've got really incredibly rare marbles, You've got exotic antique marbles bianco e nero, you've got Spanish brocatelle, verde antico and you've even got malachite. And malachite is particularly interesting that is one of the marbles that one can pin things down much more closely. Because it didn't start to appear in Italian specimen marble tabletops at the beginning, but was much more Almost certainly commissioned And then brought back to England and Mr Gillow then provided this incredible base. I see. - Well, a table of this calibre and this quality And having a base that is by one of the I should think at auction this sort of table would fetch somewhere between PS30,000 and PS40,000. Thank you very much indeed. Thank you. - Well, this a piece of silver from the officer's mess And it was presented to the 10th Hussars, by King George IV on his accession to the throne, to commemorate his time in command of the 10th Hussars. - Do you know what most people don't is what extraordinary construction kits they are. And if you don't get these in the right place, they don't necessarily fit properly. So, do you know who made it? We believe it was made by a - We've actually got a maker's mark appearing here. And the maker's mark there is &quot;PR&quot;. Now, that is not Paul Storr's mark. The... In fact, the clue to the whole thing is... Where are we? Here we are. The inscription that runs around here - &quot;Rundell Bridge et Rundell Aurifices Regis.&quot; Rundell, Bridge &amp; Rundell, the Royal goldsmiths. The maker's mark there is that of Philip Rundell. I would suggest the greatest firm that But what Rundle did was to develop this firm in Ludgate Hill so that you have the top goldsmiths of the day. He wanted all the top men. So Digby Scott, Benjamin Smith, I mean, it's like a who's who of the Regency period. It is, of course, silver-gilt, not gold, - Yes. Had you considered value? Well, it's obviously insured amongst the And its last valuation, had it in the area of PS750,000. Right, PS750,000. I would go along with that. It is, after all, a unique piece. Commissioned by the King, for presentation to one of the greatest I mean, what a piece to have.