- Paprika is a spice. I think it's the most especially in Hungarian kitchens, we make everything with paprika. Our food, it has to be red. We are producing 5,000-6,000 I do everything from seeding to powder. We don't remove anything from the paprika, and we do not add anything. Our customers know that if you have to wait. This type of paprika has all the time because of the cleanness. So it's G** damn bloody hard work. (dramatic music) Paprika comes from America. Our old generation people in south of Hungary. When the paprika seeds came from America, the paprika was only just chili, and one guy in a lab, they There are three major We blend it 'cause one of one of them is good for the taste, and the third one with the oil level. I have six hectares altogether. So the paprika needs lots of before the harvest period. I have a pipeline. It's not even heavy. We can build it up like 300 meters long, and the sprinkler can take 300 We need the healthy plants, but it's quite soft and rich 'cause we don't use chemicals. What paprika does, the If the sugar level is really high, the pigment is going and the oil in the seeds for a very, very long time, the good taste and the good color. The sun-dried, that's the best quality, and we can see the meat inside and even if you taste it, I don't use hybrid paprika seeds because you use their seeds only once. This seed from our paprika It's my father, my grandfather. My dad is 81 years old and brings usually coffee, (dad speaks in Hungarian) (worker speaks in Hungarian) (dad speaks in Hungarian) - Actually harvesting the but when you do it eight hours a day, is bloody, bloody hard work. There is a stalk and just It's easy for the hand, but it's very difficult for your back. When I was a child, I had with my grandparents. Then I hated anything I went to Britain for eight years. I came home and thought During the communism, of the lands in the '90s and the '80s. The old generation got their land back, especially my father's father Then he dropped on his knee, he was crying, and he said So that's why I'm here. (worker speaks in Hungarian) - I really appreciate this kind of work. I have to call the Weather Channel, but he says that this morning, so where it is? (workers laughing) They always lie. (engine revs) I really ride old-fashioned. So we do the paprika so I love the old-fashioned truck as well. One of them is 52 years old. This tractor still works, We got the fresh paprika from And now we have a kind of because when we hold it looks like a salami. It's like 10 kilos. And how we can calculate, is one kilo of paprika powder. When we finish this and hang them around the houses, winter goes through, the sun is shining. That's the very best time It's going to be very When we look at the oil from the seeding and until the end, how many times we have that's very important. By the end of the day, customers are happy 'cause they have a really of Hungarian paprika. So after the pre-drying period, so after four or five when we put the pre-dried What they do here, they will recognize when they look at the color. So when it's the same red around, that means that's really healthy. So we need this kind of paprika only and remove the stalk like this, and we can slice it, (worker speaks in Hungarian) I think that that's the So we have 5,000 bags and So the bad ones, we keep them in a bag, and you can see how many. So we take it out, we This paprika when it's already rotten is going to be the natural nitrogen. And then we need to slice the paprika. It's a very good slicer, really sharp. So one bucket of paprika, we just pour it in, and after If we put the whole paprika because the paprika need which is still inside. And when we slice the paprika, then actually the paprika meat is open. The paprika could release We have a dryer machine, We need 20, 22 hours to make it dry. We need to increase the So at 9 o'clock it's now six hours past. What we need to do now, the hot air is coming from one way. So what we need to do, and turn it back. So with this action, make that Even if we touch them, it's That's good. When the water level is under 13%, we need to crush the paprika. The grinder, one of my friends made it. He's crazy about grinders. Like me, crazy about This period we're grinding When we put it through, it's quite big. So what we do is put it through twice. We keep it here for resting or fourth time straight away 'cause the temperature will be over 50, otherwise the paprika So when the paprika goes through and these hammers beat the seed and when the seed is broken, and splashes the paprika meat. The oil and the meat together Just let me introduce my sister. Her name is Zsuzsanna, and My sister helps me with the packing (Zsuzsanna speaks in Hungarian) - And it's ready for cooking, and it took us nine months to make it. 60% of our quantity is even in America, and the rest of it is going to Hungarian restaurants and users. Burlap and Barrel, they were looking for a good quality of paprika, and they came here, and and they looked at everything - Agi's Counter is a I'm a second-generation My grandmother Agi, who the grew up in Budapest and fled in 1956. The paprika that we from Burlap and Barrel. The right amount adds that Real good paprika from Hungary deep, rich, robust flavor. So today we're making korozott, which is like a Hungarian pimento cheese made with sweet paprika raw onion and caraway seed. Aesthetically, I think paprika For me, the smell and and just reminds me of my childhood. So the chicken paprikash is not your typical chicken but it is homage to the that everybody knows and loves. We are making a paprikash sauce with lots of onion and garlic, and two types of paprika, hot and a sweet. It's reduced down and it finished with some We pickle these ourselves. They're a variety of and they get white distilled Then they'll go on top of our chicken. Agi's Counter runs on two ingredients. We run on dill, and we run on paprika. It is kind of the blood that - [Peter] I would like to with the very, very best quality. (worker speaks in Hungarian) - I was looking for who are willing to pay for a for the good quality. - [Jeremy] Having high-quality paprika or high-quality ingredients or spices can, yes, come at a price, but I think for a home cook it's worth it to have something that is, that's really unique and special, and it's going add that - 20, 25 years ago, we had 1,000, one and a half thousand and now I could say that it's 50. Just a few farmers are doing and actually it makes me sad. I love to do this. It's our tradition. It's our culture. So I want to really give to do this kind of job. So, just take care of our land. Otherwise, there's no future. (gentle music)