This is the United States Air Force Convair B-36 the early 1950s sometimes referred to as The the 36 also had another name the big stick. With propellers this cold war giant best reflected speak softly and carry a big stick however this it's good that they never had to fly military the B-36 reflected a radar cross section pattern always knew they were going to be in trouble in an attempt to shore up its defenses defense system ever devised although it never festooned with a host of retractable with two 20 millimeter cannons capable of however with the exception of tail defense the the turret-equipped self-defending bomber it's it was a run and gun battle 1200 miles the Luftwaffe's deadliest Fighters armed with the air Gunners from the United States Army battled through their lives but for the success born above the trenches of World War I the air or two machine guns it was his job to battle task Sub-Zero temperatures turbulence and icy results were often discouraging but the belief in by the 1930s the first turret-armed the RAF has the world's only bomber Force armed were horrendous but faith in the turret-equipped the turret-armed B-17 in B-24 was unshakable by in the Pacific the B-29 represented the armed with the world's most turret system determined Japanese after World War II the air Gunner and the power on height and speed for protection but they did just eight years after the Wright brothers June 7 1910. two men flying a Model B Wright for lieutenant Thomas DeWitt Milling and Charles sitting side by side DeWitt flew the model B while machine gun it was a remarkable feat roughly European tests soon followed November Gunner Lieutenant Stellingworth fire a 25 rounds result in 11 hits a second longer burst these two experiments represented a for the first time armed aircraft soon they would be one of the most World War I at the outbreak of were equipped with aircraft but very one exception was the Vickers FB-5 gun bus required an observer Gunner to make a kill. The to put the engine in the rear with the Observer moderately successful the FB-5 and other with the introduction of the Fokker Eindecker in true fighter using synchronized gun gear it was the advantages were enormous guns mounted in line aiming was now possible success British and French reconnaissance aircraft added flying solo often meant certain death staggered of aircraft covering fields of Fire but it wasn't the rear Gunner's Field of Fire for the Observer icy slipstream winds and paralyzing cold rear gunners learned their craft on the job hitting a proved extremely difficult and would remain by 1915 the Royal flying Corps realized a new were laid down new observer gunners were now but were trained to use cameras send wireless by 1917 The Pusher had all but disappeared one of the best two-seaters was the Bristol F2B quickly became one of the most successful machine gun and two in the rear the F2B 126 observer gunners alone claimed as the war progressed new and larger bombers Bomber The Handley Page O/100 heavy bomber and all had multiple gunners but it was never enough by War's end the Observer air Gunner's role the Gunner's cockpit was still open to the elements oxygen was still experimental the rifle protective clothing consisted of twenty years later early second of the same problems but help was on the way the impact of the airplane on the World War One vital role of the air gunner and the influence the German bombing of London a new kind of warfare, strategic bombing. and Britain's chief of air staff Major the best defense against any attack was to destroy his factories and cities and peace would in June 1930 the Handley page Heyford was the biplane the Heyford's performance in bomb load was the Glenn L. Martin Aircraft Company introduced when the Martin B-10 bomber was introduced was an all-metal monoplane bomber tractable had enclosed cockpit for the pilot in the first but it was manually operated and gave the it had a high speed about 250 miles than the leading fighters in the world and that the bomber would always get through with its speed even those fires that did get close to it would be across the Atlantic the RAF introduced the Boulton first powered turret mounted on the nose it attention. For Gunners it was a marvel. seated in a rate of 55 percent against towed targets compared cockpits but it was far from perfect powered by could only defend the bomber from head-on attacks British turned to a French design that combined hydraulic generator powered by an electric motor as a self-contained unit it provided the Gunner remarkably the French aircraft industry and Britain was more than happy to acquire instructed their firms to Bristol, Frazer-Nash and Boulton Paul surprisingly Germany's aircraft rearmament program major advances in airframe and bombers like the Heinkel He-111 Junkers The Germans believed that speed altitude and handheld rifle caliber machine the Junkers JU-86 the Luftwaffe's first JU-86 Incorporated a number of the nose was fully enclosed with a manually turret provided lower defense and the just as the new monoplane bombers bold aerial experiment began to in 1936 Spain erupts into a savage civil and bombers for major Powers eager during the Spanish Civil War the Germans and the their latest designs when the Germans introduced while the Italians introduced the SM-79 three the German bombers were all metal quite fast and early versions of the German Heinkel sleek and fast the all-metal He-111 only a fast well-defended bomber would be immune from Dornier DO-17 and the Italian Savoia Marchetti S.M.79 the results didn't go unnoticed bomber Spanish experience as proof well-defended bombers but there was a major flaw. fighter interception there was no radar with both sides relying fabric covered bi plane fighters like the Fiat CR-32 in polikarpov I-15 found it difficult to reach the high-flying monoplane bombers now one bombers is and fighters is interception for a lot of lead time you had to know the bomber force and getting into position to shoot the bomber the ground had to know the speed of the bombers get off the ground climb to altitude and reach especially in the Spanish Civil War there was no so by the time a visual sighting was made well on their way home the other problem was the was sometimes slower so in order for them to above the bombers and dive on the bombers in order the lessons they learned from the Spanish Civil handheld machine guns were enough to get to the Spain would have a direct effect on the use of air in the United States turret development even the famous B-17 when it first American attitudes at the time considered September 1939 the German Blitzkrieg begins the Royal Air Force has the only with the most advanced turrets in the and Armstrong Whitworth Whitley are equipped the Bristol Blenheim had the with just five squadrons of Wellingtons and nine many believed however that the bomber armed with that was based on nothing but faith political the world's first powered turret fighters both were two-seat single-engine Fighters with no designed to engage other enemy fighters. Their bombers using their power turrets. Both aircraft the Roc and Defiant suffered heavy losses. It rather a turret on this fighter and mix it with gaggles of fighters. indeed initially that was true but it twigged that it had no forward firing armament. so Air gunner training at the beginning of the armed with a 12-gauge shotgun a gunner clay pigeons are used to sharpen the gunner's but just how effective were these early turrets in of the turrets the early turrets especially were possibly slower than the ones that they as well it's really new technology you've got give an effective spray to hit an aircraft that especially in the head-on which is going to towards more of an optical arrangement for as well and they're moving from training gunners to all of a sudden be in closed turrets that in the efficiency of the the early the RAF and United States Army Air Force they also believe that with enough formation could fight off any fighter early results were not promising. Raids on German heavy losses poor formation keeping and December 18 1939. twenty four RAF Wellingtons target German perfect. From 70 miles away an experimental German Fighters are scrambled. The Frazer-Nash turrets guns are not enough. Canon armed BF-109s and shooting down 12 over the target. six more it's a devastating blow. further losses during 1940 force bomber command's hand with Fighters RAF bomber command changes well the decision by the RAF to in response to being heavily mauled some of their light bombers were really not defend themselves against any fighter force that point that could defend the bombers with the accuracy of bombing at that time night you will. getting close to the target at that whereas when we go later into the war with Precision bombing but it was a it was an really precipitated upon the fact that they fighters they were interceptors and they was not the same way that it was in The Boeing B-17. No other aircraft represented than the mighty B-17. July 28 1935 Seattle bristling with multiple machine guns The Seattle the YB-17 would follow with the B-17B from this point forward the B-17 were Central to the development of both the first B-17 to see combat belonged to the operations began in July of 1941. The British performance and defensive armament. Hardly a armed with handheld 50 caliber machine guns in 303-inch caliber gun in the nose it had no powered the B-17 was capable of flying higher than any were common but the results were disappointing Luftwaffe Fighters undeterred by the home their attacks with increasing accuracy by the end of 1941 only four of in response a massive redesign was ordered the to see action with powered turrets. Equipped B-17E carried 850 caliber machine guns including by a self-contained electro-hydraulic unit the degrees per second and 360 degree rotation and a K3 computer Gun Sight the Sperry turret the Briggs Sperry ball turret was an ingenious it was capable of holding a gunner two turret speed was 30 degrees per second with a full only really effective Belly turret of the war. set off on the 8th Air Force's first bombing of RAF Spitfires they successfully bombed the so in 1942 the US has entered the war and they the buildup of the US-8th Air Force. early bombing successful but their bombing Targets in France deep plus they have an escort of P-47s and RAF occupied countries in Germany that's when they where the fighter escort drops off even though overlapping fields of fire the losses begin to caliber machine guns it had two powered turrets a it also had a tail mount with twin 50 calibers waste was quite heavily armed later as they began to they found that even with these tight combat into the bomber stream and shoot the bombers down attack head on to the B-17 because that's where what happened was you had a fighter and a bomber pilot his job was to get as many 20 millimeter area or an engine on the B-17 and once he did this June 13 1943. 227 B-17s bombed the U-Boat yards at down. air gunners claim 41 enemy fighters but the the results were sobering even with the F-17s flying in tight defensive formations were as losses mounted USAAF the RAF and USAAF went into belief that the bomber would always get through no matter how dense their opponent's air slip through and wipe out their intended targets however against the determined wasn't long before they were questioning even with the most sophisticated turret as the Allies clawed their way deeper into against Japan they could not be complacent to ensure victory against two ever the RAF and USAAF went into belief that the bomber would always get through no matter how dense their opponent's air slip through and wipe out their intended targets however against the determined wasn't long before they were questioning even with the most sophisticated turret as the Allies clawed their way deeper into against Japan they could not be complacent to ensure Victory against two ever when the usaaf began their bombing campaign formations of heavily armed B-17s would be almost The Luftwaffe's Fighters always seemed to find a as losses mounted USAAF commanders searched for an B-17 gunship the YB-40 so what they do is they gun position is increased to 250 caliber machine turret on the front of the B-17 throw a whole is they were inserting these YB-40s gunships into and their job was to add extra Firepower YB-40 once the bomber formations had released but the YB-40s didn't so they tended to get left end of the day I think they managed to shoot appearance in the European theater so their as an escort gunship the 48 sorties were recorded. just five German Fighters the extra weight of guns and additional could not keep Pace with the rest of the chin turret was incorporated into the new B-17G in Germany turret development soon caught up with the Focker Wulf FW-200 was one of the most service equipped with a forward dorsal powered top millimeter cannons two 7.92 millimeter waste guns was a formidable opponent but it had a weakness fuselage because there are quite a number of cases times and breaking Midway down the fuselage I've Bordeaux Merignac for the Focker-Wulf 200C The the Heinkel He-177 reaching service in it was the first and only heavy German bomber before the B-29 appeared even with 720 millimeter machine guns the He-177 was restricted to The Messerschmitt Me-410 designed to replace fighter to be equipped with an advanced rear remote gun system provided good protection over during 1943 the B-17F or the brunt of losses were horrendous American commanders clung to the idea of the self-defending with the introduction of the B-17g and improved tail turret it was like the B-17 the Consolidated B-24 Liberator turrets. entering RAF service first British top and tail turrets each was armed in early combat the B-24 like the B-17 was model addressed the problem with a nose-mounted caliber machine guns it also carried a Martin top even with four powered turrets the B-24 was fighter attacks in the end the Mast formations interestingly enough during the Battle of and sends their bomber creatures over to Battle of France the liftoff learns that their they face for the first time monoplane fighters from the French Air Force and even though and the Netherlands the losses they suffered to realize that they're bombers their Heinkels without fighter escort are vulnerable to fighter the Germans used fighter escort to escort their learned on the Americans and they continue with be invulnerable to fighter attack by late 1943 Fighters equipped with drop tanks could provide in over three and a half years of war the USAAF as the Americans pounded German targets by attack Germany at night losses to the new four-engine bombers like a Short Stirling introduced starting in 1941. each was equipped the Short Stirling was the first equipped with Frazer-Nash nose, dorsal six 303-inch caliber machine guns. The the Mark 1 was equipped with the Boulton the Boulton Paul Type E rear turret 303 inch machine guns and one of the it also has to be remembered that the uh Handley Page Halifax and Avro Lancaster were all adopted their night bombing techniques they equipped for daylight operations now all the in 42 they were all equipped with power turrets inch machine guns which were basically and they hadn't really studied how the turret night the bombers would be flying as individual and have the mutual protection of a large number out how to use their trained gunners and turrets Developed from the failure of the Avro Manchester powered by four Rolls-Royce Merlin's it the nose, mid upper, and tail positions. like most lightly armed heavy bombers of the war designed as a day bomber the Lancaster's German night Fighters armed with 20 millimeter outranged it. The nose turret was all but useless top turret saw a little action. Tail Gunners were spotting an approaching night fighter it's not so surprising RAF bomber command was a speedy Me-262. Eric wells in charge of experience. In fact our aircraft shot down an confirm it but I saw it in my own eyes. my three took a moment to go up to the front sit by and as I got there this aircraft was definitely the ****02? the thing just blew up but the authorities enemy aircraft shot down but they would the role of RAF Gunners at night was far different did not want their Gunners to open fire Gunners of approaching Fighters many Pilots use evasive it was either Corkscrew left or Corkscrew right turn hard left or hard right and then would go a corkscrew where it would throw off the the at night it's really essential the radar will of sky to look for but until you get a visual going to get an a really essential aiming German night fighter tactics were simple after approach from below and the rear they also had Innovative and successful features it had was top of the cockpit just between the two crew forward at an angle of 60 degrees with Schrage Musik you if it was the enemy you then just blasted off and the interesting thing is on the first ever 219 it killed six Lancasters in one swipe. The British a small number of Lancasters and Halifaxes were aiming through the periscope site proved just like there were American counterparts March 30th 1944 the RAF sent 795 bombers 95 heavy bombers were shot down for RAF unable to defend themselves the RAF's even before the Nuremberg raid RAF to help defend the bombers the RAF formed a top number 100 group its job was to disrupt and jam what the turrets couldn't do they flying high above the main bomber stream constant stream of electronic noise some of the their job was to tune in to frequencies and give false the RAF Lancasters had a normal crew of seven but operator we were number eight our position was beneath the mid upper Gunner at the center of the players had Top Secret in those days you go eliminate that I had three transmitters so I could and we were of course very vulnerable first secondly because of the fact that we but we had a device called they had a device them onto us and we had a device where we could us it bented and they were flying alongside out it's a very clever thing so secret was their job that not even the they kept us well apart from the others and then I we had and it's not even the captain our skipper knew what utterly secret and we were the most unpopular by War's end some Lancasters were equipped 50 caliber machine guns in the tail identification, Friend, or Foe system had to was estimated that four times as many bombers in total RAF bomber command sharp contrast just 260 of the Speedy the Boeing B-29 super Fortress the the B-29 was a Marvel of Technology 3,000 Miles and carry up to 20 000 feature was the Revolutionary General Gunners no longer had to strap themselves into controlled turrets and a gunner in the tail the there were four assigned Gunners three manned the wing. The upper and two side blister Gunners turrets. the Bombardier or Navigator controlled operated hits alone designed to allow one doubled his firepower at the flick of a switch so developed during World War II enter service it's great high altitude performance it has a Norden first remote controlled turret system developed each turret is controlled by an analog computer speed, bullet drop, humidity, temperature have to worry about all those things all the B-29 the computer will align the guns onto the target What made it all work were the five central fire the gunsight information Parallax, ballistics sent to the corresponding turrets moving as long as the Gunner tracked his target smoothly but it wasn't enough improvements were continually first installed in the B-29B. The new radar designed to log on to incoming enemy Fighters fortunately for B-29 crews Japanese after over 31 000 sorties over the Japanese all told 360 B-29s were lost to all causes as like the Germans the Japanese were quick to the B-29 which again was head-on attack there the guns could not depress enough to cover that attacks as much as possible. But also to the quite anemic they didn't have a lot of fighters and at the height the B-29s flew their altitude was extremely poor so what they adopted B-29 which was ramming so they developed a certain death for the pilots a lot of times into the B-29 and hopefully bail out but it was of pilot training in order to you know get your the long-range P-51 escort fighter would prove Korea 1951. B-29 Gunners face their greatest armed with two 23 millimeter and one 37 millimeter with its high speed and immense Firepower it for most B-29 gunners the Swift MiG-15 unable to cope with the fast attacking MiGs the The Korean War and the buildup of Soviet Russia was now the enemy armed with stood toe-to-toe in a world defined early nuclear weapons were big and bulky an aircraft with InterContinental range Germany from the U.S. the B-36 continued the the B-36 was a behemoth a wingspan of 230 feet armed with sixteen 20 millimeter cannon and eight heavily armed strategic bomber ever produced vibration affected the electrical wiring vacuum to malfunction even with its powered turrets the several parasite fighter concepts were tried Bombay and wingtip mounted RF-84Fs the concept at the same time that the Air Force was were also looking into a much smaller and cheaper at the end of World War II Douglas experimental bomber the XB-42 also known as two engines in the fuselage driving a pair placing the props in the tail not only it also left a room in the wings for rear although these aircraft could and a jet-powered variant was in the swept Wing Boeing B-47 along the power turret but not the Stinger's tail both aircraft were equipped with early remote B-47 carry 250 caliber machine guns later the B-52 Strato Fortress operational since aircraft in the U.S Air Force service it's also using a powered turret. the early B-52s a man tail turret armed with four 50 caliber the G-model moved the Gunner to the forward machine guns Armament in the B-52H changed December 18 1972 operation linebacker 2. North Vietnamese Air Force reacts with intense Gunners were ready turning away from their target tracked an incoming MiG-21 both engaged the 50 calibers scoring hits on the MiG-21 seconds witnessed by another B-52 tail Gunner the kill First Class Albert Moore claimed another MiG-21 the North Vietnamese Air Force they were the last today the power turret has all a few bombers that still have the stingers tail the tupolev tu-95 bear like the a gunner still mends the rear turret but his job crew it can be a lonely proposition the crew air of extracting the tail Gunner for a photograph where was he well answer there's no through way was able to climb in whilst at base he climbed in and getting in from ground level as it were we're feet above the ground and he can open his hatch long time we found somebody with a ladder and as today the Strategic bomber relies on speed stealth for protection the era of the manned power while Marvel's of Technology they could never in the end it was the fighter And when I arrived in Moscow in the first week of January 1993, as we came out of the cloud, I was entering that foreign, hostile territory that I'd been trained to operate against. For the past 35 years. Suddenly, there I was, in the middle of it all, in the snow. Anyway, I got there and it was the old system. It was the old Russian bear. I was not going to be giving too much of a welcome. I had diplomatic immunity, or I would have one. I'd been signed in. But nevertheless, I was not expecting a great deal of eager cooperation, and indeed my task was to see as much of them as I could without annoying them sufficiently to get them really annoyed. The Spring of 1994, Paul Bowan who was then the driving force under, and the chief executive, as it were, of the RAF Benevolent Funds International Air Tattoo, alternating in those years occasionally from Greenham Common, but more usually from Fairford down in Gloucestershire. And I got a call saying we'd really love to have a Russian bear or preferably two Russian bears come to Fairford. Can you fix it? I said, well, no, but I I will go and ask. I suspect the answer is not going to be anything other than Het. They they just don't seem to be up for this sort of thing. I phoned, I made an appointment and I went and I spoke to my man in the UVS and he said yes. I said, can I just have that absolutely certainly there will be no objection to a pair of Russian aircraft going to an air display in England in the summer of this year. No, he said. I think that will be OK. So I check back with Paul Bowan and he said that's amazing. That is astonishing. Tell me how the thing develops. So I went back to UVS and said again, they're very happy in the UK, they're very delighted this is going to happen. Now when are we going to know which aircraft and and so forth. And they said, well, there's something that we should make clear. We will obviously have to support these aircraft because they're going to be away from Base in a Foreign setting. And so we've got to support team and here's The list. And he handed me a list which ran to, I think, 3 pages. There were 76 names on it. They contained the the two crews, thirteen in each aircraft, and then I think that's 26, another 50, nearly all of whom were colonels or above of the Russian Air Force and the Russian Naval Air Service. There were a couple of warrant officers and there were some majors, but effectively it was a bunch of boys out for a good trip. They would all be travelling in an Aleutian 76 Candid and all three aircraft would be expected to have full refuelling facilities and full tanks before they left The UK. Annd they would obviously wish for a appropriate accommodation, hotel accommodation and given the current situation, they'd really rather like some spending money for these individuals. So I went back and Phoned Paul and said Are you ready for this? I don't know what the fuel capacity is of a bear, but you're going to have to fill two of them up and if you want one of them to fly, you'll obviously have to fill it each time it does its display and we'll have a candid and then we've got 76 people who want hotel accommodation, entertainment and money to spend and, he said. Yeah, that'll be OK. So I went back again and said to the Russians, that's fine, it's all agreed, accepted. I've got the list and I will be sending it to the authorities in the UK so they know who they will have to take in in clearance terms, Russian embassy, so forth. Then I had a call from Paul, Bowan and he said. Hey this is fantastic and I've got an idea. I want Central TV to send a crew out and probably just a director and a cameraman, but I think we ought to be able to film this from the whole startpoint in Russia to the arrival in Fairfield Display in Fairfield and going away. I said, well, I can ask, he said. Well, could you, could you make sure that the request includes the cameraman flying in in the Bear? I said no, Paul, well yes. alright, I'll ask, I'll ask. And I went back to my friend in UAS and I said right, this is the sketch they would like a camera team or about television team with a cameraman to come over and film the expedition and indeed to film from inside one of the operational aircraft. Yeah it's Ok, said the Russian. And I was stupefied by this, but I had the presence of mind to say at that stage. Well, in that case, since these Russian aircrafts will be going as a gaggle of three into British airspace and and so forth and, and now you've got British cameraman and so on crawling around the bottom of one of the aircraft, I think you ought to have me on board as a sort of onboard interpreter. You know, air traffic control procedures, air traffic language, there's got to be some guarantee that it will all be understood and responded to properly. Yeah, OK, so all of a sudden from what I thought was a complete no chance, we now have three airplanes, two operational Bears, a Candid full of generals and Admirals. A TV crew on board one of them and me alongside as well. And that's exactly what happened. The Russian main airfield outside Moscow military Airfield Chkalovsky we I rendezvoused with the TV team. We then went out there and we rendezvoused with the. Candid load. We clambered onboard the Candid and flew up to the naval main station in Kaliningrad, in the enclave on the Baltic shore there. We landed, parked the aircraft, the Bears were already there, the Naval Aviation one was on its home base, the Russian Air Force One, and flown up from somewhere in the South. And so the base Commander came to meet us and said hurry along, put your bags in the accommodation because we're going to have a little party. And so we put our bags in the accommodation. We came back out, got into a series of Russian equivalents of Jeeps, Land Rovers and so on and shot away to the Baltic shore. Couple of wrecked bits of old shipping were on the sand and we went and played amongst those. I also noticed that there were long long tables set out on the Cliff top. with much interesting salady things, getting quite sort of warm in the bright sunshine, lots of glasses and lots of bottles. And some of the bottles were beer. And I said to the Russians, I think if we're going to go and have a swim, we might take some of these bottles down with us and we can leave them in the sea and get them cool because they're not doing much and drinking warm beer. That maybe your idea of what the Brits do, but it's not mine. So in fact we carried a couple of cases of Vietnam, we had a good swim and we put the beer in to get it cooled and we came back up. The base commander then appeared in his underpants and with his tame chef behind him, and they came to the open air stoves and started. The cook started to cook and the base commander started to make us welcome, which of course involved the large glasses that we had, which were sort of jam jar size and jam jar capacity and into which the first of the vodka of the day was now being poured. And that's the way it continued. It continued for a long afternoon and into the early evening, and the food came, and the vodka continued, and the food came again, and more vodka. And slowly but surely, in particular, my unfortunates from Central TV became, how should we say, slightly confused about everything. At the end of it all, which had been a thoroughly wonderful afternoon picnic by now, quite towards mid evening, we got back into the vehicles and disappeared back towards the main base, pausing only at the halfway distance. Someone obviously felt the need. Out jumped, the deputy commander of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of Naval Aviation to insist that it was time we had a drink for the road. So we paused and had a couple of drinks for the road and then we got back and I think my TV chums now thought this was time for bed, because everybody. But no, it's time for the Banya, the the sauna. So we carried forward Oh stripped off, went into the cabin, were super heated, hit with steam from all directions with large lumps of Birch by lady. And then we plunged into the cold pool. And then we rushed outside and then came back in and went to offer it again and eventually subsided into a series of small lounging chairs and had some more vodka really. And that was where it ended, and it was where it ended. Everybody, especially the two TV folks. The next morning was just quite a, quite a. Gentle Starter was The best way, but we got into our airplanes. I clambered up into the Navy Bear, the Tupolev 142. And I looked around for where the television chaps were and they said, no, they're going to travel in the Candid, in the glazed nose of the Candid, and then they'll be able to film the whole thing. And that we know we're going to be intercepted by everybody and his dog as we go through the Baltic and out into the North Sea, everyone will want to have a look at the gaggle of Bears. So they'll travel in the Candid, at which stage I got into my seat halfway down the back on the left side of the airplane. It's interesting. They started all the engines and then shut down the two inboards and taxied on the outboard engines. We taxied quite fast and got ahead of the Air Force version. And and got airborne and turned left heading for UK and I said you know aren't we waiting for the the system to gather us all together. And they said no, no, no we're off now we're going. I said, fine. And looking down I could see the Air Force version just getting onto the runway and the candid probably not even started its engines. That's it. And they never did catch up, so there never was a central TV documentary film made in the flight to there, which was a shame. On the other hand, it meant that I didn't give my attention to translating for their directorial announcements and so on from from there filming position, because they weren't there. I was impressed to see how well they did work as a crew and I noticed how much of a sort of challenge and response and exchange of words and music went on as they got this gigantic set of engines going at the start. Bit of a laborious process. It wasn't just a master switch on, press the button and go. It took a little time. An extraordinarily versatile aeroplane, it's variety of weapon systems, anti shipping, anti submarine, anti radar, just basic long range bombing missions. Long range surveillance missions and long range is a feature. I mean, they used to fly to Cuba via Iceland with no stops on the way. I mean there they were quite capable of gigantic journeys. The Poles came up and had a look. The Germans came out and look at the Danes and Norwegians, and then we got through the Baltic and up the other side. But the next thing we saw was a gaggle of Tornadoes. F-3s threes came in and there's an awful lot of photographs of Tornadoes intercepting Bears and Lightnings, intercepting Bears and so on. And there's always, you know, someones Air Force wall has always got there's me with The Bear, you know, and in my Tornado or whatever, well, I took pictures from the inside of The Bear and I was able to present. At least two of the pilots, with the picture of them seen from the other side, so the Tornado looking along the wing and down past those gigantic Contra rotating propellers. There are Tornadoes stuck in on the wing. There was a great atmosphere of of a great crew working together atmosphere. They were all pretty excited because although they'd obviously all probably flown past the British coast on a number of occasions, all around the Baltic and over the top, they were nonetheless all going to be going actually into the enemy airspace as it were. Not to be threatened but to be welcomed and put on the ground. So there was a lot of excitement, the navigators in particular. And the systems, operators, systems operators have very little to do. So they were all clattering around trying to get near all the considerable number of windows and glazed areas so they can see what was going on. There were people taking lots of film shots from inside for their personal Diaries. Great stuff. We landed, having been escorted in all the way. The Air Force One caught up very soon after and the Candid, oh, probably 20 minutes later. One of the Navy front end chaps as we landed said we must have a team photo. They they have the same approach as aviators worldwide. Let's have a team photo. So we all clambered out of the airplane and stood in front of it under the under the nose and a spare body not of the crew. Got the camera. Really. And. It's almost a minute. 1,2,3,4,5,6. Oh of course the tail gunner. Where was he? Well answer he was still in his turret. There's no through way through the airplane to get to it and although he was able to climb in. Whilst at base he climbed in by going up onto the revetment, opening the Hatch and getting in from ground level, as it were. We're now on the ground at Fairford. And he's about 22 feet above the ground and he can open his hatch, but he can't get out. So eventually, and it took a long time, we found somebody with a ladder and and he came and we then had the complete team photo. Then we had a week of um, ha! Of looking after the Russians on the loose in England with entertainment money in their pockets, there were some highlights. Some of which are probably best left discreetly to one side, but both crews were surprised to find them being the center of attention. The King of Jordan, King Hussein at the time came to visit the great enthusiast for aviation. Always has been, and he was taken up inside our Bear and sat at the controls and had a good time. He and and queen Noor were introduced the crew. Another visitor was coming the following day and it was scheduled to be also a visit to the naval aircraft because the Air Force One was gonna be the one that did the daily display, so we were going to be on on show on the ground. Interestingly part between the B-52 and B-1 and there was a lot of interplay between the crews of those two who I don't think I'd ever received Russian Admirals on board their aircraft before and nor I think had the Russians received a B-1 Colonel before on board, but that's another piece of the story. But one lovely morning the Russian Navy crew had been slightly over refreshed and were a bit late on parade. They came galloping up but too late for the visitor who was in fact His Royal Highness Prince. Michael of Kent. Who many years back I knew was working in the Defense intelligence staff when I wasn't. He was learning Russian at the time. And of course, if you've seen Prince Michael of Kent, you know that he looks just like the last Czar, Nicholas the Second. He is a dead ringer for the Czar. And so when this Navy crew came galloping up, they formed up at the bottom of the steps of the aircraft, knowing there was a VIP on board. And when he came down and walked towards them and addressed them in Russian, you could see their little brains were in turmoil. What on Earth is going on? What it did this? I'm not sure that there is a Russian candid camera or you've been framed, but they were convinced there was some grotesque joke going on. It's wonderful. Absolutely marvelous. The long and the short of it was that we wrapped up at the end of a a week as we'd arrived two days before the the weekend of shows and we left after the shows were all over. And my last memory and probably the last memory that the receiving British will retain is that our accommodation was in the Bear Hotel. Nearly all of us were in the Bear Hotel in in Hungerford. And the last morning breakfast was being served at the usual pace and with the usual contents. Russians rather enjoyed the full English. They thought that was a good idea. But their own Stockkeeping logistics management had gone to pot and they've got no vodka, so they needed some vodka to help the breakfast down. That's sort of thing you do. And so the Bear Hotel Hungerford, the hotel manager. I still don't know that he was really feeling that he could do it, but he was asked if he could serve some ice cold vodka for breakfast if you don't mind. He eventually did and that was fine and we then proceeded. I had to say I'll be quite fair here that the upfront operating members of the crew were not drinking vodka at breakfast time and some of those further down the back were however and enjoying it, but we we clambered back into the air and went off and did the return journey. It's about a three hour sort. Total of three hours and we were again escorted some some lovely pictures of the Tornadoes out on the wing and others coming in. One of the non operating. Accompanying Fellows blagged his way onto aeroplane on the way back. He wanted to get back faster than the gaggle who were coming home in the Candid, so he hitched a ride with us and he all the rest were in standard sort of grow bag green, rather like our flying suits. Not a great deal of difference there. He was in a lightweight blue one, and I said that's very smart. And he was sitting on the floor beside me. He was one of those who had had breakfast with vodka and he found a bottle in his bag and he was now having some more. So until he became totally incoherent, I asked him a number of questions and he was tear stained because I said, why have you got this lightweight blue suit? He said, ah, that's what we always wore when we went to Cuba. Oh, Cuba, the Sun, he said the sand, the Sea, the sex oh! I mean, he clearly had enjoyed his chance in the other totalitarian regime of the world, ignoring North Korea. And Cuba was obviously a haven and that, of course. If you've served in the far north of Russia for most of your serving life, first thing you have to recall is that that was not all the bad that it could be. Because you know for those serving in the far north there was an immediate pay supplement which tended to take the edge off some of the hardship up there. But if your normal sort of operating area was the Bering Sea of the Iceland Pharos gap and then it was your turn here in Cuba, I sympathized with him and he was a non operating part of the crew. He's not going to operate anything once he got home. I flew the last half of the of the journey up front and I was. Agreeably surprised the size of that airframe. Of course, there's a gigantic amount of inertia. And like any old heavy, you turn the thing with a great yoke and you get it like that, and then you wait for the wing to catch up and do it. And when the wind starts to move to that sort of angle, just wind it off the other way, and then you're nice and stable in the turn down the slope into Kaliningrad. Easily managed, quite extraordinary. Throttle handling and all the rest. Even with all those peculiar engines out on the wing, which I'd never flown with before, I'd flown piston engine only or jet only, but turbo prop, No. And responses and so on, I wasn't sure of. But it did what it was asked to, and putting it on the ground on the numbers, I have to say that the risk of being laughed to scorn was straightforward. There must be rather more to it than simply that, because the. Navy pilot next to me was very quick to take control of it, so I suspect the braking and other ground handling aspects of the aeroplane are a bit more of a challenge because it is a big one and a heavy one. But it was a great trip. It showed the aircraft off well. It certainly achieved something I thought was never going to be achieved. And in fact since then they've been Bears going into Barksdale in Arkansas, in the US and and other places. And in it was a bit of a first. It was certainly a first to have the Navy and the Air Force One together side by side in the UK. And as such, I'm thrilled to bits. It was at a sort of high spot of Russian cooperation. So an extraordinary experience, one that I, you know, I could go on describing for a long time. I think the the impact the whole essence of good of the flight was that it was so unusual and so unexpected. I I was thunderstruck my Ghast, was totally flattered because I couldn't believe that when I had made this to me, outlandish request to have airplanes of that kind come and put themselves on the ground and be the object of full attention from the British and and the others, I I couldn't believe it would happen. But not one, but two, and then a great gang of others. It was a huge triumph.