The man known to history as King Baldwin IV early summer of 1161. The exact date of his birth is not known, assumed that it was in the city of Jerusalem. His father was Amalric, Count of Jaffa and As count he was one of the foremost lords given that he was a member of the royal family The young Baldwin was named after his uncle, the new-born when he was baptised in 1161. Baldwin, though, would never know the monarch In February 1163 Baldwin III died, most likely suspicions arose that he was poisoned. Childless at just 33 years of age, his death as King of Jerusalem. With this, Baldwin, who was still shy of his of Jerusalem. Baldwin's mother was Agnes of Courtenay, branches back in Western Europe and in the Count of Edessa. She was also closely related to the royal She and Amalric had one other child beyond born either in 1158 or 1159 and so was Baldwin's Sibylla would play a major role in Baldwin's His mother, though, would never be Queen of At the time of the death of Baldwin III in to succeed his brother, the religious authorities States had objected to Agnes becoming queen, related for their marriage back in 1157 to The pair were only related in the fourth degree, of royals and nobles in medieval times, and have been the result of some unclear political Whatever the precise reasons were, Amalric He declared his marriage to Agnes void and a grandniece of the Byzantine emperor, Manuel This second marriage would result in just heir to the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Meanwhile, even though he had been forced powerful figure at the royal court in Jerusalem during Baldwin's later reign. Baldwin was born in the Crusader States of These had only existed for just over a half Back in the early days of Christianity in had been the heartland of the Christian church, Levant, parts of Asia Minor and west into Arabs and people there converted to Islam centuries. The Arab Muslims had been relatively tolerant the centuries, but the Turks who conquered century were less so. It was in response to the expansion of Turkish that the First Crusade was preached by Pope Tens of thousands took the cross and headed Between 1097 and 1099 they succeeded in conquering in July 1099. With this, the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the County the County of Edessa, were set up in the Holy The most senior of these were the rulers of The first of these was Godfrey of Bouillon, subsequently was acclaimed as King Godfrey city in 1099. The Crusader region was referred to back in as Outremer, meaning 'Overseas', though in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries as or even as the Frankish kingdoms in recognition from what had been the Kingdom of the Franks Indeed, the Muslims of the Levant came to In the early twelfth century the Crusader with Italian merchants operating out of ports Christendom, with several orders of religious Knights Hospitallers emerging as powerful But the Muslim response was also quick in Muslim lords such as Imad al-Din, better known Syria, Egypt and northern Mesopotamia, began from the 1120s onwards. In 1144 the city of Edessa fell to the Muslims, in Europe. The Second Crusade had been more extensive Louis VII of France and King Conrad III of of warriors. It was a sign of the stiff resistance which this Second Crusade was far less successful under the control of the Crusader States, King Baldwin III of Jerusalem, young Baldwin's of the few urban centres in the Levant which retain control of since the First Crusade. But when his brother, Baldwin's father Almaric, childless, he would face a major threat in This was the context in which Baldwin IV's worth pausing to briefly consider the nature for the Crusader Sates at this time. In general the High Middle Ages are a period amount of bureaucratic, governmental and judicial or even extensive correspondence. This is doubly the case for the Crusader states in the twelfth century were generally lost in the course of the thirteenth century. Owing to this we are especially reliant on historians. Two of these were written by figures that times and who were eye-witnesses to much of The Chronicle of William of Tyre, the archbishop is especially valuable as William was a tutor diagnosing the future king with leprosy in history of the Kingdom of Jerusalem throughout Another valuable contemporary source is the This was written by Ernoul, a squire of Balian 1180s. Ernoul's Chronicle provides a history of is a valuable source for Baldwin's life in the early 1180s. While these are the two most important sources provide some ancillary details, notably a in Western Europe who related the news that from the Holy Land during Baldwin's reign, Sanctae per Saladinum, meaning roughly The written by an anonymous knight who was present important details on developments there in death. There are also numerous Arabic and Byzantine and thirteenth centuries that shed light on As such, there are a good number of different inevitably there are still considerable limitations lived over 800 years ago. From the sources which we have, we know a and educated. He would have spent much of his early life city in a land where the Christians held the was prone to attacks by Muslim bands. In Jerusalem Baldwin would have grown up at than even those back in medieval Europe, one his primary role was to defend his state against territories for the church, a land where even In 1170, William of Tyre, the man who would returned from the capital of the Byzantine dispatched him on a diplomatic mission. When he reached Jerusalem, the king appointed then was an archdeacon, was widely recognised The dual nature of the Christian Crusader Muslims often lived side by side was seen It was an Arab by the name of Abul'Khair highly significant in other respects. He was sent to live for lengthy periods of it was while he was there that William first In later years he recounted his discovery "While he was staying with me...it happened noble birth who were with him and they were with their nails, as children often do when they were hurt, whereas he bore it all with although his friends did not spare him in When this had happened several times, and of his patient disposition, not of his insensitivity ask him questions about it. And finally I came to realise that half of could not feel the pinchings at all, or even Then I began to feel uncertain in my mind, 'It is a certainty that a limb which is and that a sick man who does not feel himself His father was told, and after the doctors made to help him with poultices, ointments For with the passage of time we came to understand of a more serious and totally incurable disease. It grieves me greatly to say this, but when suffering from leprosy to a dangerous degree." Another sign of the cultural tolerance which was seen in the hiring of Arab doctors to Dawud, but there was no cure for Baldwin's His leprosy would come to define his life The disease that his son and heir was suffering He had begun his reign by taking the offensive of Jerusalem. The main power at this time was the Fatimid lands, a power which had been in decline for of the Turkic Muslim powers further to the to the arrival of the First Crusade. The Fatimids experienced a period of intense the 1160s and Amalric was able to campaign of his reign, consolidating the southern frontier But matters were very different to the north. In the early autumn of 1164, news arrived ruler of Syria, had defeated a crusader force of Antioch at the Battle of Harim, obliterating and soldiers, a costly defeat which the Crusader from Western Europe was the only way of making Defeat at Harim put the Crusaders on the defensive It was at this juncture that Amalric entered in him marrying Maria Komnene in order to Harim when Amalric learned of his son's It was most likely kept secret to begin with to whether the diagnosis was correct. Baldwin did not appear to have any visible and the diagnosis was made purely on the basis The royal family would also have been reluctant Leprosy carried an enormous social stigma was something of an affliction visited on Consider the following passage on leprosy "He is despised and rejected of men; a man we hid as it were our faces from him; he was Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried smitten of God and afflicted." Scholars have speculated that the Christians of leprosy than their brethren back in Western St Lazarus had been established in Jerusalem However, there was still no doubt that Baldwin's not least because lepers were largely expected the belief in the contagious nature of leprosy Hansen's Disease, to give it its modern prolonged exposure to the bodily fluids of This was not known in pre-modern times, however. The expectation that someone like Baldwin the Lazare house in Jerusalem was impractical to lead armies, something which would become in years to come but which Baldwin would still Amalric was aware of all of this and was concerned which may have informed his decision to remarry his own premature death, the latest in a long In 1174, after the death of Nur ad-Din, the siege to the town of Banias. Eventually he had to given up on this, realising that would have required to maintain a long It was while heading back to Jerusalem from Though easily treatable in an age of antibiotics, fatal in pre-modern times, and so it proved His condition deteriorated in the days that a severe fever. Despite being attended by a range of Latin, nothing effective could be done and Amalric of age. With that, Baldwin, who was approximately Baldwin IV of Jerusalem. Owing to this youth a regency government would which was deemed to be at age 15. Initially Miles of Plancy, the seneschal of assumed the position of regent, but within of the senior-most nobles of Outremer, arrived rule as regent during Baldwin's minority. were important in framing the circumstances from 1176 onwards. The death of Nur ad-Din had left something It was quickly filled by a noted warrior of the 1160s under Nur ad-Din's wing. This was Yusuf ibn Ayyub, a warlord who hailed He is better known by the Arabic laqab or ad-Din or Saladin, meaning the 'Righteousness In the mid-1160s Saladin had gone to Egypt Muslim position there as the Fatimid Caliphate In 1171, following the death of the last Fatimid Caliphate to an end and realigned it with Then, in the mid-1170s following Nur ad-Din's Syria as well. What this meant was that the Crusader States, now faced a skilled Muslim warlord who could of Syria and the south out of Egypt, while In Jerusalem, even as a teenager, Baldwin the Ayyubids was a major issue that would Our sources make it fairly clear that from succession already and his role as ruler of His leprosy precluded the possibility of marriage He did not have a brother to whom the throne kingdoms back in the Latin West, women were Indeed, Baldwin's grandmother, Melisende, her own or as a co-ruler for much of the period II, in 1131 and when her own son, Baldwin 1150s. As a result, it was clear to many in Jerusalem a clear line of succession within the kingdom. This was further cemented in the mid-1170s known by the epithet 'Longsword', an indication It seems that Baldwin may have been preparing when William was well enough prepared for However, his plan was quickly scuppered. William died in 1177, most likely from malaria, a son who would subsequently be christened Baldwin moved to appoint Raynald of Chatillon As a king who could not campaign for sustained Muslim warlords, Baldwin needed someone who regions far from Jerusalem. Raynald was an ideal candidate. He was born in France and had only arrived Second Crusade, becoming a substantial force during the 1150s, but in more recent years of the Crusaders nobles, though a ruthless Empire in an effort to aggrandize himself Christian or Muslim. Around the time of Baldwin's birth in the Muslims of Syria and had spent many years on payment of a large ransom. With this he established himself as the Lord of the Dead Sea in what is now Jordan, by of Milly. There Raynald quickly developed a reputation trade and caravan routes between Egypt and sundering connections between the two parts Having proved himself in this capacity, Baldwin the best individual to appoint as regent and in 1177. His decision to do so was owing to deteriorating from whatever had killed William Longsword Raynald soon distinguished himself in one between the Christian Crusaders and the Muslim century, the Battle of Montgisard. Baldwin was involved in this as well. The clash took place against diplomatic efforts Byzantine Empire, Manuel I Komnenos, with Egypt. Baldwin's efforts to do so were seemingly in the Low Countries, to the Holy Land in Philip landed at the port of Acre and immediately Philip's cousin. Baldwin viewed Philip's arrival as a potential kingship, offering Philip the regency, but of campaigning into Egypt. Instead he headed to Tripoli with his forces for an attack on the city of Harim in Saladin's Alerted to the movement of hundreds of Crusader Saladin now decided to strike into the Kingdom were deployed far to the north. from sustained military campaigning himself, he had no option but to oversee the gathering and to lead the defence of Jerusalem and the in November 1177. The figures for such military engagements The Christian chroniclers, for instance, suggest men into the Kingdom that early winter, which Baldwin and Raynald only had a few hundred to defend the Kingdom with was probably more His initial goal was to protect the city of attacks on numerous Christian settlements from the coastal region. His and Saladin's forces would eventually The exact location of the Battle of Montgisard place somewhere in the Ramla region lying and northeast of Ashdod. Here Baldwin's forces needed victory in territory, or potentially even marching on The arrival of Baldwin and his men around He had not expected the Crusaders to leave so much of their forces were far away to the Thus, on the 25th, at the Battle of Montgisard, by surprise. Not all of his army was arraigned here and scour the surrounding countryside. Hence the Muslim commander was taken by surprise the Crusaders charged at them near Montgisard. Raynald and Baldwin, the latter of whom despite horse-rider in his youth, led a cavalry charge lines with his heavy cavalry. The result was a complete rout as Saladin and then ordered a retreat. This manoeuvre became chaotic, and as Raynald's forces many of Saladin's men, his great-nephew The slaughter was compounded by the fall of disjointed. Then, to compound matters, in the two days were able to identify pockets of Saladin's them off and taking many prisoners. The Battle of Montgisard was a consummate insured the safety of Jerusalem for several Despite his physical limitations, Baldwin The victory at Montgisard was a galvanizing for the monarchy in Jerusalem after years was viewed as a sign of god's ill judgement. Now others thought differently. Rumours spread of St George having been seen the clash. To commemorate the victory and make the most determined that a Benedictine monastery would of St Catherine, on whose feast day the battle Meanwhile, to the north in Syria Philip of reached an agreement whereby they would abandon of some minor lands and villages to the Crusader With that Philip left to return to Europe, more closely in the late 1170s with his sister, without a clear successor having emerged, son who had just been born and christened This was not a case of joint rule at this in years to come it would become something In the main he was able to begin stamping of Montgisard as he entered into his adult Under Baldwin, Jerusalem continued as a city with the young king inclined, much like both Jerusalem, to allow Muslims access to the and Medina, and to form a relatively cosmopolitan Arab tutors and doctors. Baldwin, his father Amalric and his brother, kings with an interest in the law and literature, Consequently, as limited in length as Baldwin's to it above and beyond the near incessant Outremer. With his newfound role as a substantial leader a more regular war leader in the years that But it proved nearly impossible to recreate While the Battle of Montgisard had ended in and, in a region where reinforcements nearly West, this backup was slow in coming. Broad based Crusades were only ever preached as the loss of Edessa which instigated the Successes like Montgisard did not. Instead, when matters were going well for of Western Europe ignored it and continued England and Germany. Thus, Baldwin's armies were reduced in size Saladin, who could acquire many reinforcements quickly recovered from the defeat at Montgisard against the Crusader States. This was in response to a raid which Baldwin These movements culminated on the 10th of Sidon. Here Baldwin and his allies, including the of Tripoli, succeeded in defeating an initial main force arrived and inflicted a serious The defeat at the Battle of Marj Ayyun was In the midst of it he was unhorsed and while he could not remount his horse unaided. In the end the king had to be rushed from of a Crusader knight while his personal bodyguard that had surrounded Baldwin and his entourage. Hence, the King of Jerusalem barely escaped Others were less fortunate. Many Christian knights and soldiers were killed Amongst the prisoners was Odo of St Amand, He would die in captivity the following year. Count Raymond of Tripoli only barely escaped Overall the Battle of Marj Ayyun was a disaster a year and a half earlier at Montgisard. Where Baldwin had hoped to follow up that the aftermath of Marj Ayyun, as the 1180s foot, with a dwindling amount of military posture. Saladin, by way of contrast, was buoyant. After the Battle of Marj Ayyun he immediately Baldwin had ordered the construction of this Ford, one of the larger fords of the upper The castle was virtually complete by the summer stronghold on the main route between the Galilee and into Syria. Unhappy with the new Christian construction, Marj Ayyun, having previously attempted to Jacob's Ford. When that failed, and with Baldwin and the at Marj Ayyun, he initiated a siege on the a week before a tunnel was successfully dug the walls through a siege method known as With this, the Muslims burst into the fortress, hundred prisoners in another major defeat The castle was left abandoned with the walls are still visible today eight and a half centuries The victory was also not without cost for amongst his men after seizing Chastelet, and Back in Jerusalem, as the full scale of the summer of 1179 became clear, political measures from the Latin West for the Crusader cause in Jerusalem itself. At the heart of this were the royal family Guy was a French knight who arrived in the of the 1170s. The exact time of his appearance remains a by 1179 when the disastrous Christian defeats or shortly thereafter. In the months that followed he and his supporters and she was soon promoting the idea that her since the death of William Longsword in 1177, These developments came to a head in Easter Guy and Sibylla was formed with Baldwin's William of Tyre informs us that the reason gain Guy's aid in forestalling a plot by of Antioch to overthrow Baldwin, though William time and was not an eyewitness to these events. Whatever the truth of it may have been, the Guy married Sibylla, bringing fresh support Lusignan faction that shored up the king's 1179. Lusignan that Baldwin was seeking to acquire In the immediate aftermath of the marriage, and ministers and a near relative on his mother's the goal being to allay the concerns which reorientation in Jerusalem and to appeal for However, at Constantinople Joscelin's mission September 1180 and was succeeded by his eleven government which was in little position to Envoys to Western Europe dispatched through institution in Western Christendom by that new crusade in response to the defeats in Pope Alexander III responded by sending out notably King Philip II of France and King These would fall on deaf ears for the most petitions included a searing attack on Baldwin, at Marj Ayyun and Jacob's Ford were the was portrayed as a symptom of god's judgement It is typically assumed that it was this Papal William of Tyre to begin writing his chronicle While little material support was forthcoming in the early 1180s, circumstances were nevertheless there during these years. A reconciliation of a kind was reached between and Raymond of Tripoli on the other, the latter Jerusalem for a time. With this rapprochement the Crusaders assembled armies again in the field at La Fortelet in 1182. At this battle, where Baldwin was again present the Christians won a notable victory, the series of defeats in the summer of 1179. Saladin made a further effort to strike that Raymond, assisted by a small contingent of by Duke Henry of Lotharingia and financed in Italy, were able to fend off the attack. Thereafter Raynald of Chatillon recommenced earlier against the Arab caravan routes passing He even managed to launch five Crusader warships never before accomplished by the Crusaders. These attacks on Muslim shipping ranged from In 1183 a Christian force even penetrated Thus, while 1179 had seen major reverses for might have criticised Baldwin to the rest followed saw a resurgence of Christian power Baldwin's own personal circumstances were His health had begun to decline precipitously By 1182 his leprosy had degenerated to the He could barely use his hands or feet unaided. William of Tyre presents the following description "Day by day his condition became worse. The extremities and face were especially attacked, with compassion when they looked at him...In him at the beginning of his reign -- in fact, than usual. His sight failed and his extremities were to use either his hands or his feet. Yet up to this time he had declined to heed aside his kingly dignity and give up the administration Despite these ailments, there was resilience A good horse-rider in his youth, when he lost he insisted on still campaigning, being carried In Jerusalem he attended councils of state These councils often focused on the problems and in February 1183 Baldwin was forced to a general levy of 1% of the value of property There is no evidence to suggest that Baldwin wearing a mask of any kind as some popular Instead his advisors, the Crusader lords and seen directly the deteriorating physical state scabs and necrotic scars. Most would have known that he did not have By 1184 Baldwin's situation had declined his nephew, Sibylla's son Baldwin from her Montferrat, as his official co-ruler. Clearly the young Baldwin, who was only six any capacity himself, but what it did mean greater extent with Sibylla and her second This arrangement was fractious. Guy was a heavy-handed figure, one who increasingly refusing to grant him the city of Tyre, part to leave Guy in charge of Jerusalem in exchange, coast in his final days where proximity to perhaps the additional moisture in the air Further agitation followed when Guy's actions Jordan, while in 1184 Guy massacred a contingent allied with the Crusaders, actions which Baldwin to secure aid from the Latin West, though the mission was also launched with orders lords back in Western Europe on the succession Ideally Baldwin was seeking a western prince with him, allowing him to live his last years feuding Crusader lords such as his brother-in-law, Count Raymond of Tripoli. The mission was led by Heraclius, the Latin the leading Christian religious figure in In 1184 he was dispatched across the Mediterranean of one of the major religious orders, the of the Templars, Arnold of Torraja. The trio took with them several relics and the doors of the Holy Sepulchre, the most Quarter of Jerusalem. In Europe Heraclius visited Italy, France Like many such envoys before and afterwards and lords of Western Christendom about their but they all proved lacklustre. In 1185 he returned to Jerusalem with a promise follow with an army to reinforce Baldwin's By the time Heraclius returned to Outremer, was dead. Baldwin's rapid deterioration over the past He died at some unknown date in the spring birthday and certainly before the 16th of to as the sole King of Jerusalem. Sicardus of Cremona, a contemporary Italian ended up in the Levant himself as part of efforts to organise a new crusade in the 1180s in an encomiastic passage in one of his writings, from leprosy from a young age, he had won in 1177 and had preserved the Crusader States Baldwin was laid to rest in the Church of of Mount Calvary near his father King Amalric's had ruled the Kingdom of Jerusalem since the With Baldwin's passing his nephew succeeded A child nearing just eight years old, he was government headed by Raymond III, Count of of Jerusalem until he came of age. That would never happen. He was dead himself a year later, the child autumn of 1186, though many historians dispute had his charge poisoned in order to become In any event, it was not Raymond who claimed but instead Sibylla and her husband, Guy of The accession of Guy as King of Jerusalem the Muslims and Saladin. And so it proved. Clashes broke out in late 1186 and continued These culminated in July that year in the Galilee. In this, Saladin won a major victory and Guy who had caused Saladin such problems with for the better part of a decade. While Guy was kept prisoner, Saladin had Raynald than a bandit. With victory at Hattin and Guy imprisoned and, after a short siege of two weeks in late to the Muslims after less than a century under With this calamitous development the call The Third Crusade is arguably the most famous the Lionheart, the King of England and lord Saladin for several years in the early 1190s. The Holy Roman Emperor, Frederick Barbarossa, the Third Crusade as the King's Crusade. However, despite the fact that it drew both the Third Crusade failed in its ultimate objective Though the holy city was so reclaimed forty this was only a brief hiatus. Ultimately, the Crusader cause was flagging continued to show a greater interest in fighting while resources were also directed towards Beginning in the 1250s the Crusader States lords, concluding in 1291 with the fall of Holy Land. The Crusader States came to an end two centuries Baldwin IV's reign as King of Jerusalem He succeeded as the ruler of the kingdom when complication of suffering from leprosy. It was clear from early on that he would never always overshadowed his time as King of Jerusalem. But despite these limitations his time as In particular the Crusader victory at the against the Crusaders in the 1170s, as did that followed. Baldwin earned the respect of his contemporaries never any doubt that his reign was going to In the end he died at just 23 years of age. When he did a fresh series of crises struck the death of Baldwin V, the defeat at Hattin, the loss of Jerusalem. It was only with the fall of Jerusalem that the threat posed by Saladin in the Levant. Had they provided aid and launched a Third wonders whether Jerusalem would have fallen might have been different. What do you think of King Baldwin IV of Jerusalem? Do you think if he had not been ill and had to galvanise the Crusader States and have Please let us know in the comment section, watching.