jazz [Peter] Good morning from Chicago. But today is not about Chicago. It's about going up to the lesser-known city of Milwaukee. When I think of Milwaukee I think of bad watered down beer, But in all honesty I have absolutely Today we have the great privilege who said he can dive us in and give us, his words, not mine, Let's do it. Let's go to Milwaukee. jazz [Peter] Milwaukee, first impressions, totally different [Fred] I hope so. -It's like a real city. [Fred] This is what's called They did all the fruit So for 120 years, old school fruit guys, selling everything, dude. A lot of them come up and then down the Wisconsin River So this was like a warehouse district -So the 414, -That's the area code. -And your representing, Fred? -You're born and raised, Fred? -I was born in Romania -How old were you when you came over? -Okay, so your whole life's been here? [Peter] Milwaukee to me, is one of those -It's an underdog, fair to say. It's changing a lot, -Okay. -We have a world championship One of their main guys, That's that immigrant He kinda comes here as an 17-year-old, much like you. He's like, Plays the game, So we all rooted for that because we know what it's like Let's take a ride through the city. [train announcements] -[Peter] Very clean, nice. -So Milwaukee, back in the day -Uh, well, a lot of that. Milwaukee was a huge small engine city. Briggs &amp; Stratton, Harley Davidson, A.O. Smith used to do So we were a super working class and for a while we were -'50s and '60s it started coming down? -Middle, late '70s is when We produced everything for the war. I went to a high school that was part of Milwaukee was a top 10 industrial city. Think of Manchester in England. -That's what Milwaukee was. When did they hit rock bottom -I'd say the '80s were pretty bleak, man. Bland, gray, nothing going on. Then it started a rebound So we had 20 years of Everybody left, my generation went to to do what they wanted to Around 2000, man, it started to change. There was like a foodie scene starting. There was small manufacturing and now it's kind of sustaining itself. It's because of people Mostly 'cause everyone's nice, man. We want to get to know you. We want to live hard, play hard, But that's kind of like -So Fred... -You're not gonna give us -No, I mean it is... We'll get to We got a youth problem here We like to call them the Kia boys. I like to call them the Kia children and they don't really know They know what they're doing they don't know what's going -They're stealing Kias? Per capita, dude, if you had a Kia, [train announcements] -I don't have to go to the country -It looks like Florida water. -A bit, it's turquoisey, pretty deep blue. -Today's good, yesterday [Peter] You have a river down here? -That's a lagoon actually, these stairs -My friend's actually sitting down there, -[Fred] What's up, Melissa? -What's up? good to see you. -Peter, nice to meet you. [Peter] We're making a video [man] Oh, sweet. We always seem like we're that are growing, developing, It's like we're still [Peter] You feel like -Well honestly -Yeah. -It's just that there's some conditions -Oh interesting. -Media. -Media? -Okay, so bad image, stereotypes? -Stereotypes, improper story telling. Well I don't want to say improper. [Fred] I think sometimes They just leave out the stuff that matters -I think it is too, with information, you go off the last bit For example, in Mexico City You can have a great time, Before it was way worse. Milwaukee, I'm thinking Milwaukee, I know nothing 'cause I haven't -Right. We're smashing all of that stuff. -That's why we appreciate here, man. -Reg is one of our well-known, [Peter] Cool. -So he's in the art museum, Kinda leading, changing, shaping to what art can do So Reg has been doing it by example -20 years. -Then I met Melissa of what we're talking right now. You know, it's different There's a difference of what might be So accessibility links in How are we more accessible [Fred] This has changed a lot here, man. This used to be in the '80s and '90s, They'd have booze cans, and raves, Then developers came in This right here on the corner, this red thing used to be This was my first job in America. The offices were here and I used to Across the street was a gay bar So I'm cleaning the windows I'm like what the f*ck is that? Oh, the old gay guys -How old were you? -12, 13, 14. -So I didn't know, right? So I would do that first before happy hour Then I'd go inside My mom and my oma used to go upstairs and like do the factory floor while they still worked here nine to five. -It was crazy. -No, not even that long ago, So this is 40, 35 years ago. This hosts one of One of two left in the neighborhood. So they used the water here to put in these 55 gallon tanks or tubs. And they'd lift the elevators -It still works? So that's one of the unique things he was smart enough and get a mechanized elevator, Back when I was working here none of this was developed, -This is all new huh? -How's this river? -It's just muddy now because it rained. -It'll clear up, -So you got a nice boardwalk here. -Yeah, it goes all the way -It's a good three mile walk. You could have a boat here -Yeah, you can if you wanted to. They have tours, a lot of people doing it. I take the walk to get around the city -First impressions, -Between it's old industrial -Yeah, that's the original -But then it's got all this newness. -What does an apartment cost up there? -One bedroom? Okay, so these days that's quite cheap. -So this is a normal old neighborhood? These are called walk-ups, You kinda walk up to them You can see the windows there. -So that's who immigrated here -Yeah, in this neighborhood. -You had a lot -Germans in the 1820s and 1840s, So they were kind of like this progressive and started the Turnverein. Which is the sound mind, of doing athletics and stuff. So that's more on This is National Avenue. So this has now turned into It's kinda cool. This used to be my high school, It had its moment but now it's on this rebound because the city's So they come to the tech high school, they graduate and in four years -Why not? -What a neighborhood. -This is so cool. [Fred] this is [Peter] So what's filling -What's coming in? You've got some marketing guys, Then you've got the night club [Peter] &quot;Touch my bike one more time How's crime here? -Getting a little worse, man. This club up the road here Shot the windows out, pretty gnarly, -Right up there? [Fred] So this neighborhood Maybe after midnight And then you've got condos, restaurants, Yeah man, it can get a little sketch -So they'll drive by -One was like that or right in front of the doorway I guess. [Peter] What do you got there? [Fred] It's called a hot mess. -Is that a Milwaukee delight? I don't know if it's a Milwaukee delight. These guys came up with it. There's a bratwurst, a sausage in there. -Oh, nice. -Scrambled eggs, avocado, cheese. It's a hot mess of really healthy -I went pretty healthy here, for the bowl. Okay, so with the neighborhoods Segregated by the highways? -By the highways and-- -That mostly and the valley. So we're kind in the south side and so the valley has these viaducts. Bridges that connect Historically that's where The south side of the viaduct, this is predominantly White, A lot of Mexican immigration North side was relatively mostly Black. With old European kind of like German population that mixed And now it's just mostly Around the city edges is kind of like that kind of have jobs But in the central more middle It's pretty bad. Not so much homicides, those are down but it's GSWs, gunshot wounds. So a lot of it is beef who don't know how to handle themselves, shooting people Like conflict resolution is resolved now... Uh, with gunfire. -So what's gonna happen to these kids -Juvi court's gonna There's no juvi jail anymore. State got rid of that. -Okay. -Poorly maintained, poorly run. -And so these kids and then right back on the streets. And so a lot of these dudes, man, they got a rap sheet... I don't' know. They become hardened by that. Sometimes they get tried depending And as children, they're doing time before they're 19. Hard time, 20, 30 years. -It's pretty crazy. -There's a backlog and so by the time these kids it's like a Zoom meeting with a lawyer. There's a lot of lawyers They want to process give them a second chance. Now that the state's gotten involved There's some cats in the city that crazy reckless driving, always high. There's a lot of weed Probably no different than any other city. Some dude ran down and the suburbs Said, &quot;You gotta be -Let him out on like a $1,000 bond -Straight down a parade. -Yeah and the next day... He was in there You know, it's not And the dude had no remorse. The trial was a mock trial. He was trying to defend himself. He didn't know the law, So he's got multiple life sentences. And so everyone is kind of associating and this crime Now it's kind of spreading everywhere. It's hard to maintain that, -I mean first impressions Very clean, a lot of smiles, -They do and there's a lot of eye contact. People are genuinely happy It's just there's a small part of it. The problem with the small part is that -Yeah. -Yeah, yeah. -It's an isolated 10% of what goes on here but we like to, &quot;If it bleeds it leads&quot; it's on the newspaper. And so what Reg was talking about, you know, like news, -Yeah. -No one talks about Reg really. I mean they do but it's kind of like, And so the narrative is skewed [Fred] So this used to be This is like the big separation In the '60s, man these bridges And basically looking for fair housing, and equity, and all those things that most human rights... -Red lining going on here? So in my neighborhood and they teach courses of it With all the realty companies So it's an effort in colleges [Peter] So a lot of people The simple answer, I believe is like of different, you know... Good economic zone, pretty good, And the terrible, because the banks knew -That's right. -And those happened to be where there were So you could be White and not get a loan also. It didn't necessarily like... but just by default, -That's right, determined-- Do I got that right? Pre '48 I think it was illegal -Yeah. -That changed in '48. -And then red lining was, what, -'68, '67, yeah, right around there. -You got some art deco -Yeah, that used to be our tallest -All right guys, a little break from I have a new membership page with all sorts of content Many of you have asked me, &quot;Hey Peter, what are your opinions &quot;Do you have any travel stories?&quot; &quot;Do you have behind the scenes footage?&quot; Yes, yes, and yes. So that will all be here We have three tiers setup. Every tier gets that content. The top tier even gets things Basically this is a place A lot of the videos will be raw But really a place where I can explain Actually most of the time to the subjects I'm meeting up with. The goal is always to get see what perspective they're coming from, You can agree, you can disagree, But there are many things More deeper dives of my thoughts, Some of you have asked me This would be a great way Also gonna be doing It's gonna be cool. There's gonna be So if you're a fan that wants more content Nothing's changing on YouTube. Everything's still free on YouTube. A video every week except Januarys. That's not changing but if you want more Now back to the video. -Hey, say hi to Peter. Hey Peter. What's up, man? -Hello Peter, I'm Peter. -Peter, meet Peter. -Everyone here cool is named Peter. [Peter] Do we need to roll the windows up? [Peter 2] It's safe, it's Milwaukee. -So this is where you guys are starting -Part of it but it's more the soccer. [Peter] Soccer? [Peter 2] Professional outdoor soccer, for decades. And this being an ethnic heritage city It's actually one of without a pro outdoor soccer team. It's gonna be 8,000 capacity stadium. We believe it's actually gonna be but better to be too small than too big. -[Fred] Let's walk this way. [Peter 2] You didn't get my [Fred] That's a 2008 riff, dude. -That's '90s, Wayne's World -Oh dude, you're right, it was. -The Office stole it. -But that's Wayne's World. [Fred] Let's talk about Peter Peter is kind of One of the guys that started -More than anyone else. I've started more pro soccer teams -Peter's the guy -The rest of the world is not [Peter] So MLS? [Fred] He started the Chicago Fire. -Teams in men's and women's, [Fred] A Milwaukeean helping Chicago out. Milwaukee helping Chicago, -Like we did at the great Chicago fire. We sent out beer down there, to help Chicagoans get through it. [Peter] If you're to sum it up into the most simplistic language, -Great place on a great lake. [Fred] Dude, you went old school! -We're on a great lake &quot;Milwaukee, a great place But it's a smaller version of Chicago. It's got lots of the good -That's kind of it, A lot nicer. -Chicago is a slower paced Milwaukee is even -That's true. [Peter 2] Peter, I'm gonna blow you away with this incredible fact about Milwaukee. It is the home of the oldest in the western hemisphere. [Peter] C'mon... -Built before-- -Older. Built before Columbus landed -Where? -In the market campus Saint Joan of Arc Chapel and then dismantled, -Oh, okay. [all chuckling] -Gotcha, there's a caveat. -I didn't cheat, Marquette cheated. -What's this right here? -The Wisconsin Club, formerly the home of bank magnet, Alexander's Mitchell's son was one of the top Air Force generals and really started and was court-martialed for his beliefs should be independent. Was later reinstated in good status. [Peter 2] This is Carpenter Hall, Back in the 1930s it was a hotel, on the first floor and one of the performers was [Peter] Oh, yeah. [Peter 2] This is Saint Joan of Arc Chapel and it was built in France, -Right. -It was disassembled in the 1960s on the campus of Marquette University. [Peter] Yeah, you don't see Milwaukee gives it It doesn't play around. [Fred] This is old money. The money that started -Okay, so when-- -Detroit was pretty much the wealth center They're known as the richest city. -Milwaukee was-- Because of manufacturing. It was known for being a beer city, but really it was the other manufacturing. [Fred] Right, didn't we build that made the great Panama Canal? All that was manufactured here. -It was sort of like Riding that wave alongside -Going back and forth, yeah. -Was it better off than Chicago -They were both growing like crazy of the great northern migration of all the Black people Good paying jobs up here. -So the real downturn that happened Fair to say? [both] Yeah. -When all the industry left? [Fred] That didn't hit here hard -That was globalization that took place? Manufacturing went somewhere else. -Right. How do people feel about that? Depending on who you ask obviously. -I think most Milwaukeeans of the typecast of It just goes along and they're trying -I believe you, Peter, I'm thinking I don't think I may have said most Milwaukeeans, -Yeah. -But you take that old stuff but we gotta put some flesh on there. -We gotta grow, can't be kids forever. We're all part of our own history. [Fred] Yeah, can't forget that. -Making new history. Although we make fun of it, what we want to be defined as. There's two generations of kids They don't know what it is to be laid off, have their dads and moms They don't know any of that. So they just grew up in like... You know, since the '90s, People had service industry jobs. They kinda made their own jobs, All that stuff is kind of that new vibe So although they recognize that may have been a part of that, that's not what jazz [Peter] So how much are [Fred] 450, 500. -Wow, to live in something nice like that? -Wow. -When Milwaukee was expanding And so a lot of beer barons and stuff -Such cool architecture. This is frickin' cool. -On this corner here -Okay. -And then in this alley Because I had a problem, -That alley? [Peter] So what was this neighborhood -Pretty working class, man. Working class Whites, a lot of cats worked at Briggs &amp; Stratton, They all lived here and raised families. -So it's mixed? -How 'bout now? But everyone is cool with each other. -What's the breakdown? -Maybe 70% Black, 25% White, Right here is the hospital that kind of Now it handles a lot of gunshot wounds, -So this is somewhat -Yeah, it can be. A lot of drug deals going down here, use WhatsApp to make a deal, Sometimes they get a little rowdy, You get a lot of this, tags missing. -Tags on the cars? This is my route, man. I would do this every day -He's got his tags in the window. [Peter chuckles] -2021? Okay. -It's a lot of that, man. This ones expired. -So how's it feel walking back -I gotta say it feel the same honestly. This house is gone, this used to be 'Cause it was an old Munsters-type house. -Okay. -And every time I ran in there -[Peter] How you doing sir? I had my route here in the late '80s. Actually I gotta say it looks better now No one cut their lawn here [man laughs] -It was just not as nice [Peter] Sir, how's the neighborhood -Neighborhood is good. -It's tight, -Pretty much. -It's my first time, I'm digging it. -Yeah, this cat's traveling the world [Peter] Keep my eyes open? [Peter] They're speeding down the road? [makes engine sound] [Fred] Comes and goes in waves, man. -Gotcha. -[Peter] Take care. -So yeah, it's just like salt of the earth -Yep. -With some young kids ripping through and shooting their friends -That's about right. -Sort of the vibe going on here? -It happens in rashes, Out of nowhere. -But they wouldn't drive by -No, 'cause we have no beef with them. -It's generally like if you have that's when that happens. -It's interesting that it's all-- -No one's gonna go, &quot;We don't like you They gotta know you for something here. -I don't get that anywhere in America. Anywhere in inner-city America -Yeah. -Never had an issue like that at all. Like there's a white guy, -No. -It's not like that here either. [Fred] This is Burleigh This is the old bowling alley. It was like a double decker, their own parking lot, a diner in there. That corner joint right there We'd win all these state fair awards. -So every one of these places, -Yeah absolutely, man. -When did paper routes stop being a thing? -I don't know, man. I think they should come back -Who buys a newspaper these days? [Peter] This kid woulda been doing There were no child labor issues -Any age, you could be... -Dude you were walking around at any time. -What's up young man? -At any time you were walking around -So for younger generations you were on a BMX bike like that. -Absolutely. -You had bags with all the newspapers. -Yeah, I had that -It was a sled. -Oh, nice on a sled-- There used to be a bad stinky that would drop every time you walked through. Now they've got arbor vitaes Whoever's rocking this, good for them. They were the worst customer, not anymore. That woman over there She would leave me a tin every time. [Fred] Dude, riding down the street. In the 40s it's still pretty good, -As in street? -We're on 48th? -46th, so this is... -From working class to more of a hood. Citgo used to be a BP like in 2018, 2017. There was a crazy shooting Burned this place down, And they've since rebuilt it but a lot of it was are mostly Indian. Like continental Indian. There was some friction between where it kind of got out of hand Dudes came back later and the whole neighborhood rioted. -Someone was robbing his place? Started a chain reaction, A lot of this stuff was on fire So that's Sherman Phoenix, -It's now this kind of cultural center. -People are running their businesses That does really well. The bank, I think, has moved out, they said they were gonna come back So you'll get a lot of -The cops don't pull them over for that? -Why? If the windows are tinted... Generally, you know... -Seriously, they don't pull a car over -No. -So why do you need plates? -I haven't seen any police to be honest. -That's a good sign then. -Depends where you live, And by then it's already too late. So in some cases they help for the people The cats that do business What I mean by business George Floyd mural right there. So those cats are like we don't want but for the most part you'll Those are working class homeowners. There's the Middletown Mini-Mart. ATM only costs 75 cents, that's a deal. -Yeah, wow. You got a Chicago Sub Shop right here. This joint's been here That's been here [man outside speaking indistinctly] [Peter] He's loving it. People love the four one four. -It's Milwaukee pride, man. [man laughs] [Fred] Yes sir, four one four. [Peter] It's a popular truck -Yeah, so far. These alleyways, dude, So like they're connectors So that ones really messed up but that's where -Okay. So what's the story of this neighborhood? -This was all German working class -Okay. At the turn of the century These aren't the Sears-type bungalows -These are typical -Germans? -What's up, guys? I haven't walked these neighborhoods -How was it in the '80s? -Okay. -None of this was like this, man. Although this is -I see some guy building a fence. All these vacant lots that over the years have burned down. They just left them, city owns it now. So they sell these lots for like a buck has an opportunity to buy it. [Fred] This looks [Peter] Right, new fence. -Instead of moving out of the hood, -Yeah, that's cool. -My son gave me this card for my birthday. -Okay. -And I cried I told him I don't want no more money And so for mother's day and my birthday And if you read the words I cried, he said, &quot;Mama, don't cry.&quot; I'm like, &quot;You touched me.&quot; -Can you read it to us? -I'll read it. -Sure. &quot;There are some special people who make the best of whatever life hands them, and make everyone else -You ain't recording. -You're not recording. -Oh, wow. Okay. &quot;I feel so blessed &quot;You have an openness and a warm heart &quot;I love the way love shines in you. &quot;Love Pete.&quot; -I'm gonna post this on my page [Peter] You're looking beautiful, -The shoes, the dress... -I know you're not supposed to ask -I don't mind telling my age, -Wow. -Because my oldest son got killed at 35. -So I'm blessed. -Well... -What's your name? -Peggy, happy 70th. [Fred] It's like the old school [Peter] German used to be -Dude, we used to have There was a Germania building and so yeah, the Milwaukee accent of this Irish sing-songy, and the dis, dats, and the ders. [in Milwaukee accent] Well you know this kinda neighborhood And that's because the Germans next to the Irish-speaking community [Peter] It's so crazy in the country The Germans lived here -Yeah, that was because of Cats would go into these neighborhoods to people who couldn't afford it 'Cause those development companies were building the suburbs So they would run down the neighborhood, by dropping value on a home and then the realty company would say, &quot;Hey man, we didn't sell them that house.&quot; &quot;Our realty company's developing -Okay. &quot;You're neighborhood's &quot;Come out here where it's safer.&quot; So that's what they did and they did it -Okay. So this is what it looks like now [man] What's up, bro? -Peter. -Chris G, what's going on here? -Hey man, just a little society MLK, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. This is a space with me It's a vibe, anytime you want this where you come to, right here. -Okay, what kinda dance? -We offer everything, I teach hip hop but we offer heels, reggaeton, -I'll open the jacket for you real quick. -Do that, one of these. -[Fred] Beautiful. -Move around with it, [Peter] Is that a four one four style? -No, okay so that is If you say you come here people will recognize it. We got this... the one right here. We going' like this here and sometimes And then if you see Fred one of those right there -You're from Milwaukee? -Yes, born and raised. From the north side, only other place but four one four has my heart but my number's still four one four, -Okay. -So for those who know what would you say is misunderstood -Sometimes I think They say it's a small town, and you gotta be in the place You gotta allow space to create space and people don't feel They don't feel as if they can create but once they step into it like this place. [hip hop music and chatter] -This experience, we have Don't want anybody No one's by themselves, Having open space My mom got her masters in dance She's 66, still kicking it, Certified yoga teacher so I don't have 'cause she's still coming correct. It's a very humbling space and when you you got no choice but to be great and that's what Fred does As you know, I'm repping right now. Yeah, four one four, so gotta rep that. City on the back. So it's one of those things, man, When you see me you're gonna see [Fred] This is known as Capital Drive. So this is one of the big divider lines. Where the highway is right now was They just yanked out neighborhoods That's where one of So we're heading now into a neighborhood. It's an inner-suburb called Shorewood It butts up next to it and so a lot of this stuff is in They don't share all the same resources. -The roads are different obviously. Lawns are maintained. There's not trash overflow. None of that stuff, man. These guys pay way more So their homes are valued... in a different zip code -Okay, so how close is the hood -Dude, I'm telling you, man, You can walk across the street. -This really nice area-- -How much are these homes do you think? -Millions... 800, 900. -Oh wow, look at that. -That's Shorewood, Looks like an ocean. -Really does. -[Peter] Beautiful homes here. -From what time period? -So who was living here These are massive houses for that time. -Doctors, lawyers, captains of industry. The Eli Electric family. Probably drive past their mansion. Now it's just more wealthy cats. Upper-middle management, The dude who was in that band-- -Look at that place, wow. -My mom used to clean that place actually. This house right here, that dude in Fall Out Boy, He just sold that that house. -Are we back in Milwaukee -That's right, absolutely. In fact you can notice the street sign, It's like a lowercase in Helvetica font. -Okay. -That's when you know you're in Milwaukee. -The true 414-ian knows that. So my mom used to clean houses And so she used to be The guy that owns that, They have a building So my mom was so beloved that when gave her a fat, &quot;Hey, thanks for all the hard work Broke my mom down, She would pick up his laundry, unpack all the day's and in a weird way and the old man needed it. And for that, he hooked her up. It's pretty crazy, dude. [Fred] Kind of looks Miami? [Peter] Little bit. So you guys all come out here -I did every day in the last couple weeks. -And it's clean water? -It's clean and warm, -Oh, you got beach? -Yeah, this is the beach right here. So this is Bradford Beach. Volleyball courts, tiki bars. [Peter] Milwaukee giving it, -I like it man, it's old school. Needs a little help though, man. Although the county's doing its job, They clean and comb -Beautiful. -I mean look at that, [Fred] Look at this iridescent blue It almost looks silver. I think we've been living in the shadow and they used to make fun of us very simple kind of town with not And so my whole mission basically let people know in Milwaukee and when you travel, Not because of the beer, the cheese, but be proud of what you do. If you're a dancer, if you build machines Whatever that stuff is take that pride with you, man. Don't be ashamed of it. You can say, &quot;I'm from Milwaukee.&quot; We are literally the ultraviolet light, that guides the state. -Oh, wow. Milwaukeeans are fearless sunshine polka dotting the night sky -Very poetic, Fred. We put that sh*t on tee shirts. [laughs] -Thank you, man. That was awesome. -My pleasure. -That was a great snapshot of your city. We went to different neighborhoods, To get into any big city -That was really nice. -And I want to give Fred's brand, what's the website? -www.414Milwaukee.com. -All right, cool. -Go there for the Milwaukee gear. And I'm getting the full -[Slavic accent] Trust me bro, I got you. [both chuckle] -Guys, thanks for coming along -See you, guys. [Peter] Look at that. [Fred] Looks great. jazz [Fred] Get that zip up. Nice, look at that down sleeve detail. Walk it down too. Yes sir. Look at that. Yes sir. [both laughing]