During World War II no country experienced but even during the midst of the war when they they made do by preparing foods like this mock banana sandwich on the national loaf. So thank you to Imprint for sponsoring this video as we keep calm and carry on the British home front this time on Tasting History. So far in this World War II home front series we have covered the US and the USSR but I don't think that any Allied Power is more because not only were they the first to start but they One reason for this was because as an island nation they only produced about 30% of the food that they needed to feed the population so they really relied on other food being shipped in from around the world. And with German u-boats prowling the northern Atlantic, Britain realized that a lot of their food was not going to be making it into the country. And so they did as they had in World War and instituted rationing but during World War I they didn't start rationing until the war was almost over, it was in the last year. For the majority of the conflict it was just a matter of whoever had the most money could buy the food and this left a lot of people without, so this was a mistake Britain was not going to make again. So well before the war even broke out the government was printing rationing books, but there were certain foods that were not specifically rationed. Either because they were deemed just too important like bread or because there wasn't even enough to warrant rationing like bananas, and that's why I have decided to make a mock banana sandwich which will use both of those ingredients. So we'll be starting with the bananas or the mock bananas because real bananas had been imported to Britain They were actually very popular coming in from all parts of the empire but in 1941 Lord Woolton who was the Minister of Food decided that they were an unnecessary use of cargo space and so he cut off the banana supply, and people were not happy, especially the miners. &quot;Britain's 800,000 miners want bananas; they may make a special appeal to Lord Woolton, who proposes to stop banana imports in 1941... The miner can eat a banana with cold-black hands in the darkness of the pit without eating coal dust as well... It has reckon that miners eat nearly half the bananas They obviously liked it because since it's in a peel you know they weren't getting their coal on the actual food but alas the miners had to go bananaless until the end of the well there were recipes for that. &quot;Mock Banana Cream. Here is a more economical banana cream recipe. Prepare and boil one pound parsnips until soft. Add 2 ounces margarine, one level tablespoonful sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls banana flavoring, and beat until creamy. This must be used quickly, but half the quantity can be made if desired.&quot; So for this recipe what you'll need is: 1 pound or 450 grams of parsnips, 4 tablespoons or 60 grams of margarine, 1 tablespoon of sugar, and 2 teaspoon of banana flavoring. First peel the parsnips and if this was actually World War II you would want to keep those peelings to feed to your pig, but we'll get to that later. Then chop your parsnips and put them into a pot of water, and bring to a boil for about 10 minutes or until they are quite soft. Once boiled drain them and put them into a bowl and mash them as well as you can, and then add the margarine, sugar, and banana flavoring and mash them even more. You can also use beaters to make it as creamy as you can. And that is your mock banana cream. Is it real bananas? No, but if you have no real bananas at least some mock bananas can make you happy. Though I don't think that they actually talk about mock banana cream happiness in the Science of Happiness, a course from today's sponsor Imprint. Imprint is an app that collects insights from the world's greatest authors and thinkers of today, and throughout history. Then they distill those ideas into interactive and beautifully animated courses. And they're broken up into bite-sized segments so you can learn something new in just a few minutes. Like today when I was waiting for my parsnips to boil I learned a bit on the science of happiness with a course from Harvard Professor Jason Mitchell. Now I got to say I'm a pretty happy guy so it was cool to follow the course and find out exactly why I'm so happy, and it turns out out it is 50% genetics, 40% your actions and 10% life circumstances, which I can only assume is all about having access to adorable cats. The app is a great way to spend those minutes that you something we are all guilty of I'm sure, so instead of doing you can learn about psychology or science, finance, history, or so many other topics which Imprint has courses on. So visit the link in the description or go to imprintapp.com/tastinghistory to get a free 7-day trial plus 20% off of your subscription. Now with our mock banana cream done we need to make some bread to make our sandwich. Now these sandwiches were popular before and but during the war you didn't have any white bread. You had the national loaf, this was a loaf of bread sold in bakeries starting which was then enriched with vitamin B and C. Sounds good, but it's not because it was dense and gummy, and often went stale basically the day that you &quot;Most people apparently object to the unattractive gray color of the bread, although those who can remember the national bread of the last war can find little cause for complaint. The national loaf of today is the purest white bread compared to the unsavory stuff which masqueraded as bread in 1917.&quot; And the recipe kind of changed throughout the war based on what ingredients they had, and what crops were most bountiful at the time. &quot;The government had decided to take advantage of to add a very small proportion of barley flour and oat In so far as it alters the appearance of the loaf it will slightly improve it.&quot; So maybe not so gray? Now there are lots of recipes for the national loaf that were put together after the war. There are none that I could find surviving the war, but I am going to base mine off of the one from the Imperial War Museum so for this recipe what you'll need is: 2 and 1/2 cups or That's going to better replicate the texture of the flour that they were using at the time. It was very, very coarse. 1/2 cup or 50 grams of oat flour and 1/2 cup or 60 grams of barley flour. You can also use rye flour, potato flour, or soy flour. Then 1 and 1/2 teaspoons of salt, 2 and 1/4 teaspoons of instant yeast 1 and 1/4 cup or 300 milliliters of water, and a tablespoon of treacle or honey. So first whisk together the flours, then whisk in the salt and then the yeast, and then add in the water, and treacle and mix until it forms a dough. Then knead the dough for about 10 minutes in a machine or 15 to 20 by hand. These flours can take a little while to develop the gluten so which you can set in a greased bowl to cover and let it rise for about 2 hours or until it is nearly doubled in size. Then set the dough out onto the counter and gently press it into a rectangle. Then roll the dough up and set it in a greased loaf pan. Cover it and let it rise for another 45 minutes to an hour or until the dough reaches the top of the pan. Then set it in the oven and bake at 350deg F 175deg C for 30 to 40 minutes or until the internal temperature reaches about 195deg F. Then let it cool completely on a wire rack before slicing. And if you want to be authentic then you should let it sit for at least a day to let it stale up a bit which makes making very thin slices all the easier and it was all about making thin slices. What's interesting is that everyone was eating this national loaf no matter who you were. In 1942 Eleanor Roosevelt was invited to Buckingham Palace and as she ate with the Royal family she talks about how they were observing rationing just like everyone else. Now it was the palace so &quot;We were served on gold silver plates, but our bread was of the same kind of war bread every other family had to eat, and nothing was served in the way of food that was not served in any of the war canteens.&quot; So with that in mind let us take a look at what every other family was eating. In the mid 1930s the tensions between Britain and Germany were starting to give the older generation a feeling of deja vu. They remembered the food lines, the riots, and the insecurity of the first World War, and they were not about to let that happen again. So a full 3 years before the war started the Ministry of Food named Sir William Beveridge as the chairman of a committee on rationing and price controls. I also love that this man who worked at the Ministry of Food was named Beveridge. Anyway in these pre-war years they were having discussions on how they were going to implement rationing. Would everyone get the same or would it be divvied up depending on what you did for work? Like would a manual laborer get more food than somebody who worked at a desk? In the end they decided that for the most part it was going to be all the same no matter what you did, no matter who you were, with just slight variations here and there. Now because of all of this prep time when war finally broke out in 1939 Britain already had 50 million ration books printed, more than enough Anyone over the age of six was to receive the light brown Ration Book 1 or RB1, which was the standard ration. Then children under the age of six received the green RB2 which had half of the adult ration and often no tea but they were given priority for milk and eggs. Then there were a few additional books like RB6 which was meant for fishermen and merchant sailors, and it gave them a little bit more ration because it was assumed that they would not have as much access to the canteens that were set up to kind of supplement the ration for everyone else. Now 44 million of these ration books were handed out to the people but at the beginning of the war food rationing was not in effect. There was a period between September 1939 when Germany invaded Poland in May of 1940 when they invaded the Western countries that was known as The Phoney War. Though I much prefer the pun filled terms that the British gave his period at the time like the Bore War but spelled B-O-R-E or Sitzkrieg, a play on the Blitzkrieg but sits-rkieg which literally means Sitting War. But the government knew that this calm before the storm could not last so on January 8th 1940 food rationing kicked off with the limiting of sugar, butter, bacon, and ham. And this was quickly followed by fresh meat, cheese, preserves, and even tea, a blow to any Brit. And once rationing kicked in you would go to a shop and you would register at that shop and that is the location where you would get your ration going forward. Now the ration changed throughout the war and so it's hard to say exactly how much anyone got at any one time, but about a year into the war the average adult got per week: 4 ounces of bacon, 8 ounces of sugar, 2 ounces tea, 2 ounces of cheese, 2 ounces of butter, 2 ounces of cooking fat, 4 ounces of margarine, and approximately one pound of fresh meat depending on the cut. Meat was actually rationed not by weight but by price you got one shilling tuppence worth of meat so you could have more if you were going to have cheap cuts which many people did. It was a real necessity to have a sausage maker at the house at the time so you could put that tongue, and tripe, and sheep lung to good use. Now those were the foods that were rationed by the government that you were guaranteed. These you would get every week but there were other foods that were rationed but you weren't guaranteed because they might not even be there at all things like bananas. But it also applied to eggs, both dry fried and fresh, condensed milk and imported fruits like oranges. Then many other foods were given out on a point system like rice, dried fruit, sweets, and canned fish beans and meat, though the canned food when the American Lend Lease Act began and the US started sending over food like Spam. Hence the title of this wonderful book on the subject 'Spuds, Spam and Eating for Victory' a wonderful book to read if you really want to get into the weeds on this topic. Now the government really tried to get people behind this whole rationing, getting everyone to do their bit in the war and so they put out these wonderful propaganda posters with phrases like &quot;Food Is A Munition of War&quot; and &quot;Better Pot-luck With Churchill Today Than Humble Pie Under Hitler Tomorrow. Don't Waste Food!&quot; Though maybe my favorite way that they got people on the rationing train was to appeal to their vanity. &quot;Grow fit not fat on your war diet! Make full use of the fruit and vegetables in season. You'll save yourself money, you'll save valuable cargo space which is needed for munitions; and you'll feel fitter than you ever felt before.&quot; One reason they called out fresh fruits and vegetables is because they like the national loaf were never rationed. That doesn't mean that they were easy to come by. Early on in the war the fresh fruit and vegetables started to dry up because they were converting a lot of so the government pulled out a trick from the first World War with the victory garden. &quot;Women! Farmers can't grow all your vegetables. You must The men and women on the home front were encouraged to grow their own vegetables which should you be living in the country was easy enough, but in the city less so. So should you not have a decently sized garden you could ask for an allotment, essentially a bit of land set aside by the government that could act as a temporary victory garden. And by the end of the war nearly 1.4 million of these allotments were scattered about the country and vegetables were rarely in shortage. Though just because they had the vegetables doesn't mean that they were cooking them very well. There was actually a Ministry of Food pamphlet that went out that said &quot;No country in the world grows vegetables better than we do, and possibly no country in the world cooks them worse.&quot; And besides growing vegetables people were also encouraged to raise chickens, go game hunting for extra meat, go fishing for fish in rivers and streams or to join a People would get together and pitch in to buy a pig and they would feed it on their scraps their peelings, like our parsnip peelings, and then after a little while they would slaughter it and share the meat. Though they didn't actually get to keep all of the meat. See every pig was registered with the small Pig Keepers Council and when it came time to divvy up the meat half of it went to the pig club members and half of it went to the Ministry of Food. Now other countries like the US and Canada, they had victory gardens as well and things like pig clubs but I do believe that the Brits did the best at promoting these things. They actually hired animators from Walt Disney Studios to create characters like Doctor Carrot and Potato Pete to get people excited about growing and eating their own vegetables. And I did a whole video on those characters back when I did a 1940s carrot cake for my birthday. Now with this abundance of vegetables there was a new dish that was created to put them to good use, Lord Woolton Pie named after the Ministry of Food Lord Woolton. The story goes that Woolton was to have dinner with so they went to the Savoy Hotel and Woolton went to and asked him to develop a dish using only the things that weren't rationed. The original recipe for what he made was one pound each of potatoes, cauliflower, swedes and carrots, three or four spring onions and if possible one teaspoonful of vegetable extract and a tablespoon of oatmeal. These would then be cooked and baked into a pie with a potato or wheat meal crust. Well turns out Churchill was was not thrilled with this and demanded a plate of cold beef instead but Woolton I guess talked him into eating the pie saying that he needed to eat like everyone else was having to eat at least... at least for the time being. Now this dish became extremely popular not because it was particularly delicious but because Lord Woolton had the recipe published &quot;When Woolton pie was being forced on somewhat by submitting to the flashlight camera at public luncheons while eating, with every sign of enjoyment, the dish named after him.&quot; Woolton became the public face of rationing as well as the voice of rationing as he would give radio broadcasts on rationing and the need to not waste food. There was even a ditty about him in food waste performed by the popular singer Betty Driver which went &quot;Those who have the will to win Cook potatoes in their Deeply hurts Lord Woolton's feelings.&quot; He cracked down on food waste with a campaign of posters and even threatened those who wasted food with a 500 pound fine, or 2-year prison term. Now this was not applied to people who were just throwing out their potato peelings, it was aimed to punish spivs or the people in the black market who were profiteering and hoarding things to sell to people at a higher rate and when they couldn't they just tossed the food. Now Woolton knew knew that he couldn't be the only face of rationing so he worked with the Ministry and the BBC, and other outlets to get celebrities and famous cooks to write articles and pamphlets and cookbooks giving people tips on how to make the best of rationed foods and fight the good fight on what was called &quot;The Kitchen Front&quot;. One of the most popular things was a 5-minute radio segment that aired every morning on the BBC starting in 1940, and it aimed to keep people updated on the constant changes going on with rationing. And it opened &quot;I'm here to save you money, to save you time, to save you trouble, to tell you a food that there's plenty of and of food that you've got to go slow on.&quot; And while food was always the main focus of these PSAs like how to mend old clothes because finding especially anything made of nylon like stockings because that was being used to make parachutes, but at the same time it was still considered unseemly for a woman to go out without stockings on so they started making fake stockings. Some of the ways that they would do this was by putting a sort of makeup on their legs. &quot;You put on your cream stockings and in any shade to match the air raid shelter or the gas masks.&quot; Then they would take an eyebrow pencil and draw a seam down the back of their leg to make it look even more like a real stocking. Now if you couldn't afford this rather pricey leg makeup then other options that I've read were were to Though I really question the efficacy of gravy legs, and should there be dogs anywhere that you're going they would just like attack your legs. Now should you run out of your ration stamps or if your victory garden just isn't doing so well most people had the option of going to a canteen also known as a British restaurant, and these were set up by the government to supplement people's rations and were run on a non-profit basis. They were especially essential for those people who were working full-time and didn't have any time to cook, and I'm actually going to do a whole video on these cantens and specifically eating during the London Blitz when Germany was bombing London and and other cities in the country so that video should hopefully be out next month. Now as I said even after the war rationing went on for nine more years. Part of this was because now they had all of these men these soldiers coming back home and so they had to be fed but the places where Britain had got a lot of their food before the war were still suffering so not enough food was coming in. And so people lived on a lot of canned goods, and just not the best food for quite some time which is part of the reason why Britain has such I don't think it'particularly deserved especially today but there is a reputation and it doesn't just have to do with that it's a little bit more complicated but that's one of the reasons. Now eventually foods did start to come off the ration list fresh meat being the last in 1954. And foods that couldn't make it into the country finally started appearing, like in September of 1945 newspapers announced &quot;Bananas for Britain: The first shipment of bananas since 1940 is expected to arrive in this country from Jamaica early in the New Year.&quot; But in this kitchen today I must quote the old song &quot;Yes we have no bananas, we have no bananas today.&quot; And so I am going to be eating my mock banana cream sandwich which I should put together. So once you've sliced your bread nice and thin you can put some butter on it if you want a proper banana sandwich. That's but during the war butter was very scarce so I'm not putting any on mine. It is just the banana cream. And here we are mock banana sandwiches from World War II Britain. So before I actually try the sandwich I just wanted to try some of the banana cream just to see how close it tastes. Let's give it a shot. The texture is kind of like if you mashed up bananas, you've even kind of like got some of the stringy bits. And you can taste banana but you can also taste parsnip. It's kind of interesting, not in a bad way. It's actually I don't know that it tastes like banana. Maybe it needs more I actually thought that I- probably that was going to be too much but guess not. Let's try the banana sandwich. That bread is dense. It's not bad. I mean if I was really, really hungry I think this would be quite good. There's a sweetness to it. It's flavorful. The bread tastes good. The texture not as great and I think that this is probably a lot better than the actual national loaf of the 1940s. It's not anything that I would order but if it's World War II, and we have rationing, then yes I would enjoy this mock banana sandwich. So more World War II videos on the way Pretty soon am going to have one from one of the Axis powers. Little divergent there, so yeah go make yourself a mock banana sandwich, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.