I'm not quite sure who 'cause you don't use a It isn't the most effective I'm Dr. John Curatola, a retired Marine Corps former history professor, and now I'm the resident at The National World War Today, we're going to look in the movies and determine What we're seeing here of the Normandy beaches on June 6, 1944. Many of those men who came had to traverse up to 100 to 200 yards while under enemy fire before they would've which is the main slope and the movie doesn't really depict that. They basically get off the landing craft, and they're already on the Some of the obstacles are backwards. They should be configured 180 degrees from the way they are on the beach. What they're really intended to do is to upset a landing craft as it comes in under shallow water. The machine gun, the MG 42, this is a high-velocity, The problem is they're using A weapon like that can only in two- to three-second bursts, otherwise the barrel will burn out, and then you have a problem And if you hear the rates they're pretty long. Shore party. No armor has made it ashore. We've got no DD tanks on the beach. Tom Hanks' character is on the radio talking to the commander of A lowly Army captain that is way beyond his pay grade. A company commander is of the amphibious task just to report his position. But it does show an excellent In the clip, it doesn't got on top of the high ground, off of the shingle and because depending on whether you were at Utah or Omaha Beach, the topography was very different. Some units had relatively shallow heights that they had to scale. Some had cliff faces, like had to literally go up a cliff face to get to the German positions. While it does have a few technical errors, it's very accurate of the and I give it an 8 out of 10. Oh, s---! The Germans are well defended and the Americans have to assault it. The unit move into the town of Carentan into what we call a MOUT environment, military operations in urban terrain, which is very difficult. The danger with an urban environment is that the enemy can hide Dog and fox are pulling back. What? You have German armor that is coming down upon their They're showing that the other companies, D and F, are breaking and running. Only one company ran. The other one stayed and that company kind of took some umbrage with this depiction of them running, and that's not accurate. Fire, McGrath! Fire! The bazooka you see used is accurate in the fact that they were Most companies had them, and so they were distributed Armor is soft skinned on its belly. When its belly is exposed, Well, hello, 2nd Armored. It isn't the 2nd Armored Division that saves the company What happens is Dick Winters, who serves as the company commander, calls in mortar support, and it's the mortars that help In most tables of organization, infantry companies and infantry battalions have mortars attached to them within a weapons company to provide that additional firepower for infantry forces that are 2nd Armored Division later on in the day, but showed up in the nick of time This is a very accurate portrayal, and I would give this In this scene, we're as they evacuate the continent You see the men lined up in queues in order to get on the and many of the pictures of Dunkirk see the soldiers indeed doing that. They would get in their lines, and they would break apart and then they would get One thing I didn't understand is why guys would stand when there's no boat there. This is a really good depiction of what air combat was like You have to lead the enemy target, and the German basically and that's really how And one of the things you'll notice, he has to do it in short because they only have so much They have to be very conservative about the rounds that they do fire, because you only have maybe 10 seconds. Yeah, he's down for the count. The British fighter is jumped by the second German fighter. That's accurate. This is the days before radar. It's too noisy, it's too loud, and so as a result, a lot of aerial kills in both wars really result from surprise. What's problematic with that scene is Germans don't operate solo. Usually, they're going to operate in two- or four-man Here you see one enemy 109 and then followed by another enemy 109, and it really don't work that way. Because this is 80 years after the war, those really aren't enemy 109s, those are actually Hispano 1112 Buchons, which are basically with Merlin engines installed in them. But we use them a lot on air shows today to represent an enemy 109, since there are very few of them actually in existence today. Overall, I'd give this What we're seeing here in the is a Russian assault on a German position in the Battle of Stalingrad. And so this idea that they without a weapon and with limited rounds is a little absurd. The Russians had plenty of guns, weapons, in terms of small arms. Basically a human-wave tactic. Just throw men into the And that certainly does However, this idea of just into a cauldron is certainly and it's not something that The way the Russians is they provide a pincher movement on the north and the southern edges of the city of Stalingrad, and they cut off the German 6th Army. Fall back! Fire! Fire! Another problem with this particular scene is once the Soviet assault fails, they're running backwards, and then their own forces fire on them to prevent them from coming They didn't do that either. Did they certainly shoot individuals for desertion and cowardice? Sure, absolutely, but not in the manner that they're depicting here. They had blocking battalions that would be used to and to keep them beefed but not in the manner Certainly you have to pull back, reconsolidate, reassault. That's just a reality of warfare. So I'd give this a 3 out of 10. Tank! Get down! What we see in this movie, &quot;Defiance,&quot; is the Bielski brothers who basically defy Nazi occupation of the Belarus area where they live. They use light arms because they can move in and out relatively quickly. The Germans will use a lot of vehicles that get their troops and there's many accounts of the Jews who are in hiding here attacking those kinds of There's a lot of problems When they're firing the main gun, I'm not quite sure who 'cause you don't use a Can you shoot people with it? Absolutely. But it isn't the kind of thing that is the most effective I think it's supposed Not even close to looking The other problem with the is by 1943 and 1944, the Germans need all and using it in a rare it's a problem. That armor asset would probably be used on the front lines fighting the Russians. Regarding the gentleman in there are two schools of There are those that who would sit in the cupola, should be up and out so However, for the Soviet Union, they thought very differently. They wanted to go into battle So it's a matter on how you Is he somebody who should and the utilization of that armor piece, or should he be up and out, and scanning it for potential Is that an accurate depiction? Yeah, probably, depending and what risk he can assess. Given the fact that the with just rifles, a couple of pistols, and maybe some hand grenades, there's not much they could If they were to button up, unless there was some kind of obstacle, and that's one thing the brothers did do. They did fall trees to block roads. We don't see that in I'd probably give this a 4. All right, let's get the boys off. Get them off. Get me the last man. Radio: Watch your f---ing spacing. There's a couple of problems First of all, tanks don't They're not out there on their own. They're usually part of or some other larger organization. Again, this idea of combined arms: infantry with armor, with artillery, and maybe with some air power. And so in this movie you see these tanks operating almost as independent elements, and armor doesn't work that way. You see the infantry following That was a tactic, used early on to follow the armor, but the problem with that is 'cause the tanks are loud, and you can't talk to the tank commander. Get down! There's some tactical problems here with this particular scene. The Germans set up a linear ambush, but there's no L-shape to this ambush. An L-shaped ambush is intended and then attack them from the flanks. Here, the Germans are just to the Americans as Let's go, let's clean it up. One tank next to the other That's not how they would do it. They would immediately a combat spread, one with one or two other tanks to kind of flank the enemy to And if this is a prepared ambush, and it looks like it is because you wouldn't see them because, again, it's too as they're sitting there It looks great for parades. It doesn't work in combat. It looks like a laser. It's not. The flashes of light you see are tracers. Usually soldiers will use those to help mark where their rounds are going, because rounds are basically invisible while they're in flight. It's not out of the ordinary to see that many tracers going downrange. It does show the grittiness of war. It does show how dirty it was, the cramped quarters within a tank itself. But, again, the tactics and the Germans are using I'd give this a 6. So, when you look at this depiction of the Battle of El Guettar, First of all, you got guys with weapons slung over their shoulders, they're not even in any kind they're just kind of walking around, and the German army's better than that. Even at this stage of the a highly disciplined, mobile force. One of the things you see in this movie is the use of artillery. These puffs of smoke that rounds generally just don't Can it happen? Yeah, but not to the degree There's a lot of air power that occurs during the Battle at El Guettar from both the German and that's largely absent in I would give this a 3 out of 10. What we're seeing here is depiction of the Battle of the Scheldt and it's a fairly accurate engagement, one, because it's so muddy. Many of these fields are already flooded by bombing from Allied bombers who are destroying some of the dikes, and the Germans do some to make it an obstacle and so what that leaves is that the Canadian and British forces can actually cover to And then this is one of the hardest fights during the Western European campaign. I think they lose up to 13,000 casualties in the short span of a month. The Germans have put on these few avenues of approach, and so the British army, have to go up these in order to rid the So it's pretty accurate that You also see the use of British artillery. Keeping in mind too that because the use of armor doesn't really help the British forces out at all, and so this really becomes with some artillery support, and there's some aviation support. It's not seen in this movie, the aviation really does help in this combined-arms integration. What you see here too is It's an 88-millimeter antitank gun. It is a legendary piece of artillery that the Germans initially but then they found that and if you lower it, and as it's traversed down, being as opposed to vertically in the sky, and the Germans did that to great effect. I'd give this a 9 out of 10. My favorite World War II video has to be &quot;Band of Brothers.&quot; The entire series. Not only is it technically accurate, but it really shows the human cost of war, it shows the camaraderie, how difficult these conditions were, and it does it in a way but it's also respectful of It probably stands out as my favorite. If you enjoyed this video,