There's a big difference between having In the latter case, we physically separate Oftentimes, this is an attempt to hide from It's not unlikely that serial self-isolators that what's happening outside, is too much for them, as they lack the strength and skill to cope. Unfortunately, they miss out on many life to face the malevolence of humankind. Now, there's another way to go about this. Instead of self-isolation, we could choose we become more resilient towards unpleasant stop us from living a good life. This video explores Stoic philosophy that What exactly does 'fortitude' mean? The definition of fortitude according to online of mind that enables a person to encounter Stoic fortitude, therefore, is the art of so we become less inclined to hide away in The Stoics were masters at approaching the many external things are actually unworthy Other people's opinions aren't as important a commodity that brings us from point A to According to the Stoics, we can't change thus, the position we take towards the world. With the right mindset, we can overcome any Of course, this isn't easy. It takes a lot of practice. So, how can Stoic principles transform our First of all, we might have certain beliefs much so, that it becomes a difficult task Thus not life itself, but our beliefs about cause of our pain. The logic behind this is that we tie our happiness So when these expectations repeatedly do not with an undeniable and inevitable reality, An example of this we can find in a letter friend Serenus. Serenus wished that people wouldn't treat But Seneca explained to him that this is the I quote: "You are expressing a wish that the whole be; moreover, those who would gain by such do them, not he who could not suffer from End quote. Thus, by changing how we look at the world, Life is full of pain, and full of people that The less we resist this fact, the more we In his work Of Peace of Mind, Seneca argued how to die well. If we know that death is the fate that was live according to it. This realization adds to our mental fortitude: can befall us unexpectedly. I quote: "For by looking forward to everything which he takes the sting out of all evils, which it and are prepared to meet it: evil only giving it a thought and whose attention has Disease, captivity, disaster, conflagration, with what disorderly company Nature had associated End quote. We'll continue with Epictetus. Epictetus teaches us the foundation of mental and aversions. Most people that go into the world desire This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but such I quote: "He who is making progress, having learned of good things, and aversion means aversion and tranquillity are not attainable by man he desires, and not falling into that which desire altogether and defers it, but he employs on his will." End quote. This very much applies to everything we do. As Epictetus states in his work the Enchiridion, And if we let our mood depend on things that a feeble position. Therefore, according to Epictetus, we should of our own will. Because if we aren't, we let external factors Mental fortitude, therefore, entails a healthy things we normally approach with desire and This means ceasing to desire that people like and focusing entirely on your own actions. Epictetus goes as far as to say that we should off as losers if that preserves our peace I quote: "You must watch, you must labor, you must quit your acquaintance, be despised by your come off worse than others in everything, When you have considered all these things with them, you have a mind to purchase equanimity, End quote. The next one is Chrysippus, who is often regarded Chrysippus made great contributions to Stoic Stoic system of propositional logic. He was quite an industrious man, having written Unfortunately, none of them survived. Chrysippus further expanded on the Stoic system a happy life is the end goal which all of And to reach this goal, we should examine Or how he put it: "To live in accordance with one's experience From this view, the Stoics gave birth to a vice and everything that's in between, and happily, and living viciously means living One of the cardinal Stoic virtues is 'courage' Stoics consider a vice). Courage can be considered an essential element Oftentimes, the path of virtue requires us of avoiding it. Courage allows us to make the right choices, that lay on our path. Typical everyday vices are quick fixes. Using substances immoderately, or replacing are ways in which we cower away from difficult The problem is that vices bring short term the misery of not reaching our long-term goals, afraid to take, and the inevitable low that good for us and our environment, which often Virtue, on the other hand, may involve temporary we gain is absolutely worth the struggle. Therefore, we could see virtue as a star in And by anchoring ourselves in a goal that easier not to falter in the face of adversity. This mindset requires an indifference towards it overshadow our faculty of choice. Thus we focus primarily on our own actions, What's happening around us comes secondary, our control. I quote: "If I knew that it was fated for me to be also, if it had intelligence, would volunteer End quote. Sickness to the body, or whatever else may According to the Stoics, what happens is how wish for things to happen differently; instead, that given situation. This accepting position towards fate, and the next Stoic philosopher and once emperor (4) Marcus Aurelius As the leader of the world's largest empire, Rome was not only in continuous war with its And on top of that, Marcus suffered various Also, to cope with all the difficult people exercise called the 'negative visualization' In the eleventh book of his meditations, Marcus being stopped by the people that stand in Not everyone wants the best for us, and some But regardless of what they do, we can't to affect our ability to choose. Thus, we are responsible for our own choices. I quote: "Someone despises me. That's their problem. Mine: not to do or say anything despicable. Someone hates me. Their problem. Mine: to be patient and cheerful with everyone, Ready to show them their mistake. Not spitefully, or to show off my own self-control, End quote. To summarize: Seneca advised us to let go of our ideals take it how it is. Also, he told us that we cannot live well, Thus, we shouldn't close our eyes for misfortune; a part of life. Epictetus told us that the things beyond our unreliable factors to base our happiness upon. It's better to be indifferent towards anything These things are inferior to what's truly Chrysippus, the greatest of all Stoics, further us that a happy life is a virtuous life. Courage is one of the cardinal virtues, meaning and face our fears, in order to live well. If we choose to engage in vices instead, we will lead to unhappiness in the long run. Marcus Aurelius wrote in his meditations that are; they won't impede our ability to choose. Therefore, we can't blame other people for We are responsible for our own choices. The less we care about the things that don't Thank you watching.