- Hello, this is Inga. Welcome back to Condiment Craze. This journey I'm embarking on to explore the full potential of your favorite condiments. And today, we're talking mayo. So right off the bat I have to admit, I am a bit of a mayo prude. I don't really enjoy the taste of mayo, but I do believe in the And so in this past week, I've been trying to explore the many ways that I can cook with mayo So this video is a little different in that almost everything on are things that I So the first thing I wanted to test out was, well, two things. One, how well does mayo And two, does mayo actually Which is what brings me to my first dish, chicken and potatoes. Specifically, grilled So I've heard before that to making bites of meat And this is because of the and how it also supposedly improves the browning on the surface. So to really put that to the test, I'm going with some chicken breast here because it is a type of cut that usually dries out pretty fast. And I'm just tenderizing mostly to make sure that the entire piece has around the same thickness. And for the marinade, I'm actually mixing the mayo with some homemade chimichurri. And I just love how easily the two incorporate it together, which I feel like then makes for a very even distribution Because everything's balanced out. I'm also adding in a bit of cheese for more of those umami notes before I'm pretty much going in there and slathering this mixture all over the chicken breasts. And then while that's off I'm getting started on the mashed potatoes going with some Yukon Gold potatoes here, because they have this sort that I really enjoy. I'm also matching them with the skin on because I actually it gives to the mashed potatoes. I also love how it ends up And then right into this too, I'm adding a good amount of mayo which instantly lightens before I'm adding in some because I felt like it was the color seemed really light. But after a little more I do actually end up with and creamy texture like with a spoon and it just folds perfectly. Serve it up with a drizzle of olive oil, some fresh thyme, before I'm going back to the chicken that's now been marinating for a while and I'm grilling them The crazy thing is seeing just how easily the golden brownless surface came through. And also, just like how beautifully the crust developed on the outside. As you can imagine, I was very excited to slice this up after letting because I could already feel even though I had also felt that I cooked this for a The meat was truly so juicy and just fork-tender. In a way that I feel like without making sure that I'm brining the or feeling like I'm just to make sure the texture is right. It went really well with which kind of had this in your mouth. It was very good. I do feel like it tasted maybe it was just like but that did not stop me from eating more. Another fun thing about adding mayo to mashed potatoes too is how it's able to almost keep its smooth texture even after spending Because where butter, which is usually what you only put in mashed potatoes, solidifies when the temperature is cooler while mayo stays the same, which I thought was pretty cool. The second thing I'm testing is chicken and potatoes part two. Now hear me out. This time I'm experimenting and roasted potatoes. So mayo is sometimes recommended as a hack for when you're roasting like like you rub it all over the skin and it just helps it crisp up beautifully, and it also has a similar And once again, you can see what the mayo does allow is for all the spices and ingredients I'm putting in to be sort throughout the marinade. The way oil might not be able to because of its thinner consistency and how it ends up just So in here, there's rosemary, garlic, paprika, cayenne and even some hot sauce for spice. And you can actually see how they cling on to the because of mayo's thicker consistency. The same goes for the potatoes that I cut into half moon slices and coated with mayo fresh thyme, garlic powder, onion powder. So I also thought I'd try a different way of roasting these where I'm putting the potatoes spread out on the and then putting a cooling rack on top and roasting the chicken so that all and any of those will be soaked up by So from a scientific standpoint, it makes sense why mayo and flavor to the dish, which is the same reaction responsible for bread tasting toasty, and like meat tasting chard. And sure enough, both the came out with this gorgeous golden brown slightly charred crust. And I actually feel like it came out especially well on the fries, because they had this wonderful crispiness on the outside without the And once again, two both items were tender on the inside, the fries were super fluffy despite its crazy crispy And I can truly say that Now I feel like I gotta test Who knows? Moving on to the next meal, burgers and buns and sauce. So mayo in burger isn't but mayo in patty So I was doing some research and I found this article that suggests folding your mayo into your ground meat And the way it works is you're adding extra moisture and flavor into the patties itself. You're essentially adding extra fat, which is then how you ended up with a juicy burger every time. I was a little skeptical, And I will have to say even though it really doesn't look as visually appealing because mixing it all was also a very new experience. It was a little bit like making slime. What it does do, however, my burger patties that like which aesthetically looked And then I thought, why not and push the boundaries of mayo Which brings me to what I now dub the ultimate mayo burger, because there's mayo in the patty, there's mayo on the buns, and The salsa making is my go-to version of a typical fast food restaurant sauce, except I went with truffle Some of you might from the first strong opinions video. Mixing it up with some ketchup, mustard, diced pickles, garlic powder, Similarly with my brioche buns, I'm toasting them with a thin And that's really all I needed to do. I will say that going with a may have undermined the Because dry aged meat and so tender on its own, that when I added mayo it almost felt a little too rich. So this is an item that I maybe even with leaner ground beef. I feel like that could work really well. But with that said, the mayo on the buns and the mayo in the burger sauce, you can't go wrong with that. It's a very good burger. So next up, we're moving where mayo is known to Now I've made chocolate and it really does make a difference in terms of moisture, texture and taste, which is actually why I always add mayo to my chocolate cakes now. And for fun, I also did a quick test with some cake mix just to see if adding mayo made a to the same batter. And I can tell you, with friends as well, the cupcakes made with mayo actually did come out fluffier and they had this pleasant softness and depth of flavor did make it feel were homemade. Mayo was the only difference. So it's with this knowledge that I wanted to see if actually makes pancakes better. There's this recipe from Japan that apparently went viral where people were making using mayo pancake mix and soda water. So of course, I have to try it out. And in fact, Kewpie the and also the mayo I'm they actually did a study testing out whether mayo makes pancakes better. And they're finding was, the the fluffier it was, the crispier it was, and therefore the more delicious it was. But the idea here is that the vinegar and emulsified fat in mayo directly effect the formation of gluten in the pancake batter. And that's what makes it but also ensuring that And boy oh boy was my pancake crispy. For sure the reaction of baking soda and carbonated water probably contributed to that too and a tight, but I do think the mayo is what allowed it to stay moist on the inside, in a way that usually we're after leaving the batter The texture and flavor of this pancake too reminded me a lot of the So now I'm like, ooh, what if I add mayo to a recipe for that? And next thing I'm testing Mayonnaise and eggs. It's a soft scramble, which is usually one of my Only this time, it's with vs without mayo. So conceptually, I feel like the idea of adding mayo to because it's kind of adds crumb fresh to his scrambled eggs because it makes it fluffier, creamier, almost like more curd like. In this case, adding mayo does make the egg mixture much thicker with an almost slurry like consistency that ended up increasing the cooking time. But what it does though, is allow it to maintain for a longer time. I'm just not sure how because right off the bat, the eggs with the mayo do become a much more polish yellow, which is not my personal preference. And also, the mayo lends that is maybe better served or maybe I'm just used more firm texture with my soft scrambles. But then again, if you're someone who really appreciates and enjoys Gordon Ramsay's then I feel like this might This last one is a very fun one for me. I made some tempura. So I was on the Kewpie website, courtesy of Shawn who sent my way after I told him about I found this recipe that calls for mayo to be added to tempura batter. And this is because when you it can make it soggy and oily. But when you add mayo, it allows it to be incorporated much more easily into the batter which allows for a crispier texture. I never thought about it before but it makes so much sense. So the recipe calls for but I decided to just Using a combination of a very generous squeeze of mayo and some ice cold sparkling water to help carry it even further. The ingredients are prepped beforehand, there's a variety of some mushroom, even some leftover branzino from dinner the night before. And all I'm doing is giving them a little dusting of flour before dipping it into the tempura batter. The tempura batter did feel So I'm just figuring it out as I go adjusting as And I feel like deep frying that gets better as you move And I was really happy with how this third, fourth, They had this crispy exterior that was light and airy, and not too oily and heavy at all. And you can just see how around the vegetables. It was just so pleasant to eat. You don't taste the mayo at all. There wasn't this problem And I think for me too, because tempura batter wasn't exactly something I had envisioned when I thought about this video, that it was the most how well it came out. And so there it is. All the dishes I've made with mayo. And it's true, when you think about it. Mayo really is just egg and oil and some acidity. It's salt acid fat heat, why it can make so many So now I feel like I'm to say no to mayo. If anything, I'm probably in a lot more of my cooking adventures. I hope you enjoyed and I (light music)