&quot;--but her achievements were never recognised...&quot; ...in her lifetime. In 1942, penniless and forgotten, She couldn't protect herself from viruses, but you can protect your computer Okay, look, I just want to say, people who take sponsorships from VPN companies. With a VPN, all the data you send and receive so no-one can see it. Without a VPN, every time you connect to free wifi you're risking people stealing your passwords, your banking details, That's not true. You've probably seen the adverts at the and look, it's just that I do this sort of I am supposed to know about it Like, if I took a sponsorship and then it turned out the boats sank, but I'm not expected to know about boats. I am expected to know about VPNs, And some of the claims that VPN adverts make Password-stealing over wifi was a serious Someone could run an ARP spoofing attack, make their computer and steal every plain-text password that went It required very little technical knowledge. Or they could compromise the hub itself and But you know what else sends data through Every single web site with a every iPhone app since 2016, Anything that sends any sort of personal data that padlock, and unless you're using web sites or apps if anyone tries to intercept your data, Now, people on the network can see what sites so, just the name of your bank, and they could see the contents the ones where the browser now shows &quot;Not But that's all. No passwords, no bank details. Those attacks don't work any more. One VPN company even had their advert banned because of those misleading claims. VPNs use military grade encryption to keep Military-grade encryption means &quot;AES&quot;, which is the same encryption that's baked You're using military-grade encryption to The claim's not wrong, Plus, a VPN stops your internet service provider Now, that is true, to an extent. Yes, without a VPN, your internet service provider, your ISP, can see what domain names There can be very good reasons to hide those. Your country may allow ISPs to sell that data or to build up a profile on you. Maybe you are studying at a fundamentalist and don't want university administrators knowing or questioning your sexuality. Some ISPs also prioritise some apps, sites and a VPN means that they can't do that. Or maybe your government is planning to introduce an ill-advised and often-delayed and you want to work around it. That's all reasonable. Metadata does give away a lot of information, and wanting to keep that private But that's not what a lot of the VPN ads are they're implying that your ISP can read the And again, if there's a padlock in the browser, or if you're using a modern app, And if you do use a VPN, all you're doing Your ISP can't any more, because at their end of the tunnel, they have to look at that metadata But maybe that's worth it for you. And besides... A good VPN doesn't keep any logs of who It is a brave move for a VPN not to keep any their service will inevitably be used for Some do claim that, some have even brought that they don't keep any logs. And you can't have 100% certainty of that, but they have got as close So if you're planning an assassination and then sure, I guess a VPN might be worth it. But to customers, a VPN that from one that's been compromised by hackers, or that's been given a little government but they have to plug into their systems and Or from a VPN where a single employee has and has started logging things for just a To be clear, I do not think any of the or Russian mobsters, or some state-sponsored Genuinely, they are almost certainly not, Any company that was found to be logging stuff it would be a very very bad business decision. And the enormous amount of money that VPN overenthusiastic venture capital firms. Actually, it almost certainly comes from them. But if you wanted to see what the most paranoid, and you wanted to install software that is designed to read all their network traffic and then redirect it through then setting up a VPN service with a huge And if you use a VPN, you can connect to streaming as if you were in those countries! And that's the real reason a lot of people Are you going to China, or somewhere else That's a fair reason. Do you want to watch another country's streaming or download just enormous amounts of BitTorrents Those are valid uses of VPNs, even if they It's just that &quot;great for pirating stuff and is the sort of marketing that gets a company and &quot;we stop bad people stealing your passwords&quot; that scares people into buying something that So, with that in mind, I wrote a more honest and I found a company that was willing to Unfortunately, they kept asking for changes, and we disagreed on those, I have had to blank their name out. Do you want your hide your sexuality from Do you want to download huge amounts of pirated but not zero, risk of being found out? Are you planning an assassination and want Then you need [bleep] VPN, the best choice for gay people, pirates, assassins, and gay pirate assassins. [bleep] VPN is a tool that can be used both and it's extremely unlikely to be a front But you should know: unless you are being personally targeted by world doesn't know about yet, it doesn't make your passwords and They're already pretty safe. And if you are being targeted by hackers like But if you want to hide your identity, pretend you're in another country, or make sure your connection is secure as lethal doses of particular chemicals, then go to [bleep].com/honest for [bleep] That was a lot of money left on the table. Lot of money.