well before we get into the message today I have a new book releasing on February 13th the help you get six mindsets to become who God preach to myself and I can't wait to share them stuck unless I stop with God there's always way of them with you here but you've got to pre-order the message go go now go after the message do you can get the book it would mean a lot to through 29th me Elevation Worship Holly elevation coming near you okay okay okay now let's get Today I'm going to do exactly what I to continue in the stream of teaching we and then I'll sit you down. Then I'll tell you stand up. You'll be shouting, throwing stuff I'm not going to exegete this verse, but just to &quot;Here I am! I stand at the door and knock. I will come in and eat with I want to teach you a skill today that I know has put in your heart in the coming year, in the my life, so such as I have I give unto you. I Through the No. Let's pray one more time that God You've said you were here, Lord. We take you at whatever valley we're going through, you're with this Word flesh today. I offer myself to you. but you can have my vocal cords, my lips, I pray that every person who logged on what they need from you...maybe but what they need from you. I trust you to do One day, when I finish my preaching ministry and Charles Spurgeon and Billy Graham, I know as a preacher where they're quoting my really feel like that's my intention. not if they put me in a book for 100 years from and I'm not making any of this up up I'm satisfied just if I can get you to put in your house and it can get you through Monday. be honest. With all of the voices, opinions, and and our lives, even if we could just get a word to Last week, I did something that was so simple that the simpler stuff is stickier sometimes. Not because I don't respect your intelligence. will just pander to the audience, trying to anything of substance. I'm not aiming to be have a handle to carry the suitcase out with, Last week, I was getting you to think about &quot;One day when...&quot; and I held up this very note we're going to have some people over. We're get a bigger house, because we don't have but one day when we get it we're going to out of the house, that's when we're going to Then you die lonely and with a clean house, order to expand. You have to start with what want you to have a vision for your life beyond Jeremiah 29:11, &quot;I know the plans I have for It's wonderful to dream about that bigger house or God has put in your heart or the things you would your family to have...to send them to college and be able to step into a season of your life that's I join my faith with yours for all of all of them that he put in your heart. In the desires of your heart as you delight yourself this one day when you are free of the addiction, yourself with greater clarity, this one day when is unencumbered by the demonic oppression that The way we will get to the &quot;one day when&quot; Everybody who woke up this morning with like an offensive rebound in basketball and 0:24. Well, that's what happened when you &quot;Yeah, but I really messed it up yesterday.&quot; Jesus said, &quot;Here I am. I stand at the the Scripture? Revelation 3:20. He said, &quot;Here been there. You missed it.&quot; Not &quot;There I'm Somebody shout, &quot;God is here!&quot; Tell your &quot;Give me some room. God is here.&quot; &quot;Give me with me in this seat. God is with me in this God is with me in this transition. God is this custody battle. God is with me.&quot; Tell Building upon that concept of the one-day win, strength you need for today and the faith you this principle. Are you ready? All right. If you down. The doors of tomorrow's opportunity Let's talk about that for a little but let's zoom all the way out and go to a Old Testament where the prophets would stop you were a prophet in the Old Testament, it You weren't just trying to stand up in a sermon, remember what you preached about on Tuesday. You the enemy in another direction...the military enemy, Elisha is the prophet I want to tell and tell the king where the enemy had it or prepare for it and obliterate an MVP. He was a most valuable prophet. When he would get to Shunem, the there was a woman in Shunem... In fact, let's pick to Shunem. And a well-to-do woman was there, who every bit of attention you have to every word Some of these little words in this text are hinges heart. I'm going to start that verse over so you And a well-to-do woman was there, who urged he stopped there to eat. She said to her comes our way is a holy man of God.'&quot; That's what Verse 10: &quot;Let's make...&quot; &quot;I've got an idea. Hey, go down to IKEA. It doesn't have to be roof...&quot; &quot;We don't need more square footage We don't need more square footage to do roof. We just need to take the roof we already I want to put a bed and a table and expensive. &quot;I want to put this room &quot;Then he can stay there whenever he so the technology would not enable &quot;I believe in what this man is speaking so much, I can't preach like him. I don't have a whole What I'd like to do is four simple things. table and a lamp. I just want to set it up for whatever he comes, he can stay there.&quot; &quot;One day when Elisha came, he A few days ago it was her roof, the power of an initiative, the simple it's his room. One day when he came to Shunem he has already eaten several of her meals. Now she has expanded the offer and given &quot;Whenever you stop by, whenever you need through Shunem... We know you have options, an Airbnb. You don't need a Vrbo. When I wonder. Does Jesus have that kind of when you're looking to encourage someone, when you are looking to right a wrong, Whenever you want to come through, you Now, for all of the things you want God to do in him to do in mine, because I have my list too, it? Whatever the answer is to that, it's okay. it started as a roof, and it turned into a room. can become a room. I think it's significant I think it is significant that if she would not have had a place for the prophet to higher in order to see the opportunity &quot;I appreciate your opinion, but &quot;I know you don't think I can do it, but you don't capable of it, but I don't have to look capable God looks at the heart. So, for everybody who somebody who didn't see your potential to you because you didn't fit the There's a room on the roof. I almost preached a What is impossible with man is possible with thoughts are not your thoughts. I'm going higher &quot;One day when Elisha came, he went up to she built for him with no ulterior motive. because it was the right thing to do. The to the schedule of the purpose of God and Some of us cannot be used by God because we want he wants to do in our lives for when we are ready kind of obedience to God. I have three things for going to have to be to be the kind of person who God doing in your spirit, not in your flesh; The first thing is you're going to have to and you didn't deliver one. Good thing we were and you gave me one, so we're good. Yet there's nothing in the text that says God &quot;Build a room. Please build a a room?&quot; I'm going to tell you why because God had options. Anybody could have Sometimes when I stand up and greet you I want to that doesn't even feel right. On a human behalf I Don't get me wrong. So thank you. But we know right? We know that, right? Just so we know worship me today, I could have all power. Man! I could really get it done in the work. I just No, God doesn't need any of that. The your life is very different than the do change over time. Phone used to mean when I was a kid. Now if my phone rings for interrupted the video I was watching on Listen to me. Obedience was different God was different back then. We don't do well drowning in too many opinions to respect I will not lie to you and tell you that I I will say that every time I know he's it blocks me up inside. I start but what I'm blaming on the outside is usually I need to establish that this obedience word of a man or the suggestion of was directed by her inner compulsion She says to her husband... Now, he's the table. Go get a chair.&quot; We always preach here, the husband obeyed the wife and at Reflect next year. Anyway, The word that unlocked it for me &quot;On January 14 (or whatever time you I want you to start a new business and file I want you to ask her out. See her, third row team next year and give her a special welcome word from God that tells her to do this. She You're about to be very impressed with because she said (verse 10), &quot;He can stay there for the prophet who preached the Word of God with the prophet of God who spoke the word She says to the prophet, &quot;Hey, I want you and I want you to know that whenever...&quot; Stop trying when it should have happened by. Stop trying eternal God who sits on a throne. &quot;Here I am,&quot; What God has been teaching me lately in my because sometimes what was behind that door that opened it before I was ready for it. Is you up on the roof of your resources, I don't have anybody in my life, so I feel very everybody you asked and reached out to? Or did If I understand this text correctly, she opened on the surface, but she took the space she what he didn't give you. God will not hold me God will not hold you accountable to raise is just supposed to graduate high school. He I believe one of the reasons we can't lives is there's no room for him to do it we think he should be doing because of I was impressed by her obedience, but I was have to be) because not only was she obedient do it through you... I know I'm being vague. In see what that thing was she needed that she Do you ever feel that way? &quot;I know I need and I hear you on that, but I don't even when I came into church today You couldn't see it, Pastor Steven, but I was from every time I've had a new year and thought every time I told my friends, 'I'm going to when I say it. 'Yeah, we'll catch up with For every time I promised God, 'No, I'm really I haven't made it past Genesis 12, and I've first book in the Bible in case you were slow case that's where you are today, let me give This is an amazing story for those of you heart as I speak to you right now. I never can to church. I never can tell what you really you close the doors at home. I can't tell I don't know what the conversations are like in like in your mind. I don't know what the know any of that, but this woman who was so great The Bible says in verse 11, &quot;One day when Elisha He said to his servant Gehazi, 'Call the the room. We don't even know her name. She wasn't in it for the glory. She wasn't in it for the purpose of God. But how many know Even if they don't say, &quot;Thank you,&quot; God can fill shaken together, and running over. God doesn't drop the package. He knows your name. He knows he has for you is for you, and nothing in heaven I'm going to show you that now. I'm going my word for it. Listen to this. He said, and she stood before him. Elisha said to him, for us.&quot;'&quot; &quot;Appreciate the chair. Appreciate the &quot;Now what can be done for you?&quot; &quot;Now that you did That question, &quot;What can be done for you?&quot; and the and 9. What God can do for you is not limited to he can't do for you, because he's God. There's So, the question is never...Can he do it for you? do it? Or is your roof so cluttered with past me preach this message today or are you so bitter hurt that you can't even receive the word of the Yet I know you ate at a bad restaurant once never going to enter heaven's restaurant back then? Talk about disappointment. life that there is a big distinction Disappointment does not stop God from producing choke the seed of the Word of God before it seed of your hope and your potential before watch a picture of this woman, because Whatever happens, whatever doesn't happen, whoever likes you, whoever can't stand can't stand you because you read too much whenever it happens, watch this woman who happens to this woman who is disappointed you move past it? Can you give God room to He even has a specific idea. &quot;How about I The king had just been in a drought, and Elisha but dig these ditches in the valleys and your one. I just saved his butt. Let me go talk to essentially, &quot;Do you need Look at verse 13. &quot;I have a home among my own something from me. Now go back up to your room good.&quot; You know how guarded you are. You know how The next time they start telling you you're good no. I'm not that good. I'll tell you.&quot; I can't sounded so great.&quot; &quot;It wasn't me; it was the honey. If it was the Lord, it would have Now, we're about to find out why she wouldn't let it in either. I hear God standing at the door am. I stand at the door and knock.&quot; I always heard saved. &quot;If you want to bring Jesus in your heart, But that verse was actually written it was written to a church that had forgotten &quot;I'm standing at the door of your religious your good-doing heart, your 'I don't need Just surviving. It's another day. It's another He said, &quot;I stand at the door and your heart beating in your chest. That's God in fact, dead and sleeping in done with you yet. You would be accurate You would be accurate if you said, &quot;This is my &quot;This is the day that the Lord has made, who believes.&quot; Are you open? The doors to tell your kids a testimony and leave The doors of tomorrow's opportunity swing on She said, &quot;No.&quot; How do you like this? A prophet &quot;No. I need nothing. Dinner is ready room.&quot; I don't think she was arrogant I learned something about God's opportunities, about the love he'll bring into about the extensions he will give to you of a learned that hope and disappointment swing on To open your door to hope is to open give you this like a friend. Okay? Are we a moment. Avoiding disappointment it's a recipe for resentment. Avoiding Now, maybe this is just for all of the middle-aged I preach this, but for everybody who dragged with you today, I need you to know that the to close the door of hope. It is not just to It is not just to accept &quot;I guess I deserve another one.&quot; It is not to accept &quot;My just lucky not to drown.&quot; The grace of God and knocking. You think Jesus is knocking on He wants to come in. He wants to eat with create with you. He wants to collaborate to fill you. He wants to reconcile you. He to his blueprint. He wants to do it! Are you to you if you want something, but my door is Elisha gives us a picture of the persistence &quot;Here I am. I stand at the door and knock.&quot; lukewarm churches. &quot;Here I am. I'm still you he's still here. Boom, boom! This word That person who came into your life last week, was God at the door. That was God knocking. That and flickers a little bit when you get under phone for 15 minutes and let this word come into He is the Alpha and the Omega, he who was and is She tells him, &quot;No, I don't want anything.&quot; That's resolutions. I don't make plans. I don't set I went to the dental hygienist 10 years ago, me before you start working on my teeth. can give me anything you want to give me. but when I go home I'm not flossing. You could flossing. I'd rather bring my teeth to you in floss.&quot; Isn't it amazing what we already decided We're not talking about a lazy lady. one thing in her life (there is one thing and Elisha is about to find out about it. That's Elisha said (verse 14), &quot;What can be done for &quot;I'm not a freeloader. I want to do something her a room. I don't even live here. the servant, said, &quot;Well, she has no did you see him carrying the table up the stairs? the turning point of the text. We have to You're like, &quot;He already called her.&quot; No, but this time he called her back. I because last year this time you had some would have happened by now. They didn't. You have You have allowed your timeline to become allowed your heart to become so crowded what God is doing today. Elisha says and to come back.&quot; &quot;So he called her...&quot; In all of the I was 17 years old... I have preached about I have preached about when she did it, just about where she stood when he spoke the word it was a word for each and every one of us on finds you today. The Bible says he called her a few months ago, this was not a room at all. day she decided, one day she committed, one day Now she is standing not in the room she built believe somebody is standing in the doorway and there is a voice calling you forth. forward into freedom, calling you forward into calling you forward into purity, calling you forward into generosity, The hinges of the door that swings open to hinges that were just a simple act of obedience you keep waiting for God to open a door. This is going to help somebody from dying when God opens the door...&quot; There was no door at the There was just a woman with a heart for God to do Can God have your heart? We keep but surrender shouldn't keep you from give you initiative to find a way to be to call one of the counselors whose cards you've I wish I could preach this message at to be a shopping center. When we went to we were told by one of the tenants in the strip can't have a religious institution So, for a minute I thought, &quot;Well, maybe we are told &quot;No&quot; from the outside or the move it forward doesn't work or makes it standing in the doorway. Verse 16. I have &quot;About this time next year...&quot; Where do you want forward to having the victory over or at least Do you want to know a few Scriptures you &quot;I'm leading a group of middle school as dumb as I was&quot;? Where do you Elisha says, &quot;I know you didn't ask, and I know will hold a son in your arms.&quot; Her response, this say, &quot;No&quot;; she did. The Devil isn't blocking you; My third point is you have to be obnoxious. attention now. You want to see, &quot;Where is sleeping in a room on the roof in my house had a fight at the end of last year. Not 2023. a fight about her (I can't believe I'm sharing had put more in me than I was giving. Not in &quot;You're not doing enough,&quot; making me feel bad. We're talking in the text about but it could represent anything you can't talking about all the stuff you want because you the stuff you can't have, but it is a part She kept telling me, &quot;There are more messages keep promoting, and we're going to promote in a couple of weeks, a week before my Holly was trying to get me to see when she was exhorting me... She wasn't yelling. obnoxious. She was just speaking to the part of me wrote a book in 2020, and when I went to publish Nine months of writing a book, and then for it &quot;I will preach for thee, I will post Instagram those you've called me to intersect in So, I was preparing this message, and I about the thousands of people who will hear this heavy you have no room to receive the thing God is Would you identify it? The Holy Spirit will do While I was getting this message ready, I read &quot;About this time next year, you will hold man of God, don't mislead your servant!&quot; encountered a few false prophets before? had stopped by and ate her food and slept We've all been disappointed. We've all been times you won't even let hope in when it comes and I treasure him, and I honor him as the that means that while my voice is The Bible says in verse 17 that even though she life she didn't believe it was possible, the woman because I was looking for the point where said it. Even though she didn't believe it was Because she didn't have the faith to become room. I came to say to you today that you it. You don't even have to completely believe all of the right responses back to God, God is faithful even if you're faithless. I that about this time next year... I said, &quot;January 2025.&quot; About this time next year, Isn't it cool how Holly was right and there mail this week as an announcement to you that God said, &quot;I've got another box with your name on Come on. We're knocking through the &quot;No.&quot; I up a standard against the Enemy. He's is calling you forward; one voice is &quot;Yes&quot; and &quot;Amen&quot;; one voice is saying, &quot;No,&quot; It is truly a matter of life and deciding. The door was there because she made she said &quot;Yes&quot; yesterday... I'm telling I know all of y'all are going to still because you're not a church-hopping, little be right here a year from now. You're going to going to have Hulk Hogan biceps in the Spirit and people aren't going to be able to tell A year from now, you are going to be holding hope in the door. I know the Devil has a and I know you have good reasons that you said, &quot;No,&quot; but let me bring you back to my At our Matthews Campus today where they told parking lot. Oh, yeah. Businessmen in khaki pants building. Not only did we end up getting we knocked down all of the walls, because You will be sitting in tomorrow what you will &quot;Here I am. I stand at the door.&quot; You are standing in a doorway. &quot;Do I go back to it or familiar patterns another year or do I Do I go back to that horrible relationship or do I go forward into learning sticks closer than a brother?&quot; I see so I know the word is right. I see you There's one door, and there are two voices. Which isn't it? God is going to put an open a little tiny door or it might be the doors of what God is calling you into I'd like you to bow your heads, because you to look inside for the answers to of your life have you told God &quot;No&quot;? I to do with who he calls us to become, The way that works... Just like he &quot;Come here,&quot; and she stood in the door, God will the door. The decision is...Will you believe that that? I want to minister to somebody who has been Every time that thing inside of you says, &quot;No, trash. I'm just a piece of crap. You don't even on you that tells you that stuff to drag you come against that spirit of condemnation today in &quot;There is therefore now no condemnation He is the door. Don't you see it? and today you're in his presence. I leave message. &quot;Here I am. I stand at the door That's as simple as I know how to make I don't know if that's a Bible reading group. I don't know if that's to tell somebody door and make room on the roof, I'm believing awesome in your arms. Come on. You're going Father, we thank you in Jesus' name that for all At this moment I want to give an invitation for into your life and have a new beginning with him. faith. It is the gift of God, not of works, so mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart This is an open invitation to anyone who to God today. I'm not living another year half out. Today I'm walking through this door receive his provision for my life and receive his I'm going to pray a prayer with you. We'll who are coming to God for the first I want you to repeat this after me &quot;Heavenly Father, today is my day of salvation. I could be forgiven and rose again to give me beginning.&quot; On the count of three, raise three. I want to celebrate with you. The doors just put it in the comments. &quot;I received Hallelujah. Let's give God the greatest 24 Come on. How many know praise opens prison that the King of Glory may enter in! Hallelujah! If that word had your name on it, let me know I know it's tricky. I told God I didn't want to And not a &quot;hopethetical&quot; message either, happen just like you want it, but about this I believe you're carrying something awesome. Would you stand and give God praise as our hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church know when we go live and post new content make to you today where you're watching from and like to support the ministry financially you can reaching people around the world for Jesus