Over 10,000 competitors, over 8 million tickets sold, of us consider the pinnacle of sports - the Olympics. Here comes the first. And this time it's in Paris. But the Olympics is a lot more than just this and this It's an extremely expensive undertaking, in many cases city. And I covered it before. Cities are dropping out because they were spending tens process. This chart shows the host city's initial budget versus They're quite different. Like this or this or this. The London 2012 Olympics ended up being nearly four That's detrimental to a host's budget, especially weak economy and extreme inequities like the state of 2016. Or Greece, whose debt crisis became so monitoring by the European Commission just a year But Paris is looking to be a bit different. The city budgeted $9.7 billion, spending about half on costs, and so far it's looking good. We expect the Paris 2024 Summer games would be the because the needs were really limited, so other events games. So how did France pull it off and can they become the projects? This is Thomas Bach, the president of the It's a clip from 2017 when he announced Paris as the We are all therefore delighted to see that your plans existing and temporary venues. The key here is the record number of existing and Paris's initial budget was set to $6.97 billion when It revised its budget to 8.1 billion. The city ended up with 9.7 billion, still well below Olympic budgets are split into two parts operating Operating costs are typically the more manageable of It's essentially the necessary cost to get the games services, customs, immigration and more. Paris was already strong in many of those areas. The IOC set an operating budget of $4.8 billion. As a result, infrastructure costs have always been a In the past, prior cities have overspent by billions villages and building new or expanding existing public To get all of that construction done before the against time. In Paris's case, construction costs were 95% of the venues were already in place. Only three were built. There is the Olympic Village that is the largest in Saint-Denis. I think it's a bit less than 200 And then you have a new sport facility within the city The Olympic Village will be turned into housing and They expect to have 2800 units after the games, so that will be a huge boost for the local areas. You may be wondering who pays for all of this. It's generally split into private and public funding. It's when the weight of public funding becomes too cases. For Paris and France's case, it hasn't been so, That's because 96% of the total operating budget is deals. Paris won its bid in 2017 amid a time of IOC. Up until then, every Olympics since the 1960s had average of 172%. Rio is perhaps the most eye popping example, at 352% A problematic subway line that was supposed to connect billion. It was overbuilt by 25%. The renovation project of a neighborhood cost $4.2 Brazil hosted the games as it went into its deepest The same reason why it didn't make sense to build them Olympics, they're underutilized or unused. And what are they doing there? Well, first of all, they cost hundreds of millions of Secondly, they cost tens of millions of dollars to These so-called white elephants are an ongoing problem cities. As we saw earlier, a big part of the pair's bid was. It's the record number of existing and temporary While Paris hasn't avoided the usual overspending, it's original budget. The method of the government has always been this would cheapest in recent history, and they would not burden our debt and would benefit everyone. If you compare the size of the budget to French GDP, rather limited. And it's much lower than, let's say, a Athens in 2004 represented a larger share of Greek GDP. Paris is also uniquely positioned to host a big event, to 8% of its GDP. Paris has an extensive metro network, but also many really positive for the gains, meaning that most infra to go to the different venues. With mounting criticism, the IOC adjusted its bidding In December 2014, the IOC released the Olympic Agenda hosting easier on cities. What agenda 2020 did at the time was to restate a or policies that the IOC started in the 1990s, and the to promote financial security for the host city and to promote sustainability. Promoted a little bit of greater flexibility on the to use existing venues rather than to build new a good thing for the host cities. Under the Olympic Agenda 2020 and its 2016 amendment construction must have long term legacy Post-olympics. The overall economic and environmental impact was not result of that, they continued to have more and more with getting potential host cities to actually express We finally got to the point in 2017, where five cities to host the 2024 games, the ones that are about to Angeles remained in the competition in 2017. It was the first time in IOC history that two hosts By locking in two cities at once, the IOC wouldn't host after cities dropped their bids. When you have a fully developed city like Paris or Los have the vast majority of the venues, this is That's good news. In 2019, the selection process changed altogether, this process. While Paris is considered to be one of the Olympics. It all hinges on what kind of economic While the IOC estimates that the games will generate Other estimates are much more modest. One study estimates GDP growth of 0.5% in the third 0.1% for the following three months. S&amp;p Global Projects Paris tourism and spending related 5%. Paris projects its 2024 revenue to hit over $200 jump from 2023. But being a major tourism hub and holding the world's effects, like increased pressure on Paris's already Tourism not being high as expected, or security costs progress. The main pain point would be the transportation at the same time for the different competition, and a pressure to the network that is already saturated. The transportation authorities said they would add but maybe this won't be sufficient to absorb higher see network disruptions from time to time. I think this is expected. Air France estimates a loss of about $200 million from lags behind other major European cities due to the altogether. But economists like Zimbalist believes the security. They say that the security costs in the budget are million. I don't think that number is realistic. They have already admitted to having more than 50,000 But beyond direct personnel costs, we know that there You're engaging heavy military equipment for for the You're buying equipment to, to contest any drones that people. You're doing all sorts of things that go way And previous Olympic Games have been known to spend So they're giving us a number 340, $350 million. And it's just not a realistic statement of of what the The Olympics have their host cities locked up until Each city's plan will get an insight into whether or Paris and LA will follow similar blueprints with Brisbane in 2032 will test how flexible the IOC's new Brisbane will have 11 new venues, with about half new Norm plans were enacted. The bidding process might be more challenging for beyond. Previous hosts used the Olympics to put their scale infrastructure projects in the hopes of of overspending from both emerging and established a lot of new infrastructure to host. And now that the bidding and selection process is done against or even if their bids were seriously Zimbalist believes that the solution for hosting the city has the existing infrastructure, or the capital The real solution, he says, is one central location So I think the logical longer term solution is to have the Summer games, so it doesn't have to we don't have more and more experience to be able to handle all of operational and security issues that surround the Now, that's not an easy thing to do overnight discussing that. Maybe initially you have 2 or 3 cities that are in a That's the direction in which I think this whole