Around 10 million years ago, off the coast creature with claws cruised the Pacific Ocean This creature was an ancient ancestor of modern debodeorum. It had a round, spiky carapace and a body else is known about it. This fossil is the only one of its kind ever And, based on how modern king crabs live, in very deep, cold water. But, no matter how Paralomis spent its days, you'd recognize it as a crab. But it wasn't a crab--at least, not Paralomis and its modern counterparts belong group of crustaceans that includes everything Am I the only who is really horrified by Give me a minute. Anyway, none of those animals that we call They all evolved from crustaceans that were like a shrimp or a lobster. And then, for some reason, these animals evolved over and over again. They turned into false crabs!! Fake! Impostors I tell you! So why does this keep happening? What is it about the crab's form that makes that non-crabs are apparently jealous of it? Well, it might sound odd to say this about to be that it's all about flexibility. Crab-like creatures date back to the Late And they started with the first decapod crustaceans, Decapods are named for their ten feet, and lobsters, and crabs -- both true and false. And Palaeopalaemon is the oldest lobster-like decapods, period. It probably lived on the seafloor, like a feeding appendages for browsing around in But then, around 260 million years ago, decapods those false, fake wanna-be crabs, and the that aren't lying to you. The oldest undisputed true crab is Eoprosopon, ago in the early Jurassic Period. And, for a while, scientists argued over whether it has some un-crab-like traits -- like a prominent antennae. But after re-evaluating the only known specimen that Eoprosopon was a very early member of Now, on the other side of the decapod family older than Eoprosopon at about 200 million It's thought to be the oldest false crab, But over the course of evolutionary time, closer and closer to what we think of as the In both groups, time and time again, a crustacean only to evolve into the rounder, flatter shape And scientists have been trying to figure years. One of the first naturalists to recognize Alexander Borradaile. And in 1916 he named the process "carcinization," And he also described how he thought the process Basically, the long "tail" of a lobster, gets tucked under the body. And, at the same time, the narrow front part and flatter, until it eventually winds up OK, so, but whyyyy would these animals repeatedly round? Well, back in the 1980s, a study analyzed whole Mesozoic Era, and discovered that there during this span of time. Another, more recent study found that this Period, which experts sometimes call the Cretaceous Decapod Revolution. If you happen to have a band that you've started that needs a name Both of those are available! Nearly 80 percent of the major groups of true this period. And throughout the Mesozoic Era, there was crab-shaped species, specifically toward true The crab-like creatures also seemed to have than their more lobster-y relatives. One possible explanation for this is that The rounder, flatter shape of crabs lets crabs There are even crabs that climb tree, which By contrast, animals that are shaped more to just swimming, burrowing, or scuttling Other researchers say the transformation to evade predators. By losing the pleon--that long tail--they might grab onto. So, since the crab shape allowed crustaceans more predators, that shape was selected for came to be shaped like crabs--even if they But of course, sometimes certain adaptations don't stick. And, just to keep things interesting!, there their crab-like shape! This is called, you guessed it, decarcinization. This has happened among true crabs, like in Its name means "perplexing beautiful chimera" years ago, during that Cretaceous Crab Revolution thing. And it kinda looked like a crab, but not totally. Its large eyes weren't on stalks, it had its body shape wasn't quite the same as I mean look at this things eyes! It's like the Baby Yoda of crabs All told, the phenomenon of carcinization convergent evolution. There are a lot of reasons a crustacean might not actually a crab: It allows for a lot of Today, crabs can clamber around the deep sea, and propel themselves through the water. They live in freshwater, salt water, and on true crabs and false alike. At the end of the day, it's all about how So maybe we can't blame for false crabs Just please keep those coconut crabs the heck Big thanks to this month's clawsome Eontologists: Annie and Eric Higgins, Jon Davison Ng, and Patrick Seifert. You can become an Eonite by supporting us And remember - Eonites get perks like submitting Which I'm going to do right now... this He says &quot;The Amniotic Egg was egg-sackly what we needed.&quot; Oh man And as Haase studio. If you like what we do here, go to youtube.com/eons