So crispy! It has so much stuff in it! Mmm! A Polish pulled pork sandwich! This Hello everybody, and welcome to another video! Poland. We're so excited to be eating some Polish past, you'll know that they're usually very today's going to be a little bit different. the first one is going to be in Krakow, and so make sure to see both. But let's start with Something that you're going to find in every and it's a half baguette topped with sauteed top of it like ham, salami, chives, in this case, which we have as well. And then you can sauce--things like that. This place that we went I think at nighttime there are lines here, and restaurants or little stalls that sell these. So Let's try it! I really, really like the mushroom, and the a bit like... it has this punch that some Look at that cheese! And the ketchup really yummy. It definitely feels like a you're drunk or maybe like something you dough or something. It also reminds me of frozen pizza baguettes in Germany with mushroom soup on top. This is better, and I Mmm, so crispy. I totally agree. I thought the barbecue sauce-y. It doesn't taste like normal really good together. It just adds a sweetness, I Polish pizza because it is bread, cheese, and own thing. It's very unique, and as Anja said, But I did go on Reddit, and although a lot we decided to check out another place that so we'll see if that one is better. The next stall we decided to try was called shops down from the other one that we tried, bit more strange and different this time. This with mountaineer cheese, pickles, this dill this cheese is made in the Tatra Mountains. typically, the cheese that they use uh... Emmental... kinds of cheeses--cheeses looks like it's going to be quite looks quite different. It's much more Alright, let's see which one's better. I know I have sauce all over my face, I can different things. They taste very different. the sausage is different, and you have that tangy though, surprisingly, I might prefer the really good as well, so I think you That's so different. The woman is the and I think it goes really well, but I do think the other one had maybe better bread, inside. But this is still very delicious. I think, smoked cheese, I think this might doesn't taste as strong. I don't know if it's had gotten ketchup on this, it might be better. After a bit more chewing and getting further and the more I get to the cheese and chew you can really taste that smokiness. And but I don't know. I think you just have you can go wrong with any stall or any Next up, we're going to try an item if you don't know what that is, it's this pork looks like it's chopped up very finely, almost it's got pickles, mustard sauce, onions, and it's been eaten since the 19th century. I think it and it looks amazing. The whole point of it pork from the night before and sauces, and they messy sandwich. It looks absolutely it's pretty affordable as well, so let's Mmm, that bun! It looks and sounds super that meat is so juicy, so saucy. I didn't yet because it's just filled with meat--it is more bites to really get into this, It's so soft. Holy moly, that's so, so good. the bun is a lot softer than you would think. never had this before, never heard about this. You that this is just like an American dish or like And we're actually at a place called and there seems to be quite a lot of these places like this. There's so many different went to is called Andrus. They have all these As Anja mentioned, there were all different was one with bacon, one with an egg, one sorts of different types. But of course, when you should probably try the original. So I made a little bite with bread, meat, and pickle, and I think this is how it's We now came to the Vistula River for our next called Slowianska Uczta. And the first which is apparently the embodiment of Polish different grains like barley, oats, and and potato. Yeah, I think this is one of and it's not something I've ever had before or smells fermented, kind of like pickles actually. Maybe I'll drink the broth first. That's what it a little bit bready. That's delicious! It I think the translation is sour soup, and it's It's kind of like this potato salad--almost like in and this is kind of like a soup version with We knew that we were going to get this, so we have any cutlery for takeaway. So I'm glad we as you said, super pickly, very dill-forward, so I imagine I'm going to love this. Let's try love that! That's so unique. I don't think I've Not me either. That is really, really good. that fermented rye flavor--that's really nice. And many soups I've had with egg, besides maybe and I can see how this would be a comforting heard of Zurek before, and I think most tourists tourists usually get this. It's not as popular one we're going to have next, but if you come to It'd be kind of insane to have a Krakow Polish these are pierogi. If you don't know what pierogi can be filled with a bunch of different types vegetables like cabbage, they can be filled versions as well, which we did get one of those. and we got the meat and cabbage pierogi. Now, bits. Sometimes they can be topped with bacon. which is my favorite, I think. And we also got and we got a dill sauce. Let's try one of it looks amazing. Mmm. Maybe that was too big of so juicy, it's so meaty. I don't really taste the incredible. They're so soft, so pillowy, and of That is so good! You don't even need the sour taste the meat a lot more than the cabbage, but and they're better than the potato ones. I'm ones, but that's not my favorite. I just really, We also got another type, and we wanted so we got duck with cranberry and orange, which also had mushrooms with nuts and feta, and there potato, I think--and a few other types. They you can also get baked pierogi, and I know... not at this place, but we might Let's see. Mmm, that is really good. That is kind of like pasty meat, and I think I so it's kind of like sweet. That's delicious. onions. I think I like the other ones better, but one with the dill sauce, because Anja said so I think it will go good with some sauce. Mmm, that dill sauce--strong dill flavor, really creamy. meat and cabbage better. I like the fried onions fried onions and maybe not the meat on top, and Now, I would love to know, if you are Polish, do you normally go for? Because they had a lot of really hard to choose which one is our favorite. We are now on to the pierogi dessert round. Now, but I think we only had them with berries until which you need to check out, we did so check that out if you haven't seen it super strange that I have never seen before in any and I guess they are stuffed with white chocolate sauce with them. These smell super chocolatey. let's try one. I'm going to just use my hands and That is really good. I don't know that really taste the banana inside. Not the M, I like it. It's like real banana almost--it's know, is it the vanilla sauce that's sour? Or it I've been eating these a little bit more, of. They remind me of eating a banana split vanilla ice cream. Then there's a little bit of and inside you have that banana. Banana And these actually come with 10 per box, so it's a pretty good deal because have so many perogi left. So, so delicious. One thing that Poland is especially So we got ourselves one at this really cool stand guess that's what it's called. It's like this blue they're one of the only places in the city that their van on the side of the street with an open type of spot--they actually don't open until 3:00 in the morning. We actually came here and they were still open, so that's cool. I think but I think pork is the most popular. This looks cooking it over the open flame. You can We chose to get it with a bun, and we got some All right, we cut a little piece off. It was a but we did it in the end. I'm just with a little bit of the condiments. M, let's take a little bit of bread. We recently actually cooked some kielbasa and it does not even remotely compare to this. flame--it can't be beat. If you're going to eat a flame like that because the skin is so crispy, it doesn't even really need the bread, It's really snappy. It's just so because this kind of reminds me of being home in a roll from stands on the side of the street. one of my favorite sausages. The type of snappy, but it's like really, really nice and firm. the Kasekrainer in Austria--it's more This is a standard bun, but I really like how I find really interesting is that it doesn't on the side of the road that sell sausages in but this one is, I think, the only one, and really find any other stands on Google Maps, and where I'm from in Germany or in Austria, have amazing sausages, Poland, so you We're now at a place called &quot;Dobra Kasha and we are here to eat some more we are going to start off with a Polish we always have to sample the local beer. So we've I mean, cold, refreshing beer--you can never go to drink. We got another type as well, but Anja will called Miloslaw, which is a town, I think, outside it's called Marzen. I think it's a German type of the UK, because it's flat--but not flat in a bad Now on to our first food item. Here we have some are, I guess, in the south of Poland--they seemed to be one of the main cheeses to try many different lists, so we had to try it. We let's see if it compares to that. This looks a side of cranberry sauce as well. We have these Now, if you know us at all, you know that we much every video--like in our Austrian video, we had we had cheese. We just love cheese. Let's the more that smokiness comes out. That I love any kind of cheese, but smoked cheese like the cranberry pairs really well with it as well. is going to be an amazing meal. It also has That is so, so, so, so good. That is so and then it has a little bit of, like, this and with the cranberry sauce, it just works when you come to Poland. And this cheese kind of like halloumi. It's almost So, the main dish we're going to have here is out of different grains like barley and buckwheat. scratchings and things like that. We have bacon been eating this in Poland for thousands of years, to be more of a dish for poor people, but even This one's baked. This plate's really, really the whole restaurant is kind of about groats. You all types of things. We got the prunes and bacon, I'm just going to eat it like this, with Really hot. I really like the prunes, but on that much flavor. It kind of tastes like this I mean, yeah, you're not wrong--that's what it with the sauce and stuff--it goes really well of salads--you can choose which salad you want, or some other cabbage with raisins, and cucumber. very traditional--people eat it often at home, again, like Anja said, that there are many with wild mushrooms, or meat, or whatever. You prune and bacon one really intrigued us, so I'm Yeah, I actually really like this. It is a little the prunes gives it this nice sweetness, and this thing is really hot. I have these as well. Although this is a pretty simple and that's what I really like about it. Let as Anja said, we have four different Very light, very refreshing. Let's go for horseradish. It's not, though, right? I don't I thought it was cabbage. It tastes like some sort of root but I don't really know. That's really good. As I This is a pretty simple dish, but I'm definitely So the one with the raisins is actually celery actually remind me of quinoa. I think it's a bit know, do people in Poland at home eat it like But it's still delicious, just different. I prunes, and everything together with the One thing that was super cool about this place is separate plates, so we each have our own little for the price, this is pretty incredible. Both and I can't wait to polish this off. Polish... We are now moving on to dessert, and we have butchering it, so please let me know in the absolutely amazing. This was one of the up Polish desserts to try. It comes with a and it looks so good. It is covered in I can smell the apples. Let's dig in. I have so soft. Wow. Let's get a little bit of this--wow, that smells really good. Oh my, that is freaking tastes like an apple cake. The bottom is so soft, really sweet, of course. Very cinnamony, and you on top as well. This is really good. It is not it's probably even better than what I thought it if you come to Poland, get yourself some apple The dough is completely different than I But it's really soft and almost disintegrates in really good, and it looks and tastes so Polish grandma made this for me. I don't know so good. This is phenomenal--this is This is the end of the video. We loved and I think it's one of our favorite cuisines that's not it for our Polish food videos. the future--next week--and that one will be around Poland coming, so make sure you please give it a like, leave us a comment, that subscribe button. But that is it for now,