Night in the Woods is one of those games that it. Something changes within you once the credits Along side that, you're left scratching happened... Because it's a lot to process. In the last video - which I highly recommend covered a lot of interesting things. Once again - we'll be diving into spoiler This will be part 2 in our journey through trip into the dark lands. Last time we talked about Love-craftian goats some toxic gas that makes everyone a tad loony. Loony in a "let's kill people by pushing However, there is still a lot of unanswered the perception of what is actually being experienced. For those who have been actively lore searching, began data-mining the game looking for further Two days after I released my video, a redditor the game, which appears to be at the end of In this scene Germ hangs out with Mae at his members. What is strange about this scene is the fact of insight in regards to the super natural She calls Mae a sturdy girl, similar to what mentally dumps a lot of odd things on Mae. She talks about how she used to walk in dreams A hole in the center of everything, a hunger and a figure at the end of the hall. She then goes on about shapes, which is the is experiencing. She describes having a bat in your hand, which Mae had with a bat in which she smashed her Perhaps this is a dream many people have once Germ's grandma then states that she should way, and that she will be going down not far I believe this to be a reference to Mae being house is not far from where they escape from Grandmother continues by saying that Mae has will take a life. I believe this is why the Grandmother states Mae has been deemed a delinquent to society The last thing she mentions is unhaunting first scene in the game involving your grandfather's The rest of the scene plays out interestingly, Germ and Mae jump on a trampoline - or at the final rendition of the game. The first to appear states that he is invisible. "You don't see us, but we see you." This statement is very in-line with what the shows that they are highly likely to be members But this leaves us in a very interesting place... Because by these events, there is something outside the realm of just hallucinating gas. These things the grandma speaks of are too the only way she would know of such things things herself, or that she can read the mind However, one could simply debate this is a canon due to not being in the game. This is where things are problematic. On one hand, you have the creator who vouched canon, but on the other hand, I talked to posted about this on Twitter. The coder for the game informed me that these they simply had more time - and that the only It reminds me a lot about the Gaster paradox behind sparked a lore hunt that is still going In terms of establishing lore though, it should it as an additional source for the truth is However, even if the exact quotes can't still see that there is something odd about From the mysterious janitor, to the pastor have that are related to Germ. All of them seem to carry a spiritual undertone, aid in that stance. Even going back to the constellations, birds Rubello was the fabled so-called fire breathing sits outside the church. Then there's Tehrn the medium, whom died his body. He was said to have spoken with the dead - oh on this constellation it appears that Tehrn described. Thought that was worth pointing out, as you drawn before his eyes. But of all the birds in the game, the most at the start. Now this Janitor seems to know quite a lot He also tends to work at many establishments fixes the door at the bus station and apparently After his first encounter at the start of you're halfway through it. He reappears during the Harfest play, and catch Mae off guard. He mentions unhaunting a place, which is also in the deleted scene. Along side this, your grandfather says that game before he dies as well. Further along in the conversation he claims he may be acting out his role in the play, He imparts wisdom stating that we begin and ghosts. Fast forward to after Mae falls, and upon the scene transitions over to the hospital. This scene is weird because no one notices room, and then they ask who he is. He states he's supposed to be fixing a door, before he wanders off. Some may argue that him entering the church him speaking at the hospital, but in my eyes situation. He arrives at the church, and as the screen are tinted to hospital lighting. I feel this was done on purpose as a way to Lastly, at the end of the game he mentions sometimes, and Mae states that she'll see I see you first, Mae". Mae finds it odd because she never gave him it around town as well. Or, perhaps, you know, he's just a god. That's a pretty farfetched accusation, but thought of Bruce Almighty when encountering This isn't the first time a Janitor played blends in with the background who actually I feel there is a reason you run into him vanishes upon going outside. He is a force that is watching over you throughout be alright, and warns you of approaching danger. He isn't lying when he says he is fixing are not actually the typical kind. With all the crazy things that are happening believe he is fixing the damage caused by The creature that has caused tears with its If this creature is real and not a product is fixing could very well be him mending the He is restoring balance in a sense to the slipping into chaos. As a god or higher being though, he can only still retains an element of free will. However, he can still mend the damage left It's also worth noting that he resembles the only statue in the graveyard you encounter. It is on top of a hill surrounded by smaller of great importance. The cost of producing statues for graves is is very common for graves to reflect certain worshiped during their life. So the janitor could be this important figure figure from history, or simply someone who Perhaps he is the Forest God after all, as balance in life and restoring harmony to the But if this is the case, then that also means in the game could be true as well. If that is the intention though, was the hallucinating for the viewer? It'd make sense to cut out the deleted scene If you dive back into the supplemental installments see that there was a goat constellation called A singing, cosmic goat who is black like the our Black Goat of the Woods that the cult It turns out that during an opera performance Ibon, the stage exploded and killed lots of So it seems death is still pared up with even Of course, this is just a tale that is told also takes place in a dream. If gas caused the people of the town to go around the town leaking out new gas, then could go crazy enough to believe that one stake on their planet. But if this is just a case of old people going Where does Mae fit into all of this? Surely she has experienced things herself... What if everything we experience is due to Now I know that is a different stance on all at it at the end of my last video... But we can't rule it out. The human psyche is capable of incredible severe the effects it can have on us. Depression, social anxiety, and general uncertainties suffer from. These are real issues that people battle with. Setting out into the unknown, or in Mae's Especially after already experiencing a breaking By the time she got to college, she was already She saw shapes, and these shapes lacked all Without a drive or having a purpose - life Life loses the spark it once had, and we wander if we matter. Why we are here, what's the point in anything? This feeling only continues to snowball as On top of this, Mae struggled with the way mirror. She tried her best to remain body-positive, Once a person begins this descent into the out. It affects everything we do, and we are always We feel like a screwup, that nobody likes no one would miss us if we were gone... It's a scary place to be, and when you are with depression, your perception of the world In Mae's case, returning to where she came Her return to Possum Springs was the elephant The older generation would pry and her peers Mae bottled it up and carried this feeling game. If you feel like you can never do anything to try anything new either - as it feels pointless. All of these things were constantly weighing that seemed impossible to escape from without Perhaps this is where the dreams came from. Mae's first out of body experience was about more than to destroy the statue that was pointing To smash those feelings to smithereens. Her dreams, or in some regards nightmares, The more turmoil she had going on in her head, It wasn't until her breakdown at the party poured out, and from that point forward her While existing in this removed psychological shape everything we perceived as the game The hole at the center of everything could that was consuming her - and instead of talking she was taking a stand against her own demons She wanted to feel the spark of life again She may always have self doubts, but she wouldn't She wanted to be free, and it took all of From this point forward she would push through her friends has made all the difference. Couple this with some crazy gas, and you have game and what could have been possibly happening Now we've covered quite a lot in our Night love to hear your thoughts. What was your thoughts on the scrapped scene? Do you think the Janitor is the God of the And last, was the paranormal and strange things Let me know your thoughts in Oh, and before I forget... SwankyBox now has a Discord! For those who don't know what that is, it's essentially a really cool game-specific chat program where you can connect with like-minded people. We can discuss theories, nostalgia, or even your own creative endeavors. You can find a link in the description or on my channel header! And with that... Thanks for tuning in to this second analysis If you'd like to join me on my YouTube voyage of Possum Springs, then the subscribe button Thanks for watching guys and gals, and until You've made it to the end of the video! But wait, your quest isn't over yet! If you liked this video, I highly recommend Or, you can swing over to my new channel to There's a slew of other videos on this channel