Well, it was some months ago when we were that we covered the end of chapter 2 and the the sabbath by the standards of the Jews. And when they confronted Him, He said two He said, &quot;Man was not made for the sabbath, Which was to say that the sabbath was not but the sabbath was to be a delight which The Jews had turned it in to an almost unbearable The second thing He said which, was even more sabbath,&quot; and thus He declared His sovereignty How are we to understand the place that the people of God? Turn in your Bible for a moment to Exodus This is the Decalogue, the ten commandments. And near the middle of the ten commandments We begin to read about it in verse 8. &quot;Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your work, your God; in it you shall not do any work, or your female servants or your cattle or with you. For in six days the Lord made the heavens them, and rested on the seventh day; therefore it holy.&quot; There is no question about the other nine We are to have no other gods. We are never to make an idol. We are to worship only the true and living We are never to take the name of the Lord We are not to dishonor our father or mother, We are not to murder, commit adultery, steal, Those are all moral mandates, moral commands, the fourth command regarding the sabbath. And the question that is often posed is a If all the other commands are permanent, is There are people who believe it is and we They fall generally into two categories. One would be Seventh Day Adventists. I think we're familiar with them. I think it's legitimate to consider Seventh that the writings of Ellen G. White are inspired by God and could be put But they identify themselves as faithful to There are also Seventh Day Baptists, a smaller binding, as well. Not quite so strict, you could also identify They have decided that as Christians, we must the seventh day, it's the first day. So they shift the command in Exodus from Saturday This is a classic view among reformed theologians. This was the view of many, if not most of In fact, if you go back to the 1689 Baptist article in that Confession, that Christians they are to follow, generally, the prescriptions old sabbath. And the question before us tonight is are Is it correct that we should be observing as a kind of new replacement sabbath as a Well, to answer that, we need to go back to So let's do that. Genesis chapter 2. The chapter opens with the indication that And we read these words, &quot;Then the heavens hosts - &quot; everything that occupies them. &quot;By the seventh day, God completed His work day from all His work which He had done. Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified which God had created and made.&quot; You will notice in verse 3 the word &quot;sanctified.&quot; That word is essentially the word &quot;holy&quot; and used in the Bible. The root means &quot;to separate,&quot; or perhaps better, elevate.&quot; It is a separation that elevates or exalts. So here, for the first time, we come across elevated. That is, God designates this seventh day as days. And God makes it holy, and declares it to The three reasons are basically connected First of all, it is a day that is unique because all their hosts. That's the first verb, the whole work of creation This work of creation was done in six essentially of the sixth day, there has never been any divine miracles that we have read about occasionally through the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, within the midst of His now fallen creation. Apart from that, creation ceased on the sixth It didn't go on for thousands of years. It didn't go on for millions or billions of After six days it was finished, it was completed. And so, this is a special day because it signals Secondly is the verb &quot;rested.&quot; When it says in verse 2 that &quot;by the seventh and He rested.&quot; And then in verse 3 again, &quot;He rested from This is a unique day because the creation Does not imply weariness. The Lord does not grow weary, Isaiah 40:28. The Psalmist says He doesn't slumber or sleep. He rested only in the sense that He ceased energy. But what it tells us when He rested is really And that takes you back to 1:31, &quot;God saw good.&quot; It was a perfect work, and it was the rest And by the way, there would be no more creation, for God to do. God didn't go to work again until the 3rd and Eve fell and God had to go to work. And what was the first thing that God did? 3:21, &quot;The Lord God made garments of skin And then He drove them out of the garden. God did no work between the end of creation And with the fall of man, God's work began God had to preserve as Hebrews 1 says, He because it was now subject to decay. And so, He went to work to preserve the universe made, and He also went to work to fulfill that creation. Now, you do not hear in those three verses There's nothing here about man resting, nothing without sin and a perfect man in every sense, he was doing whatever the simple tending of There's no need to have a day of rest for What would he rest from? He's living in a paradise with no labor, and There's no sabbath law given here for Adam, Nothing is said about this day being a day It doesn't say anything about that. It doesn't prescribe anything for anyone. It is isolated completely to God. He completed His creation, satisfied with and the third verb in verse 3, &quot;He blessed He designed that that seventh day would be original perfection. This is so important for you to understand. This is a day to be elevated above all other God's perfection in creation. Every seventh day from here on out would be universe in perfection. Have you ever asked yourself why we operate It seems an odd number, does it not? There certainly is no rational reason for and months, and years to be in sets of sevens. It's actually kind of an awkward way to do It might be simpler to do them in tens. And yet it is universally adopted across the to be unique because every seventh day is expressed in the magnificence of six-day creation. To reject God as Creator, to reject God as day. To say that somehow God used thousands of is to desanctify the seventh day. There's a reason why we live in seven-day is because every seventh day provides for created in six days the entire universe. In Revelation chapter 14 there is the testimony - the angels flying through heaven, and the God as the Creator. It is the everlasting good news that God is Every seventh day that passes should stand Every Saturday, America, the western world a five-day work week. Part of that was the underlying sense that Saturday is a perpetual witness to God as Sunday, on the other hand, is a perpetual We'll talk more about that next time. So, when you go back to Genesis chapter 2, no mention of sabbath being a day of worship. The next time you even run into the word is Hundreds of years have passed. Patriarchs have come and gone. None of them worshiped, as far as we know, That was designated for them. It was not prescribed for them. It was not mandated for them, not Abraham, people of God. The first time the sabbath is mentioned in of Exodus when God feeds the people manna and the manna comes every day except the sabbath that day so that they don't have to work on And that gives them a little preview of what's the ten commandments, and in the ten commandments, given that do set down laws for the sabbath This is the first time any such laws have This is very important so that we understand in Genesis. It was instituted officially in Exodus in A further understanding of that comes from You might want to look at it for a minute. The Lord speaks to Moses in verse 12 and He of Israel saying, 'You shall surely observe and you throughout your generations, that you. Therefore you are to observe the sabbath, Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put that person shall be cut off from among his For six days work may be done but on the seventh to the Lord; whoever does any work on the So the sons of Israel shall observe the sabbath, generations as a perpetual covenant. It is a sign between Me and the sons of Israel &quot; - for in six days the Lord made heaven and was refreshed,' &quot; or rested. Here we find that sabbath is a sign. It is a sign. That is to say, it points to something else. It is a symbol, if you will. It is placed in the middle, or near the middle, connected to the Mosaic covenant. Let me see if I can help you with that. When God made a covenant with Noah, He promised again and God identified a sign. What was the sign of the Noahic Covenant? Rainbow. When God made a covenant with Abraham, He a sign, and the sign of the Abrahamic Covenant, was the sign of circumcision. And here you have in the Mosaic Covenant another It was only a sign. Observing it with a duplicitous heart gained In fact, Isaiah 1:13 says, &quot;Bring your worthless to Me. New moon and sabbath.&quot; The prophet Hosea pronounces a similar judgment &quot;I will put an end to all her gaiety, her It didn't mean anything to observe it outwardly But what was the symbol for? What was the sign for? Why this sign? I think you'll understand this when I explain The sabbath was a reminder of creation. The sabbath was to remind the people of Israel had forfeited paradise. The law said to them, &quot;Obey this law and you God said that repeatedly, &quot;Obey this law and behavior would restore a taste of Eden's paradise. Righteous behavior would also point to a future, So the sabbath, every sabbath that went by perfect creation, a paradise of God dominated by sin and could only be regained again by God then institutes the seventh-day system, In fact, specifically it says for Israel. Verse 17, &quot;A sign between Me and the sons Every seventh day was a reminder that they Every seventh day was a reminder that they And the only way to regain a taste of paradise And they therefore were to consider the importance They were to consider the importance on that looking at how they were measuring up against Recognizing sin was the objective, and bringing So the first seventh day identified God as in the Mosaic economy identified God as the The first view was to produce gratitude for The second, to produce repentance for the And so, the sabbath took on a new meaning. Yes, it still is a reminder that God created, which was originally perfect is now marred, is stained by sin, and we are stained by sin, and we are groaning, as well. The sign in the middle of the Abrahamic Covenant to be clean. You need to be cleansed.&quot; And the sign here, the sabbath, in the middle the same thing. You need to recognize that you have forfeited to be righteous. Obviously they couldn't keep the law, but with God to be merciful to them as sinners. So we understand that this was unique for And as I said this morning, when Jesus came, You remember that I told you this morning temple, it was an abolishing of the temple? He didn't just want to eliminate the bad priests He eliminated the priesthood. He didn't just want to clean up the people's obliterated the sacrificial system because ceremonies, all its rituals, all its sacrifices, the holy of holies, all of it, including the The sabbath observance went away with all We begin to understand this by watching Jesus How did Jesus treat the sabbath? I've said this before, any way He wanted, He is the mediator, we know, of a new covenant, It's important to notice that just as He obliterated sabbath system. Now you may recall that we looked at this other passages to consider this because this Look at Matthew 12:1. &quot;Jesus went through the grainfields on the to pick the heads of grain and eat.&quot; By the way, there was actually no Old Testament In fact, it was allowed. But the Jews had added endless restrictions &quot;So when the Pharisees saw this, they said lawful to do on the sabbath.' He said to them, 'Have you not read what David &quot; You think this is bad? &quot; 'When he became hungry, he and his companions, show bread, which was not lawful for him to alone?' &quot; I'll even give you something worse. David and his men ate the show bread. &quot; 'Or have you not read in the law, that on the sabbath and are innocent?' &quot; You all make a big issue out of not working Guess what? While you're not working, all the priests and all the sacrifices. Which reminds us that this law is not moral, So Jesus, rather than acquiescing to their to other violations of the sabbath. In verse 8, He says, &quot;The Son of Man is Lord He can do anything He wants with the sabbath. He can institute it. He can make commands for restrictions. He can require death for violation of those set it aside totally. He can abrogate it. He can nullify it. And there is the transition that is taking As Jesus arrives, everything that is part end. Look in Luke chapter 14, Luke chapter 14. Again it's in verse 1, &quot;It happened that when of the Pharisees on the sabbath to eat bread, And there in front of them was a man suffering And Jesus answered and spoke to the lawyers on the sabbath or not?' But they kept silent. He took hold of him and healed him, and sent And He said to them, 'Which of you will have not immediately pull him out on a sabbath And they could make no reply to this.&quot; They thought healing someone was a violation Jesus appears to have chosen the sabbath day a blow at this symbol. Jesus is announcing the end of the sabbath. By the way, healing was no violation of sabbath But then again, healing didn't happen. In Mark chapter 2 - let's go back to that recently - He is passing through a grain field His disciples begin to make their way while The same account is in Matthew. Pharisees say to Him, &quot;Look, why are they It's not lawful on the sabbath.&quot; Then He goes through the illustration of David to, &quot;The sabbath was made for man, not man The Son of Man is Lord even of the sabbath.&quot; God designed the sabbath to be a blessing, when you could thank God for the glory of had been lost. It was a day to show gratitude for the creation It was right in the middle of the law, because actively, in their hearts. As Jesus said, &quot;If you do these things in sins,&quot; in the sermon on the mount. So our Lord has given the sabbath to be a work, a taste of Eden where all was rest before God for the creation, and then to examine And seeing the sin there, seek for forgiveness and salvation. Again, He is Lord of the sabbath. He is greater than the sabbath. The sabbath will be whatever He desires it more and nothing less. It is not moral. It wasn't even given until the time of Moses Turn to John 5. Opposition to Jesus is smoldering under the healing brought it out in the open. There's a feast of the Jews. We're not sure exactly which, but we could &quot;There is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a having five porticoes.&quot; And then it says, &quot;In these lay a multitude waiting for the moving of the waters;&quot; Some portion there. &quot;An angel of the Lord went down at certain Part of verse 3 and 4 may have been added That's why they have little brackets there. But in verse 5, this picks up the original &quot;A man was there who had been ill for 38 years. When Jesus saw him lying there, He knew that He said to him, 'Do you wish to get well?' The sick man answered Him, &quot;Sir, I have no is stirred up, but while I am coming, another &quot; This was probably some kind of a superstitious the ripples came got healed. &quot;And Jesus said to him, 'Get up, pick up your &quot; Very light straw mat could be rolled up &quot;Immediately the man became well - &quot; in verse Here's the rub. &quot;Now it was a sabbath that day.&quot; Old Testament law didn't forbid walking, didn't to another. But rabbinic tradition had formulated, I don't activities. You see them in the Mishnah, one of which So Jesus had him violate the sabbath. He didn't have to heal the man on the sabbath. He didn't have to command the man to do something But He did it, and He did it purposely. Verse 15 says, &quot;The man went away, told the For this reason the Jews were persecuting the sabbath.&quot; Jesus would never violate the ten commandments. Jesus would never violate the law of God. He is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate But Jesus did anything He wanted on the sabbath, of it, because it was part of bringing down In verse 17, He goes even beyond that and is working until now, and I Myself am working.&quot; Wow. This is a claim to be deity. My Father and I are doing our work before We are working. &quot;For this reason, therefore - &quot; verse 18 &quot; - the because He not only was breaking the sabbath, Himself equal with God.&quot; He was calling Himself - He was calling, I involved in activities that violated sabbath The Pharisees charged Jesus with breaking God, and this led them to kill Him eventually. Jesus never attempted to fit His activities He established His own authority as one with The Pharisees were strict sabbath keepers. They followed the old covenant and embellishments And yet they missed the whole point of the They found no rest from their endless works They found no real honest repentance. The sabbath laws were mere shadows of hope, to be regained and it was through the means There could be a rest from the endless struggle your salvation. When Jesus came, He brought the rest, the The child of God is now a new person. Under the new covenant we are healed, and We have entered into rest with none other We have been given righteousness. We rejoice in that gift. We cease all effort to earn our salvation. Jesus literally did away with the sabbath. What about the rest of the New Testament? What does the New Testament say to the church Let's look at Hebrews 3. There's a lot more to be said about this. I'm just trying to give you the highlights. And next Sunday night we're going to look fits in the purpose of God. But there are a few definitive passages. Hebrews 3:7, probably a good place to start. &quot;The Holy Spirit says, 'Today if you hear they provoked Me, as in the day of trial in by testing Me, and saw My works for 40 years. Therefore I was angry with this generation, heart, and they do not know My ways;&quot; and into My rest.&quot; ' &quot; God's true rest didn't come through Joshua. God's true rest didn't come through Moses. God's true rest comes only through Jesus Christ. Joshua led the nation of Israel into the land more than a temporary earthly rest, merely My rest. This is the promise of salvation that God Verse 12, &quot;Take care, brethren, that there heart that falls away from the living God. But encourage one another day after day, as none of you will be hardened by the deceitfulness For we have become partakers of Christ, if firm until the end, while it is said, 'Today hearts, as when they provoked Me.' &quot;For who provoked Him when they had heard? Indeed, did not all those who came out of The whole generation died in the wilderness. &quot;And with whom was He angry for 40 years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies And to whom did He swear that they would not So we see that they were not able to enter The kind of rest that is important for us by faith in God. Unbelief forfeits rest. The rest that the New Testament writers are book of Hebrews, which is a very Jewish epistle, a spiritual salvation rest. Look at 4:1, &quot;Let us fear if, while a promise seem to have come short of it.&quot; The rest that the New Testament concerns itself &quot;For indeed we have had good news preached heard did not profit them, because it was For we who have believed have entered that There is never a command in the New Testament All ten commandments are repeated in the New command. It is never repeated in the New Testament, It was in the midst of the moral law a sign repentance. But when you come to the New Testament, there's The rest that the New Testament is concerned hearing and believing the good news preached. That's the rest the New Testament offers. Verse 9 says, &quot;There is a sabbath rest for For the one who has entered His rest has himself His.&quot; That's so remarkable. What does that mean? There's only two possible concepts about getting You work your way in or it's a gift, right? To the Jews, they were working. But when you enter the rest of grace and the The day you came to Jesus Christ, you ceased You entered into permanent rest. This is just a magnificent New Testament emphasis. The Mosaic sabbath, the symbol, the sign was Look at Romans for a moment, chapter 14. Since this is true that the rest the New Testament from the works approach to righteousness, sabbath. Listen to Romans 14:5, &quot;One person regards day alike. Each person is fully convinced in his own He who observes the day, observes it for the There were Jews who had come to faith in Christ It was pretty much ingrained in them. They thought they were still obeying the Lord They observed it for the Lord. &quot;He who observes the day, observes it for laws &quot; - does it for the Lord, he who gives he doesn't eat, and gives thanks to God.&quot; In other words, as verse 5 says, each person he thinks is right. It really doesn't matter. Verse 8 says, &quot;If we live, we live for the Therefore whether we live or die, we are the Don't make an issue out of the sabbath. As he says back in verse 2, some people are Some people are concerned about sabbath observance. Those things are part of a passing scheme. And there's instruction in the New Testament understanding of their freedom from these Don't force them against their conscience. Jewish believers still felt compelled to observe Let them do that until they come to the fullness What is remarkable about this is there's no This would be a perfect place to say, &quot;And It doesn't happen. In Galatians 4:9, &quot;But now that you have come how is it that you turn back again to the you desire to be enslaved all over again? You observe days and months and seasons and I fear for you, perhaps I have labored over You have no obligation to go back to the calendar of the Mosaic economy. Turn to Colossians chapter 2. This is perhaps the most definitive because Abrahamic Covenant, circumcision, and the And in Colossians chapter 2, of course we abolished in the new covenant, totally abolished. Galatians 5:2 says, &quot;If you receive circumcision, If you receive circumcision, Christ is no It doesn't matter. &quot;In Christ neither circumcision or uncircumcision love.&quot; And so here in Colossians 2:11, &quot;In Christ made without hands, in the removal of the you had a far more dramatic surgery, and it You were &quot;buried with Him in baptism, and the working of God, who raised Him from the You who were dead in your transgressions and alive together with Him, having forgiven us Set aside circumcision. If you hang onto circumcision, you make Christ The sign of the Abrahamic Covenant is gone. That Covenant passes away because that Covenant And then in verse 16, &quot;Therefore no one is drink or in respect to a festival or a new mere shadow of what is to come; but the substance Don't let anybody hold you to a sabbath. And that's referring to the weekly sabbath, under the term &quot;festival and new moon.&quot; Don't let anybody hold you to the sabbath. It was part of the system that included the It's gone. It was only the shadow, not the substance. It only pointed to the fact that God was the you had come under the terrifying judgment God and seek righteousness and mercy and grace But it didn't provide that. That is provided in Jesus Christ. Paul is saying you no longer need the shadow, You have the rest, the true rest. More can be said about this. Just some final thoughts and we'll let you There's not one New Testament command to keep All the ten commandments are repeated in the It is never quoted in the New Testament. There are no prescriptions or sabbath rules There is no instruction about behavior on In Acts 15, when the Jerusalem Council decided in the church, they did not require them to The apostles never commanded anybody to observe They never chastise anybody for not observing They never warned believers about sabbath They never encouraged believers to hold to It is gone, with one exception. We can go back to that original Genesis 2 seventh day that goes by is an opportunity Creator. We can bless that day by in it acknowledging And then, as I said - and this is for next as Redeemer. We don't ever really celebrate a sabbath in death. But we can celebrate a sabbath in the Genesis and then on the first day of the week, as Now next Sunday night with just that overview, Is there something important about it? Is there something unique about it, special And what does Scripture say? And I think you'll enjoy knowing what the that as we consider that next time. Father, we thank You for a wonderful day. We thank You for the consistency of Your truth. We thank You for the Word which opens up our We're so unendingly thrilled at the glorious to us. We thank You that we're beyond the shadows, We live in the reality of rest. We have rested forever from works righteousness, We have entered into the rest of the gospel. We have a taste of paradise even now in this of heavenly paradise. But You've given us a taste of it now. Every day for us is a sabbath, because every Christ. We give Him all the praise. Amen.