Are you ready to try Linux? That's great, but if you're not sure which Linux distro to start with, I get it. There's a lot. There's Fedora, Ubuntu, Debian, OpenSUSE, Arch, Gentoo, and so many more. You wanna start off with the right one. And which one is that? I know this feels kind of daunting at first, but it's actually not that bad, especially once you've watched this video. This video is for people who are brand new to Linux that want a distro that offers the least amount of friction. I want your first impression to be the best it can be, so that's why I suggest Ubuntu. Or something based on Ubuntu. Ubuntu is one of the most popular and widely used Linux distros, and for good reason. Ubuntu was basically the first distro that was made to simplify the user experience for the desktop, so you didn't have to be a super geek in order to use the platform. Ubuntu offers a solid system with a lot of polish that feels modern and premium, while having the price of completely free. Ubuntu also has a large community of users that can offer help if you run into issues, like the Ubuntu Community Discourse Forum and AskUbuntu.com as just a couple of examples. Overall, Ubuntu is a great introductory to Linux and may be the distro for you. Now, it's pretty much impossible to make a perfect Linux distro because not everything will appeal to everyone. For example, Ubuntu's interface is a big departure for those coming from Windows. So you might prefer to have something that looks like Windows. And that's absolutely fine. And that's another reason why Linux is awesome because you can have that. This is where Ubuntu-based distros come in. There are many distros based on Ubuntu. And what that means is that the developer started with Ubuntu and tweaked the system for a variety of reasons, essentially making a remix of Ubuntu. There can be minimal changes or massive changes between these kinds of remixes, but the most important difference for you is the interface that comes by default. Well, there is one more thing. some of these remixes are what is called a flavor. A flavor is a remix that is basically sanctioned by the original distro, in this case, Ubuntu, which means Ubuntu gives them help in some ways, like access to infrastructure or other things. Now, to be clear, these flavors... Are not made by Ubuntu, but they do officially have recognition as a part of like the Ubuntu family, so to speak. There's a lot more to this topic, so I made a video specifically for it. If you're interested in more details about flavors, remixes, forks, and other terms, check the description. The distinction between a flavor and a remix is important for you because all of the remixes I'm going to mention in this video are based on Ubuntu LTS. So Ubuntu releases new versions of their distro once every six months, and once every two years, they mark one of those releases as long-term support, or LTS, which means they will maintain support and updates for much longer than their other releases. Non-LTS versions of Ubuntu only receive nine months of updates, whereas LTS releases receive at least five years. You can get more than that, but that requires a subscription. And for most people watching this, it will probably update much more frequently than every five years anyway. Now, the nine months might sound like it's not long enough compared to LTS, but these are intended for users to update to each new release every six months, so the additional three months is more like to give you time to do the upgrade. The distinction between LTS-based remixes and other remixes is important because of the hardware support. Most of these remixes only update the core base system once every two years, which means by default, the hardware support can lag behind a little bit and sometimes quite a bit. If your hardware is not supported in one of these remixes, it might be in one of the flavors because they update every six months along with Ubuntu's main release. Before we get into the various Ubuntu-based distros, I just wanted to say that all of these options are good and I could make a video on each of these to cover the ins and outs plus the pros and cons of each one, but that's not what this video is for. I'm going to cover each of them with an overview style and then from there, you can dig into whichever piques your interest. Earlier, I mentioned some of you might want a Windows Vibe for the desktop interface. So let's start with those options. First up is the Ubuntu flavor, Kubuntu. Now, Kubuntu offers a Windows Vibe experience using the KDE Plasma desktop environment. Plasma is a great desktop environment made by the KDE community because the default interface resembles Windows, but at the same time offers a ton of flexibility and customization. Now, you can change practically anything you want to, unlike Windows. You can move things around, you can change shortcuts, you can change settings. In fact, you can even find a bunch of hidden gems throughout the whole thing, just hidden everywhere. There's so much to enjoy with this desktop, and Kubuntu adds a great touch to the out-of-the-box experience with various polished improvements. I think Kubuntu is a great option for those people who are getting started with Linux and want a Windows type of vibe. Next, we have Linux Mint. Linux Mint is a distro based on Ubuntu LTS, and it uses the Cinnamon Desktop, which is a desktop designed for a Windows vibe and is made by the Linux Mint team. The Cinnamon Desktop is a solid option because it offers a nice and clean user experience while providing a similar look and feel for those coming from Windows. Now, Cinnamon does offer plenty of customization and tinkering options for the user if you want to, but it's not as flexible as KDE Plasma and you don't really need to for the most part if you're just getting started. This is great for those who are looking for something that just gets the job done, gets out of the way, and looks good while doing it. Now, like I said earlier, Linux Mint is based on Ubuntu LTS. This means that it doesn't typically ship with the most up-to-date hardware support. There are changes being made for this particular distro because the next version of Linux Mint is going to be out in a few weeks or so from the date I'm recording this, and they announced that they will be adopting the Ubuntu hardware enablement updates. Now, what does that mean? Well, Ubuntu hardware enablement is where they update some core components like the Linux kernel every six months so they can introduce some better hardware support in the LTS edition rather than making users wait two years for that support. Now, Ubuntu has been offering this for quite a while, but historically, Linux Mint users had to wait two years or manually switch out their kernel themselves. And people shouldn't do that, especially beginners. So this is great news for Linux Mint, but this hasn't happened yet. So as I'm recording it anyway, so it may or may not support your hardware right now. And you may or may not want to wait for the next version of Linux Mint that does come out in a few weeks or so. And if you're watching this, it's already come out, then I'll have a little notification that says, hey, it's already out. But overall, Linux Mint is a solid option for those wanting to have a Windows Vibe experience and are also beginners to the Linux platform. Ubuntu Cinnamon is the flavor of Ubuntu that comes with the Cinnamon desktop. Ubuntu Cinnamon and Linux Mint use the same desktop environment, so the experience will be very similar to Linux Mint. But as an official flavor, this means it will get major updates every six months and offer an LTS edition as well. With the change to Linux Mint to begin having the hardware enablement updates, the difference between the two distros is becoming less of a big difference. But Ubuntu Cinnamon receives updates on the entire system every six months, in addition to the hardware enablement support that the LTS version will have. So like Linux Mint, the use of the Cinnamon desktop makes Ubuntu Cinnamon a solid option for those wanting to have a Windows vibe experience. Zorin OS is an Ubuntu LTS-based distribution, and it is a great option for people who want to have a Windows vibe. In fact, Zorin OS is also a really good option for the Mac OS vibe because they offer that as well as other layouts. Now, Zorin OS uses the GNOME desktop environment, and it does that in a completely different way than GNOME typically does. So the GNOME desktop looks nothing like Zorin OS by default. So it's very interesting that, at least to me, that they chose to use it. And honestly, I have no idea why they took this path, but I will say the work that they have done is top-notch. Now, Zorin OS offers a great user experience with a very polished design that should be easy for anyone coming from Windows or Mac to pick up quickly. I think Zorin OS is a solid option, but there is a caveat to address. Now, Zorin OS is based on Ubuntu LTS, and as of this recording, it does not implement support for or Ubuntu's hardware enablement. It might change in the future, but right now it does not. So depending on what kind of hardware you have, it may or may not support it. If it does support your hardware, that is, then I think you'll enjoy Zorin OS very much. If it doesn't, well, then you would have to look at something else. Those are the Windows options, but some of you might be coming from macOS. So next is the options that are offering a similar Mac-like vibe. And this will also be great for anyone who hates Windows so much that they want their Linux distro to look completely different. So let's get into those. Now, Ubuntu itself fits this vibe in a way, but I already talked about that. So let's jump directly to the other options. First up is Ubuntu Budgie, which is an official flavor that is shipping the Budgie desktop. The Budgie desktop is a very, very nice desktop. It has a lot of polish and the default layout of a Budgie desktop is more of like a Windows vibe, but Ubuntu Budgie ships it in a different way that feels more like a Mac vibe. And it's one of the best options for people looking for that kind of vibe. And I think it's a very, very good option for beginners because out of the box, the experience is solid. It looks nice and it also offers plenty of customizations. So if that's the kind of thing you're looking for, I think Ubuntu Budgie should be on your list. Pop!_OS is a really interesting distribution. It is based on Ubuntu LTS, but they do extra development for hardware support and various other things. So it doesn't have the same exact limitations that most LTS based distributions have, but it is also based on LTS, so it's not going to have the latest and greatest of everything. But Pop!_OS is really cool. It's GNOME-based, but it also has a very customized look and feel, and it also has a unique workflow that you can, by default, it's similar to GNOME, but it also is slightly different, and then you can activate a much different workflow if you want to. Another cool thing is that they offer an NVIDIA ISO in addition to the standard AMD / Intel based ISO. Now, what this means is that if you have NVIDIA hardware, it makes it a lot easier to get started because you can just download the ISO specifically for that hardware rather than downloading the regular one that most distribution ship and then later installing the NVIDIA drivers. Now, you will get NVIDIA drivers basically for compatibility sake, but you're not going to get the proprietary drivers that requires you to download in most distributions, whereas Whereas the Pop!_OS version lets you have it out of the box, which is pretty cool. So if you do have NVIDIA and you want to try that out, that's a good reason for that. But if you want a vibe that doesn't fit Pop!_OS, I don't think anyone else ships it that way. So that's a unique selling point for Pop!_OS. And another unique selling point is that their desktop environment called COSMIC is being developed by the company System76, which makes Pop!_OS. But that's still under development at the moment. I'm looking forward very much to even the alpha coming out pretty soon, but it's going to be a while before the actual desktop is ready to go. So that's not necessarily a selling point yet, but it will be at some point. And I'll probably make an updated version of this video at that point because a lot of stuff changes very quickly in Linux. elementary OS is the next and last Mac-style distribution. It looks very much like macOS, but an older version of macOS. And it has a lot of polish. It looks really nice. It works well. They have a lot of unique styles and a lot of custom applications that they have built. And it's also Ubuntu LTS based, which in a lot of these distributions are doing that. But unfortunately, as last I checked, it does not have the Ubuntu hardware enablement features. So if you have newer hardware, you may not have support for that particular distribution. If you do have support for that distribution, then it's going to be a really good experience. And I think you should check it out if it fits your vibe. A quick public service announcement for people coming from Mac. If you are coming from Mac and want that kind of user experience, but you're putting it on PC hardware like a PC laptop, or if you have an older Intel-based Mac, then all the options I have already offered are good to go. But it gets a little complicated if you're using newer Mac hardware with M-series chip like the M1 or the M2 or so on and so on. It is possible to do this, but... It's a little bit complicated and there's not as many options, but I'll just make a dedicated video for that. But in the meantime, just so you know, if you have the newer versions with the M-series chips, it's not going to be the same experience for you. Some of you watching this might have older hardware that you are wanting to keep running. And here are some lightweight options that you can use. And all of these are Ubuntu flavors. So they are officially sanctioned. They have the infrastructure support and all that sort of stuff. And they have the same cadence of releases that Ubuntu has. So all the benefits I mentioned earlier, it has those. So let's start off with Lubuntu. Lubuntu comes with the LXQt desktop environment, and it is definitely the most modern yet still lightest desktop you can get. And that means it doesn't have all of the best options, like it doesn't have all the polishing features and animations and that sort of stuff. It does feel kind of old in a way, but that's kind of true for most of the lightweight desktops. I don't know why they have this old style vibe, but maybe they have to. I don't know. Anyway, LXQt is a really good desktop environment, especially if you are using older hardware and you need to have something lightweight. That will absolutely be a fantastic option for you. and Lubuntu is one of the best distros, not only just Ubuntu-based, it is one of the best LXQ-based distros. So if you are needing that kind of desktop, then check out Lubuntu. The next one is Xubuntu or X-Ubuntu, but it's pronounced Xubuntu. And this comes with XFCE Desktop, which is a very lightweight desktop and it has tons of ways you can tinker with the system. Xubuntu is probably one of the best distros that ships XFCE. A lot of them do, but Xubuntu puts a lot of effort into making it as nice as possible. And I think it's probably the best looking version of XFCE as well because XFCE by default has some visual lagginess, I guess you could call it. It looks pretty dated. But the Xubuntu version of XFCE looks a lot better. So if you are in need of a lightweight desktop and you like the style of Xubuntu, then absolutely check it out. It is a fantastic distribution for that. Up next is Ubuntu MATE, which uses the MATE desktop. And it's kind of like a hybrid. It's not the most lightweight. It doesn't have the most features because XFCE has many more features than the rest of the other three lightweights, but it also is not as lightweight. Whereas Ubuntu MATE is in the same realm of lightweightness that XFCE has, but it also has a lot more polish approach to it. And it doesn't have all of the customization options that you would get with XFCE, but it does have a lot of them. So it's a fantastic option for those who like this style of desktop and need the lightweight value of it. But also it has a lot of cool customizations and the fact that you can change the layout to a Mac style or a Windows style or a lot of other stuff. So if you're in need of a lightweight desktop environment and you are looking for a distribution that will run the MATE desktop very well, I think Ubuntu MATE is a solid option. Now, for those of you who want something that's not Ubuntu-based, there are some non-Ubuntu-based options that are kind of beginner-friendly, but they aren't quite there for true beginner-friendly distros. For example, Fedora and distros based on Fedora are great and are almost beginner-friendly, but there are a few steps that the user has to do manually in order to get that installation to fully get there to be beginner-friendly. openSUSE and distros based on openSUSE are also great, but there are even more steps than Fedora that users have to do manually. So if you're not deterred by these extra steps, then these are great options that have a lot of cool features and functionality that might be for you. But if you just want it to install, get out of the way and have as little friction as possible, then you might want to check out the Ubuntu options I mentioned earlier. You may see people recommending Arch and Gentoo to beginners, like online or somewhere. Here's the thing about that. These people are either joking, trolling, or just aren't good at giving recommendations. Arch and Gentoo are great for the people they are made for, but they are made for hardcore enthusiasts who like to endlessly tinker with their system. This does not describe most people, and that's why I recommend avoiding them as beginners. And for some people, always, because if that doesn't fit your vibe, then you probably shouldn't use them. But if you're feeling like a daredevil and want to dive into the deep end before learning to swim, then I guess you could take a look at these, but keep in mind, there's not many lifeguards on duty for these distros, so, you know, swim at your own risk. Now that you have a better idea of which distro you should start with, you might want to start with a Linux podcast, and I recommend mine, Destination Linux, and you can watch the latest episode right here.