Welcome back to another beautiful episode of an Adoption story. From me connecting with to creating an incredible I am now helping other adoptees share their journeys. For this series I want to send a special thanks for their incredible support, helping me meet more to hear their stories, and helping me connect more With their support, I would like to welcome of an Adoption story. I am here in upstate New York, where I'm meeting She was born in the small Russian village of Bol'shaya Vruda, which is With a difficult circumstance she was placed into a hospital for the first six months of her life, to then being placed into an When Nina was 3 1/2 years old, she was adopted by her American parents, along with her non-biological Nina was raised right here She continues to grow links her life in America, and with her involvement This is her story. Do you have any memories My memories are more subconscious, just as far as like, my habits and stuff. I was like, &quot;Oh, that's in my orphanage.&quot; Like, I can identify that. And it's really difficult because I have a lot of photos and I mean, I'm fortunate for that, but it's also like, &quot;Man, is that a memory or is it like, a memory and seeing those photos?&quot; And it's, I see a photo, I'm like, &quot;I feel like I've, it's, you know, I've been there.&quot; And it's like, &quot;Man, I have this feeling I can sort of put that in place and where that was in the orphanage. I think maybe as a kid, I had definitely maybe a little because I never had my parents &quot;Hey, you're adopted.&quot; - Nina may not remember in the Russian orphanage. But her parents who adopted her has always made her aware - In the orphanage, actually, when they did sort of I was pretty aware of my situation when they sort of was testing as a three-year-old, I could tell my parents now that this is where I'm This is where I was waiting for, you know. - Nina was born in Bol'shaya that's located just below St. Petersburg. Nina's parents who adopted her have always told her as to why she was placed in the orphanage. With a difficult circumstance led up to her being after she was in hospital for six months. For Nina, she understands that her life would've been completely different - There was an opportunity for if I was placed in orphanage better opportunity than what than what they could have provided for me. - That's what your parents knew of that? - Yeah. Yeah. - With not only Nina being her parents also adopted her But before this, Nina's aunt had already While her aunt was adopting a child, this was when she got the chance to see Nina for the first time. She then managed to get photos to take back to Nina's parents in America, hoping to start the adoption They had to wait, as Nina was unwell during the first meetup with the aunt. For Nina's parents, however, after they waited, they got help from the same social worker that Nina's aunt had, Sasha. After this, they were able to begin the - My adoptive dad's sister. - So your auntie adopted already? - Yeah. - From Russia. - Yeah. - She brought back photos and be like, &quot;Oh, this is the little that you might wanna consider adopting. She's been an orphan for quite a while and she was really unwell, but she, you know, is getting stronger.&quot; And you know, obviously being put in a family So yeah, that's pretty - That's, that's a bit of a process. - Yeah. Yeah. - How long did that process take from the start to finish? - So they knew about me in August of 2003, and it actually didn't take too long. I mean, probably the Like, they had to do home That's before you even get 'Cause you even have to get You know what I mean? Yeah. They knew about me in August of 2003 and they met me in end My parents, - they went to St. Petersburg to meet me for the first time, and then, the trip to take me home was in, November. Nina and her brother Sasha Nina quickly adjusted to a With her aunt who also it was familiar within the However, as Nina was growing there were times when she struggled to relate with other children. - I feel like having family it wasn't weird. It wasn't like, you know, I was never introduced as this is my adopted daughter.&quot; You know, it was never that prefix, you know? I think it made me fit just 'cause it was like, this is completely normal. With friends and stuff in school, there was definitely certain things that you know would come up. I remember specifically the first, there was a couple and the first photo everyone showed was, you know, them as a baby and my first photo was my orphanage. I knew I had parents, but it was like, &quot;Oh, I - You didn't have that So you would've felt a - Yeah, yeah. - With your other friends. - Yeah. I don't remember too much of like, any hate or anything like that. Because I mean, we're small &quot;Oh, okay, cool.&quot; Like, there was a couple that set me apart a little I didn't have a solid that most other children did. So I think maybe that, - For Nina, she knew there would be times when questions will come about with her adoption. She started to learn more and the difficult - I really, really strived because when I was in the orphanage I was, I was cared for as if I was gonna die. They want, they, not that but they didn't feed me for five days when I first entered the orphanage 'cause they were just, they put me in a back room And then they saw that I wasn't, you know, and then for two years in the orphanage I was still in that same back room. I was just, you know, I was just, back room, close the That was sort of my environment. - I think for your parents they really did save you in that regard. Bringing you over here at such a young age because you needed the care. - Yeah. I needed care. Yeah. - For Nina's parents, they always respected her choices when it came to that time about her adoption, including - As a child, with every my mother, her answers Very age appropriate. You know, they didn't They're just sort of like The biggest thing I there was certain things that or I would have this &quot;Oh that sort of seems normal,&quot; Like I was obsessed with matching outfits and wanting to be matching and wanting to be sort of like that twin. I didn't know why, but I like, subconsciously knew. I was about nine years old and I was just watching a TV show and it was late at night and I turned to my mum and I was like, &quot;Man, I wish I was a twin.&quot; And she was like, &quot;You are.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Wait, what?&quot; And I was, I didn't believe &quot;Show me the proof,&quot; you know? I always had access to age appropriate, being nine at the time. And reading those and seeing I was, identical twin sister, that she had passed about That was all that was written. It was like, that's, that's really cool. And I was really excited I always grew up the youngest, my brother's older, and it showed on the paper I'm like, &quot;Yes. Finally. Yes. Thank God.&quot; - The older sister. - Yeah. - For Nina, knowing that who had passed away was but was happy to know It wasn't until later that she started to find out and birth parents with the Though in her childhood, Nina experienced a sad family event that pushed everything aside temporarily. - There was a certain point in that sort of like, middle school years, I would say maybe 11 to 13 years old, maybe even 10 to 13. There was just a lot going on as far as, you know, within my own my father had passed when I was seven and that caused a lot of My brother and I were home alone. We watched him die I felt almost kind of guilty, like responsible, but I knew I was seven and I couldn't relate. But that was, that was difficult. - That would've been hard. - So there was just a lot going on as far as even going through growing, and 'cause you grow a I wanted to push Russia I didn't wanna think about it. I even thought about - Really? - It was just like, yeah, no, don't. - Just push it away and just, don't wanna look at it. - After the death of her father, Nina slowly connected again with the support of her mum by her side. with her aunt also adopting from Russia, she knew that this was a huge Did you grow up with the Russian culture much in your family as a child? - Yeah, especially on my cousin's side. My cousin, she was adopted at an older age and incorporated a lot of that. The same with her mother. Her mother really tried And tried to do that for so that we wouldn't lose that. So. - And that's a big part of you. - Yeah. - Do you feel like for some families, that may not show as much it's quite hard for the adopted child? - Yeah, definitely. It's their beginning. It's you're human, I'm human, why can't I have that? We - Exactly. And even though, you know, of course you're raised great parents that raised you, you also have that background - Yeah. - You have that Russian blood inside you and you've got that proudness of inside. - Oh yeah, definitely. - As well as being raised - Yeah. - So you've got both sides that you can really look up to. - Yeah. Yeah. - Nina has always had on her birth family in Russia. She knew that as she got older, she would want to find out more. Conducting a search for As for Nina, she wanted to take her own time with the information she had. And when she reached her early twenties, this is when she decided to to begin a search. - First thing I wanna do was I was just like, &quot;Well, but what resources do I have?&quot; I didn't really know about some That was pretty much it for a while. I was actually okay with that. Because I was like, okay, but really I think it was my life there. It wasn't a search for I would say I left it alone and focusing on my classes, and then 2021 came along &quot;You've been stuck in your you know, maybe this is - In the beginning of 2021, Nina decided this was the with finding out more This was also when I got in touch with Nina for the first time. - I remember typing in &quot;How to find my Russian family&quot; or something like that. - In Google, yeah? - Yeah, in Google. Literally I'm, it was It's funny, 'cause actually your video of your documentary that you made when you went back to popped up and I was like, &quot;Oh, okay, there's this Alex guy&quot; And I was, so I watched it. I was like, oh that's, that's cool. Like he was adopted at a young age, if he can do that, I - When Nina reached out to me asking for some assistance I had been living in Russia to immerse myself with my Russian roots. And during the early I was able to find links for Nina. And with the support Nina was ready for any I couldn't remember exactly but I'm pretty sure it was- - You connected to my brother's wife. - Your brother's wife. That's right. I remember I gave you a phone number and you got in touch with And what was some of the - It wasn't much of him asking me anything at that point, he was just I'm your brother, I'm not a stranger.&quot; He was like, &quot;How does your you connecting with us?&quot; And yeah, it was a really nice conversation. - When Nina got in touch with her older brother, she also got in contact Sveta and Natasha. From information that Nina she's always known about her siblings, but had never been in contact. She was also aware of a While Nina was learning she also got in touch Nina's mum made sure that as she started to learn So what was your mum's reaction like? - She was really, really happy for me. Yeah. Really supportive. I think as I got a little my biological mother, there She maybe thought she would lose me, you know, but I'm like, This person that I'm reaching out to, she's my biological mother, you know, that's all she is to me.&quot; She was not my mum because a - Yeah. - And my biological mother is a person who just gave birth to me. - Any connection with birth family can always be overwhelming and emotional, as it was for Nina. And when she got in contact she then got to talk briefly - That was when it set in, it wasn't when I met my &quot;Hey, your mum wants to talk to you.&quot; I'm like, &quot;What?&quot; - How soon was that from the time you connected with your brother? - Couple days. - Couple of days. - Couple of days. Yeah. - So that week would've been overwhelming. - I mean, it was like, - Nina's mum also sat down with her to share more information about what happened with her passing. This news for Nina was but knew it was the - Yeah. My mum was, she's like, &quot;I believe that your sister mother terminated the pregnancy.&quot; And that was really difficult, because I had always grown maybe my mum would return And so when I learned about it was like, &quot;Wow, she There was no way she was And I think, I mean my heart fell, fell to my stomach, and that was probably (gentle music) I sort of made it my mission to also, I wanted to give my sister a voice too. Because, you know, sharing - Going through any loss is always emotional. For Nina, she knows that it's also giving her twin sister a voice. Nina knows just how to take in when it comes to decisions that her birth mother took. Nina also places herself at the time, understanding that - You know, she already had three kids, she was not well off And you know, and I think she just panicked because she found out she was &quot;How am I gonna feed two more mouths?&quot; So then I really, you know, But then it was, it was just difficult. - After Nina had got in touch with her siblings and birth mother, she managed to get in touch There, she was able to contact - With my birth father, that was actually surprising, because I didn't know a lot of and so I was really, really surprised that my birth father wanted You know? And not only that, we could also talk about like, I learned a lot about him, and we're actually And unfortunately that went on hold 'cause he is ill right now. He doesn't really including myself. He doesn't remember me 'cause he's ill. So that was really difficult So I, I mean closer than I He provided a lot of towards being put up for adoption. - So he helped you? - Yeah, he did. - Get through a lot. - He did. And he was very open, like, more open than I thought he - Support from your loved ones is always important when it comes to news about birth family. Emotions can overrun with There is never a right amount of how prepared you need to be. For Nina, during this about her birth family, she reached out through connecting through to our - The support from that was great. Support that I had never felt before. Coming from other adoptees, I had a great, amazing, but it's different because They can't, they don't know Whereas I could, you know, I was given a lot of good advice. And I think that's what Like preparedness, I don't think, I don't think you can really But my mother gave me this oh hope for the best, and sort of, so that was really helpful. And my aunt had also said, &quot;Well you wouldn't have been put in this, in the orphanage if it I don't think I would've without the support of the group. - Nina continues to write online within the community about her journey. She also shares blog posts as a writer for the I'm Adopted website. This gives Nina her own space to write her thoughts and who may be going through a - You know, I can talk about my own journey that I really have to write about. It's like, you know, I can at one post and I can write about some things that may help others. - Do you feel like a lot of this that you're writing within the community is helping yourself - Yeah. It's definitely, it's helping with my own healing too. - Yeah. - Nina continues to connect with her birth family in Russia, learning more every time While in America, she continues to grow her family tree, connecting more links as she learns more. With using MyHeritage, she's been able to expand her tree. Not only with her American connecting both the family who adopted her and her biological parents This, for her, shows that since connecting with her birth family, But like for every to do a search, being prepared Do you feel like you to search for your birth family? Or do you feel like on when to be prepared? - I would say definitely that's actually, you know, Which, most people I But I think being at that that really helped. Just 'cause developmentally I- - As you get older. - Yeah, yeah. - So Nina, this place - Yeah. - So what do you, what do you get here? Like what food do you get? - Oh. - Show me. - I'll show you. I found really cool and they're authentic and, you know, they're made, you know, from people who had immigrated from Russia to here. - Tell me, what's your - I can't leave without, do Like treats? - Yeah. - Love wafers. Love them. Also, I remembered this. - Okay. - Where are they? - Oh, over here. - These candies. - Chocolate candies. - Yeah. And they're by bulk so you Ooh, cherry. Oh my God. - Milk chocolate. - I think that's milk chocolate, isn't it? - Yeah. - Do you feel like, do you feel like when you you connect so much more with your- - Yeah. - You know, your culture, - Yeah. When you come into a place like this. - Yes. Well, I mean my cousins always &quot;Oh, this is from Russia,&quot; So to actually know that I have a place that I can actually go and you know, show others too. You know, I'm learning the So I've always wanted and I think that's just a Of course being so far away. - It must be good for your - Yeah. I think I've lost so much time, you know, 20 years, and that wasn't by choice, but now I can make the Which is great. - For Nina, her Russian culture and plays a huge part of her life. For adoptees that may want to it's always important to have Not every adoptee may want to do a search, but having a community or helps with any journey you are going on. - For me, in my personal journey, I don't think I would've gotten wanting to search, or going along with it, if I didn't find the Whether it's, you know, you know, connection with support, from family, and connection, support from adoptees. - Having close friends and - Definitely find a connection. Yeah. - Finding the connections. And then when you find, when you, and when you want to do a search, you need to have that support around you. - Right. - Trustworthy support, friends, I think that plays a big part in that. That really does help no And being prepared for I think it's another part of it as well. So thank you so much Nina, Come all the way from New and hear your story. So thank you. - You're welcome. I'm so glad - I made it to Rochester. - Yes. - Upstate New York. - Yeah. Upstate New York. Yeah. - Upstate New York. - You made it here. - I made it. So thank you for sharing your story. - Thank you. - All of us adoptees have How we follow that path is up to us. If you want to learn more please visit the link in Thank you all so much for tuning in to another beautiful episode right here of an Adoption story. I want to say again, a huge thank you to MyHeritage incredible series of mine. Thank you all so much. Look after yourselves. See you all very soon. - Ready? Rolling. Take three ... hundred. Hello to all of you all across the world and welcome back to another video. I'm here in the north of New York. - (Cameraperson) Cool. She's got the giggles.