When she's not playing Larry David's fake presidential hopeful the media loves skills and the heartbreaking reason she Cheryl Hines already had a successful career in Hines got her big break in 2000 after HBO's sitcom &quot;Curb Your Enthusiasm.&quot; The one in 2003 and the other in &quot;She has less ego than anybody I've ever take a scene to make it funny, and she'll Other than playing David's wife for over two notably &quot;RV&quot; alongside Robin Williams and &quot;A Bad According to Larry David, who is both star other women auditioned for the role before he met &quot;I made up this scenario, and I think up chicken. [...] I just loved the angry. She actually made me laugh, and Hines, he said, had just the right quality scenarios he had in mind for his a veteran of the Groundlings improv troupe, &quot;And I didn't think I was right &quot;Why is that? What, you think you're too pretty?&quot; Long before landing her breakout role on &quot;Curb her career as a professional actor -- Hines worked Rob Reiner, known for such films as &quot;The Princess Men,&quot; to say nothing of playing Mike &quot;Meathead&quot; As she told The Hudson Union, Hines had recently and was bartending in a hotel when a friend organizing Reiner's 50th birthday party. The help out during the days, which would allow her &quot;So I started part-time doing that, it turned into a full-time job.&quot; Ruminating about her experience as celebrity in an interview for The &quot;In the world of personal assistants, there's a very gray line drawn between That was certainly the case when Hines became and instructed her to clean out the &quot;You have a lot of pets in your house.&quot; &quot;Yes I do.&quot; Hines is a bona fide Hollywood hyphenate, but also as a producer and Hines has directed episodes of &quot;Campus movie &quot;Serious Moonlight,&quot; and a 2020 Unfortunately, the opportunity to direct circumstances. The &quot;Serious Moonlight&quot; whose plans to direct the film ended when Andy Ostroy, asked Hines to step &quot;I had directed television before, but immediately. Of course, I read Adrienne's In fact, she liked the script so much that but ultimately decided against it. Directing &quot;Curb,&quot; on the other hand, but presented its own unique set of obstacles, &quot;You have to cover, have a camera on both because you don't know what Hines and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. tied the knot Interestingly enough, Hines met her future &quot;Larry David introduced me to As Hines recalled for The New York Times, she and Larry David were attending a fundraising an ecologically minded nonprofit of which Kennedy Hines had never been a and that extended to her knowledge of &quot;Really, the only thing I knew about the Kennedys At that time, embarking on a romance was the as both were married to other people. When they met again, in 2011, their circumstances in fact, were in the midst of divorcing their According to Hines, David's introduction was when she told him they'd started &quot;He said, 'Ah, that's a terrible idea.' He goes, 'That's Before she got involved with Kennedy Jr., Hines with an Emmy award under his belt. Hines and Young and during their nearly eight-year marriage, Hines and Catherine have a strong mother-daughter media. And when it came to launching her scented candles, Hines didn't have to look &quot;I asked her if she would like to start a company with me. So we decided to start Hines+Young launched in July 2023, and features When Hines' brother and his wife welcomed down when he was diagnosed with cerebral &quot;We didn't know what it meant to have CP, what resources were available to help As she educated herself about she and then-husband Paul Young launched a fund the medical expenses associated That eventually led her to become an advocate or UCP, which provides resources families. As Hines told Ability Magazine, use the platform she'd established as Since becoming involved with UCP, Hines has &quot;Thank you, Cheryl.&quot; Hines told the Orlando Sentinel: &quot;I just speak from the heart. We need Other than her impressive Hollywood career and player. According to America's Card Room, the when she was pregnant and had to take a break &quot;Once I had my baby, I could actually go However, she mainly participates in funds for charity, specifically to aid As for the game itself, Hines claims she's &quot;I have a tendency to talk a lot at the they spend a lot of time trying to read me. I When Kennedy Jr. announced that he'd be seeking 2024 presidential election, this promised to be of her husband's controversial opinions due to the increased level of scrutiny she'd be In fact, Kennedy's often-polarizing opinions supporting her husband even as she him. Kennedy even told the Times separated -- and had even drafted a news When it comes to the campaign itself, Hines of what she's stepping into, and the &quot;Elections are really dramatic, mean-spirited, family -- me, Bobby, our seven children -- same people when it's all said and done. As Robert F. Kennedy Jr. runs for president, potential FLOTUS showcased her support in an &quot;I support Bobby and I want to be there for him, The actor emphasized that despite standing by her she won't be with him at every political gathering as she is still concentrating on When asked how she's handling her husband's announcement to run for president, Hines admitted that knowing improv has helped