- This is Linus from Linus Tech Tips and we hacked the phone - That's pretty messed up Derek. I slept easier not knowing that. - We intercepted his phone calls and stole his two-factor passcodes. Is that your number Linus? - Yeah, but I didn't get, - We didn't touch his phone. We didn't send him an We did it all remotely it could happen to you. - I think I'm really but like you guys did it. (Derek Laughing) Well, you're not a career necessarily. - But here it is, a normal looking and feeling device with no, with it and you just receive my call instead of me receiving it. Just what, like on command? You just, it's an app on I don't even know. - But before we explain (upbeat music) the first startup that Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak made wasn't Apple? No, they were tackling One where their product So back in the 1970s, long distance phone calls Adjusted for inflation, a call from New York to London So these two entrepreneurs and what it did was it They could trick the telephone the calls for free among other things. - We were young and what we learned was that we could build that could control of infrastructure in the world. I don't think there would've had there not been Blue Box. - [Interviewer] Woz said - Yeah, we did call the pope. Woz pretended to be Henry Kissinger and we got the number of the Vatican and we called the Pope and in the hierarchy, you know, and they actually sent someone to wake up the Pope when finally and they realized that we - But how were they able to do all of this with one electronic box (telephone ringing) Until the mid-1920s, most When your phone was on the hook, about 48 volts was connected from the exchange to your phone. Then when you lifted the receiver, an internal circuit connected the speaker and microphone drawing power and that caused the voltage And at the telephone a light bulb alerting the and ask who you're calling. - [Sarah] Boston. - Sarah, get me the Bluebird Diner. - And after consulting a directory, they would connect a and your friends. Manually connecting calls Operators had to handle hundreds In 1910, one pundit said, &quot;Soon the telephone system will need to employ every working age woman in the country as an operator.&quot; By 1950, there were more than a million of them in the US alone. To reduce costs, companies sought to automate the call connection process and one solution was the To use it, you place your rotate it to the end and and on the inside a metal each ridge pushes two completing the circuit to the exchange. The dial sends pulses For the number two, it sends two pulses. For the number three This goes on up to 10 which is why zero is at instead of beside the one. Those pulses that travel down how your line is connected. So they're known as control signals, but as the length of the so did its capacitance and resistance and this caused the clear input smoothing out voltage changes. So now the pulses couldn't trigger the switching at the exchange. While this wasn't a it made automating long Now all phone lines including to carry sounds in the human voice and hearing range, mainly So why not use this built-in capability to carry control signals. To do this, phone companies or push button telephone. On a keypad, specific frequencies were and the vertical axis so that each button was by the combination of two tones. (buttons beeping) By sending control signals all telephone networks could receive it using their existing systems But with this innovation and Wozniak to exploit. When you made a long distance to a central node. This node communicated with a remote node and they determined if a line was free, by checking whether both sides were sending a 2600 Hertz tone. So Jobs and Woz exploited this. First, they would dial which would get them into a local node and then they would send a This would trick the remote node into thinking the call So the remote node would start again, but Jobs and Woz And when they stopped playing the remote node assumed a By sending a key pulse tone followed by the desired phone number and ending with a start to any long distance number for free as the home node still to a toll-free number. The vulnerabilities in the to mimic the 2600 hertz tone. Some people would even use a toy whistle from a Cap'n Crunch cereal box. It just happened to make that frequency. (whistle blowing) The telephone companies clearly needed to develop a new signaling protocol and their solution was to for carrying control signals. That way no one could control the network by sending tones down the voice line because it no longer controlled This new protocol was called or SS7 for short. And it's still broadly in use today, but it may not be as - Hello, my name is Latifa Al Maktoum. I was born- of Dubai claimed that her the ruling emir had held in the dark, beaten and In late February, 2018, her Finnish martial arts They fled to a yacht captain by former French intelligence And for eight days they Latifa was hopeful but it wasn't to last. Late on the night of March alongside it was sent by her father. Laser cites pierced the smoke abducting Latifa and But how did they find her? Well the captain had been the victim of a coordinated SS7 attack, one aiming to pinpoint his location and by extension the And I'm going to show you how to spy on my friends with This is Karsten Nohl and They are cybersecurity specialists who are helping me spy on Linus. We took three steps to spy on him. First you have to infiltrate SS7, second gain trust and third attack. Of course, the main reason is step one. When SS7 was introduced in 1980, mobile phones barely existed. They were so big that as car phones but things changed quickly and the number of mobile - Roaming is one of the Say Derek, you visit me over here. Your phone would try to connect and that network would to your home network in Australia asking, is this a valid customer? Are you willing to pay for the charges that they'll incur on my network? And all of that information - For this to work, telcos need to communicate So the way they do that is of the same club. The way they share membership to this club is by using unique addresses to identify where requests are coming from. - SS7 is a global network, and like on the internet you So you need some way of saying And on the internet we use IP addresses. On SS7 we use what's - [Derek] So to provide telcos typically establish agreements with two providers in One primary and one backup. Telcos generally accept with which they have agreements. And the whole system is with few barriers once inside, this is known as the So this system seems When SS7 was developed in the '80s, the telecommunications by a few large reputable operators. These operators had and mutual interest in maintaining the integrity of the network. But 45 years on the landscape Now there are over 1200 operators and 4,500 networks, many of which need SS7 access to mass-text services sending There are so many more players of them are trustworthy. - Those companies, some of them sell services onto third parties, some of them can be bribed, So there's probably thousands of ways into SS7 at - How much are we talking to buy access to SS7? - Buying a single SS7 We're talking a few - The people who do sell access, I mean, why would they do it? - People sell SS7 for one reason money. - And thanks to global agreements between providers accessing a trusted GT is like gaining access to all the GTs they have partnerships with. We even saw the invoice of a valuable US-based for $13,000 a month. Are you buying access to SS7? - I'm paying for access to SS7. Yes. And we do that because So we need to be in a similar to get near real results. - So step one, infiltrate SS7 is complete. Onto step two, gain trust. Hackers today can try once they've scaled the But you need more than just SS7 access and a phone number to attack. Even a trusted GT and the isn't enough to uniquely identify them. Now you need something from the SIM card. The real key in a mobile network is a unique 15 digit identifier to the SIM card on the phone. It's called an international or IMSI for short. And it is very important. - Basically to be able to collect the IMSI from a subscriber, we would launch some of the messages such as send routing info or send routing info for SM. These messages are normally - Networks have firewalls in place that will deny some requests Getting an IMSI is So let's move on to the Do you wanna just like try the phone? Is there anything you can Like call someone. - [Derek] Or text someone? - She normally pick up. - Yeah, she'll probably pick up. - [Yvonne] Hello? - Hello Yvonne, this is I would like to talk to - Okay, thanks. - No, no, it's me. It's me.(laughs) - Did she hang up on you? So we've established the phone works as a completely normal phone. - Do you have any - I don't know if I'd say it's important, but I'm on my way to and James from Hacksmith was gonna call me when we're gonna kind of make some plans. (phone rings) - I'm getting a call right - No. - Hello, this is Linus. - [James] Hey Linas, it's - It's going really well. How are you? - [James] Pretty good. Am I - Yes, I'm really looking forward to that. And man, do I hate Macs? So I feel like that's your persona man. You can't game on a Mac. - I would like to talk but - What number did you dial? - [James] 4473.(beep) - Yeah, but I didn't get, I heard it ring but I heard it through my speakers on my computer. 'Cause I assume it went - That's right. to your computer? - No. Yeah, it went to everything of mine. So yeah, James, I don't know. You called Linus and it went to me. Thank you for taking part - There is absolutely that I was supposed to receive a call. - Yeah, and I mean the crazy thing is that's like a regular So any Canadian SIM card in to such an attack where you and it just doesn't go to you. - This is like phreaking but on - That's exactly it. - Now I'm familiar already with where you social engineer that is registered to We've actually had accounts but in this case my phone still works. - [Yvonne] Hello? - Hey, so the demo we're Basically they had Hacksmith call me, my phone didn't ring at all and instead Derek from Veritasium and was able to talk to him that he called me and then- I'm with Cindy. - Oh. Oh, hi Cindy. - [Yvonne] Oh, you're not on speaker. - Okay, that's fine. Just - [Yvonne] Okay. Okay, goodbye. - [Derek] So how are we of Linus number like that? - When you put a phone you often don't put the country code, but then if you're in a roaming scenario, that phone number would connect to a completely different person in the country you're currently in. So it does make sense to basically as to whom they're trying to dial because they're not gonna whether the address book entries have country codes in them. - This is a powerful function by tricking the network into we can rewrite the number that we control. - And so what I did at the this message, I sent back your was your US based number. So even if you were located in Australia, I was still able to on your US number in Australia. - That's amazing. You just try a few times - Yes, it's not always but this time it was quite difficult. - So the most important what did you need to steal from me in order to become me? Like is this something out of my carrier? Is this something that I would need to accidentally leak a - At the very simplest, all we would need is your phone number. That's it. You could even do as a middleman where I would but also simultaneously I would and I would send you through to them and then I can sit on the line - Yikes. - But this isn't the only attack. We can do a lot more with SS7. We can also intercept text of attacks. Similar to phone calls, we can trick the network is roaming, which reroutes We can then steal one time passwords used in two factor authentication. This type of attack works with their phone network, at which point the phone - But you need a few seconds only to hack into somebody's account. Of course you need that few second window to receive the one time password. - So we actually set up a - Okay, so theoretically and password via a dump and I use the same username and password across different accounts or he could install a He could get it that way So then I verify my number. But of course he has my number because that's realistically And theoretically I'm supposed to get a two factor - I got it, 820299, I'm in. - [Linas] He's in. He hacked - Yep, we could hack your YouTube account. I'm gonna put, I'm gonna on Linus Tech Tips. - Oh, that's okay. I'm sure they'll get like 30 So I'll be fine with it. (Derek laughing) - [Derek] Deal. And you could see the code right there. - [Alexandre] Exactly. So you could see that at So basically once the then I would receive any SMS sent. - He would never have known or that they were intercepts. - Wow. Yeah, this seems pretty serious. I mean, SMS two-factor authentication is almost the default, right? - Unfortunately, yes, but in some cases it is and sometimes that can that should be treated with the utmost of care like a bank account. - [Derek] There's a third method of attack that we weren't able to show Linus. Lucky for him, his network blocked the requests. On many networks, you can use the IMSI number we harvested in step two to send a command deeper into the network. By targeting the switching with the IMSI is connected, we can issue a command routinely used for legitimate purposes such or providing emergency services based on the device's location. Using this request we can It's not as hard as you'd think. SS7 doesn't even rely on In fact, it was invented before One way to do this is of multiple cell towers, their to where the signals overlap. The more towers in range, the A more accurate method for signals to reach a By calculating the distance we can pinpoint an exact but SS7 attacks don't use They try to be subtle. An SS7 location request simply the target is connected to. In an urban area with many towers, this can place them to - You'll definitely know which and if you wanted to, for and or at work, this is - Yeah, it's a little bit scary. In 2016, Karsten and his to track US Congressman Ted Lieu. - The congressman has been in California, more specifically the LA area. Let's zoom in here a little bit. - So that is how we did it. We infiltrated SS7, We intercepted Linus phone I'm not sure he was as - This is why we can't have nice things. - Up until now, this has I've demonstrated these but the threats are real and they can have &quot;They will kill her.&quot; The captain texted shortly His phone was the target of an SS7 attack that involved all three To start, the attackers in different countries then the following all happened First they sent at least to get the captain's IMSI When that didn't seem to with at least four location requests. So did it work? Well, all of these requests That's why we have all the details. But there was a sixth GT we haven't shown. This one nearby in the US, we have no information about because they likely weren't stopped. We spoke with Crofton Black, who revealed the SS7 and this is what he told us. &quot;It's a brilliant example because it illustrates a of attack, multiple GTs It's a textbook example of Though, because the Emiratis like Pegasus and other We can't say that any single that led to her being found. But the evidence is damning and SS7 is used pretty widely. Criminals have used SS7 to intercept SMS two-factor and empty millions of For some SS7 is just the first step. The NSO Group, a notorious Israeli cyber an SS7 tracking company in 2014. NSO is the company behind that gains complete access to targeted phones without embedding itself and Such zero click hacks are costly. They can cost more than Before NSO commits resources or vulnerabilities on a phone, first they gather basic and software version to And as you've seen with One expert we spoke to and found 20 to 30 VIPs were constantly including the country's Accurate data on tracking but another expert provided and a half million Though they reminded us that are generally those of Now we couldn't find data but luckily experts told So millions of malicious SS7 but it used to be even worse. To request location over SS7, you used to be able to send a the IMSI and the network No questions asked. - The classical example is request, which as the name already suggest is have a creepy command. I don't believe there's for one network to send this command to another network interrogating - [Derek] Karsten Nohl and fellow security exposed these vulnerabilities - The SS7 research that was a wake up call to the industry. Most people had heard and spying was possible, but they hadn't really and especially how easy of hackers from Berlin with very amateur means can do any type of SS7 hacking that they want. - [Derek] After their conference, all of the German telcos refusing these requests. - Anytime integration is everyone stopped because and never used constructively. But there is over 150 other as well to make SS7 be completely secure. - So if there are so why haven't we gotten rid of it? Well, because it's the backbone of 2G and 3G communications. So what if we phase out 2G and 3G? Well, that has caused problems. Since 2018 cars in the EU are equipped with mandatory emergency call buttons that trigger in an accident. They need a SIM card to guess what auto manufacturers are using. That's right. 2G and 3G SIM cards using SS7. - You have to have that legacy support or when 4G connectivity drops, you have absolutely nothing left. Dude, the number of times that And I'm in a metropolitan area. - What's surprising, of course, is that there hasn't been a with one of the two newer The latest of which that was introduced with 5G seems pretty secure, but that's now a problem of So because of the network out of adopting a You wanna be the last is already connected and from also joining the club. - [Derek] So even though can stop the attacks are using 5G technology on their networks, when routing calls between networks, SS7 is still the de facto standard. - You create a tremendous that's probably more your That makes moving on extremely difficult. - So unless there are that put this back on the public radar, it could be another 10, until SS7 networks are - What's crazy is that we and I'm just a YouTuber. I did have the help of some but I'm surprised at how easy it all is. Now imagine if I had the This is a real problem. So what can you do to protect as long as you have a SIM card? Unfortunately there's not much you can do about location tracking. If possible, choose alternatives to SMS based two-factor authentication. So messages can't be intercepted. Use an Authenticator And if you're worried about phone tapping, use encrypted internet like Signal or WhatsApp. We've been told this is mainly So should it really matter to you? - SS7 is a huge privacy intrusion and there's this millions of Whether privacy intrusion is of course as almost a Somebody who grew up more of the Chaos Computer Club like myself, strongly beliefs that privacy and the ability to kind without being observed is a But many other people would argue nothing to hide, nothing to fear. (scrappy music) - Our technological world By the time we secure or replace SS7, vulnerabilities will in the new system, but luckily there's an for whatever the future and problem solving skills And you can start doing with this video sponsor, Brilliant. Brilliant has thousands where you can learn by doing, and problem solver. You build real skills and data analysis to You name it. Brilliant, is designed Their first principles understanding from the ground up. So you'll not only gain you'll learn to apply them to real world situations all giving you the tools to come your way. Brilliant's new course on equips you with the same tools, security researchers like among the billions of SS7 messages. This is really helpful but the concepts you'll learn where data influences everything, from what movies are being And one of the best since every lesson is bite and sharpen your mind whenever and wherever you have a few a daily learning habit of mindless scrolling. To try everything Brilliant for 30 days, visit or you can scan the QR code or click that link in the description. You'll also get 20% off an So I wanna thank Brilliant and I wanna thank you for watching.