Did you know - earth - the ground we walk on used building material on the planet? With learning, playing, and socializing in buildings mud, and cob. Earth material technology and refined for thousands of years. However, being "poor," "backward," and "primitive." All an abandonment of earth building traditions, and fossil fuel dependent materials such as is a material with excellent thermal ARTiculations intro In West-Africa, building with clay or adobe can be traced back thousands and northwestern Burkina Faso had developed a that is now at risk of disappearing due Vitruvius' Ten Books on Architecture, a seminal there is an entire chapter dedicated to material that exemplified what he believed to be (durability), utilitas (usefulness), and venustas known for reviving and improving the techniques the thermodynamic properties of earth to create scale. His highly influential book - Architecture cost, sustainable, and beautiful material The reason earth building materials are excellent "thermal batteries" that absorb heat during which can maintain comfortable interior heating and cooling during all seasons. Earth which means it's a very insulating material even when mechanical heating and cooling are to extract and manufacture and is made of an earth constructed building's life, they be reused to grow vegetation or harnessed So why has the industrial world largely rejected soil composition differs from region to region, industrial scale. It is in fact illegal due to building code regulations. Are those were they results of lobbying by industrial businesses to be threatened by such a low-cost, While mud bricks are not permitted by certain (CEBs) is often welcomed. CEB was first invented when he developed a mechanical press to compact engineer Raul Ramirez made a critical advancement machine that is small, portable, and capable of mixing a small percentage of cement to stabilize weather resistance. CEB also requires very little curing, can be used straight out the machine, which can be left exposed without a finishing pleasing due to its natural appearance appealing An innovative example of CEB construction who employs the use of locally available consert with modern solutions, and local community Kere is from Gando, a small remote village low-income West-African nation with limited experiencing frequent extreme climate events and There is little to no access to education in to study carpentry in Germany and in 1995 he Berlin's Technische Universitat (TU). While he was for help with repairing the village's only school collapse. In 1998 he established a charity "School building a new school, and began working closely school building (completed in 2001) is comprised a single inclined roof. The walls are built from Giving people a good education is very important about his school design, I want to tell you Architects, engineers, construction and design just a requirement of maintaining professional to stay on top of industry information and in demand. AEC Daily offers over 1000 FREE, and your careers moving ahead. They offer safety, international building codes and and more. I have actually personally used AEC education credits so I can personally vouch and beneficial courses. So head over to ACCREDITED courses. link in the description Industrial materials like concrete and steel are available due to deforestation. Thus clay is a for the past several hundred years. However it tends to wash away under heavy rains. Kere and locally available. The reddish earth colour has a historical connection with the people. To with about 6% cement to achieve stable and uniform introduced the portable manually-operated press, To address the sweltering hot conditions where Kere pulled the building's roof away from the top that creates continuous air circulation which rises through the perforated clay ceiling, canopy. This design feature alleviates the need Thus a passively cooled building with a low Francis Kere's designs are able to achieve close attention to the simplest building block of why a deep connection to material culture may be developing African nations, as well as a creating So is Earth, this building material of the past I personally think we should be building with but it obviously isn't a solution in every we should take away from earth construction is passive building techniques, human factors, and local cultures. Let me know what As always thank you guys so much for watching. and this video is actually an adaption of one of feel free to check out more like it right *snap* Outro Music Are these decisions made entirely for safety reasons? I don't know. I don't know the answer to that.