Hi! Did you know that it's been almost five what am i doing with my life Well to take my mind off this today we could have a look at the Geometry Dash truly is an endless game. As long as creators are pumping out levels, people are gonna play them and It's the same reason why games so popular - they're just run by the community. The thing is, you can't play Sure, you have the 21 official but when it comes to community levels, you can't expect hundreds your level just because the game is that popular. For a custom level to become popular, everyone As of right now it can be very but every now and then a new extreme demon or When I think of popular Geometry Dash levels, I think of the ones that revolutionized the game in some way or just have a Levels like Sonic Wave, or Tartarus, or Mastergame, or VSC. But that begs the question - What the HELL is Acid Factory? This here is Geometry Dash's most downloaded tab. It's less of a place to find high quality levels and more of a leaderboard for the ones that lucked There's nothing wrong with adding a button but it sucks that the list doesn't change much - because when a level is permanently frontpaged But surely every level here blew up for a reason, and if they have this many downloads Probably. But with that being said, let's play through the most and see how well they hold up after First up, at the very top of the list, is Sonar by JerkRat and Minesap. This level currently stands which is about a sixth of the If it's not already obvious, the popularity of this level comes from the fact Map packs are going to be a bit but this one in particular is quite interesting as the Alpha pack was added a lot And it definitely shows, since it's one of The level was released in 2015 and is overall It gives heavy Stereo Madness vibes in the sense that you have lots of room to jump but also keeps things interesting by throwing in This was back when two star levels and honestly I miss this era a star rating that low you have to pretty (the keyboard isn't even plugged in) Overall, Sonar is a pretty good level. The gameplay is forgiving and the decoration still holds Now how well does it hold up against OuterSpace? and it's the second most downloaded Which is still more downloads than Zodiac. OuterSpace is the first level of the This was enough for the level as well as reveal that only about 20% The level is actually quite good, but the creator says it's probably one of his Anyways, it's got everything There's a parallax scrolling some moving objects for no and a very simple boss section towards the end. It's honestly surprisingly fun to play, and as angry as this might make modern creators, the visuals are pretty good. It's a nice introduction to Gauntlets, but it has about as much Also, this coin is stupid. The third most downloaded level is Level Easy, and when the ID is only 12,000 you This level was made by Cody, one of the OG Geometry Dash players. There weren't many people playing the which is why pretty much every level seems to Level Easy is the first which prior to Update 2.0, was There's no easy way to tell what but based on the ID and the objects it uses, it very likely dates back all the way to 1.0. While the level isn't very it still has plenty of charm Even when the editor had Cody still found some ways to play around with The gameplay doesn't stray too far from but that also means it's a good level not used to levels with fancy decorations yet. Though I agree that map packs that you have to beat them for coins is miserable, I still think it's nice to encourage playing a few old levels to get a feel for and to appreciate just how far The Nightmare, on the other hand, is garbage. Look, I get it. Nobody really knew how and ultimately Jax was just experimenting But tell me, do people find this fun? popular Demon level and the fourth It was uploaded in 1.2 before Demons were a thing which is what most people are more familiar with. While this level is in a map pack, it's tucked all the way back in Demon Pack 3, so that's not exactly the best Rather, this level is known for being one which is why so many players Nowadays it would stand at about 7 or 8 stars, but it's hard to say for sure It sets an absolutely terrible but hey, you gotta start somewhere. My problem with The Nightmare just, sucks. It's extremely bland and repetitive and lots of parts feel rushed with In the ball parts you just go up and down. In the ship parts you just go up and down. In the cube parts you just jump and Also, the visuals look awful. There's no set in stone decoration style, it just constantly switches The usage of invisible blocks and there are some parts where the colors Here's a color wheel, here's Also, why does Jax slide his name in the It just comes off as really arrogant... like can you imagine if I obnoxiously flashed my name everywhere even for things The fifth most popular level is Retray. (sure...) While all the levels in this list Retray in particular is extremely memorable Not to mention it's by far the which means that it's the first result if you Just like Sonar, this level found so it's no surprise that it blew up. It was made by DiMaViKuLov26, who was an extremely talented creator back He made some incredible levels back in the day and pushed the 4 color channel While he released Retray in 1.9 it's sort of become a tradition for it to receive As of right now there's all sorts like the click counter in the wave part. It's extremely pointless, but it's a I actually remember playing the but I couldn't find any videos Luckily, I found an old copyable, so I put together a comparison video on Anyways, the gameplay in this level isn't but I think people just like the level because Since the level is so easy, you have a lot more time to focus on all the The level almost feels like a showcase of artistic skills rather than an actual But you know what? That's okay. It looks cool, and a lot of So yeah, it's a decent level. Could have been a lot worse. Not as bad as Generation Retro. At spot number six, with 43 million downloads as of right now, is Promises. It's a fairly solid level made in Update 2.0, with decent gameplay and lovely aesthetics. Despite being only two stars, the gameplay is actually really enjoyable as a good level should do. But here's the catch. This level isn't in any map packs or gauntlets. And unlike the nightmare, it's not like people are going out of their way Unless they really really need 50 I also checked Geometry Dash World to be safe including during the popularity I genuinely have no idea what but once any level gets high enough on the most downloaded list it's bound to Once again, it's a really lovely level and I like My only real nitpick with the level is that this coin scares the hell AAAAAAAAA Next up is Dreamland. This level, uh, has objects. It 1.4 and directly follows Level If you take a look at the comments, it's pretty obvious that a lot of people I wouldn't say that it deserves to be the but RobTop hand picked this one to be in the Beginner pack so it was From the first few seconds of the level, it becomes very clear that this level It actually feels like a with familiar gameplay but much trickier sections. While this level is infamous for having I also kind of envy the fact that lots Dreamland isn't actually that bad of a level, it's just so different from the kind For all I know I could just be crazy, but I quite like having to look ahead and process You really have to stay on your toes but the gameplay never gets overly annoying. Sure, there's plenty of tricks - but especially if you're paying attention. You remember Dark Paradise? I sure as hell didn't. But it's the second level of the Alpha map pack, as well as the eighth most Similar to the other Alpha pack levels, it's a two star level made in Update 1.9 then tweaked a bit in 2.0 to add coins I've always felt like the Alpha pack and difficulty wise Dark Paradise is a The gameplay is very straightforward and readable, but there's still enough input required for The coins are surprisingly and they're done in a way in which getting Which is a good way of doing My biggest issue with this level is the fact that There's a straight ship part, followed by a UFO part with no obstacles, then it's just very simple Dark Paradise isn't terrible by any means, it just feels like any two star level It's still a well made And I think it's because while the decoration is it blends in with a lot of other 1.9 levels. I still really like the constant color changes and the fact that the background always but there's nothing I like in this level Coming up at ninth, we have Acid Factory, which is the first level of the Poison Gauntlet. I have no idea why more people played but if I had to guess it's five star level and got scared away or something. Now, unlike OuterSpace which didn't this one kind of slaps. I wouldn't go as far as to but it does stick to this dark poisonous and really explores it a lot. It almost feels like it's telling a creepy story, I love it. The level was made is already enough to justify it being but it also goes above and beyond with That's not to say that it For example, the size changes in it comes off as annoying and unpredictable. You've also got this part towards getting thrusted forward with speed portals, and though it's very easy to sightread I think my biggest issue with Acid Factory especially for mobile players who always have This UFO part in particular confused me a on that I realized how straight Oh, also, I'm scared to imagine how many because they didn't know what it meant Well, that's nine of the ten most While it's hard to say if some of you can't deny that it's a great and it's cool to see just how amazing If only there was some sort of culmination taking both gameplay and Huh. Yep, the tenth and final level here is Bloodbath. One of if not THE most iconic While there's way harder ones now, Bloodbath will always be that It's obviously not in any map packs or gauntlets, rather the popularity just comes from how even to this day. To get a feel for the level I ran through and let me tell you, you'll never realize just how hard this I ended up finishing with and by the end I could barely believe that there are human beings that could at normal speed, without a single mistake. AND IT'S NOT EVEN IN THE Bloodbath was verified by Riot sort of successor to the previous hardest level, Cataclysm. Both levels follow and Bloodbath even picks up exactly This would go on and inspire lots of future as well as spark several sequels and remakes What makes this level so special is that since this was the first time that pretty much agreed that it was the hardest level in the game. And this is really significant because this was during a time where if a everyone considered it to be Some of the most notable &quot;impossible&quot; Nine Circles, Windy Landscape, Supersonic, ICDX, Theory of Skrillex, Ultimate Phase, or even Decode just because of that one wave part. If AlexPain said the level was hard, it was freakin' hard. It's worth mentioning that Sonic but people were a bit skeptical because it was widely speculated You'll never guess what happened next. The level itself is exactly what It's a massive gauntlet of tight sections that challenges your skills in It begins with a very iconic straight fly that almost serves as a way to such as myself. Most people could make it through the but this time you're plunged The nice part about Bloodbath being a 1.9 level and the path forward is generally pretty clear, aside from a small few fakeouts at the very end. It's split into multiple sections, each designed by a different creator, but it all flows together quite nicely and You've got Crack's ridiculous looking ship part, Michigun's slow but extremely tight section, GBoy's suddenly bright ball part at the very end, and the infamous 79% at the Whether you're good enough to run or struggle to past the first straight fly, you really can't deny that and a true staple of the Geometry Dash community. Then Manix was like you know Well, there you have it. My thoughts and opinions on the top ten Some of them are pretty good, some of them are The Nightmare. It's worth mentioning that this is just and there's lots of other popular levels Lightning Road, Through Time, ugggghhhhhh, Nine Circles, End of Line, all of Dorabae's levels, and that's just to name a few. But at the end of the day, the most downloaded list was never meant to be Sure, you could argue that but ultimately most levels just wind a place where the vast majority Most of these levels are probably so I propose that maybe in a future update be limited to levels uploaded That's not to say you shouldn't I just think it's a huge missed and spotlight more new and recent levels. Be sure to let me know what whether it's if you think these or if you just want to yell at And remember that a level doesn't need to be in a map pack or gauntlet in order to I mean, there's lots of random as well as many well known extreme demons. It's perfectly natural for things even if they don't actually deserve it. It's something you see all Juniper uploaded a single click never lose hope.