I'm Morten Hilmer. And I'm out with the new Nikon Z6 III to test it out. And I've spend six days, and today I'm out to photograph birds. There was a deer out there. I'm going to the forest for a few days to basicly photograph everything, that will cross my way. Good morning. This is the perfect opportunity to get familiar with the camera and to photograph everything from wildlife and birds to landscapes and very low light. And while I got at lot of great photos and experiences everything didn't go as planned. Oy! I have really been waiting for a camera, that handles low light better than the one, I have now. The badger, the badger. So I took it to my photoblind to photograph way after sunset. If you want to join me on this adventure, grap a cup of coffee and lets get out there. I'm on my way to a location, that's for me is completely new. I have about an hour or so on the bicycle, maybe a little more. And I feel a rush, because the weather forecast says rain and wind. A lot of rain and a lot of wind. The wind is definetly picking up, and it's starting to look like the rain is coming. My gear is underneath the tarp. I'll get soaked, but I have other clothes to change. Maybe it helps to do some bicycling rather than some talking, so lets hit that road. There stops the option for bicycling. At least with my skills. And I'm looking forward to showing you the place, that I have selected. I've only seen it on the map, so I'm actually pretty excited myself. Yeah, it's better. Look at this. Fresh tracks from the roe deer. Oh, it's so much easier on the road with the trailer, rather than having a backpack on your back. But here it's a pain in the... Yeah, something. You must be kidding me! I'm 50 metres from the location, that I have pinpointed on my map, that I wanted to do the camp. And hold on. I have been dragging this beast through water, mud, fallen trees, and I'm so sweaty right now. When I did the reconnaissance for this camp on the map all the small tracks they looked exactly the same. So the one that I have been going through now is the same as the one out here. And have a look. I could have been sitting on my bicycle comfortable all the way. Enjoying the trees and the wind and the beautiful nature. But okay, I have enjoyed the beautiful nature. But most of my attention has been on dragging the bike. Nevertheless, 50 metres and we are at the camp. My hope is to put my camp like in the shelter from the forest, but still with a view, so I can sit in my camp with the binoculars, and scan as big an area as possible. I really want to push this new camera to the limit, when it comes to low light filming and photography. Just to see how well it performs in the high ISO. There are so many flies here, and they enjoy the heat from the camera. I think, there are ten flies on the camera right now. And they are also on my hand. Holy smoke. Okay, let's go and have a look. Oy! This out here was exactly, what I was hoping for. The camp is found and now the rain comes. It's just half an hour too early. But... I'm not a god. So... I have nothing to... Oh, shit... Here it comes. I'm glad, that I'm underneath the tarp. Playing with the camera. I would like to get some photos and videos with the Z6 III before I'm taking it to the rain, because this is a pre-production model and... You never know. It'll be awful, if it starts to fail, and then I couldn't make photos. So... I'll think about that. The rain is going mental right now, and I just decided to take a little rest, and then stay up much longer tonight. Because if I go out now, everything becomes really, really soaked, and I don't dare to get any problems with this camera. It'll be such a shame. Okay, this weather is strange. Rain comes and goes, comes and goes. And before there was some nice haze between the trees, and now that is gone. But out there is a little lake. And now where the wind has calmed down, it might be a little more flat surface. And I want to just discover and get a closer look, so I know for the evening and maybe tomorrow morning, if it's a good location to go or not. That little lake was actually the reason, why I got here, so lets go and look. It's pouring down without wind, and that is really, really nice. Oh, there's a heron coming. Let me see, if I can get that. Okay, that was nice. Not a really good photo, but the first photo on this trip. And that was the... I think, it's called grey heron in english. Oh, poor camera. But if it's as rough as my Z6 I and II, it can definetly handle it. And to be honest I'm... Sorry Nikon, but I'm not afraid of letting that camera have some rain. And I do use rain covers sometimes. But sometimes in this situation, where things have to go a little quick, it's just not possible for me to have all this flaffing around. And the hands underneath and you know. So usually I just use it like this, and then I give it a very good dry and a very good treat. I talked about that in one of the latest videos. The behind the scenes video from Norway. So yeah, if it can't take this, it's not ending up in my bag. Let's get there and look. Do some location scouting. I just got a really, really wet sock, because I was walking in this and then suddenly one of them was very deep. It was one of these nature's traps, that got me. I have dry socks, but I don't have dry boots. But who cares? It's summer and nice and warm. And once I get home, my left foot will be extremely clean. That is nice. Here we are. 180 degrees observation angle. That doesn't get much better than that. There's a fence there, that is to keep the cows in. Welcome to Denmark. Fences everywhere. And agriculture everywhere. But here it looks nice. It's a roe deer, female. I can't speak, so we just have to watch. I'm now about a 100 metres away from, where I was photographing the roe deer. And look now the clouds are spreading, so the light can come through. And that is phenomenal, because when I was photographing the deer I was all the way up on ISO 6,000. And it's nice, because that is one of the things, I'm curious about the camera and that sensor, but I would love to have some more hours, and that is, what I get now. The forest looks really, really nice now. I think, it's about half an hour to sunset. And I'm going in between these trees to see, if I can find something in the open area again. I've just been in the forest just to have a look around. And now I'm ready. I've put the microphone on, because after the rain the birds are going crazy with their singing, and I want to make sure, that when I do video recordings here, I also capture this beautiful sound. So yeah, let's have a look. What a shame, that woodpecker did not come back. It went into the hole to the little ones, I can hear them. Bip, bip, bip, bip. But it did not come out again. Let's move on, use the last little bit of light. There was a deer out there, but then it disappeared. That one I didn't see. It has seen me. Yeah, you don't know, what you have seen. When they just stand like that and continue to bark, it's because, they're not really sure. If it has seen, I was a human, it would just run without these sounds. So, that's running. I saw a deer out there, and then I was sneaking, and I was sitting down, and it was still there, and then it disappeared behind some bushes, and I have just been waiting, waiting, waiting, and then suddenly it has been walking behind some weeds or something, because that was the one. These mosquitos are really, really benefitting from this situation. So, well. We have to see, what happens. I heard the cranes out here. But... I strongly doubt, that I can get close to them, but if I could just find a little hilltop, and then get them in a distance. You know, the birds in their environments. Really moody in the evening. Evening light or this blue hour. It would be amazing. Hey. Oy, just been disturbed. Hi. What are you doing? Holy cow. A lot of horses. Hi. [Sound] Don't bite it. Hey, that camera is acutally not to be seen yet. It's a secret camera. Oy! Oh, shit! Oops. The whole crane project... Well, what the heck. No. I got a new audience. Do you want to join me to the cranes? You are destroying my crane moment. That was good. I think, that was it for the phototrip. I got new friends. What's that little one coming right there? And you too. Hi. Bye. See you tomorrow. It's too dark now. Maybe I can make a few landscape photos from the camp. But I getter get back. I have the 14-24 mm. Yeah. Nice. I don't really feel, I make something extraordinaire right now. I just wanted to come out and try to work with it in the dark. And see how it was. I'm glad to see the warm colours. You know the red display, so I don't get blinded, when I use the viewfinder. And I want to focus on things, I don't get all these numbers and things around the info. The bright light, I like that in red. And I really love it actually. So yeah. I think, it's time for me to go to bed. And... Can't wait to get to that hammock now. And I can't wait to get these wet socks of my feet. Can't believe, I stepped into nature's trap out there - the water hole. But yeah, it's, how it is. See you tomorrow. Good morning. I'm really tired. I don't want to get up. But... It helps a little to think about the morning coffee. There they are. The really wet socks. Luckily I have new ones. Here. Oh, it's probably the best cup of coffee on a day as now. Wonderful. I just had a really nice experience with a roe deer. A buck. I was photographing the woodpecker over here. Trying to. And then I was done, and I got up, and I moved forward, and suddenly 50 metres in front of me, this guy was here. Look. I was completely unseen, and I got a photo. I hope, it's good, because I love the composition. He's looking away from me. I don't know, if I got it, but it just proves, that I was not discovered. But then because of this, the wind, it goes that direction, so suddenly he was [sound], and he could scent me or smell me, and then it went in that direction rather than away from me. Ah, that was nice. I did not expect that. But now I better be quiet, because there might be others around. Just want to see, if I got that one, where he looked. Yeah, that one. See. My plan now is to pack the camp, take my bicycle, get home. And then we're heading towards the next location, which will much more action packed. But this has been fantastic. Ah, yeah. Let's get on the road. Recognize this place? It's the birdcliff Bulbjerg. And I want to photograph birds here, because I've been here resently with the Z9, so it's a very good comparison for me, because I have that very fresh in mind. I'll leave Bjorn in the car, so windows are open, so he can get fresh air. And I'm only going to spend around an hour here photographing these birds in flight, and make some video recordings of that, because I have a very nice plan for tonight. And I really hope, it will work. But more about that later. We're moving... Have to be a little careful, but I don't know, how you can be careful, because a few years ago the rocks fell down. But I know, there's a place in the middle there, where there are no cliffs above, so I want to get there, because it's a wonderful place. Let's go. This is the only tricky part. Oh, here we are. This is my favorite place. These birds are going crazy. I don't know, if you can see on that camera. But look at this. Ah, it's hard to see. But you know... Yeah. So what a great opportunity for me to test out the autofocus on this camera with birds with the sky as the background, with the cliff as the background. Flying birds, sitting birds. Really, really nice. And I was a little sceptical, because it doesn't have the dedicated bird autofocus, that I know from the Z9, how much that changed, when I got that update. One thing is for sure, it works really, really nice. It catches them in the air with the sky, and sometimes it takes the eye, sometimes the bird. In front of the cliff it's 50/50. The Z9 is not perfect there either. Sometimes it takes the cliff, when things are going too fast. When the bird is sitting, it takes the eye most of the times. Not as, what do you say? As aggresively as the Z9, that just basicly takes the eye regardless of, what the bird does. Even when it's turning, it's head away, it predicts, where the eye is on the other side of the bird. This one doesn't. It takes the eyes most of the times, but if the scene is a little tricky, it just takes the birds. These testing I'm doing, is basicly to find out, if this camera is going to end up in my photobag. It's just to see, if I can finally find a camera, that I can use for the things, that the Z9 is not brilliant at. And that could be low light, because of the lower megapixels. I'm very careful, when I select gear to be in my photobag, and be a part of my everyday photo equipment. I'll much rather have one or two cameras, and just know them like when I'm in sleep with a... Blinded. I need to be comfortable with the camera. And I cannot do that, if I have seven different cameras. So I hope, that this one will be the one. At least it's the one, I have been waiting for basicly since I changed my Z6 II with the Nikon Z9. Also because, as I told you in one of the videos, I have the flipout screen, so when this is not being used for low light or something like that, I can use it for making the videos for vlogging. I've only had the camera for six days now. And I have done a lot of photographing home in my garden and around in the area And this trip, this whole camping, birds and the things we're going to do tonight, is kind of my final evaluation for myself, if I should keep the camera. Or not this one, but probably a finished one or not. So far it looks really good. I just need to test it tonight as well. And then I'm ready to make my conclusion. So I'm not going to sit down and go through all the specs and go through comparison with the Z8, with the Z6 II, with the Z9, there'll probably be a lot about that. But one thing, my conclusion will be, if you see this camera in future videos, you'll know, that it's a pick for me finally. And if you don't see it, the conclusion is, that it wasn't good enough. And then we can always have a chat about, why I chose it, why I didn't. Enough talking. Let's do some bird photography. Here it works really well. It's a huge help. It's time to get home. And... Get in place, before it's getting too dark. And I am really exited about this. That is probably the thing with this camera, that I'm most exited about testing. And you know, the evening and sunset is not waiting for me. Bye, bye, little birds. What's going on? What are you doing? That dog is crazy. I've had this dog for 12 years now, and he continues to surprise me just by these weired things, he does. I've put the thing for him to sleep in, the duvet, but then apparently an empty box full of other boxes is the thing. Come on out now. You shouldn't be laying there, Bjorn. Yes, get on your feet. He refuses to get up. Okay, well then his ride will be there. Oh, it has rained in a little bit, because the windows have been open for the dog. And yeah, he's still in the box. He's so strange. Well, let's get home and hope the weather will stop a little bit, because I could need a little bit more light tonight. I'm starting with ISO 2,500, and from now on it's just going up. On that camera it looks so bright outside, but it's not. It's just because, it's dark in here. I'm just switching to 600 mm, because as long as the birds are here, it would be nice to get a little closer. It's better with the 600 mm. Especially when it's the birds. But I think, they kind of have taking a break. Maybe I should do the same. That is nice. The badger, the badger is here. It's really nice, that I've already gotten some good photos, because that means that from now on, the rest is just bonus, you can say. Normally I don't care about coming home empty handed, because I always have the good experience. But in this case, because I have the Nikon Z6 III for a limited time, I'd really like to have something to show you. And now I have. Now I can relax. The badger has now disappeared. And the rain has almost stopped. That was mental. I'm glad, I had my hat, because this good old photoblind, is not quite waterproof anymore. But I had a wonderful hour with the badger. Doing some great photos, some filming. And sorry for not sharing so much of it, but I was just so focused and into this camera too. This is just amazing. This camera is amazing for, what I'm doing right now. The viewfinder... I just tried the Z9, and then I looked through this one. And while the Z9's viewfinder seems like you have more area, it's a bigger viewfinder in a way, it's only, when I switch, I noticed. But there's one thing, I noticed with it, when I was sitting here, and I did that from day one, is how much nicer, it is to look through this one. Now I really feel, there's nothing between me and nature. This is so good. This one is much clearer, higher resolution. It's easier for me, I use a lot of manuel focus, when the badgers are behind the grass. It's much quicker for me to be sure, that there it is, I don't have to forth and back, forth and back. It's just there, and I can see it. I get this visual feedback immidiately. So that is great. I love the viewfinder in this one, and I want to take this viewfinder and put it on my Z9. But yeah. I'm really happy about this camera. And another thing I've noticed, is the fact that... And it's nothing, I have confirmed, and I can't see it anywhere, when I read about the camera and the specs, I've got. Only video mode, I can see these things, not in photo mode. In video mode the moment I switch from 5,000 something to 6,400 the image becomes much cleaner like a Dual Native ISO. It's getting really dark now, and there's no animals left. It's probably raining too much. It has been a lovely evening with the badger. Sorry that I didn't, what do you say? Shared more of this with you, but I was so into the viewfinder of the camera and just enjoying this moment to capture as many images and as much videos as possible to share with you. It has been a pleasure using this camera in low light. That was my number one reason for being interested in this camera, was the fact, that it was not so high resolution. I love the fact, that it's only... I can't even remember 23/24 something. I love, that not all cameras have to be so high in the megapixels. I have been longing for a 18/20/24 megapixels sensor in a camera with really good autofocus. And then when you put the viewfinder, this high resolution viewfinder on top of it all... Yeah. This is what, I've been waiting for as a supplement for my Z9, because these two cameras serves two different purposes. One being really high resolution, one being better for low light with a little less resolution. But I mean 24 megapixels for, what I do, it's more than enough. I've never sold prints, where I've needed more than 24 megapixels. And to be honest most of my best selling prints are with some of my older cameras with only 12 megapixels, so I'm happy with 24. The way it handles low light just looks very promising, and that is, what I've been missing in my Z9. So yeah, that's it for this time. I hope, you have enjoyed being with me in nature. Doing a little landscape photography, some wildlife, some birds. But yeah, time to leave. I'll get soaked. See you out there.