-What a year you're having, -Yeah, it's been nice. -Spike Lee's &quot;BlacKkKlansman.&quot; You were unbelievable in that. -Thank you. Season four of &quot;Ballers,&quot; -Thank you, HBO. -Yeah, thank you, HBO. Oh, you get to work with How's Dwayne? -You know, he's good. You know, we stay in -- We don't stay in touch. [ Laughter ] No, he's good, man. It's great working with him. He's so humble to be such He's just still -I heard the first time you felt -Well, I won't say like a star, but I felt accepted into We were -- So, we were doing and we weren't sure tonally So there's this sort of We were gonna go in. Let's just go for it. -You know, we weren't sure So we were going in. We did the scene, and it felt The tears were coming down They yelled &quot;Cut,&quot; &quot;Good job, brother. Good job. Get him some Crystal Light. We're gonna get you You need to hydrate, brother. [ Laughter ] So I felt like -- And it was custom-made It's like the stuff you can't They did this whole thing [ Laughter ] -Oh, you got all sprinkle. -I got the -- yeah. -Special Hollywood sprinkle. -It was The Rock sprinkle. -A Rock-sprinkled Crystal Light. -Wow, I've never gotten -You never got -No. -Dwayne, if you're watching, Come on, man. Yeah, I've never -- Maybe I just Yeah, I've never really -Yeah, there's levels to it, [ Laughter ] -The more I read about you, the more I'm interested in you because there's things &quot;Oh, I didn't know I didn't know -Yeah, yeah. Yeah, about 20 pounds ago -- I played at Morehouse College Division II school, [ Cheers and applause ] All right, all right. -And then, I played for -- I was employed by the Rams [ Laughter and applause ] You know, so -- -That's more than any of us -- That's more than any of us -It was a dream come true -Was it exciting? I mean, do you have your jersey -Oh, definitely. My practice So, yeah, definitely. Definitely got it framed. -No way. Of course you would. -They got Torry Holt walking in and just -- it's just, you know, it was just amazing just to be a And then, one of my best friends who was a running back -- So it was a great experience. -With your background, I mean, -Your dad is an amazing actor. -Did you ever go like, &quot;Maybe I But I don't know. -My whole life I saw my father do when I was, like, My mom -- can just walk to a piano and just start playing without even needing the notes. -Really? -So yeah, she was teaching piano You know what I mean? So I always wanted to do it. I loved the process of it. And my father's ascension, as he started getting I started feeling resentment and from people acting different and So I had this protective shield that I felt like that was And so, I've withstood, broken ribs, a hernia, So, for real. -That's what a kid's got to do, -You know, so that's what I did. But really, doing what I'm doing now. I've come out now. -But then the best moment. [ Cheers and applause ] -Thank you. -Happy you're doing -Thank you. -So you hop out of the subway. -Oh, yeah. -And what do you see right next to your dad's poster -Man. -This was not planned. -That was a trip. -How cool is that? There's -- There's Denzel. There's you. -I was, like, standing, like, But no, like, it was a trip. I got off -- I take the subway And I got off the train And I play stuff cool. I'm like -- I'm trying to be but even I was like, -That's awesome. -They got the same eyes, [ Laughter ] -That's right, they do. Let's talk about your new movie. It's out this week, -&quot;Monsters and Men.&quot; Yes. -Ooh, man. That's just another -It's heavy. It's heavy. -This is what you did but in a totally different way. How do you describe -Yeah, I mean, about the social narrative of And it's a three-person the kid who films it, another kid who has professional and then the African-American which we don't too often see the perspective of the And what ties them all together is this mishandling of -It was fantastic. I want to show a clip. Here's John David Washington Take a look at this. -Yeah, Lisa, what would you do is coming at you? -He -- What would you do? -He was just standing there, -You don't know that. Do you know how quickly -What? He was surrounded by -It takes seconds, Lisa. -He's dead. -You have no idea. You don't have a clue You see three minutes and you think you know One cop's mistake, [ Cheers and applause ] -John David Washington,