Jaffa, Holy Land, May 1123. The Venetian fleet Michiel suddenly learned that the main Fatimid had sailed from Ascalon aiming to reinforce the the Venetians launched a daring assault the Fatimid convoy noticed a small Venetian victory, the Fatimid fleet peeled off their But as they began their approach, they gradually moving out of the fog, their number Venetian fleet find itself in the middle of we will dive deep into the lesser-known and the impact it had on the ever-changing If you are interested in the history of the Crusades, available exclusively for our youtube in the description and pinned comment to watch as well as the Fall of Sparta, First Punic War, Biography of Sulla and the ongoing series on the World War II North African Campaign, Persian Ilghazi and the Outremer after 1119 and the dramatic campaign of 1119, tensions in Artuqid atabeg Ilghazi was not done fighting the he had renewed his feud with Antioch and delegating his governor of Athareb, Bulaq, to would besiege the city of Edessa. However, the intentions. Consequently, Antioch's governor, Joscelin of Courtenay declined to meet Ilghazi in supply line. Since the areas of northern Syria no potential loot and plunder, diminishing the news of Baldwin II returning with Jerusalem's nothing to fight for resulted in Turcoman warriors Ilghazi signed a truce with King Baldwin after two years of struggle, both one another and could finally divert After securing the northern frontier, Baldwin his realm. Ever since the times of the First there had been no single official law or set from feudal Europe. The Latins quickly found out they needed better organized social structures On the 16th of January, 1120, Baldwin II, gathered most of the secular and Clerical figures discuss and resolve all internal affairs. This was the first Crusader Convocation assembled in rights for the clergy and even social norms It resolved the matters of Investiture between boundaries between them. Clerical figures like military affairs and were only allowed to defend crusading armies. During the discussion, laws into the surrounding Muslim environment and marriage between different faiths. In addition, for crimes like oath-breaking, adultery, bigamy But the most important matter discussed acknowledgement of the Military Orders by the Knights of Hospitallers. The Knights Hospitaller who were led by a man named Gerard from the same back in the 11th century, and with the permission they established a Hospital under the name of St. provide aid and protection for pilgrims eager to by the Seljuk takeover of Jerusalem. During the of Jerusalem, the Hospitallers proved themselves for the initially all Italian pilgrims and against the Seljuks and Fatimids. Their actions acknowledged the Hospitallers' regula in 1113. and the Muslims intensified, pilgrim routes raiding parties or local Muslim bandits. When his successor, Master Raymond de Puy, reformed and beyond hospital work. Marked by a white cross on a local banditry and even served in open military their actions were officially acknowledged expand their operations on the entire Outremer. heavily influenced by the beginning of another Templar were founded by a French knight of managed to convince King Baldwin I to set up the royal palace located at the former Al-Asqa formed a special order, vowing to actively defend The Templars bore a red cross on their tunics, whereas the sergeants wore a black one. All monastic Christian asceticism. With the Council the Knight's Templar his full support, land and independent organization from the military force and sharing the burden of As the various Knightly Orders of the Levant grew in the future of the Latin States in the Levant. of Tripoli. The Count was furious at Baldwin for fearful that Jerusalem might come to dominate over he forbade any Tripolitan noble or religious which only strained his relations with Pons even went as far as to rebel against army with the Holy Cross and approached Tripoli Ilghazi's fate embarked on a military campaign into Georgia in from The Emirate of Tiflis, located in modern day increasingly threatened by the burgeoning power defeated by the Georgians at the battle of Didgori his manpower resources severely depleted. Further Suleiman, who governed his territories of Aleppo, his borders with the Franks while he dealt with Athareb and Zardana back to the Latins, to which fruits of conquest were now again in the hands loss of bordering castles proved to be a heavy a lid on internal divisions, Ilghazi gradually his relatives, only further decentralizing he assembled his army and marched west to confront approaching an upcoming engagement, Ilghazi died Once a powerful warlord willing to challenge all his empire fading from his eyes. Le Bourg but he had little time for celebrations, as order to repel a Toghtekin invasion, after Venetians follow the cross Sanguinis in 1119, King Baldwin II Le Bourg Catholic Europe. Much to his disappointment, II and Holy Roman Emperor Henri V were resulting in no aid for the Crusader States. The cause proved to be the Maritime Republic of the Republic desired more trading posts When Baldwin's emissaries approached the Venetian the Most Serene Republic with just that, Meanwhile, the Venetians had also received Republic to go on Crusade. The pope's relations gradually improving, and the bishop of Rome else. Just like in 1095, the Holy Land seemed to a crusade was announced in 1122 with the aim of was quickly spread across Europe, and soon Bohemia and Italy gathered near Venice. With the the Crusaders and Venetians set sail from historical sources varies from 72 to 120, numbered around 100 vessels with a maximum of more problematic than previously expected, as the they were tempted to renew their quarrel with unfavourable trade rights with the Greeks. Wanting the Venetian fleet attacked a strategic fortress dismay, the siege dragged on for over a year, about sailing to Jerusalem. Finally, the pilgrims' urged the Venetians to abandon the siege of as the recent events unfolding in the Outremer King &amp; Count in captivity emboldened Joscelin to raid Aleppo territory and Euphrates at Balis. Like during his previous he planned for a swift action with only a decentralization, the Count rushed neglecting the remaining Artuqid Turcoman force. ambushed and defeated by the Turcomans headed who killed most of the Latin knights, all lord of Birjek. Elated by his easy victory, him at the remote Kharpurt fortress in southern Baldwin II decided to take charge of the County's gathering a few hundred knights, sergeants and Edessa, Le Bourg reestablished order in the of Joscelin's captivity. However, Baldwin's raid tried to cross the Euphrates river at Gargar, he the same prison as Joscelin. The situation turned of a Joscelin could only be felt as a loss of the would put the entire Kingdom of Jerusalem, Venetians arrival the Venetians and the rest of the Crusaders had celebration in Jerusalem, the Latin nobility the Venetian fleet. Only Tyre and Ascalon remained harbours in the Outremer. The Latin barons while the barons of Galilee opted for the latter. Venetians, who preferred to sail upon Tyre, mainly the discussions, Dominico Michiel demanded opportunity could not wait until Baldwin's and the newly appointed Patriarch Warmund also known as PACTUM WARMUNDI, which stated assistance in the Holy Land, the Kingdom of one street in each major Harbour and city in the and enjoy certain privileges like an exemption their own coin weight measures &amp; standards rights to have a separate church, market, upon the capture of Tyre, Ascalon and the rest of of the city's surroundings were to be handed to the Venetians, for it gave them the lion's share Siege of Tyre 1124 the Crusaders and the Venetians approached Tyre 1124. Luck was on the Crusader's side, for the between Fatimid Egypt and the Emirate of Toghtekin's governor Mas'ud, and the city still according to Muslim custom, meant that formally Egyptian vizier Al-Afdal didn't was hesitant wanting to maintain good relations with both the situation changed rapidly after his assassination the Fatimid Caliph sent a fleet to Tyre, which to Egypt. After this successful kidnapping, Mas'ud after which he was allowed to return to Toghtekin. outsmarted and nothing could be done, he probably out of fear of breaking the alliance. awaiting any opportunity to retake the city. beneficial for the Franks. Without Al-Amir the Franks could easily defend their positions However, despite all these factors, their The defenders of Tyre could still rely sea as long as the Fatimids possessed the Crusaders were pressured even further due Caliph ordered the building of as many ships 70 galleys. He intended to relieve the city by By the end of May 1123, the Egyptian army had hesitation, Constable William hastily mobilized numbering around 7000 men, to confront the Fatimid the forces of Jerusalem blocked the Muslim march other near the village of Caco, the Latins blocked to embark on their ships and get out of danger. As the battle ensued. Despite the numerical army had higher morale in the presence of Holy with great ferocity, finally broke through the the Muslims fled, leaving their camp and the Crusaders returned to Tyre, celebrating about the defeat of their land counterpart, the denying the Venetians the chance to engage with returned to Ascalon, the Caliph decided to change to divert the Crusaders' attention, also dividing his fleet would continue to supply the city. in Cyprus, the Venetian doge learned that the aiming to reinforce the Tyre garrison again. The number of transport ships, causing the fleet to occasion may not repeat itself for a long time, the Fatimid galleys. He divided his vessels into to lure enemy ships into battle. On a foggy Venetian squadron. Counting on an easy victory, turned to face the approaching Latin ships. But Frankish ships gradually moved out of the fog, Soon, panic and chaos spread across the Fatimid galleys and engaged in fierce deck-to-deck sailors captured four galleys and six transport their way up the way to the Fatimid flagship, the Egyptian sailors heard of the death of their to Ascalon. The Venetians pursued their foes as the rest of the Latin army. William of Tyre, stated that over 4000 corpses of Fatimid sailors The naval victory at Jaffa was a turning point both land and sea. Moreover, the water and the situation inside the city was getting decided to send letters to Al-Amir and Toghtekin, stating that the city would be forced to surrender Tyre, the Fatimids had just suffered two defeats position to send any more reinforcements. However, was on his way, having marched his army to the aid assuming that both Latins and Fatimids Having mustered a huge army near Damascus, four miles outside the city walls. The Crusaders, thought the attack was coordinated between so they split their forces into three groups. would use all the Latin cavalry in an attempt to around Tyre expecting the next assault from the the siege engines, preventing the defenders from hand, counted on his element of surprise. When meet him in battle, he decided to return home. At attack of an Egyptian fleet, seized the small the Egyptian fleet was nowhere to be found. Tyre's defenders, and in a desperate sally, equipment. Undeterred, the Crusaders decided that no help would arrive any time soon. They including one Armenian named Havedic, whose cover their losses and even further intensify walls. Hearing of the siege's progress, Toghtekin knew all too well that the capitulation was Finally, the Emir of Damascus opened negotiations talks, terms of surrender were presented; and in exchange, the Muslim population could intact. This proposal was ill-received by some William of Burres managed to convince the rest to were presented to Toghtekin, the Emir of Damascus finally handed over to the Franks. The Latins by giving them control of one-third of Tyre. As Venetian lagoon, they also reached a favourable establishing themselves as the main powerhouse Consequences &amp; Outro the Crusader Kingdom's growing dependence on the Pactum Warmundi, Venice was allowed to become a could quickly unfold into political influence events of the disastrous Fourth Crusade. Still, and with only Ascalon remaining, almost the to the Franks, which resulted in a drastic shift Crusader states. This allowed for an increased the Kingdom of Jerusalem was put to the test, and not only to survive without his presence but we will talk about Baldwin's fate, which resulted subscribed and have pressed the bell button have started releasing weekly patron and YouTube ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals