Ellie. Ellie, Hurry up, I'll be right down. I'd like to say a few words about You women may not sympathize. You think men have it easy, &quot;Man&quot; is a very delicate If you treat him right, he's good for years, but if somebody rocks the boat, well... you know how it is, men. You work hard for years and then comes one wonderful day when, for the first time in life, Things have eased up at the office. The kids are all set, married, and you're raring to go. You think of all the wonderful things if just you had time. You'd go fishing. You'd go big game hunting. You might even climb Mount Everest. Anyway, you're on top of the world. You begin to feel you're a combination and that's just the moment I remember it was just a year ago today. I caught my usual commuter's train. It was late as usual. It was such a beautiful day and walked home from the station. It was one of those first warm days in May -Hello. I was thinking what a lucky man I was three children all paid for, Ellie. -Hi, Pop. -Hello, Mr. Banks. Coming. Ellie was radiant that night, -Stanley, what kept you this late? -Stanley. Can't a fellow kiss his wife? You won't have time to change, Where are we going? Kay and Buckley asked us She called this morning Oh, old Buckley put over the deal That plastic bag of his? I don't think that's the big news, More important than that, I don't know, Something. -Nothing, get my coat, will you, dear? -Night, Tommy, night, Ben. Kay was sorry she couldn't have you two, but she had to have -Is Kay going to cook? -You better take your bicarb with you. -Boys, don't be so loud. -I promised she could go to the movies. -Ben, drop her on your way to the game. Delilah, stack up the dishes and glasses Okay, Mrs Banks. Tommy, don't study too late, if the rug man calls, Stanley? What's got into you? It's spring. It must be. Yes, sir, we're in a rut, Ellie. Not that it isn't a pleasant rut, -You're a very beautiful woman, Ellie. A very, very beautiful woman. The trouble is I never see you. When I get home, you ask or I'll fix the leaky faucet. -I'm sorry. I think we ought to forget about it, Go away and take a trip. No reason why we can't, Like when we were first married, before Kay came along. Only this time, we're not broke. We can even go to Europe. I think we've got to wait Honolulu, what about Honolulu? -That's the place, how about it? Oh, sure. Waikiki Beach. Moonlight on Waikiki. Flowers, ukuleles, romance. A bling, bling, bling. Blingety, bling, bling, bling. I'll call the travel agency in the morning -Hi there. There she was, my Kay, I couldn't yet believe She still seemed like a kid to me -How are you, feeling all right? Look at her, how does she look? -Never looked better in her life. -How is he treating you? -Do you miss him? -Hello, hello. I was full I even looked at my son-in-law I don't say that he was my ideal, Father Banks, how are you, -How have you been? -Don't just stand. Say, do you think you can do away -Just call me Stanley. -Not Stan, Stanley. -Stanley. Okay, Stanley. -How about golf on Sunday? -Doris, it's wonderful to see you again. -Well, Herbert, old boy, how are you? So, so? -Doris, how are you? -What's wrong with the old man? Takes it out You got the same message we did? -Yes. -That's right. -Have your cocktails. -Buckley, tell us, we're all here now. -I hope it is. -Great news, is it Buckley? Oh... Buckley, did you tell them and not us? -You put it over, boy? -It's not that horrid contract. Thousands of dollars. Oh, we hoped it was a baby. Oh, I'd prayed for a baby, Mom, that's what it is, it is a baby. -A baby? Oh, Buckley, that's wonderful. Congratulations. I'd never seen such excitement. Kay was passed around like a loving cup. I can't tell you how delighted I am. Buckley stood by trying to look modest. He only succeeded I grinned and tried to join in, but somehow I couldn't put my finger on it, Yes, sir, that's the greatest news How about that, grandpa? Grandpa. That was the fly. Grandpa. First he steals my daughter, I wish you'd go to Dr. Bonn's. After all, he's taken care of her I suppose this man is all right, though. Good gracious, November. That doesn't give me much time, Ben, Tommy. -What do you want them for? Ben, Tommy, wake up. Tommy, Ben, boys, do you hear me? Something wrong, what is it? -What's the matter? Kay is having a baby. -Right now? -Poor Buckley. You wouldn't say that if you were there, We were telling him how delighted we were, Wasn't he cute, Stanley? -The cutest thing you ever saw. You men are all alike, -Night, Ben, go back to your book. Good night, Tommy. No need to broadcast this. Mrs. Dickson, please. Why are you calling people Please ask her to call Mrs. Banks I have some very important news Mrs. Dickson would never forgive me I think I'll give Kay a baby shower. We could have it on a Saturday, Do we really have to blazon After all, it really isn't our affair. What's the matter, I don't. -Why, Stanley, for heaven's sake? First, they don't have The apartment isn't big enough -They can always... Babies cost money. The older they get, the more they cost. You heard him when I asked him but did that phase him? Oh, no, no. He just stood there looking cute, and he's the one I'll tell you something. If he has the idea that I'll pay for it, -I just finished paying for the wedding. -Another thing, they ought to wait. -For what? What do they know about children, She gets out of college and marries -Now she's saddled with a baby. I left school to marry you, Do you remember when we were married? -We were married on 4th September. -Do you remember when Kay was born? Exactly. While my class was graduating, Well, I don't... Oh, Stanley, I know they have no money, but those things don't really matter, The important thing Darling, it's like getting a dividend. It's like getting a dividend? Yes, something comes to you, You have none of the responsibilities All you have to do is love him. Hello, Ruth, I'm going to be a grandmother. -It's like getting a dividend. Oh, we're so excited. Yes, Kay told us about it tonight. Ellie didn't seem to mind the idea. Maybe women were different, well, I was the guy who was going places. The whole world of adventure and now a grandfather. I thought of other grandfathers I knew, but they were old, old men. Toothless old codger down the street. That client of ours whose only fun Those ancient dodos at the club. You'd have to use a stethoscope I didn't belong with them, Well, I hadn't even begun to live. The only trouble with me I spent the next afternoon in the gym. Thanks! Oh, that's fine, thank you. -Thank you. That evening, I felt like a million, but the next morning, Oh! Stanley, Buckley is here -What's the matter, what have you done? -Nothing. -No, no. -It's all over. -I'll call Dr. Bonn and get him over now. Stanley, it might be your appendix. If... -I haven't got an appendix, -Well, I'll get Buckley. If I don't want a doctor, -I thought he might be able to help. Don't you think he's done enough? All I want is a hot bath I'll talk to Buckley and be right back. Buckley, Buckley... The next week, This is one form of highway robbery Kay, here's one you haven't opened. -Delilah, be sure to keep a la carte. Stanley. How wonderful that you got home in time, Everyone was so sweet, -What else could they do, honey? -Come on in, Kay is in there. Hi, Pops, where are you going? Don't you want to come -I'll see it later. Stanley, when done, -I'll be in the kitchen. Come on now, Darling, I have to leave now. No, go over and talk to Buckley, Buckley looked like a man but I decided Well, what do you want, Ma? I wanted to talk to you You know how worried I've been about after Ben leaves for school in the fall. -Mm-hmm. Oh. I say we ask Kay Ellie, are you crazy? Stanley, it would be so simple. We could make a sitting room and knock through a door to Ben's room, Then, if we put Tommy in the spare room, we could put connecting doors and that would be the nursery, We could knock through a door to our room Yes, that would be great... Stanley, it won't cost much, It's a perfect place for the baby. The wonderful thing would be or even go away for a week or two, -We'd be right here to take care of it. Now look, Ellie. I know how anxious you've been but the answer is no, The two o'clock feedings, colic, and I'm not going through it again I wish you wouldn't be like that, You can go over to see the baby but it's not coming here, that's final. -You know it isn't big enough. -They can't afford a house. I don't understand how you can be so hard Moms, Pops, the Dunstans are here. Would you please come and talk to them, Of course. Come on, Stanley. Doris, Herbert, Well, well, Ellie. How's Grandpa Banks? -What's the matter? Exercising, you're crazy. Look at me, fit as a fiddle. I always say the only exercise I get This baby is the best thing It's given him a new lease on life. -Sit down, I'll have Delilah get... You sit down, Ellie. You sit down. Oh, I beg your pardon, dear, because I've got something Kay, Buckley, come here, Here, take this out of the way. We'll need a lot of room. Here old boy. -What is it? Here, hand me that chair. A blueprint for the future. A blueprint for happiness. Stan, just hold that side down, Now, you two kids, take a look at that. -What is it? Home? -What do you mean? I was looking at our house the other day, That whole west wing, so I called my architect, Here, let me show you. Your own study, your own living room, dining alcove, kitchen and laundry, and over here, baby's room, It's all plenty commodious. Ellie was fit to be tied. She saw that baby The living room is 26 by 22. Is that big enough? Best of all, That's right. Well, kids, how about it? It's wonderful, isn't it, Buckley? -Yes, Gee, Dad, it's swell of you. Now, you understand, of course, I want to give you a general idea Now, if you'd like that can be managed. -I'll call the architect... This is all your fault, if you'd let me ask them here. I don't get it. You're more excited about this baby You don't understand. This is the time Kay needs me the most. I was to take so much off her shoulders, and help fix the baby's clothes All right. Ellie, if it means so much, Too late, they're going to the Dunstans, Ellie, don't be silly now. You heard what Doris Dunstan said. This baby was the best thing in the world To Herbert. They'll take over that baby, -Ellie, this is ridiculous. You are acting like... It was so sweet of you, so wonderful. We'll never be able to thank you enough, We'd only have gotten in your way. I'm sorry you went through We should have told you sooner. Have you already bought it? Well, practically, -I see. Kay, have you got a house? I didn't realize Well, yes... We got a mortgage from the bank. -A mortgage? -I had a mortgage a few years ago. -Where is it? -It's just darling, isn't it? It's big enough for me There's a nice backyard for the baby, Is it furnished? It isn't, we thought -Sure. You don't have to do a thing, What's a mother for, I'd like to know? Ellie was off again. For the next few weeks, I'd stop She was working time and overtime. -Hi, Pop. -Well, how are you? Come on in, see what we're doing. -You look fine. Oh no, you don't, -I'm all right now. -It's just the smell of the paint. Stanley, make her stay out He ought to be here any minute. Let's sit in the shade. I feel so guilty. -Mom's doing so much. That's the breath of life for her. Where do we sit? -How about over here? -How do you like the house? The Harshes loved it. They wouldn't have moved That must be little Bobby Harsh's, Pops, how did you feel Did it make any difference I mean, how did you feel? Well, I felt fine. I mean, really. Well, I felt all right. My nose was a little I'd been a high man then you came along -You must have hated me. I think the worst time We got you home, and got you bedded down. We went to your room a dozen times If you were quiet, If you cried, I remember lying awake that night Here we were, two perfectly happy people, Trapped by 20 inches Do all fathers feel that way? I only know about myself. I remember that morning, screaming your head off. Your mother went in to heat your formula, and I went in to see I stuck a finger at you, Grabbed it with such a grip. From that moment on, you had me hooked. -I hope Buckley gets over it that quickly. Make him think Thank you. Oh, there he is. Hi, honey. -Hi honey! Ah. -Hello there, how are you? Well, what new wonders You'll see it tomorrow, take her, -We can help. -Your father and I will lock up, have fun. -Goodbye, Stanley. -To a party. How do you like this shade, We'll use it in here It'll make the house look larger I got the most wonderful Look at that. We got that for all windows, Wait till you see the price, I'm staying right within their budget, There's only one thing wrong. I haven't done a thing about the nursery. I could cry about it. -What's the matter? Dunstan? He was upset He said to at least let him He'll give them a crib, a bassinet, It'll probably all be done -What are we going to give the baby? Why are you so surprised, There was something I was looking at today Put it in this window, and it keeps the air clean It's very pretty and modern-looking, -What's the name of it? -It will extend this far. Downtown. See, you regulate it from here. It controls the air No dust, no soot, no pollen. Wonderful, Ellie's idea, -He probably won't have those adenoids. I want to show you this. Now you see, you turn it on Then you can go out and close the door. If he cries you can hear it They will love that. Here's a combination bath Right, just the right size. What is that over there? That's mine, -He'll be going there someday. Yes, I've already registered him -I'm a Dartmouth man myself. Stan, notice the height of this bath. A good college. A good college. We beat you in football and we shall probably. We have defeated you Our bobsled team is probably the finest that has ever been developed -Ellie has made some fresh coffee. That's one of your funniest remarks. -No, wait a minute. -Now, listen here. Yes, but Harvard? Well, what do you think -Isn't it lovely? The wonderful thing The shelf, for instance, but later, he can use it Ellie was right, they had taken over Oh, thank you, dear. -Isn't that a beautiful record, Pops? Mother Dunstan gave it to me, I remember I used to listen while I was waiting for Buckley. I think that's why he whistles so well. Have you ever heard him whistle? No, I haven't. -You should ask him sometime. I certainly will. By the way, Son, We had some terrible arguments about it, We've gone through the telephone books, Finally, we found Come on, sit down here, sit down! If it's a boy, Andrew, who's Andrew? Well, there's Andrew Jackson Besides, we like the name Andrew. -We both like the name Jonathan. I'd call him plain John. Well, we also thought -That's a good name. I went to school with a Michael, Ellie, just because your Michael smelled, doesn't mean A name that I've loved ever since Laurie, remember how dear he was? How about Timothy, that has everything. -Well, I... They've already told you Why do we suggest any more names? Besides, Jonathan, Michael, Andrew, You have to think Andrew Dunstan, Stanley, they haven't made up their minds, If I may interrupt, My idea would be to use a family name. That's right, the first grandson of the paternal grandfather, isn't he? No, Doris, that's not what I meant. I was thinking of my great-grandfather, Well, if we're talking about family names, Stanley Dunstan, -Well, we did think about that. -One Stanley in the family is enough. How about Cornelius, that's a family name. Then let's see, I had some wonderful names Milo and Hennington. Hennington, that's nice, We're all talking about boy's names, -We've got to decide on a girl's name. -The Dunstans always run to boys. -I like girls. -Where are you going, darling? -Nothing of the sort, I'll do them. You do too much, Kay. -You must rest more. -Some work is good for her. Of course, I don't mean It's this young doctor of hers. I've always said -We wanted her to go to our doctor, too. He's fine and wonderful. He told me not to pay any attention to... Nobody seems to realize this is my baby, mine and Buckley's. You seem to think with the way you talk... I'll have you know this time Now that we've succeeded what do you say -She's just high-strung. -In the bedroom. Come here. -Oh, thanks. -We're going to run along, Kitten. Go ahead, I'll take those things. Pops, that was horrible. I was terrible. -They'll never forgive me. We deserved much worse than that. It wasn't you. You never interfere, but the others... Mother and Father Dunstan and Moms. I'm doing too much. I'm doing too little. She wants a girl. They want a boy. No matter what the baby is, Yes, I think what you'll have to do Thank heavens for you, Pops. -You're the only one with any sense. I'm as bad as the rest of them, there'll be no more of it. It'll never happen again. We'll never gang up on you again, -Thanks, Pops. From now on, it'll be your way. -You won't let them make a fuss What do you mean? The Dunstans said -You won't let them do that, will you? What nonsense, he's your doctor. You have confidence and faith in him. No one has a right Thanks, Pops. It isn't their fault, really, it's just... Well, I guess they just don't understand Well, after all, as Dr. Nordell says, birth is a perfectly natural thing, a glorious thing. He wants you to be conscious every minute, He believes a woman should be aware Another thing. He doesn't believe that a woman for one second after it's born. You should carry it with you and keep it there with you. Sleeping right there with you That is a little new, isn't it? Oh, Pops, that's not new. Primitive woman has always done it. Dr. Nordell was in the Pacific, the women there They kept them slung on their backs He said it was wonderful for the babies. He said if he had his way, You'd carry them on your back When it got hungry, and then swing it back again. He says it gives the baby -Darling, you're sure that this doctor... No, no. Dr. Nordell is wonderful. -He's marvelous. Well, he's terribly wonderful. Darling, I am sure he is. I am sure he is. -Thank you. -Now, you just go to sleep and relax. -Good night, Pops. Dr. Nordell will be with you in a minute, Thank you. I just don't like the idea. I thought we and the Dunstans that we weren't going I won't have my daughter walking around Darling, that's figurative. -He didn't mean that literally. -Good morning. -Good morning. Now I've met the whole family. Mr. and Mrs. Dunstan Sr. They were anxious but I convinced them -That's a wonderful daughter you have. Oh, excuse me. -Won't you, Mrs. Banks? What can I do for you? Well, my wife has been and you know how mothers are at this time, I thought the best thing to do and let her talk with you. I think that's very sensible. What particularly worries you, Mrs. Banks? -Well, actually, I... I mean, about it all being so natural I'm trying to take away The fear of pain can really produce pain, but if she understands the whole process, if she has confidence in me, if she knows I'll be there if she trusts me, Yes, it is. Then afterward, I'm trying to persuade mothers to go back feeding them themselves, instead of handing them over to a nurse. I know this a lot to ask of your daughter. It's a full-time job, but believe me, the rewards will be great not only for the baby, but for Kay. There you are, Ellie, I told you, Thank you, Doctor. You were nice It's to my advantage. If I have you with me, -You certainly have us with you. You can calm down now. -Come on now, Ellie, the doctor is busy. For the next month or two, too peaceful. I should have known Ellie, answer the telephone, Ellie. Hello. Hello. Buckley, what... Buckley, you know what time it is? It's a quarter to 3:00. I'm sorry I didn't realize. -Is Kay there? Why, of course, she isn't here. What would she... Hello, hello? Buckley, Hello. Now, what do you mean, is she here? I thought if she was there, When did she leave, I don't know, I just got back a little while ago. What was it, a fight? Did you have a fight? Well, we had an argument, yes. Look, if anything happens to her, Don't worry, I'll do it for you. Did she take anything with her, She took her hat box, umbrella, Oh, well, don't worry about it then. If she took her toothbrush, Did you call anybody Well, you might do that. All right, I'll be right over. -Any word? -Did you call her friends? I can't wait any longer, No, wait a minute, don't do that yet, -Did she take the car? Is there a bus that runs by at this hour? -Anybody that might have picked her up? -It must be a cab, what's the number? There's no use asking them. They said they don't give out information -Fairview 61098, please. There were too many wives wanting -Did she have much cash? I give her money, but she keeps losing it. -Is this the first time she's left you? Oh, come, my boy, I'm married, too. Now, has she ever done No. She locked me out a few times, Hello. Hello, the Green Cab Company? I know this is against your rules, if you would help me out. Did you get a call last night Look, I told you once, it's against rules. Well, I'm not her husband. I'm her father, and she's... Well, she's... She's expecting. You know how they are in that condition, If you could find it in your heart I would appreciate it. Well... -There was a call. Thanks very, very much, sir. We won't forget this. -Where did she go? Home? Home, what do you mean home, I'm sorry, I mean my home. -Come on. Do you want her to come back, Yes. Then you'll have to go and get her. That's the first law of marriage. You can't expect any self-respecting wife I don't suppose you want to tell me If you don't mind, Okay. I'm unsure if you know, I'm sorry. This business tonight, it's like a child, and a spoiled child at that. She's got to grow up. She's got to be made to realize every time there's something Well, what do you want me to do, -Hi, Pops. Forgot your key, I suppose, I didn't want to wake you and Moms. I'm all right. The doctor told me to sleep You had your share of it tonight, come on. First, I want you to know this, Pops. I've left Buckley. I've left him for good. I wish you'd tell Moms for me. Ask her not to fuss. It's no use. It's over for good and all. I'd rather not have to talk about it. All right, Kitten, Come on, Pops, why did it have to end like this? Everything was so wonderful at first. I felt fine. Everybody was so sweet to me. It takes too long, that's all. Drags out too long. I'm ugly now. -I'm clumsy. Darling, don't say that. Don't you know you have a beauty now I know what I look like. I'm dumb and stupid. I can't do any of the things I used to do. Now, when I need him most, I've lost him. He doesn't love me anymore. You mustn't think things like that. He loves you more than ever, He said to me if anything happened to you, What do you mean? Did he call you? He's right out there now. I suppose he told you everything. He didn't tell me anything, An argument? That's wonderful. Do you know what it really is? There's someone else, Pops. He's found someone else. He goes off and leaves me every night but it isn't true. I've called the office, He's in love with someone else. Darling, don't. Please don't. We'll talk about it tomorrow, I'll send him away, I'll send him away. She's here, she's been asleep. I wouldn't talk to her if I were you -Did she say why we had a fight? Look, I'd like to say something, just for the record. It's not true, not a word of it. I've been working every night. After all, I'm going to have a baby. You know, I want to give him... She said that she phoned me twice there, Believe me, it must've been a few minutes I told her this again and again. She won't believe me. You ought to have more sense You know she isn't herself. Well, I'm not myself either. Look, I even thought of having then I said to myself, she doesn't believe me night after night for her and the baby. If she doesn't take my word, It's finished anyway. -It's off, it's finished. We'll all talk about this in the morning As far as I'm concerned, May I use your phone to call a cab? I'll drive you home Thanks, I'd rather take a cab. Suit yourself. He's calling a cab. I suppose he denied everything. He told me his side of it. You don't believe him, do you? Darling, I only know Oh, that isn't true. He doesn't love me. He doesn't care whether I live or die. -I never should have married him. Come on, you must get your sleep, darling. -Come on now, I'm going to... Your phone is out of order. That's ridiculous. Out of order? Hello, operator. You take him home, Pops. I can take care of myself. Operator? You're not supposed to carry things, -I'll take them up. No, here, I'll take them up. You don't have a room down here, There's a couch in the living room. I find it hard. You're not supposed Another thing, she's supposed -She forgets, so if you could remind her. Her exercise also. Dr. Nordell wants her to walk An hour in the morning Usually, we take a walk in the evening, -I'll try to remember. -No, I forgot. Why not in the morning? I'll give your father -Darling, your shoe is off. You know you can't do them yourself. Oh, Buckley. Buckley, what's happening to us? Haven't you heard? We're having a baby. Stanley. Stanley. Stanley, time to get up. Wake up, sleepy head. As the days went on and nothing happened, Buckley watched Kay That's our book. Oh. What is it, Kay, what's the matter? I reneged. I had a heart in my hand all the time. I don't know As November came we all waited with bated breath. -Is that the phone? Well, I guess I'll get a little air. -Stanley. Since you're going, Who said anything about Kay? I never could fool Ellie, but I hoped I could fool Kay. -Stanley, how are you? -Hi, Pop. This a beautiful night, -Mom sent me over with this. Go on, open it up. Don't mind us men. -Let me take your coat. -Well, at least let me help you. I'm glad you came by tonight, -Is something wrong? I wish you'd talk to her. -Oh, it's lovely. A beautiful bed jacket. Isn't that pretty? You certainly are going I'll pack it right now. Kay, now that your father's here, -You don't have to run right along. I won't be long. Hold everything till I get back. -You look wonderful, Kitten. It's just Buckley. I wish you'd talk to him, he's so jittery. What's he jittery about? He's afraid that something will go wrong. Aw. He shouldn't feel like that. Of course, I can't tell him It may not be, but I do know that when the time comes, you mothers seem to have a courage I hope so. I hope so. As far as anything going wrong, doctors and scientists so that you and your baby can be safe. Nothing is going to go wrong, I know. Pops. I wish it was all over. It will be soon, darling. I'm sure when you hold your baby you'll think it was worth Aren't I silly? It's like the first day Every night, we'd put our clothes We were like members of a fire brigade Well, it could happen I suppose so, or some time Two or three weeks? I couldn't live like this -Hello. I just brought Kay to the hospital. I don't know anything yet, We'll be right there. You can't do that, We can't tell -Remember to put the razor in your pocket? Yes, your electric razor. It doesn't matter where you have to go Darling, wake Tommy, please, You can phone him at the gym. I must remember in case the baby is born by then. -What kept you? I had to get my clothes on. -I'll drive. If we don't hurry, -You can't drive. The baby will be born, Don't go so fast, Ellie, Ellie, slow down a little bit. -Ellie, for heaven's sake. Keep your eye on the road. Your tie is on crooked, fix it. Ellie, gasoline! Come on, pull over and let me drive. -Come on. -No, you can't make it, there's a train. You're making me nervous. Do you realize what you've done? You've broken every regulation You passed everything on the wrong side, gone through red lights I know, but this is an emergency. For the first time in my life, Park it, will you, Stanley? What's the matter, what happened? Nothing happened. It was a false alarm. I'm sorry we brought you all this way. No, it's all right, nothing at all. -Good night, darling. -Good night, dear. -Is that grey car over there yours? -Is something wrong, officer? Yes, lady, there is. It's parked in front of a fire hydrant. After a week, I decided to take a sleeping pill. Hello, we'll be right there. -What? It's a boy. He arrived just a half an hour ago. Oh, Kay's fine, -Yes. Wonderful. Give her our love. Give her our love. Ellie. -Ellie. Remind me Tell me what, Stanley? Tell me what? Stanley, wake up. Tell me, is it something about Kay? -Stanley. Oh, Stan. Oh, isn't it wonderful? A boy. I wondered if they were crazy, or was I? He looked as old as Methuselah to me. All he needed was a derby. Hello, boy, we'll be seeing you soon. Isn't he a darling? -Who do you think he's like? -Like Kay? He's a Dunstan through and through. -What will they call it? Call him, son, him. I believe they're talking I believe they are. Oh, Herbert, isn't that wonderful? I hope you don't mind, Oh no, it's their son. In fact, Oh well, I... I admit he looked a little better -Perfect. Look at him, Did they have pictures taken? -When will he be christened? We want to wait for Reverend Glosworthy. Come on, Pops, -No, no, no. -Come on, old man. Come on, do it for me, We'll seat him right here. -How about that, is that all right? Hurry Stan, catch him just like that. -There we go. -Take him. Now, go on and smile at your grandfather. -See, it's no use, I told you. Come on, turn him around, that's it. Oh, see... Look, look! Look, I... Take him, please. Please take him. What's the matter? My goodness. -Stanley, what did you do to him? I didn't do anything to him. I think he's tired. We really must go. By the way, Stan, It's a photographic record Here, look at his hair, and then wait... Take a look at that. Here. Isn't it amazing? Well, he changes every day. Not to me, he doesn't. -Coming, dear? Show the boys you know. -Goodbye, dear. Good bye, Stanley. Take good care of our drake big boy. -Come here. How about a big drake drink? Pops? Yes, dear. -Come in, he's quiet now. -Now look, it's no use. It's just that there were It scared him. Come on. The baby is going to smile. Oh, come on in. See, everything is all right now. He's not scared any more, is he, darling? Now, you've got a nice man here, and you're going to give him a big smile Now, look who's come to see you. Who is that, huh? -Wow. Is that your grandfather? Yes. Oh, honey, you terrible child. -What happened? He just took a look at me. That's so funny, The doctor said he'd never seen -I'm sure. He was smiling Pops! Well, now come on, let's blow. Pops. We've come to apologize. We want to say Now, you tell him that you forgive him. Come on, give him a great big smile, -You little brat. He's gone now. -It's all right, the man's gone. Do you know what I think it is, -If you'd take off your tie. It's a nice tie, and I like it. It was a present from Tommy, and I won't take it off Stanley, the way you talk, he's a baby, -He doesn't know what disturbs him. He's an individual As an individual, I respect his right but I also reserve From that time on, It was live and let live between us Mr. Bank's house? Well, yes, but what... Hello. Thank you. Good evening, Mr. Banks. See you tomorrow. The thing I had feared had come to pass. He had invaded the sanctity of my home. -Hi, Pops. You have a visitor. -Is it all right with you, you don't mind? -No, I'm delighted. It's just that you two I thought if I left him here -Alone? I'm going to Boston. Buckley has to see Mr. Wellsburg there, He asked me to come, but Mom said to go ahead, Pops, I know you'll love him He has been a little strange. -There's my taxi, I've got to run. Remember this, Pops, if he peeps at you, -Bye, Mom. Bye! Stanley, is that you? Yes, it's me. The most wonderful thing has happened, Yes, Kay told me. Come up and see him, quick. Of course, we're not quite organized yet. -Where is he, I don't want to step on him. What is that? Well, that's my dress scarf. What are you doing with my dress... What's going on? Look here. -What are you doing with my... -He's eating my scarf. It can't hurt him, can it, my darling? Does he have to be in that drawer I put your shirts out right there, Oh, little lovekin. Who's the lovekin? Stanley, it's so wonderful Who's a sweet boy? -Who's an angel? Who's going to sleep in a nice, big room? -Will he sleep in this room? -Where's Tommy going? I want him here, He's good, but it's a strange house, He will be a good boy, won't he? Of course, he is. Sorry, I can't go to the Dicksons, I phoned Ruth, -It's all set. -No, Stanley. I'll not go without you, That's ridiculous, you can't eat here. There's no food in the house, -If you don't mind waiting on yourself. -She's making up Kay's room. -You are. It's the only room and I promised Kay -Everything is ready, Mrs Banks. Delilah, take these and sterilize them. -You can use the canning pot. Mr. Banks, isn't it wonderful It's wonderful, just wonderful. -Great. All week, No alarm clock, no train to catch, I just had to let you see him, -What time is it? Six o'clock? Go back to sleep, dear, bye. Say bye-bye. Bye-bye. Oh, no. Oh, no. Sunday afternoon, but Ellie thought Forty-five minutes later, Hey, hey! Here's your ball. -Hey, will you give me? Here, here, boys, boys! Stop, stop! Come on, let's get organized, They were nice kids. I was having a good time. Look, come on, choose sides now. -Thanks a lot. You want to watch that dribble. It was a good game. I was wondering She'd probably think I was crazy Where do you think you're going with... I'm sorry. I suddenly thought I didn't take the train, I flew. I got so homesick for the baby. Where is the baby, Don't worry, he's with your father, You should see your father. Hey. Police station. Hurry up. Hello, is anybody here? Is anybody here, hello? Officer, has anybody I've lost a baby. -Is it your baby? -Where did you lose him? He was in the park in his carriage. I left him for a second, when I came back, -You say you left him for a second. Some kids were playing soccer, You forgot your grandchild. Well, I guess I did for a minute. That's fine, that's wonderful. They give you a child to mind What's the matter, Jack, Wait a minute, this kind of talk is... Did you understand what I said? A baby has been lost, a little baby... Why don't you do Get on the television, Describe the baby. He's five months, six months old, wearing a little white, He's got on a little cap, I think. -Would you know what color his eyes are? -I don't know. Yes, I don't blame you. You haven't told me anything My daughter is home waiting for the baby, I'll do anything, big reward, -It so happens we picked up your baby. It wasn't five minutes you were gone, Yes, sir. -Where is he, in here? Just a minute. What's your daughter's phone number? Don't do that, please don't do it. You don't know, Please, I promise I'll do anything I'll take him home, I'll talk it over with the boys. They've taken quite a fancy to this kid. If they suspect you mistreated him, All right, they've come for him. I dreaded the moment when he'd see me. I knew if he started to cry, I was cooked. I said a little prayer, &quot;Just this once, don't let him cry.&quot; Come on, son, we're going home. Come on. Well, that's my boy. That's my boy. From that time on, I was his pigeon. Yes! The baby's christening day finally came. He was the center of a little world, all of us gathered together I felt like we were ganging up on him, pinning the name of Herbert Suffer the little children to come onto me for of such is the kingdom of God. Funny how I resented the very idea of him I was furious at both of them, making me a grandfather. It seemed to spell the end of my life. Now, I couldn't imagine life without him. Our Heavenly Father now and forever more. Amen. We were coming to his big moment, How would he behave? When Reverend Galsworthy would he be terrified or cry? Not that baby. To him, the Reverend Galsworthy Name this child. Stanley Banks. Stanley Banks, I baptize thee in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. We receive this child and do sign him with the sign of... Stanley Banks, my grandchild... -He shall not be ashamed.