Okay this is how you build labor rates.You go of labor, for instance you can pick, you've and then the different levels of And you put your own rates in here, and you got and then it comes up with a crew rate. So like and let's say you put a an Apprentice, and then that gives you a three-man So you fill in the rates for your own labor crew from there. And you got Sheet Metal got HVAC Piping Field Labor, Piping Shop Labor, Just pick your crew, and it'll and that'll be shared throughout the whole And then you have your General Conditions You have Senior Project Manager, Project Superintendent, Quality Control, Scheduler, Safety Purchasing Agent. You put whatever you want in like, and then you pick the duration of the how calculator for duration over here on the side. You job ,and then whether it's full-time or part-time, that's a full-time basically. There so that So let's say your project manager is going to be to put the rate. What's your rate? Let's just six month period for your Project Manager. So this And then down here, you've got Non-reoccurring whatever it's going to take to mobilize on the get your storage bins out there, whatever that And then you have your Recurring Costs. when you have to maintain a a job site out there. office supplies, telephones, whatever occurs on a job site. Then you got Travel and working outside the area, and you maybe have or you have to pay you guys extra money to And then after that, you got your Rentals for the project. Here we got scissor lift, crane, welders, groovers, boom lifts. You just list just store your typical rental rates in here, So you just do the duration. How long are you So you would put in the quantity of months particular equipment, and then it'll So, and then how many scissor lifts, And then at the bottom here we have the Crane. This most likely you'll just get a quote from you can budget it on your own. If you have an How long does it take for the travel to the site. to mobilize and demobilize, that is to set 2 hours. And then rigging time. How long 4 hours maybe. And then the combined rate. What 40 ton crane or whatever size the crane is going and traffic control. If you're rigging on a public or you're within an airport zone, A street closure, same thing if you're going to need guys to do traffic control. is it's because they got to bring out extra trucks miscellaneous. Anyways this is another way Then your next tab will be This is where you'll list all the Subcontractors. just like a lot of the other sheets.You put in Put into a quote amount and the spreadsheet And then list any exclusions, like And bid by Steve. You can put the contact name see it picks the lowest bid, but you can always whatever you put in the plug or quote, the yellow And then you just go down. You got Controls, Water treatment. Then you got The other category is cumulative, so whatever you it's just going to add all these up These subcontractors that you need to add in, so And then your next sheet you'll deal with is your to the equipment sheet on your drawings, all the, taking off all that equipment, and you're going to put the comparative price between The unit of labor it takes to install each one of test time, and the balance time. So, here you just when you come back, maybe in labor, you can got 5 tons, you got five of them. Let's say it So you got 40 hours. So, I didn't show in that, in there too. So, right here you got your he bids $12,500, and you get another quote from the spreadsheet has picked a low bid, $12,500 once again you can override it.Let's say you got a and we'll put him in at $12,002, which would make the low bidder, but once again you can overwrite plug or quote yellow box there, and that If you don't want to carry the low. Now is that it'll calculate parameters for You put in the tons you got, 25 tons. It's telling you're gonna have 10,000 CFM. So you could pay a and then there's five units, so it's $2,600 per to check your historical data. Is this what we've number? And if it doesn't, then you can adjust take a buyout by putting a And basically you just keep going down. You filling out those sheets. The next one you'll all the stuff that isn't yourSheet Metal Duct work duct smoke detector, secondary drain pans, roof duct supports, duct id, seismic supports, supplemental steel. You just fill all that out. Fabrication. So, you can put material, labor, for Field Material and Labor, or you could put both let's say it's $125 bucks a piece, and and you got 5 of them. So, and carry that forward on your estimate. So say, secondary drain pans. Let's say you got 10 of Let's say it's $75 worth of material, and it's And, but in the field you're going to have to Let's say it's an hour. So you got some shop all that's going to get carried forward onto your sheet metal summary sheet. So you fill these out that sheet metal specialties. That $625 dollars of material, 17.5 labor you have the Shop below, which we'll show in your rectangular duct and fittings. You can put the more you'll get parameters which we'll show got a 100 lineal feet, you put that in, you put your estimating program or your manual takeoff. if good, we'll put the pounds in here. So, we can So if you look over here, it's saying we're doing used to looking at linear feet a man day, or a per man day. And if you want to make an adjustment or too slow, you can slow it down or speed it up. too fast. That shows that we have a difference of so you got to carry this manually. So you add So, you put the 13.3 hours there, that makes And then all that like I This is your Summary Sheet. So, on that, also consumables, your punch list, and your So material handling is what it takes to get all to the floor where it's going to be installed. numbers are for your company. Material handling that can be like whatever, your corner duct tape, whatever you want your consumables are, always extra time for that, and then clean up. it daily, some weekly, but you'll have clean of actually hanging duct. Detailing. We It's got, you know, items that you're going familiar with the project drawing, the floor and and wall and floor openings, as well drawings, how many hours you guys normally get, takes in there. You put it according to whatever your So, and then that'll calculate a percentage, Supervision also is a certain percentage, and then down below here we have the Sheet Metal great, you can put the values in here and you the parameters of your shop productivity. So, once it in a shop, we have $800 worth of materials. So, it's $0.80 cents a pound for just the material, and it's producing at almost 50 pounds according to what your shop normally does and productivity adjustment so that, so it matches material then you won't worry about this, this And you can put them separately, I like to do lot of sense. So maybe even if you're buying your get the pounds from your fabrication shop, so your HVAC Piping Specialties. So, similar to the specialty items, you got the shop and the field. and you list all the items that you normally your pipe, valves, and fittings, those come from you're going to have a summary sheet for the and you can do the same thing as you would do pipe. So you can check on the parameters. keep your copper, keep your material separate. So, and $8,400 dollars in material. We got 270 hours. from your manual takeoff. Over here, you can per linear foot, labor material is $60 a foot, once again, you can adjust this. You could And then you would make an adjustment so we're going to slow it down a little bit. So, would have to come over here to the productivity and that would get us to where we need to be. consumables, punch list, cleanup, they're Detailing once again, and supervision, and sheet metal calculators, the same thing And then Plumbing Specialties, same thing you had now you have Plumbing Specialties. So, once again items that are not your normal pipe, valves, And again, you have shop fabrication, and to mention this is where you can list where this Now you have Plumbing Fixtures. You have a all your fixtures. I have the typical ones listed can rearrange this and list whatever your typical more fixtures below. You'll put the quantity to set that fixture. And then you'll have three on their bids. So let's say one's at $215, you can't see, but you got three bids, and then in your fixture cost here. You'll write it in your estimate. So it gives you three columns here you have fixture value. So, this will help fixture it costs to install or purchase. So we and drain is at a half value. Then you have your equipment. This will keep the two trades separate, the same as the HVAC. You go to your plumbing the plumbing equipment listed there. Listed here and it's storage tank 1 through 4, and then what so it gives you an idea when you go to labor it, difference with a 10 gallon tank and a 400 there. So it multiplies the labor correctly. so you got 4 of them. 4 times 8 is 32 hours. Each vendor and his bid amount, remembering you can definitely overwrite that, as you see here, carry the low bid of you can pick whatever number you want and it'll So maybe the guy doesn't have over here. Again, you have the quick so basically you're paying $7,500 bucks and you have other parameters. If you had cost per horsepower, or how much it cost per MBH, other there to measure whatever parametric there's a long list here, for you can put as much over into your Plumbing Material Labor Summary see the specialties came over, the equipment labor came over. There's the three items three separate sheets, they carry to the summary takeoff from either your estimating So, just like the sheet metal or the piping, for each one of these categories. This is domestic and then you had 1,450 hours. So, you can check $18.89 per foot for the material cost, and $71.25 got a productivity of 9.9 linear feet of man day, to make an adjustment, you think it's too slow, you need to a negative 490. You need to deduct You minus 490 hours because you're speeding it up. too slow, so you're taking hours out of the job. piping material labor summary, you've got material detailing, and supervision. And below on all the the shop, which is a great idea because it saves Now all of this is going to roll over to your Main sheets, now roll into this Main Estimate Summary name at the top, the address, the customer, the looking at, you can look at, there's really rolling forward. This is all information coming the only thing you fill out here is the hourly but everything else is already done. The labor was done on your crew labor sheet. And then you and it gives you CFM per square foot, CFM per ton. per ton, and how many dollars per ton. MBH, 400. Now these are good for when you do budgets, this your quantity of fixture value, so you have 12. So and material ,field labor cost, is $9,098, so that's just a just a rough parameter. So, that now, as you go down, you've got your Air and your engineering, and there's your equipment nothing for you to do here, this is coming from all that also comes from your subcontract sheet, can see everything in one place. And your General is coming from your general condition sheet, so so the only thing we have is material and to show up, but you got permits, you got whatever put additional general conditions in. It gives you and then cost with contingency, and then you make on the project? So, if I went to 25, you can you can see the markup's 33 percent. So, the change the margin back to 20 you can see the relationship works. And then there's just a little the sheet metal versus the piping, plumbing, the the subs, and the GC's. Gives you an idea of So that's it. It summarizes everything on this a small job or a large project, from Okay, so Subscribe to our additional videos for Mechanical, Electrical,