Do your past, present and future all exist being born and lying on your deathbed the answer could be yes. But how can that be? Imagine the universe like a child painting everything that's happening in the universe all kinds of things occur everywhere - people you miss the bus - and our universe-kid makes In this way you get something like a movie - The past is what happened before, now and hasn't been drawn yet. This is kind being replaced by the next one. The past But what if time is something else? What if the universe-kid has already finished all This way we get a block - a block of time that moments that have ever existed or will ever exist. the past, the present and the future are This feels wrong - the only things things happening now. How can the past is that according to the theory of Heavily simplified, relativity says but one connected spacetime. When you move the block. This means time passes differently move through space relative to each other. And "now" is a certain cut along the block - a cut So what you think is "now" is really only your universe and all of them are equally real. This Ok. This is a lot - how does this work? Imagine three alien spaceships a million light not moving relative to you. You the same present. If you had a magical you could do a video call right The second spaceship is flying away from us at 30 It is moving differently through the block of different from yours. With the magical internet, when humanity was discovering the The third spaceship wants to visit Earth moving at the opposite angle of the It experiences yet another "now" - with the descendants in the year 2124, when humanity Ok, so we have three different "nows" - so Relativity is based on one powerful principle view of all observers in the universe is equally But if this is the case, your past, present and right now! Because for the different This means that the distinction between an illusion. The universe is not a bunch movie - but a static block in which the past, the How can that be? Well, think about a too far away to ever visit or see. But even it is still real. The future might be the same! But if the past is not far behind us and the "movie". Things don't happen in the universe. The cosmic ice, with everything that will Is the Future Already Written? If all times coexist and are equally real, But that's not how you experience things. It decisions. It really feels like you're free to bus. But if the future is set in stone, you an illusion? Well... maybe. Maybe your free bus was already predetermined at the Big Except...quantum stuff is Quantum processes can't be predicted, not even in how to do it - according to quantum physics, For example, if you have a radioactive in the next second or in the next probability that it will decay tomorrow, be able to tell you with absolute But quantum particles can change the world. Imagine a radioactive element randomly decays and then many generations later that mutation that makes no sense. Or the atom decays a day If quantum stuff is really uncertain, the future is an untold story, it can't be So what happens when uncertain become real? Is that moment the present? Is democracy makes it impossible to define It turns out that for every individual the present and the future are always happen after your birth - never before, and between your birth and your death. So for If we don't play tricks like going to the in funny ways to find out what "now" means, and individual "nows" seem to exist. Let's return to our block universe. Maybe the we just imagined it wrong. Maybe the block is just present. That surface is not smooth, but bumpy individual "nows" - each experienced by each equally real and valid. And all observers As new things happen and uncertain things new species of mammals arise, people creating new time in the universe. a future that has already been written, You can again decide your future! Maybe Let's recap. We started with time as where only the current "now" was real. Then are multiple "nows", all of them real somehow - block universe where things don't happen and up with a kind of growing block universe, So which is correct? What is real? The present? right now? What do the aliens on the other To be honest, no one knows. What we've learned they're not the only ones. Some scientists think but not in the universe as a whole. Others think whole concept is an illusion of our human but that it's not a fundamental time may be something that emerges from a deeper motion of individual molecules or life emerges We could go on, but... aren't The concept of time is abstract and human comprehension. Fortunately, there's a the universe that you can explore right now Brilliant has thousands of bite-sized, technology, and beyond. Their latest offers a practical guide to interpreting the risk and prediction while learning to model of everything from election results to who a lesson on "The Past and Future," where reliably forecast future events in And since it's always a good time to learn collaboration with Brilliant to take your These lessons let you further explore from rabies and mammalian metabolism Think of each one as an interactive, To get hands-on with kurzgesagt lessons and you can start your free, 30-day trial by signing up at Brilliant.org/nutshell. the first 200 people to use our link get 20% Our shop has grown so much over the years, thanks to all of you! Now it's time to move But should our tiny birbs really have to and grab a box in our biggest sale ever! Here you can see how our posters are actually But watch out - there are some pretty And this is where the deals are crafted. They as long as supplies last, so head over to the