Hello everyone, welcome to PianoWell. Loose hands - so this is a topic I will single student has this issue at some couple of videos about the same topic. You can check it here or in the description below. So how can I describe this feeling? Loose, hands that don't exist. This is so crucial reason of any uncomfortable feelings also can lead to some pain and injuries that prevents students from getting a And surprisingly this is number 1 thing aware of, because from the teacher the students play with loose or stiff come to the students and touch their could feel if the hand is heavy or light, especially if we are talking about the higher level of education, like professors would never do this. A professor - he would just some art, or sitting on the couch never come and touch your hand. And from the student perspective it is also hard to feel, because he simply never got this he's playing with stiffness in hands. He So the reason of this unnecessary within the body when students try to teacher would probably ask them to do; or But because they don't know how to do this exactly they would naturally start just get more stiff inside, you know trying to muscles would get used to this feeling feels to play naturally with free energy. students try to control the evenness and don't have clinging fingertips that would just let them you know play with this kind of motion inside the tip of the finger and on to the keyboard, not just fall down, so amount of tension in hands. So what would be the signs that the student is playing with stiff hands. The first sign playing slow and simple pieces a student like explaining that well they're trying to that, but they're not really using the Because if your hand is free and at empty it would just simply, beautifully to lift up your fingers to express applying weight to play anything you want expressive. So you don't have to make all these motions. And if you notice in my playing mmm whatever I play it seems like it's not applying any effort, which is at peace, my hands never over work. Okay feel uncomfortable playing in a slow tempo. If they would actually say that they feel it's hard to play even in slow leads to the next sign where students up, because their fingers would stop which is obvious because if they apply simple, slow pieces then let's say they while playing faster, and this is already breathe. What is happening - muscles simply stop breathing in and breathing out, they're suffocating in the stiffness, and that prevents fingers from moving. That's what happening. don't have to use a lot of energy to opposite, you can use very little energy the piano, that's how it works. So how to remember that all you need to do is just practicing every single moment. And yes, right away overnight, forgetting all the decades of wrong playing, and yes you fingertips right away that let you play everything in this life takes time, you need to understand that all the in our mind, when we are about to imagine sounds, in our throat when we are connecting and singing distance in between notes, yet our hands don't exist. So, our hands are just a channel for our intentions to be conveyed to the keyboard. So it's just like this is our intention here a channel. could tell you guys that whatever you be just stopped here, you will never get any response from the piano. So it's really crucial to keep your hand at rest and need to also understand that after we effect on sound anymore, so there is no Because what students usually do that is note, they keep tension. When in any tension right away. You release right away. So basically you imagine sound, you touch the key, you release tension, then you gather again some energy because you are about to sing with resistance and glissando the distance to the next note that requires some kind of energy and tension, yes we touch the key And it's kinda so natural, but struggling we kind of forget completely It's okay guys, it takes time. So also I be easy if you don't have clinging fingertips let you do is - at this step when you are about to relax your hand after you press the key, they would just hold on, like the claw, and you just you don't have it you would still have tension just to be able to hold on to So it's again - it's alright, keep doing this, you will get this feeling of clinging to give you the best and the closest playing with loose hands. Playing with gentle, soft, relaxed, at ease, caring, okay - so are you the same towards your piano playing? So make sure playing and the same feeling about your it's always very easy. easy thing, you don't have to practice losing completely the sense of why not to fail the exam. You can a week and make great progress, and still with people, to see the world, to message - and that would be a true and why you are practicing. Because you something through your music, and to be it in your mind. So please, do not talk to it's simply stupid. Besides, you know switch off, you just practicing probably some mistakes which you cannot even notice, and then the next day you will have to practice another 8 hours to just relearn the mistakes that you made another day. Okay, alright and see you in my next video