[music] Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full. One for the master, And one for the dame, And one for the little boy who lives down the lane. Baa, baa, white sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full. One for the pig, And one for the horse, And one for the farmer and his dog of course. Baa, baa, blue sheep, have you any spots? Yes sir, yes sir, I have lots. One is purple, And one is red, And one is rainbow-colored on my head! Baa, baa, orange sheep, have you any friends? Yes sir, yes sir, by the fence. Here is the chicken, And here is the cow. Let's all sing the song together now! Baa, baa, black sheep, have you any wool? Yes sir, yes sir, three bags full. One for the master, And one for the dame, And one for the little boy who lives down the lane. One for the master, And one for the dame, And one for the little boy who lives down the lane. One for the master, And one for the dame, And one for the little boy who lives down the lane. [honk] [honk, honk] [CHOO!] [giggles] [music] Choo, choo, choo, Join the ABC train. Choo, choo, choo, Let's sing this song again. A is for apple. B is for bell. C is for cat, and D is for door. E is for Elliot. F is for five. G is for gift, and H is for hat. Choo, choo, choo, Join the ABC train. Choo, choo, choo, Let's sing this song again. I is for igloo. J is for jug. K is for key, And L is for log. M is for mouse. N is for nut. O is for orange, And P is for penguin. Choo, choo, choo, Join the ABC train. Choo, choo, choo, Let's sing this song again. Q is for queen. R is for robot. S is for star, and T is for tree. U is for umbrella. V is for vase. W is for wheel, and X is for xylophone. Y is for yogurt. Z is for zebra. Come on everybody, Let's join the ABC Train. ABC Train! Far in the candy mountains there lives a unicorn who loves to give. If you're using crayons you wouldn't understand how its magic colors all the land. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. Brighter than the sun we shine leaving glitter trails behind. Rainbow twinkles painting the sky. It's so much fun to fly. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. My unicorn! [music] Get out of bed. Pull up the sheets. Go to the kitchen. And take a seat. But if you've just run out of your favorite food, why don't you try something new? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Look in your closet and find a shirt. Put on your pants or grab a skirt. But if you just can't get your shoes to tie, give it another try. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Let's go potty, try just in case. Look in the mirror and wash your face. But if your hair is looking kind of wild, why don't you try another style? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Zip up your jacket and grab your lunch. Put on your backpack, then give big hugs! But if it's raining outside and it's getting on your head, wear something else instead. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Alright, alright! Today's going to be a fun day. And I'm going to need your help. So keep your eyes on the hands of the clock. Because we're starting... now! At eight o'clock I wake up. Make my bed. Put on my clothes. At nine o'clock Breakfast time! Brush my teeth. Get ready to go. At ten o'clock Time for school. With my friends It's always cool. Eleven o'clock Play outside. Watch me race Down the slide. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Alright, alright. That's good, really good! But this is just the morning We still have lots of hours ahead. Are you ready? Twelve o'clock I learn a song. We celebrate and dance along. Yeah! At one o'clock Time for lunch. I love my veggies. Yum, yum, yum! At two o'clock We take it slow. I have a nap. That's how I roll. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Well done! This is going great. But don't back off now! The best has yet to come... Let's go! At four o'clock After school I go swimming in the pool. At six o'clock Quack, quack, quack. I play with Ducky in the bath. At eight o'clock Get pj's on. I read a story. Start to yawn. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Nice job! We've arrived at nine o'clock, And I'm getting sleepy. I don't know about you, but I'm going to have sweet dreams Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Who's ready to rhyme? Me! Cowy was walking Down by the lake When she met a snake Getting ready to bake. A little while later The snake pulled out a cake. Lake, snake, bake, cake Lake, snake, bake, cake It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is cool When we're in the pool. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy was taking a beautiful hike When she saw a panda Riding a bike. Then she saw a rose Growing a nose. Hike, bike, rose, nose Hike, bike, rose, nose It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun When we're in the sun. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! Cowy and her rocket Were flying up to space When she flew by the moon It made a silly face. Wow, thought Cowy. This is such a crazy place. Space, face, place, moon No! Moon doesn't rhyme with space. Okay, you're right! How about space, face, place, race? Space, face, place, race Did that rhyme? Yes! It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is great, But don't be late. It's rhyme time. It's rhyme time. Rhyming is fun For everyone! [music] I'm in the mood for some really good food. Look, we're in luck. There's a food truck. I would like two tacos and some fresh fruit. How much, please? Thank you too. Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. [music] I see you have some chicken with some mac and cheese. That sounds delicious. May I have some, please? Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. [music] Here are some napkins. Here you have cups. Thank you for your orders. They're coming right up. Let's get some water while we wait. Here comes the food. It all looks great. Please and thank you, manners are the best. Remember how to use them to be a good guest. Please and thank you, manners are the best. You have great manners, so be my guest. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. Please, thank you. There are eight planets in our solar system. Let's go ahead and list them in order from the Sun. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in our solar system. Mercury is the closest to the Sun. Venus is the hottest one. Earth is the planet we call home. Mars is the red one. Jupiter is the biggest one. Saturn has a lot of rings. Uranus is blue and is the coldest planet. Neptune is the furthest from the Sun. Hey, what about me? You will always be our friend, Pluto! There are eight planets in our solar system. Let's go ahead and list them in order from the Sun. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in the solar system. Now, let's go ahead And list them one by one In order from the Sun Mercury Venus Earth Mars Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune What about me? You will always be one of us, Pluto. Mercury, Venus, and Earth Mars, Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune These are the planets in our solar system. Elliot was building a castle. He started with the door. He had five blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing block? Who could it be? Maybe it was Lisa? But she said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot started to build a tower. He wanted to make it green. He had four blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Billy? But he said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot decided to add a roof. He wanted to make it blue. He had three blocks, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Baby Bot? But he said, "No, it wasn't me!" Elliot was getting suspicious. But he was still having fun! He had two blocks left, but suddenly one went missing. Who stole the missing blocks? Who could it be? Maybe it was Cowy? And she said, "Yes! It was me!" -Do you want to know something cool? -Yeah. -Sometimes two letters can work together to make one special sound. Let me show you how. Give me a C. -C -And an h. -H. -If we put these letters together the sound they make is 'ch', like cheese. -Cheese. -Chicken. -Chicken. -Cherry. -Cherry. -Chair. -Chair. -Now, give me an s. -S. -And an h. -H. -If we put these letters together, the sound they make is 'sh', like shoes. -Shoes. -Shell. -Shell. -Ship. -Ship. -Shadow. -Shadow. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound -Now, give me a t. -T. -And an h. -H. -If we put these two together, the sound they make is 'th', like thumb. -Thumb. -Three. -Three. -Throat. -Throat. -Thunder. -Thunder. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound -Now, repeat after me as we review our special sounds. C and h make ch. -C and h make ch. -S and h make sh. -S and h make sh. -T and h make th. -T and h make th. -Two letters together can make one special sound Two letters together can make one special sound One special sound [laughter] -That was fun. Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add. Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Look how easy it can be Sing with me 1 plus 1 equals 2 2 plus 2 equals 4 3 plus 3 equals 6 4 plus 4 equals 8 5 plus 5 equals 10 Now let's add the bigger ones 6 plus 6 equals 12 7 plus 7 equals 14 8 plus 8 equals 16 9 plus 9 equals 18 10 plus 10 equals 20 Now you know how to add Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Doubles Today, we're going to learn to count by twos. You just need to repeat after me. Here we go. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. You're pretty rocking. Let's do it again while hopping 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. Wow. I love your rapping. Let's do it again while clapping. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You're a counting champion. Let's do it again while dancing. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. I think you've got this mastered. Just one more time. Much faster. 2, 4, 6, 8. 2, 4, 6, 8. Let's learn to count by twos today. Let's learn to count by twos today. 10, 12, 14. 10, 12, 14. We skip the number in between. We skip the number in between. 16, 18, 20. 16, 18, 20. You did it. [laughter] [music] Good morning, good morning, It's a brand new day! Good morning, good morning, Hip-hip-hip hurray! Good morning, good morning, The day has just begun! Good morning, good morning, Time to have some fun! Hello, hello, hello, How are you today? Hello, hello, hello, Would you like to play? Hello, hello, hello, I hope you're doing well! Hello, hello, hello, Seeing you is swell! [music] Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, I'll be on my way. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you another day. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you in a while. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, A hug, a kiss, a smile. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to close your eyes. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time for lullabies. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Quiet, not a peep. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to go to sleep. Shh. I love when winter comes and freezes up the lake. From liquid to solid in just a few days. Put on your ice skates. Get ready to play! I love when summer comes and melts the ice away. From solid to liquid in just a few days. Put on your swimsuit. Get ready to play! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it behaves. Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. I love when winter comes so we can make hot chocolate. From solid to liquid, it melts right away! From solid to liquid, it melts right away! I love when summer comes so we can make some popsicles. From liquid to solid, eat them right away! From liquid to solid, eat them right away! Liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves. Look at the river flow when the sun touches the snow. From liquid to solid Solid to liquid Look how it all behaves! Water turns into ice when the cold weather arrives. From liquid to solid! Solid to liquid! Look how it all behaves! [music] I'm going to need your help with this song. I want you to listen for the sound word and repeat it back. Are you ready? Here we go. I hear the wind whoosh through the trees Whoosh The leaves crunch under my feet Crunch The rocks kerplunk into the lake Kerplunk And I feel drip drops on my face Drip drop Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear That was great. This time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it back twice. The car vrooms down the street Vroom, vroom Its horn goes beep Beep, beep It screeches to a stop Screech, screech And the tire goes pop Pop, pop Uh-oh Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear This last time, you're going to listen for the sound word and repeat it three times. Don't forget to be silly. I chomp on my food Chomp, chomp, chomp I gulp down my drink Gulp, gulp, gulp And now I have the hiccups Hiccup, hiccup, hiccup Oh, no, I'm going to sneeze Achoo Listen up to the sound all around you Listen up, can you use your ears Listen up to the sounds all around you Listen up, tell me what you hear Achoo. [music] Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see some circles spinning down the street. Wheels of cars and buses looking really neat. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I see some orange cones right next to the road, warning there are people busy digging holes. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see cylinders, when it's time to eat. Open up the pantry, to get a can of peas. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a sphere, when I'm playing ball. Pass it on to my friends, this is fun for all. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see a big heart, a big heart on a shelf, wishing love and friendship, happiness, and health. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? I can see many cubes, in my big toy box. Try to build a tower, stacking up my blocks. Shapes are all around us, everywhere we go! Sometimes they are hiding. What shapes do you know? [music] My friend the bear can't cross the lake. Help me build a bridge so we could blow the cake. My friend the fox needs to build a home. Let's dig a hole to keep him safe from the storm. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. All day long! [music] My friend the stork needs to lay her eggs. Let's build a tower to make her nest. My friend the mole is late to the party. Let's dig a tunnel so he can reach his family. Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. [music] Let's build new friendships with this song. You too could come along. Let's build the roads to meet our friends and play all day long. All day long! [music] I'm just an F I say /f/ And I'm an L And I say /l/ Come over to my letter Let's put ourselves together There's so much that we can spell We can fly a flag on a flagpole We can flip, and we can flop We can even spell flamingo And we don't forget to floss So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Hey, I'm a C, And I say /k/ And I'm an R, I say /r/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together And we can go so far We'll create some crafts with crayons We can crash, and we can crush We can make a crab crawl crazy And we can crunch a crispy crust Yum Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend ourselves together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together I'm just an S And I say /s/ And I'm a P I say /p/ Come over to my letter Let's put our sounds together There's so much that we can be We can make spinach and spaghetti Oh, yeah We can travel up to space We can splash all day in the sprinkler And we can sprint to the end of the race So let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together Let's spell Come over to my letter Let's spell We can blend our sounds together Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Counting from 20 is as easy as the ABCs. So get ready to have fun And sing along with me! 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. [music] Would you like a photo, sir? A little to the left, too far. To the right, more to the right. Not too much. Left, left. There. Now go up a bit. Up. Oops, too high. Down, down, down. Not so much. Up. That's it. Left, up, right, down. Up, right, right. [background music] Left, right, up, up. Left, right, left, down, down, down. Left, right, left, right, left. Oops. [laughing] Left, up, down, right, Left, right, left, right, Up, up, left, right, left, [whistling] -To the right, right, left, right, right, right, left, left, right, right. Up, up, up, up, Left, left, right, right, right, right. Up, up, up, up, Left, left, right, right, [music] Code Masters! Code Masters! If you talk to your computer, you communicate in code. It's no secret - ask a coder! Applications do what they're told. Let's start to code, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Because we are, Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Code Masters! Sometimes, in the world of coding, errors called bugs slow you down, that's when you have trouble loading, the code you worked so hard on! Stay in the loop, now! One o one, yeah! It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I. the digits flow. Different kinds of coding language, make up lots of games you see, working as a complete package, like C# or C++. It's time to develop a program. It's fun, yes, you will know. Algorithms got the rhythm. With A.I., the digits flow. Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! Because we are Code Masters! [music] Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. His fur is orange like the sunset, with long black stripes all over it. His teeth shine bright like the moonlight, When he's about to take a big bite. [music] - Hey, Tiger. - What, Cowy? - Are you ready? - Ready for what? - Ready for a New Year. Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. He has four big paws. And gives the greatest hugs. His claws are very long. He sharpens them to keep them strong. The jungle is his home. Let's protect it as our own. We've got to take care of tiger. Because together we shine brighter. Here comes my friend the tiger. We are best friends forever. His roar is mighty thunder. Scares away the danger. We are best friends forever. [music] One. Two. Three. Four. Five. One, two, three, four, five. One, two, three, four, five! [music] A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. A-E-I-O-U are vowels. Learn the sounds today, make a word tomorrow. Tomorrow, tomorrow. A-E-I-O-U That's how words come true. A says a like a in cat. E says e e in bed. Cat, bed, cat, bed, cat, bed. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. I says i i in pig. O says o o in box. Pig, box, pig, box, pig, box. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. U says u u in run. A-E-I, oh vowels are fun. Vowels. A-E-I-O-U. That's how words come true. A-E-I-O-U. Vowels are here for you. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Get up early and go to school. Thursday and Friday too The days of the week! Doo doo doo Saturday and Sunday, Won't you please come and play? Saturday and Sunday, It's the weekend! Doo doo doo Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Now we start again. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Get up early and go to school. Thursday and Friday too The days of the week! Doo doo doo Saturday and Sunday, Won't you please come and play? Saturday and Sunday, It's the weekend! Doo doo doo Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Now you know the days of the week. [music] Pick up the paper, put it in, Pick up the paper, in the recycling bin. Pick up the food put it in, Pick up the food in the compost bin. Pick it up, Put it in, put it in. Pick it up, pick it up. Put it in. Pick up the plastic put it in, Pick up the plastic in the recycling bin. Pick up the glass put it in, Pick up the glass in the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. In the recycling bin. [music] Get out of bed. Pull up the sheets. Go to the kitchen. And take a seat. But if you've just run out of your favorite food, why don't you try something new? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Look in your closet and find a shirt. Put on your pants or grab a skirt. But if you just can't get your shoes to tie, give it another try. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Let's go potty, try just in case. Look in the mirror and wash your face. But if your hair is looking kind of wild, why don't you try another style? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Zip up your jacket and grab your lunch. Put on your backpack, then give big hugs! But if it's raining outside and it's getting on your head, wear something else instead. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way.