- [Woman] A massive leak, records, is shedding light through the global financial system. - [Man] These types of offshore entities have been used for decades. - [Man] Involvement with or authoritarian regimes - [Narrator] Over the international banks have been One name embodies the excesses HSBC. - No matter where you of business you are in, the offshore system, HSBC - [Narrator] From Geneva to Paris, this financial network to move dirty - HSBC is considered one of the best money laundering institutions globally. - [Narrator] From tax for the mafia and manipulation its hands in a variety - Affiliates of drug cartels into bank branches with sometimes millions, of dollars of US cash. - We are here today to announce the filing of criminal charges against HSBC bank. - This bank had done everything bad that a bank can possibly do. - [Narrator] Often pursued - How many billions of dollars do you have to launder for drug lords before somebody says, we're shutting you down. - [Narrator] HSBC enjoys and continues to earn more profits. - Normally this bank would they would have lost - [Narrator] From London, HSBC bankers have rendered governments powerless. - I'm responsible for cleaning it up. - Do banks still get away They do, it's capitalism and the big banks hold a lot of sway. - [Narrator] HSBC stands for Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. In Hong Kong, it is It's here that HSBC was born and where it makes the bulk of its profits. Hong Kong is the new El Every year, this city of billions of Euros accumulated - Hong Kong probably is who understands China You want to trade in in China, it's not an But we because the fact that culturally we're so close wants or what China businessmen We are specialized middlemen in dealing with China if you like. At the same time I think doesn't understand how And so if I'm a rich in the world, probably the my friends in Hong Kong and - [Narrator] Hong Kong shift of wealth from the West to Asia and HSBC benefits from It is the most Chinese or the most European of Chinese banks. - People in China when they immediately get comfortable What you often see is bank branch with a basket full of cash. That's early days. It's not a secret but it happened. - Seeing the changes going country to now a semi most countries in the being there is like living And so HSBC is part of that. I have been with HSBC honestly say HSBC has in Hong Kong that you see in Hong Kong, all of them, - [Narrator] Hong Kong is For new Chinese billionaires it serves as a hub to invest their fortunes. To the rest of the world, of top of the line financial services. - This place is likely to This is a highly secretive jurisdiction but it's also a huge Obviously with such a on it's a very big That combination of scale of secrecy makes it one and in our opinion, one to the global financial markets. It's very easy sitting your counterparts in BVI you create a company for us You'll have it within 24 hours. - [Narrator] In April 2016, a handful of investigative journalists 11 million confidential the operations of a law office This became the Panama Papers scandal. - [Man] The size of the Panama Papers leak is bigger than anything you've seen. - [Narrator] From this black two key players emerge, - We knew this was a major and for companies who the secrecy that the So, I or one of my colleagues Papers database with the term of results, thousands of documents, thousands of Word documents, that in some way were in this offshore system. - Hong Kong has traditionally eye to where money might be coming from. Panama Papers in Hong Kong, than almost everywhere the largest volume of created by Hong Kong people. And in the middle of this or treasury is one of which is, that was the established, to do exactly - [Narrator] Hong Kong a safe haven with two faces. One is represented by that finance individuals and businesses. The other is invisible to launder money from crime, - It is interesting that and I know, that we might on the way to work, or the like a world away from the and whose clients emerge Certainly we saw an residents, businessmen and family members associated party figures who appeared often used Hong Kong as a They're not the kind of Tuesday morning to draw a - I just shake my head Hong Kong doesn't have currency If you can get the money up an 18 wheel truck nobody's gonna ask you to declare that. - [Narrator] As a former within the money laundering Bill Majcher is now working He tracks the flow of illegal - The two largest acts I'm aware of in Hong Kong in lead to the conviction of a woman who laundered in It's a huge amount for a to be coming in all the time in physical cash and shortly of note who brought in $13 a high school dropout a truck across the border with about 50 million. How can that much money move but the strawmen, the dumbest - Sure, 40 years ago, the Wild West but we've don't think that it would be is a tax haven country I don't have an idea of how much money is going out of China. We don't keep track of in Hong Kong whether it's from India, from Singapore, been the case and that will - [Narrator] Laura Cha is the She also embodies the obscurity Close to the Chinese leaders as a stock market control Kong government while - [Interviewer] What was the impact of the Panama Papers in Hong Kong? - It was an item, a I don't think anybody was talking about the Panama Papers anymore. - [Interviewer] Today It's rather immoral to have tax evasion. - There's no problem to incorporate BVI or companies and some of these - [Interviewer] And there's no problem? - It's no problem. - [Narrator] In Hong The favored bank of the by the highest authorities. It has always been one of - HSBC is so much part of and you know a lot of people People don't think twice about it. It really is very much part of life. Maybe that's the success of HSBC. - [Narrator] The history of HSBC is deeply linked to the history of Hong Kong. The bank and the former the same moment more than 150 years ago. At the time, the British the Chinese market that The first settlers chose Kong as the base for their - It was a place known for known for prostitution, had to be careful about investing. Back in the UK, or England, people sang in pubs called I don't want to go there, right, so you go there for me instead. - [Narrator] The British destined for the Chinese market. Given the success of the drug, the emperor burned the cargo of the traffickers. London sends in its military fleet and triggers the Opium War. The Chinese capitulate possession of Hong Kong for 99 years. - The British were controlling where opium was grown realized that opium was and they realized that they So before opium really took was in the favor of the Chinese. Once opium becomes such a of trade actually goes - [Narrator] The opium and the settlers need a the Hong Kong and Shanghai The most notorious mostly Scottish, sit on the - I would say that HSBC by opium traders but was happened to be involved in opium. - It's often been said of its culture has derived origins by which really what way of saying that they tend after their money and also The sort of classic These were practical men, indeed it was a bit like a, had its own code, its own culture. Looked at the outside world - [Narrator] In Hong It prints the local currency, finances the construction of the city, and serves the interests of Her - There were three or quite small place and one as appointed by the British the chair of the jockey for the horse racing but always the chairman of HSBC. HSBC were always right there at the top. - Hong Kong continues source of earnings and If Hong Kong does well, HSBC does well. If HSBC does well, Hong Kong does well. - [Narrator] HSBC has Formerly the bank of pirates, it continues to function on the dark side of finance. The only difference is it no longer operates only in Hong Kong. The bank has become a global empire. HSBC nearly shut down. The fate of the bank was played 2012, four years after the - We are here today to announce the filing of criminal charges against and systemic failure to of our financial system and other criminals and for - [Narrator] The minister of laundering the money of cartels that control the Nearly one billion Euros were said to have passed through its being recycled into the US economy. - Affiliates of drug cartels into bank branches with sometimes millions of and putting it through the in boxes that were through the teller window took it, they deposited it, and never reported the And that didn't happen once, happened systematically over There was one occasion, the bank with maybe three and bank employees spent So that's just a few million. Imagine that multiplied and that's what 881 million represents. - [Narrator] The Not only have bank employees criminal organizations responsible but their managers ignored - The bank had been warned by US authorities and They also were told that lords that said that HSBC was Well, London knew everything. And they just didn't care. - [Narrator] The accusations are serious. The bank risks losing its The case may precipitate that employs 300,000 and manages a sum of three If HSBC were a country, it would be the fifth world economic power. Bank leaders traveled to Washington to be auditioned by the Senate. - Please stand, raise your right hand. - [Narrator] HSBC must be rescued. - Do you swear that the to give will be the and nothing but the - I recognize that there have been some significant areas of failure. I have said before and I the best efforts and professionals, HSBC own expectations and the - So they come up before very contrite and they sort of and then the Senate asks more contrite and they and then the thing's over for a minute and then it a settlement either happens or it doesn't. - The group has always its compliance policy a and the spirit of laws and regulations. Not just what is permissible but what is prudent and responsible. - Most of the executives the Senate investigation dodged all of the questions So from that perspective, the reading from the same script director as the senior executives - Thank you for your time, I welcome this opportunity to answer any questions. - We are gonna recess We thank our witnesses. And you are discharged. - [Narrator] The Obama The Department of Justice the Treasury Department HSBC involves the rising the Chancellor of the He writes a letter to his and to the chairman of the in which he defends the HSBC cause. - [Man] Dear Ben, questions to clear US dollars would globally with serious and economic stability I am copying this letter Geithner with whom I have Best wishes, George Osborne. - Finance Minister George political pressure on the US government. George Osborne saw this as a key part of protecting the city of London. Normally this bank would have have lost their license to - Remember in 2012, you've in 2009 so there's a great and it's George Osborne a very powerful global it's going to put the That kind of power says that banks have in the - [Narrator] Two months later, to pressure from George Osborne HSBC escapes trial, its leaders officials of the Department - Look, our goal here is it's not to cause a systemic it's not for people to It's to. - [Reporter] Are they - I wouldn't say it's I'm not gonna say that. I don't think anyone is alleging. - [Narrator] The bank is The equivalent of one month's profits. - For an average person the fine is extraordinary. For the bank that is global in amount of money, the fine At the end of the day, the officers and directors of the company, the fine is paid by the shareholders. So in effect it's a parking ticket given to the wrong people. - Did I feel cheated by No I felt angry at the regulators. I think yes, because - [Interviewer] Come on Allan, this is not the regulator being harsh, things which are abominable. - Listen, when you're dealing in Mexico, for argument's sake, yes money and it was just And money just got transferred I think everyone realizes - [Narrator] HSBC saved its skin. The bank gives rise to a new privilege, namely that of being too big to jail. That is to say, above the law. But the refusal to send bankers to jail triggers the anger of the public. The Department of Treasury - Thank you Mr. Chairman. And thank you all three How many billions of dollars for drug lords and how many have to violate before down a financial institution like this? Mr. Cohen can we start with you? - For our part, we imposed that we had ever imposed on - Let me just move you along My question is, in your of dollars do you have before somebody says - Well, Senator, the actions, can address this issue, the case we thought were - Governor Powell, perhaps - Sure, we don't do criminal of HSBC we gave essentially penalties and we gave very and we did what we have - I'll just say here, if of cocaine, the chances are If it happens repeatedly, for the rest of your life. But evidently, if you launder for drug cartels and sanctions, your company home and sleep in your own bed at night. Every single individual and I just think that's - You could say well, a lot lighter than criminals and my response to that because criminals can't tear - HSBC bought its impunity virtue of being big, they to operate with impunity. - [Narrator] The banksters, made the world's leading the name of so called - You have to ask, if you who the hell are you gonna prosecute? Who has jurisdiction over an institution that operates in 100 countries? Who has the responsibility for taking on that kind of criminal undertaking? - [Narrator] HSBC is It has grown in magnitude and is now as powerful as some states. This is the culmination of a It all began in 1997. Great Britain officially to the People's Republic of China. This marks the end of the Far East after a century - The story of this great city is about the years before this night. And the years of success - [Narrator] The bank the Crown or stay and - HSBC, their principle post 1997 the Chinese the management of HSBC become that the top people be Chinese of British people running HSBC - At that time many that Hong Kong was being abandoned. We felt kind of betrayed, you kind of felt somebody was turning their back. Many people thought this - [Narrator] HSBC decides It moves its headquarters the heart of its business in Hong Kong. China has just opened its borders and promises to be a fabulous market. The priority is to flatter - They described their brief as to create the best bank building in the world. The building was a It was about stability, it was a gesture of the transition of a It was also making a HSBC at that time was have become one of the global players. The full extent of that we - [Narrator] A pioneer of globalization, HSBC intends to spread its Chinese DNA. In the early 2000s, it bank to establish itself in China. Its president, Stephen Green, of capitalism to the leaders - The people in London, they They spend one third, or more in Hong Kong and - [Narrator] While the as the engine of global strategize their position. - Initially we were of China, Shanghai, to raise capital. So, during the process, the president of the Bank of Shanghai ask me We love HSBC to be part So I reported back to Stephen Green and actually Stephen was quite good. Stephen took a flight, with me, had a dinner with the president of Bank of Shanghai. After dinner he came out to say I like this bank and also I trust. Let's do the investment. And of course the payoff was good, too. - [Narrator] HSBC triples its investment and pockets nearly 300 million Euros. The bank extends its by exploiting its own history. Under the dictatorship bank to maintain a presence in China. When the giant woke up, HSBC - It was a terrific to give to say we were And it's always tried hard the American banks and it They come and they go, we It's the Chinese philosophy isn't it? Think long. - [Narrator] Once again, history will accelerate the fate of HSBC. In September 2007, the financial crisis hits the streets of London. - [Man] Totally cynical - [Narrator] Panic seizes Rock and threatens to The British government proposes lending them money as an emergency response. HSBC snubs the meeting and - Being bailed out by the capital by the government has influence on you and you don't have this influence we're fine, we can recapitalize to force us as one told me, your money, we will take You could ask well, isn't It is arrogant but it the bank to signal to a bank, you're a single about the relative power between us. - [Narrator] HSBC bankers friends, Hong Kong fortunes through trade with China. The bank offers to sell them - We knew when the bank was facing some problems, we have to help out. And you know the share the time and for most was why not take a share and those people that - [Interviewer] Did you make - Did I make a lot of money on that deal? I think that yes, normally we don't give out figures but it's a nice profit. - [Narrator] Since that of each share has tripled. As always, HSBC made its shareholders rich but history will remember time Chinese money rescued a British bank. From now on, it is Beijing that holds the reins as the champion - The whole idea of HSBC around the world and so globalization wouldn't You need that framework, that architecture of finance in order to Just think in very in China that wants to trade HSBC is very, very well have bigger operations can follow that whole trade. - [Narrator] Driven by HSBC is taking advantage of the crisis. While its competitors suffer losses, it is crowned at Westminster. Its president Stephen Green - I Stephen, Lord Green swear by almighty God and bear true allegiance to her heirs and successors - [Narrator] The banker preaches the good word he criticizes the influence of money. - Lord Green was himself of society as well as being So he was the acceptable a time when most bankers - [Narrator] Immediately entered the government for Trade and Investment. Prime Minister David Cameron He also dreams of becoming - And I also want you at the same time to sell Britain as a I think with the change we're rather sluggish growth in fast growth from India, from - It was probably a dream of course was at a time and George Osborne the very keen to build up and to China in particular. - [Narrator] The promotion of the pro-Chinese lobby led by The one who saved HSBC from An informal pact unites the two actors. Stephen Green opens the to British companies and is committed to defending and of its former president - George Osborne's fascination simple, it's almost the same as mine. He realizes how important people are to the future of to put the UK right in the And the Chinese appreciated in a really dramatic way and what we call now this golden relationship. Obviously HSBC carries from China so they think China. - [Narrator] Nothing seems to be able to derail the banking giant. Protected by London, blessed as a go between for the two capitals. Who would dare attack it? In Paris, a senior official is waiting for his chance He's gotten his hands on HSBC's of 100,000 customers who These documents were given to him by a former computer scientist of the bank. They reveal in detail that make it possible There's talk of 180 billion Euros, more than the budget - [Man] It's clear that of accounts for the rich and famous. - [Narrator] Swiss Leaks. It's under this name that the scandal and publishes The mafiosi, heads of state, dictators, or ordinary citizens, HSBC offers numbered anonymous turn key shell companies The only condition, customers must deposit at least one million Euros. - [Narrator] Wealth managers operate at the heart of this vast network. They're the special envoys corners of the world responsible and repatriating funds to Switzerland. - [Narrator] HSBC laundering Clandestine operations are reports, archived in - [Man] This customer forbids It is always he who calls us. He comes under the name of a for example, who wants to That is the total amount of his assets. - [Narrator] After the in the United States, the evasion of VIPs was HSBC becomes public enemy number one. Even the Swiss feel obliged to intervene. A raid is organized in - [Narrator] The Swiss judiciary closed the investigation three months later. In exchange for its customers, HSBC is fined 40 million Euros. After the fine imposed by the Americans, the Swiss settled for chump change. - There will be no lawsuit against HSBC. Nor the bankers at the court of law. In France and in Belgium, for example, ministers of justice prefer to negotiate. As for the Parisian official to the fire, he is dismissed - [Narrator] HSBC was saved once again. The bank is no longer it's influence goes beyond and guarantees it complete impunity. The only concession, the former president Stephen Green disappears from the picture. - You know when you - No comment. - Your bankers were Why did you let them do that? - As I think I've explained, any comments on HSBC's business - I know, but you sort of - [Narrator] The former model finance and morality, is - After all that had gone promoted to the government, - You need to talk to HSBC, I'm sorry. - One word, sir. Any word? Anything you can say that No word. - Reverend Stephen Green, a pillar of the UK establishment. I met him a couple of times me the impression of a in the limelight, prefers Slightly a manipulator, maybe even Machiavellian in his character. - How much did you know about the secret bank accounts at HSBC? I think the country not simply the people in this church. - Lord Green had presided over HSBC when they had acquired the Swiss branch. He knew all that and what about Lord Green was of appointed by David Cameron I thought this was absolutely he should come and give account but this is one of the few - [Narrator] The matter is political. Stephen Green, the can bring down David Cameron's government. - Does the prime minister Stephen Green's three years a conversation with him about - My responsibility is country and no one has been tougher. This government has been tougher than any previous government. That's why they're desperate, - [Narrator] Some parliamentarians refused to bury the case and prosecute the bank. But no investigation by the tax authorities, The elected officials will have to content themselves with hearing And it's the turn of the to begin the series of auditions. - So, I have made substantial we'll get the chance - [Narrator] Three years scenario with the same script - I'd like to put on the myself and from Douglas that took place at our the mid 2000s which is to make to you all, to shareholders, to the public at large. - You do understand how this looks today? - [Narrator] The example The manger himself received in Switzerland, managed by a - He had family here, he his children here, he worked and yet because he claimed in Hong Kong, he didn't pay British tax. And when we asked him why don't you pay the proper tax, his reply He said he didn't want other people in the bank to know how much he earned. - So, it was set up for reasons of privacy and no nefarious reasons whatsoever. - How much did you put - Seven and a half million US dollars. - Stuart Gulliver was one of the best paid investment bankers in the world. I think that tells you that - Mr. Gulliver, we'll get give a straight answer Do you agree with me, it's caused reputational damage to the bank? - Yes. - [MP] Are you the appropriate to remain as the Chief - I believe I am because my - [Interviewer] He said the question was so aggressive? - Yeah, it just shows you of his generation who grew in the pre-crisis world When they are face to face sometimes get exposed for - [Interviewer] Has Gulliver changed? - I don't think Stuart Gulliver - [Narrator] HSBC and its The largest employer of the British economy, the At the time of the first scandal, it could count on the conservative daily Its editor in chief resigns and publicly denounces the influence of HSBC. - [Man] The Telegraph's recent to a form of fraud on its readers. It has been placing the interests of a major is duty to bring the news There is only one word to - [Narrator] HSBC is It threatens to free itself and to repatriate its Its protector, George Osborne, is still Chancellor of the Exchequer. And in addition to granting to fire Martin Wheatley, the financial services authority The bank backs down from moving. - One of the ministers once the middle of these hearings, you're doing is putting them And I laughed because I And then I realized he was serious. - [Narrator] The Swiss Leaks scandal was the last chance to The authorities preferred to delegate to the bank the power to control itself. It has since recruited 9,000 suspicious transactions and Case closed. The banksters say that they've changed. - I've been involved in financial market regulation for decades. I've heard this, ah, that was in the past, that was 10 years ago. Now 10 years ago, I heard HSBC And yet scandals that their claims 10 years ago were hollow. At this stage, I don't believe it. I do not believe that - People talk about it as you can't change direction very easily. - Are we capable of Of course we are. Do we want to is the really - [Narrator] The British It has other priorities. And HSBC has other ambitions. China needs its services. Beijing wants to set out - [Interviewer] Could might become the main shareholder of HSBC? - Yes. I would be surprised if are not holding HSBC's shares today. They probably already. - Fire. - Fire. (band music) - [Narrator] At the end President Xi Jinping arrives in London. The United Kingdom unrolls the Sino British friendship - Your visit to the United in this unprecedented year between the United Kingdom the ties between our two to take them to ambitious new heights. - [Narrator] This new the base of Chinese investments in Europe. And HSBC the armed wing of Beijing to acquire high tech Western technology. The bank marks a great the signing of the nuclear Two of the most modern soil by French engineers the project was financed by China. - [Narrator] This contract of the century is estimated at more - China forced the UK to okay Hinkley. Clearly their arm's strongly by Chinese financial to withdraw significant if the deal doesn't go ahead. The UK has agreed a deal that Essentially this was a political UK's economic ties with China - [Narrator] By yielding the Chinese, the British part of their national sovereignty. And behind the scenes, It advises EDF, defends shareholders, and passes billions of Euros from Beijing through its accounts. - HSBC helps because you in order to facilitate transactions. There's funding agreements, there's bonds, and there's need to be incorporated and that has been HSBC for China. - [Narrator] The nuclear power part of the great Chinese A kind of Marshall Plan trade between Beijing and Construction of roads, is overlooked to promote to increase the strength of - But there's one key problem Nuclear is different other forms of energy, There is no country in the who would allow China into its key nuclear energy infrastructure so it is astonishing that China will be allowed access to this key sensitive network. - [Narrator] The century of China has begun and HSBC changes masters. The former bank of the in the service of Her Majesty, It must help the communist To become in turn a giant The Beijing executives learned a lesson from the financial crisis of 2008. They no longer want to the crazy bets of Wall Street traders. - China is not yet a super for the simple reason that sector and it doesn't have this influence and this And so it is essential to for China to have a its trade and a currency in its investment abroad. - What they really want is isn't so dominant and so in as it is doing an important of Chinese currency, for Chinese involvement - [Narrator] To dethrone must have its currency, the currency of reference Beijing lags behind others. Its currency of the people is virtually unknown in the markets. - HSBC is one of the world's and HSBC has a very strong in Hong Kong as well as London a very natural bridge - [Narrator] HSBC is the first born bank to convert the Chinese currency. The great works of the serve as a Trojan horse on the international scene. HSBC is making its next move to become the pipeline of Chinese 40 years after the oil it's the billions coming the city's mouth water. And it's the finance minister, best friend, who is still - More trade, more more business and more jobs for Britain. - [Narrator] The minister a regulation to accommodate It is the last stage of opens the doors of a financial world led by Beijing. - Chinese money is the within the global financial system. We have a sense of how be out there, we have a leaving China, but we've of that from Swiss Leaks - There's a massive amount to make the financial system And when I say robust, to withstand the movement of capital. So capital in and capital And the government doesn't and regulate and that is and that could lead to - As you have firms of of HSBC marrying up with are now so huge it's a recipe - [Narrator] 10 years after the crisis, financial stability is an illusion. By helping China become HSBC has created a new threat. So far, Beijing has its financial crises within its borders. But today the banksters have And with the first spark the West and in the face of it is again the people