Today's video is sponsored by the Daily business and finance newsletter. Visit the link in the description to learn In 1925, Victor Lustig was staying in Paris the expense associated with maintaining the The tower had originally been built as the originally only had a permit for it to stand It was supposed to have been dismantled in be quickly taken apart), but the tower had By 1925 the monument had fallen into disrepair, to maintain. The news article that Lustig read suggested move towards calls for its removal. This sparked the idea in Lustig's mind that con. Lustig set to work first hiring a forger to and then invited a group of scrap metal dealers He introduced himself as the Deputy Director-General He explained to the men that due to the high selling the tower for scrap, but that the outcry. Lustig explained that he was in charge of buy and dismantle the structure and that the of their reputations as &quot;honest businessmen&quot;. The government had made this decision, he costs and due to the simple fact that the fit in with the city's other great monuments. Lustig found his mark in Andre Poisson--who to rise in the Parisian business community. Lustig arranged a private second meeting separately low government salary, he might chose Poison Poisson paid the bribe and Lustig fled to Lustig wasn't quite yet done though, as to notify the authorities of what had happened from Austria. When the story didn't turn up in the press, the con. On the second attempt, with a new group of the police. Lustig fled to the U.S. to avoid being arrested. In the US Lustig continued with his career violent mobster Al Capone. Lustig asked Capone to invest $50,000 in a for two months and then returned it to Capone, Capone decided that he was dealing with an When Lustig explained that the deal falling to support himself. Capone gave him $5,000 to &quot;tide himself over&quot;, Lustig is alleged to have written a list of get to shortly, but in a nutshell con artists businesses like Wirecard, Theranos and FTX that the people and businesses we deal with and processes in place to make sure that we In the book Lying for money, Dan Davies explains that we don't have to spend all of our time He points out that most deceptions could be nobody actually wants to spend all of their too many facts. It might appear to make as much sense for applying for a loan as it does for the buyer of the cow before each purchase. Big frauds work because they exploit our beliefs do things the right way. A big difference is that big frauds often while a farmer who sells bad milk is in a If he sells a bad product to a customer once, buy from him the next day. Elizabeth Holmes was held up as an example Forbes as the youngest self-made female billionaire Holmes, through her company Theranos, promised but it turned out that Holmes was just another sell investors on an idea that experts in work. Phyllis Gardner, a professor of medicine at freshman year of college described how Elizabeth Gardner said, 'Elizabeth, that's a fun idea, She says that Elizabeth didn't really want She instead aligned herself with very powerful Those powerful men could influence people the department of defense. Instead of studying the scientific literature research on human behavior that showed how could command respect and approval. Her uniform of a black turtleneck evoked the of authority and eccentricity. She modeled herself on Steve Jobs, studied blood nanotainer out of her pocket the same Holmes lied about her machine working and millions of dollars of investment in Theranos This included falsely claiming the tests had was being used by the US military. Many patients will have been harmed by her blood test results upon which medical decisions Part of what made Theranos stand out to investors for the board of directors. They had notable figures from the worlds of expertise in science, medicine or blood testing. Elizabeth's story played well in Silicon with a vision of changing the world doesn't professionals or scientists. So, a big part of her trick was crafting a her target investor audience. Now, before our next example, let me tell - The Daily Upside. If you find yourself sifting through multiple news, the Daily Upside might be the solution The Daily Upside is a totally free daily email professionals with real industry experience every day. It's become the first thing I read every and not dumbed down. They give you the most important news with They had an excellent piece a few days ago their real estate investments which I used Whether you are a financial professional or news, the daily upside will help. It is totally free to sign up and they send I can't recommend it enough. Sign up using the link in the description The FT journalist Dan McCrum who uncovered an unusual example of investment fraud in actual facts of the business. In 2015 an investigator tried to visit a number world. In Laos she found nothing at all, in Vietnam a school lunchroom; furnished with a picnic She says that she went half mad looking for dirt roads, as it became increasingly obvious business. When her report was presented to Wirecard offices, the investors rejected the report. It couldn't be true! Wirecard was run by reputable people, audited lying? A French fund manager at the event asked his office, he reported back that all was well McCrum describes in his book Money Men that They didn't want to believe that they had Things like social proof and deference to and a well-known accounting firm, turned out Wirecard is "a technology company with a told investors, one using artificial intelligence He waved a wand of innovation to describe as something truly extraordinary. As the share price rose, so did Braun's future cashless society. Who were these investigators to suggest that in 40 countries, were too good to be true? Wirecard was even able to convince the German investigate critics of the company on three as a signal of support. BaFin even suspended short selling of the markets." It is possibly always a red flag when company sellers. Wirecard was one of the best performing German Those who had invested early and made a lot Who would dare to claim that these leading CEO. The kind of person who was driving around to be a fraud and was just spreading FUD. In lying for money, Dan Davies describes what Canada is a high-trust society and Canadians with are honest, that laws are fair, that They believe that the strangers they meet However, Canada is infamous for financial as the "scam capital of the world" by Surprisingly, in low-trust societies, there business deals on a handshake - but only So why does Canada have so much financial deal with it? And why do Canadians still trust each other, The answer appears to be that Canada has financial people - attract fraudsters). But the fact that it is a high trust society can thrive in Canada because Canadians are down by only dealing with people that they happens in low trust societies. A person who always thinks they are being invest in anything. The take-away from the "Canadian Paradox" of fraud in a society, and it's not zero, from doing business in a trusting way (even to engage in any business dealings as you Nonetheless, be careful in Canada... When you look at enough examples you can see take advantage of situations where people where they feel that it's reasonable to With a big fraud like the Chinese forestry one of the world's shrewdest hedge fund its shares had already been trading for 15 It had all the appearances of respectability to travel to China to see if its woodlands They mostly didn't... So, why do people fall for scams? Well, self-confidence is often a big factor People who believe they are too smart or too to become victims. People also make bad decisions when they become brains shut down. Innovative businesses that investors fall overlooked problems than businesses in duller Strong feelings of fear, anger, and greed wouldn't make at other times. Con artists and frauds excel in using social If you are investing in a business because how it will change the world, maybe it is analysis. The world watched in awe a few weeks ago as and his cryptocurrency exchange FTX. Over a few days, SBF went from one of the boy of the biggest crypto collapse to date. On the surface, FTX appeared to be thriving acquisitions and bailed out other failing SBF was on billboards around the world, and told you what a great firm it was. In reality, it was drowning in debt and hidden One negative tweet from a competitor was enough customer funds to vaporise. Bankman-Fried was everywhere you looked over He was the subject of countless profiles; He was the New Warren Buffett and the millennial The media portrayed him as an unassuming, ways, his messy hair, his sloppy T-shirts Investors loved that he wasn't a buttoned-up pitch meetings, and like other modern-day proof of his distinct genius. Temasek, not the most exciting VC investor, with FTX. They mention how their exposure was a small due diligence which took approximately 8 months, because their stake was so small. Sequoia, when it lost $214 million, also mentioned thorough due diligence". A week later they apologized to their investors using the Big 4 accounting firms to audit Sure Temasek didn't request a Board seat, did they notice that there was no Board at Or did they work out how exactly Alameda, Sequoia seemed to be aware of a number of on their own website with a positive spin. They figured the fact that SBF played videogames was good at multitasking. Buying up huge swathes of luxury real estate partners and their families to live in isn't institution worth over $30 billion dollars that would have showed up in eight months Using an auditor with an office in the metaverse... well... I don't know what to tell you... The problems with FTX were not just fraud, should have stood out to investors too. Perhaps the investors felt that because Sam driving a budget car and dressed like an unruly them off. Perhaps his claims to be saving the world A guy who cares so much about humanity wouldn't Sam, just like Victor Lustig, Elizabeth Holmes present himself such that he would be trusted. It is not even obvious today that he feels He keeps saying how embarrassed he feels, So what were Victor Lustigs Ten Commandments Maybe they will help us to spot frauds. 2 Never look bored. 3 Wait for the other person to reveal political 4 Let the other person reveal religious views 5 Hint at sex talk, but don't follow it up 6 Never discuss illness, unless some special 7 Never pry into a person's personal circumstances 8 Never boast - just let your importance 9 Never be untidy. Well I guess Sam got to break that one... I'm not sure that looking out for those Most of them are just ways of blending in Maybe for businesses you should look out for should be - like Wirecard. A dull business in something like manufacturing ideas like AI. Maybe a celebrity CEO like Elizabeth Holmes Or maybe a CEO Like SBF who claims to care interests, or a leader who feels that the I'd love to hear your suggestions of red below. If you're looking for a good finance book for someone else, you should check out my Don't forget to check out our sponsor The video description, it's a great newsletter Talk to you soon, bye.