What is document control numbering? Why is it required and how do We're going to dive into that and more. Hi there. My name is Josh. I have over 10 years of I'm also the founder of Technical professionals or soon to-be technical important component of document control, Before we dive into all that to our channel and that way you. Any of our future videos about go ahead and get started. Document control numbering is a use that allows you to create store in manner, is one component of a holistic to ensure that documents are created. Reviewed, modified, issued, to approved procedures and standards. Before getting into the details, let's that will help us understand the concept. We use names to uniquely identify people. Sometimes multiple individuals have identified by unique physical features We use street addresses to uniquely property, and we use file names and work on in our homes and offices. This system works well If we needed to track hundreds or even of books are published every year. Take a look at any book around you and ISBN stands for International Each ISBN number has 13 digits. Divide into five segments that Language publisher. In addition of the book, ISBNs scanned by barcode reader, and this stock control much easier than if The example of books is quite similar especially in large organizations. Hundreds and even thousands of day without a proper system In. It wouldn't be possible to Before we get into further detail systems, let's first discuss document Document control refers to the profession document management standards are followed Issuance distribution and accessibility. Document control procedures ensure organizational documents is accurate and that the proper process for And document control procedures ensure are removed and document control also. Auditable records of document It's important to know that several departments, often many has sometimes many employees who And each day, hundreds of documents distributed, stored, and accessed. And this needs to happen in a correct. If a document numbering system is in how to name documents that are related to how to store them and how to access them. And this does not apply only to versions of the same type of document multiple versions of the same document, keep a record of how the document was. And changed over time. Each time the document is revised, a you to identify the latest version of drafts and final approved versions of helpful in collaborative environments. Where a number of different contributors document, and it's important to track document the reviewing process and version documents such as policies, procedures, these documents are reviewed and updated to know which version is currently. Or which version was enforced and to consider what a document Let's take the case of a company with hr, finance, accounts, engineering So normal looking company here, number would indicate the company of the company name, such as a. And that could stand for Apple. The second part of the document number location such as NYC for New York City. And the third part of the document or division, for example, HR for IT for the information And so on. And the fourth part of the document document, for example, so P for standard The fifth part of the document number For example, AP for accounts payable In the sixth part of the document number would be a sequential number for each p. The final part of the document number and use a revision number such as for the second version, and so on. The following is a sequence of steps control numbering in your organization. You wanna identify your requirements. The most important thing to consider numbering system are your requirements. The system that you use could be a quite simple, but it has to satisfy You also wanna develop a document So once you have identified step is to develop a system or The structure could be something like the earlier, or it could be different. Again, the document numbers would depend on your department and organizational implement the document control system. So document control numbers are one aspect that you would deploy for your organiz. Other aspects of document management for document creation, storage, You also have electronic So our edms, most organizations document management systems and setting Would include selecting one of these then configuring it to use a document You also wanna train employees on systems are set up, your staff for and understand the document control Your training strategy could consist few refresher sessions when required. You can also include the essentials And the respective employee handbooks And this would enable the employees to information easily whenever they need to. You should also test the So once a system is set up and training on it, you can then test it from the beginning and it should work. Now, often in the beginning, every hiccups as people learn how to. But one of the benefits of the test works and what doesn't and what changes function smoothly in the long term. You should also review and update on the observations and feedback You can make the required changes and changes, and this won't be the only Learning is an ongoing process. What time new requirements will changes might be required. You'll need to update the document the numbering systems when new And there you have it. We just went over what is Why is it required and And if you feel like you learned a better understanding of what document to go ahead and like the video and keep up with everything technical And if you have any questions, make below the video and I'll go ahead and Take care. Cheers.