Translator: Joseph Geni Thank you very much. I moved to America 12 years ago Actually, truthfully, we moved (Laughter) thinking we were moving (Laughter) It's a short plane ride (Laughter) I got here 12 years ago, and when I got here, like, &quot;Americans don't get irony.&quot; (Laughter) Have you come across this idea? It's not true. I've traveled the whole length I have found no evidence It's one of those cultural myths, like, &quot;The British are reserved.&quot; (Laughter) I don't know why people think this. We've invaded every country (Laughter) But it's not true Americans but I just want you to know are saying about you behind your back. You know, so when you leave people say, thankfully, (Laughter) But I knew that Americans get irony when I came across that legislation, (Laughter) Because whoever thought (Laughter) Don't they? (Applause) Because it's leaving Now I can see that's not a very attractive &quot;Millions of Children Left Behind.&quot; I can see that. What's the plan? We propose to leave and here's how it's going to work. And it's working beautifully. (Laughter) In some parts of the country, 60 percent of kids drop out In the Native American communities, it's 80 percent of kids. If we halved that number, one estimate is it would create over 10 years, From an economic point of view, this is good math, isn't it, It actually costs an enormous amount to mop up the damage But the dropout crisis What it doesn't count but being disengaged who don't get any real benefit from it. And the reason is not America spends more money on education Class sizes are smaller And there are hundreds to try and improve education. The trouble is, it's all going There are three principles and they are contradicted under which most teachers have to labor and most students have to endure. The first is this, that human beings Can I ask you, how many of you Okay. Or grandchildren. How about two children or more? Right. And the rest of you (Laughter) Small people wandering about. (Laughter) I will make you a bet, and I am confident If you've got two children or more, I bet you they are completely Aren't they? (Applause) You would never confuse them, would you? Like, &quot;Which one are you? Remind me.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Your mother and I need so we don't get confused.&quot; Education under &quot;No Child Left Behind&quot; is based on not diversity but conformity. What schools are encouraged what kids can do across One of the effects has been to narrow the focus They're very important. I'm not here to argue On the contrary, they're necessary A real education has to give equal weight to the arts, the humanities, An awful lot of kids, sorry, thank you -- (Applause) One estimate in America currently getting on that way, are being diagnosed under the broad title ADHD. I'm not saying there's no such thing. I just don't believe If you sit kids down, hour after hour, doing low-grade clerical work, don't be surprised if they start (Laughter) (Applause) Children are not, for the most part, They're suffering from childhood. (Laughter) And I know this because I went through the whole thing. Kids prosper best with a broad curriculum not just a small range of them. And by the way, the arts because they improve math scores. They're important because they speak which are otherwise untouched. The second, thank you -- (Applause) The second principle is curiosity. If you can light the spark they will learn without any further Children are natural learners. It's a real achievement or to stifle it. Curiosity is the engine of achievement. Now the reason I say this is because one of the effects if I can say so, has been to de-professionalize teachers. There is no system in the world that is better than its teachers. Teachers are the lifeblood But teaching is a creative profession. Teaching, properly conceived, You know, you're not there just Great teachers do that, but what great teachers also do is mentor, stimulate, provoke, engage. You see, in the end, If there's no learning going on, And people can spend an awful lot of time discussing education The whole point of education An old friend of mine -- (Laughter) That's as old as it gets, I'm afraid. (Laughter) But a wonderful guy he was, He used to talk about the difference between the task You can be engaged but not really be (Laughter) It's a very good example. There he is. He's dieting. Is he losing any weight? Not really. (Laughter) Teaching is a word like that. You can say, &quot;There's Deborah, But if nobody's learning anything, she may be engaged in the task of teaching The role of a teacher That's it. And part of the problem is, I think, that the dominant culture on not teaching and learning, but testing. Now, testing is important. Standardized tests have a place. But they should not be They should be diagnostic. (Applause) If I go for a medical examination, I do. I want to know compared to everybody else's I don't want to be told on some scale (Laughter) &quot;Your cholesterol &quot;Really?&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Is that good?&quot; &quot;We don't know.&quot; (Laughter) But all that should support learning. It shouldn't obstruct it, So in place of curiosity, Our children and teachers are encouraged rather than to excite that power And the third principle is this: It's why we all have different resumes. We create our lives, and we can recreate them It's the common currency It's why human culture I mean, other animals may well have but it's not so much I mean, you may have a dog. And your dog may get depressed. You know, but it doesn't listen (Laughter) And sit staring out the window (Laughter) &quot;Would you like to come for a walk?&quot; &quot;No, I'm fine.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;You go. I'll wait. But take pictures.&quot; (Laughter) We all create our own lives of imagining alternatives and one of the roles of education is to awaken and develop Instead, what we have Now, it doesn't have to be that way. It really doesn't. Finland regularly comes out on top Now, we only know because that's all that's being tested. That's one of the problems of the test. They don't look for other things The thing about work in Finland is this: they don't obsess about those disciplines. They have a very broad which includes humanities, Second, there is no standardized I mean, there's a bit, but it's not what gets what keeps them at their desks. The third thing -- with some people from Finland, and somebody from the American system &quot;What do you do And they all looked a bit &quot;Well, we don't have one. Why would you drop out? If people are in trouble, and we help and support them.&quot; Now people always say, &quot;Well, you know, you can't compare No. I think there's a population But you can compare it Many states in America I mean, I've been and I was the only person there. (Laughter) Really. Really. I was asked to lock up when I left. (Laughter) But what all the high-performing is currently what is not evident, sadly, across the systems in America -- I mean, as a whole. One is this: they individualize teaching and learning. They recognize that it's students and the system has to engage them, their curiosity, their individuality, That's how you get them to learn. The second is that they attribute to the teaching profession. They recognize if you don't pick great people to teach constant support Investing in professional It's an investment, and every other country whether it's Australia, Canada, South Korea, Singapore, They know that to be the case. And the third is, they devolve responsibility for getting the job done. You see, there's a big difference here between going into a mode of command That's what happens in some systems. Central or state governments decide, they know best and they're going The trouble is that education in the committee rooms It happens in classrooms and schools, and the people who do it and if you remove their discretion, You have to put it back to the people. (Applause) There is wonderful work But I have to say it's happening in spite of the dominant not because of it. It's like people are sailing And the reason I think is this: that many of the current policies are based on mechanistic It's like education that can be improved and somewhere in the back of the mind is this idea that if we fine-tune it it will all hum along perfectly It won't, and it never did. The point is that education It's a human system. It's about people, people who either do want Every student who drops which is rooted in their own biography. They may find it boring. They may find it irrelevant. They may find that it's at odds with There are trends, I was at a meeting recently they're called alternative These are programs designed They have certain common features. They're very personalized. They have strong support for the teachers, close links with the community and often programs which involve students And they work. What's interesting to me is, (Laughter) You know? And all the evidence if we all did that, there'd be (Applause) (Applause ends) So I think we have to embrace We have to recognize and there are conditions and conditions under which they don't. We are after all organic creatures, and the culture of the school Culture is an organic term, isn't it? Not far from where I live Death Valley is the hottest, and nothing grows there. Nothing grows there Hence, Death Valley. In the winter of 2004, Seven inches of rain fell And in the spring of 2005, The whole floor of Death Valley What it proved is this: that Death Valley isn't dead. It's dormant. Right beneath the surface waiting for the right conditions and with organic systems, life is inevitable. It happens all the time. You take an area, a school, a district, you change the conditions, give people a different set of expectations, you cherish and value the relationships you offer people and to innovate in what they do, and schools that were once Great leaders know that. The real role of leadership and I think it's true the state level, at the school level -- is not and should not be The real role of leadership creating a climate of possibility. And if you do that, people will rise to it and achieve things and couldn't have expected. There's a wonderful quote &quot;There are three sorts Those who are immovable, people who don't get it, or don't want to do anything about it; there are people who are movable, people who see the need for change and are prepared to listen to it; and there are people who move, people who make things happen.&quot; And if we can encourage more people, And if the movement is strong enough, that's, in the best sense And that's what we need. Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause)