Competition. It's a fundamental part of human nature. I was a professional so I've very much seen all the good, When it's done right, it can drive us to incredible feats like when car companies compete or the most efficient solar panels. Those are all examples because even though individual in the long run, the game between them where everyone benefits in the end. But sometimes competition is not so great and can create lose-lose outcomes Take these AI beauty filters, for example. As you can see, they're a very They can salvage almost any picture. They can even make Angelina So they're very handy, especially for influencers who, can transform into the most beautiful But handy doesn't always mean healthy. And I've personally noticed to hate your natural face. And there's growing evidence like body dysmorphia, Nonetheless, these things are now because the nature of the game demands it. The platforms are incentivized because hotter pictures means which means more scrolling And users are incentivized to use them because hotter pictures But this is a trap, because once you start using these things, it's really hard to go back. Plus, you don't even get a competitive because everyone else So influencers are stuck with all the downsides and very little upside. A lose-lose game. A similar kind of trap is playing out but with much worse consequences. You'd think since the internet came along that the increased competition would create a sort of positive spiral, like a race to the top of nuanced, Instead, we're seeing a race to the bottom where even respectable papers into these kind of low-brow Again, this is due to crappy incentives. Today, we no longer just read our news. We interact with it And headlines that trigger are far more likely to go viral So in many ways, news editors as the influencers, where, the more their competitors the more they have to as well. Otherwise, their stories But this is terrible for everybody, because now the media get but also it becomes harder and harder which is a really big problem Now, this process is actually the driving force Plastic pollution, deforestation, antibiotic overuse in farming, arms races, greenhouse gas emissions. These are all a result of poorly designed games be them people, companies into taking strategies and tactics And what's so ridiculous these guys don't even want You know, it's not like want to fill the oceans with plastic or farmers want to worsen But they're all stuck &quot;If I don't use this tactic, I'll get outcompeted So I have to do it, too." This is the mechanism And I know what you're probably No, it's not capitalism. Which, yes, can cause problems, but it can also solve them It's something much deeper. It's a force of misaligned incentives So a few years ago, I retired from poker, in part because I wanted to understand Because it takes many different forms, These are just some of those names. You can see they're a little bit They don't exactly roll off the tongue. And given how insidious and connected it helps to have a more visceral way So this is probably the only time you're going to hear But I want to tell you because allegedly, there was a cult who wanted they were willing to sacrifice And they did this by burning of a God that they believed for this ultimate sacrifice. And the name of this god was Moloch. Bit of a bummer, as stories go. But you can see why it's an apt metaphor, because sometimes we get so lost we lose sight of the bigger picture and sacrifice too much So just like these guys were sacrificing those influencers are sacrificing Those news editors are sacrificing and polluters are sacrificing In all these examples, the short-term incentives they're tempting their players to sacrifice more and more trapping them in a death spiral That's Moloch's trap. The mechanism of unhealthy competition. And the same is now happening We're all aware of the race between companies right now over who can score the most compute, who can get the biggest Well, as more and more companies the greater the pressure for everyone and sacrifice other important stuff This has all the hallmarks Because, like, imagine you're a CEO believes that your team is the best to be able to safely build Well, if you go too slowly, much less cautious teams and deploying their systems So that in turn pushes you And given how many different both within these companies but also completely independent ones, have been warning us this approach is absolutely mad. Plus, almost all AI companies are beholden to satisfying a short-term incentive which, over time, with any benevolent mission. And this wouldn't be a big deal if this was really just toasters But AI, and especially AGI, is set to be a bigger paradigm shift than the agricultural A moment in time so pivotal, it's deserving not something to be reduced of who can score the most I'm not saying I know what the right trade-off but I do know that we'll never find out if we let Moloch dictate it for us. So what can we do? Well, the good news is to escape some of Moloch's traps before. We managed to save with the help of the Montreal Protocol. We managed to reduce the number by 80 percent, with the help of the Strategic Arms So smart regulation but ultimately, it's the players within the game So we need AI leaders to show us that they're not only aware but also the destructive nature that they're currently beholden to. As their technological capabilities they're going to need the godlike wisdom So it doesn't fill me with encouragement when I see a CEO of a very major company &quot;I want people to know That is not the type We need leaders who are willing who are willing to sacrifice for the good of the whole. Now, fortunately, the three leading labs Anthropic recently announced which pledges to only once certain security OpenAI have recently pledged to dedicate 20 percent of their compute And DeepMind have shown of science ahead of commerce, like their development of AlphaFold, which they gave away These are all steps but they are still I mean, most of these they're not even proven actions. So we need a clear way to turn the AI race Perhaps companies can start competing over who can develop A race of who can dedicate Now that would truly flip Competition can be an amazing tool, provided we wield it wisely. And we're going to need to do that because the stakes If we get AI, and especially AGI, wrong, it could lead to unimaginable catastrophe. But if we get it right, it could be our path out that I've mentioned today. And as things get crazier which they're probably going to, it's going to be more important than ever that we remember that it Not any individual CEO or company, So don't hate the players, change the game. (Applause)