In the south of Turkey, hidden from view lies an 80-meter superyacht named Titan. It flies the Bermuda flag but is owned by a Russian oligarch, To avoid seizures linked to sanctions like Alexander, have come here to hide their boats. Local journalist Yasser Antar tracks down In paparazzi mode, he no longer needs to leave to capture them. Russian oligarchs and millionaires came because Turkey didn't want to get involved The yachts arrived here in March or April and anchored in the bays of the region. Dozens of yachts have been seized around the world, including in France, Italy, In Palma de Mallorca, on the initiative and with the support of the FBI, a 78-meter superyacht belonging The oligarchs headed mainly for Turkey. The yacht behind me is the Solaris, It arrived here in March, Nobody knows what will happen. The Solaris, an incredible 140-meter boat, worth over 400 million euros. Its owner, Roman Abramovich, His magnificent yacht almost impossible to approach. The yacht is under constant guard. The hull is made of armored steel. They have the ability by interfering with camera It can target anyone On board the Solaris, there's even a special forces unit who have received military training. Today, yachts are the subject of debate Monaco, the world capital of superyachts. Say no to war in Ukraine! Every year, hundreds in the world dock here. Among the 600 exhibitors and all the gadgets that go with it, such as this pocket submarine Yachts are the subject of debate Monaco, the world capital of superyachts. Every year, hundreds dock here. Among the 600 exhibitors and all the gadgets that go with it, such as this pocket submarine [French spoken audio] Here, professionals In Monaco, the queen of interior design She takes us aboard the Mischief to take a closer look -Thank you. Here we are on a boat We've done a small refit and renovation. We're lucky to be able to visit it The owner has his little bar here, Here, we used There you have it. We had a lot of fun with the owner The cabins are simple. It's an easy boat. These boats all have one thing in common. They are huge consumers of fuel. Every hour, a superyacht and there are 6,000 of them in the world. It's a disproportionate carbon footprint, Away from the sun, a French pioneer of a new technology. The electric yacht, 100 percent eco-friendly boats We've incorporated You can practically tap It's unbreakable. People don't want to show up on boats For his new boat, the Marie-Joseph, full-scale tests His latest edition You are welcome back, my friend. No noise, no smell of fuel oil. Solar energy is revolutionizing He just needs to keep Yes, everybody will talk about it today. With yacht sales booming, Dubai is not the only emerging market The entire Arabian Peninsula The most promising country Left, you're a bit late. In Jeddah, a marina to accommodate up to 100 boats I believe it's going to be at the same time. At this rate, will be cruising the Red Seas each year. In Hong Kong, a Frenchman, Eric Noyel, has been in the yacht business His specialty, To put it simply, faced with a boat as we have shared it with three people, A cost-sharing scheme, Eric is on the lookout This is a crazy boat. It's 65 meters long, I'm trying to contact the owner New technology and new destinations. The world of yachting is doing everything An investigation Saudi Arabia, Particularly King Abdullah City The city has dedicated itself to business Docked in the marina, the Serenity belongs The boat is 72 meters long, Across four decks, and the ultimate home cinema. Today, the yacht is about to set sail. Gregory is scrutinizing Elena, did you check the cabins that I had opened Gregory, a Greek national, He speedily carries out his inspections. Elena, the master bathroom, -The door? -Yes? I take 17 seconds. From the passerelle downtown No detail escapes him, and it's best not to make How many pairs of shoes Three boxes. No, man, I didn't ask you how many boxes. I asked how many pairs of shoes please. Yes, please. -How many? Only one pair for the guest? -My foot is a pair. What you see here, Come here, my son. Please, with the guest, no. I don't want it to come out. You have one, two, three, -Mr. Mohamed left? How the system works is the guest comes, takes off the shoes, -Shoes should be there, man. How are the slippers there In total, around 30 people Masha is one of the crew members. She's Ukrainian. Okay, now I'm going to set up the balcony The master bedroom. A 150 square meter suite We'll check the closet. This is the big closet Usually, I unpack luggage because it's a lot sometimes. Big suitcases with many dresses, Always looking after her passengers, On a yacht like the Serenity, Guests going, for example, for lunch. Before lunch, the guests take a shower, Maria, the guests are out, Nobody can pass here. No officer, no captain, nobody, To not disturb the guests. Far from the luxury Masha shows us her quarters This is the crew corridor This is my cabin. In general, Do you have a view? Yes, a little bit. Actually, I like the window in the cabin because from my previous experience, It was dark all the time. When you slept during the day, It was night all the time. Everything is in place for departure. The Serenity will be able to set sail. Theodore Pericleous, Okay, guys, cast off on both stations. [Greek spoken audio] Leaving the port The captain is assisted by a Saudi sailor. [Greek spoken audio] It's very tight. Actually, there are places This means the allowance from the keel We are passing at the limits. For this reason, we should pass Mr. Pilot here as his job is particularly in this area. Okay, perfect. Thank you very much, Captain. Thank you, and be in touch. Thank you very much for everything. -Bon voyage Mission accomplished. The Serenity is now sailing the open seas. Destination, Jeddah, The trip will last only five hours, but sailing in the Red Sea Don't forget that two days ago in Aramco's storage here in Jeddah. This means it is kind of dangerous because, let's say, they can face a dangerous situation. Faced with no choice, Before leaving, he filled up the tanks On the Cote d'Azur, Megayachts are fuel hogs, Surprisingly, yachting may find its future Gdansk, and the birthplace led by Lech Walesa, responsible Thirty years later, Gdansk is experimenting that's revolutionizing the sector, At the forefront is Francis Lapp, a Frenchman who left Alsace In Poland, and started building yachts 19 years ago. Twenty years ago, Francis Lapp's story is one of success. Orders are pouring in at his shipyard. Thirty-six ships are under construction Their primary selling point, clean energy People don't want to show up on boats It's not very ecological. Even children say to their parents, When you're in a beautiful bay and a diesel generator that runs all day, That's what is happening today. Once you've used an electric boat, Francis Lapp In order to remain the boss relies heavily This is the boat we're going We're not going to show you -Is it a secret? The strength of Sunreef We develop everything in-house From the hull to the carbon mast, It's all thought out and studied in-house. That's our strength. There aren't many people Francis' son, Stefan, manages To provide clean energy their secret is these unique solar panels. Assembled here by hand, the photovoltaic cells It looks like this, in fact. It's integrated into the boat. Here we have extra flexible panels and which can be integrated In fact, you see, they are very foldable, Francis Lapp takes us His latest innovation, Here's a sneak preview. His latest baby, a 24-meter catamaran. It's to be launched in a week's time. The boat will run solely It's some solar cells We filed a patent on it. In the end, the advantage of these cells they are integrated into the hull. This means that in terms of resistance, you can practically hit it with a hammer, This allows us to recharge our batteries and to move forward ecologically Now we're going to visit I'll go first. Here we are in the heart of the boat. This space is about 85 centimeters, where we have The whole brain of the boat Here we have a huge battery bank. There are three tons We can put in a bit more, but I think that for the use of the boat, The only exception is the boat's generator. Backup energy in case of a lack of sun, The yacht will soon be sailing baptized with the name Marie-Joseph. Why Marie-Joseph? My mother is Marie-Louise I wanted to thank them a little and named the boat Marie-Joseph. For Francis Lapp, estimated at 7 million euros. It's his to keep for his own pleasure, but also to promote A week later, the ship is about to leave for the warm seas. The Marie-Joseph for the United Arab Emirates. Scheduled to be one month, the crossing The boat is due to be in Dubai but things will get more complicated On a completely different continent, A huge megalopolis The city has several ports including Aberdeen, Here, to get to the office, Don't worry, I know the place. Let me tell you how to get there. Eric Noyel has been living in Hong Kong After making a fortune he went into the yacht business. The boat is coming anyway. It was loaded today at the yard. It will arrive here at the end of January, It could be early February, It works, I understand. Thank you, Cedric, see you soon, goodbye. What was that, Eric? This is a person who wants to buy a boat A person I've known for 10 years Well, he likes boating. He's a French entrepreneur He wants to see it He told me In principle, it should be done, Eric offers several services He sells yachts, In other words, he sells shares in boats. Each co-owner shares We have this one for sale at the moment, owned by the same person The Aberdeen Marina Club where there are quite a few The top 20 wealthy people This is my nice office. We became partners which is a world leader in huge boats. For normal people, It's called charter hire. We're going to do a charter in Thailand, That's all we have, the boats for sale. Either we sell new boats, or second-hand boats. At 50, Eric manages a team of 15 employees Hello. -Hello, Adam. Adam, for the record, He's only been with us for a few months This is a reminder. It's an incredible thing. It's a real Picasso When you're in the marine industry, it was a bit of a joke to motivate &quot;We're going to be ambitious This was one of our best sales. It's a 33-meter boat made in Turkey which has a lot of particularities, like an enormous front deck To put it simply, this is a boat, will cost 10 or 12 million. Having bought it in Turkey, we lowered the bill after negotiations As it was shared between three people, Basically, we can say that for two, I like this kind of principle. We offer it for hire to people. It took seven weeks last year, Adam, his best salesman, Eric is on his way to a business meeting. He has to meet a client who is potentially interested Eric sold about 50 of them last year. We have to listen He has two boats, and he personally had a 50. He used to have an Atlantis 50. He's always had boats. At the moment, he has a 70-foot boat. It's a big boat for him already. His family has always had 100-foot boats. When we spoke on the phone last time, to get something bigger, 40 meters maybe. For Eric, this is a great contact. The potential buyer, and comes from a prominent family He knows Eric by word of mouth. We know Eric is an excellent professional so we decided just to have a drink. He likes to know what our priorities are. That's why we're together today. How old is the boat? It was a 2013 Predator 68. -Okay. -Is it cheers? -Cheers. There seems to be a good rapport but Eric is careful He's quite confidential, Definitely, Gilbert that has and will always have boats It's very important that we stay close the problems they encounter with the boats Very cool guy, he's a big... In the end, the deal was not closed, Eric also has a passion He often spends time in Phuket, Thailand. -Thank you very much, all the best. In the United Arab Emirates, particularly in the city of Dubai, Beyond the cliches a green revolution is underway. An hour from the city center, the largest solar park in the world. At the wheel of one of its company cars, Far from the freezing temperatures it was here in the middle of the desert This is where I got the idea integrated into our boats, At a certain point, We started to do tests Today, we have a product that works well I think there is a desire now. I remember 15 years ago Today, speed is really in second It's more the ecological side It's now up to him The Alsatian entrepreneur Every year in March, Dozens of exhibitors come to present their latest productions. An excess of luxury for a clientele Francis Lapp To welcome the public, but there is a slight problem. His boat, -Yes, I recognize you. Yes, I was just asking, -The 80 Sunreef, eco, fully electric. -Sailing. The boat will be in Dubai end of May. -All right. -Anytime you can... He wanted to know Of course, he wants to see and touch it. As the boat is going to be here we gave him the contact, -We'll give him a private tour. It's due to problems after Covid. Everything is late, It's simple. There's an application You press it, and there it is near Oman. It's quite precise. It's sailing at 13.4 knots. It'll be here tomorrow at 14:00 UTC+4. We're in Dubai now, It's in the process of coming into Dubai. Already over a month late, as the demand for clean energy boats Honestly, I didn't know I like catamarans I will see, I will learn. This is our CEO, Francis Lapp. I think it's serious, yes. He wants a second boat, With the business he's in, -The electric side, did he like that too? It's something new, it will be the complete standard A pioneer in the sector for the moment, Francis Lapp is the only one here With everything in place the only thing missing now is the boat. The Marie-Joseph, a highly anticipated, is due to arrive in Dubai in a few days. In the Red Sea, on the other side the Serenity After a smooth crossing, At the helm, I see that the entrance is clear. Can we start proceeding? The Jeddah Marina was opened Restaurants, shops, were not yet fully completed, but the port could already accommodate Like the Valerie, an 85-meter boat The yacht was later seized in Spain. It's the end of Serenity's journey, It was gusting on the port side, It's like every time Yes, of course, adrenaline, exciting. Left, go right again. Bravo, well done, that's good. It was like a small basin here, The guys started putting and dug this marina. I believe it will be the future Once the boat is moored, the captain welcomes -Where is the customer? -The customer. On the upper deck, okay. He's probably on the upper deck. Bridge deck, okay, let's go. His clients today, a wealthy Saudi family -Hi, welcome on board. Yes, I remember. -Daddy, how are you, welcome on board. -Nice to see you again. For the next Formula One Grand Prix, Mohammed and his father want to rent without it even leaving the marina. Where will we relocate the boat? -We'll go there? The wall that's right next -Okay, you want me to be there, right? Okay, you want the bow or the stern there? Whatever, it doesn't matter. We'll have a couple of nice events Today, we have something at night. Tomorrow also, The best thing You cannot get another 70-meter the number of cabins and rooms. Prioritize properly. Number one is the crew and the captain. Yes, now you are talking. Number one is the crew and captain. -He's nagging, he's like... Both parties agree on the usual fee. The family will rent the boat It is an investment, we don't... Some people take it for pleasure. We do business here. We charter the boat to do F1 hospitality. You can watch the race from the boat. We do five-star catering. We put screens all over the boat. You can watch the race itself. We do have a business behind it. It's not just for pleasure, we have two days We have friends, family, In Saudi Arabia, they make sure far from the public eye In Jeddah, however, Along the quayside, What I wish for and only in my dreams, It's like a castle. Everybody loves it, For the average person, Some have figured out a way In Thailand, the town of Phuket and its long beaches Eric Noyel, is about to enjoy one of the yachts. He boarded the Dolce Vita, a 33-meter boat The five crew members Everything must be impeccable. Everything's okay, no problem. It's all under control, who should be here shortly. An hour later, Eric Noyel arrives Thank you. -How are you, Yumi? -Thank you for bringing the boat. Today is her birthday. To celebrate, Eric took a week's holiday Yann, is this your first time here? Out of the three boats he co-owns, it's no coincidence This boat is now for sale, so we wanted to enjoy it one last time. It was Yumiko's big birthday. She's happy A true salesman, Eric never misses an opportunity He focuses on the latest gadgets. Sit down here. Press your two fingers -Like that? -Press it. Yes, you press. Where's the target now? We're going back down. This is the dining room table. As you know, I was born in France, This is a table from a French company. I'm very proud because everybody loves it. I think everybody that comes on this boat Open. It's like a mechanical watch. It goes from eight people to ten people. Captain, do your charter customers -No, inside... -It's too hot outside sometimes. -Yes, inside. But also outside, it depends. I would like to eat inside, not outside, because I don't like I'll show you downstairs. This is the master bedroom. This brand makes a pretty slick boat. It's not old age, full of wood, This is the opposite, You get to enjoy the view, After the guided tour, They share drinks, Eric makes a little trip towed by the boat's tender. Yachting is first and foremost a pleasure, but for the entrepreneur, I see we have a neighbor coming. My job is selling superyachts. I know almost everything that happens I look at the name, who it is, Eric is well aware that superyachts Unless you want to be rich There was a time when it became That is, I can't afford Here we are in the big boat Afterward, we move on to boats Already here, on a human scale, so it's already a big boat. Over the past two years, Eric has become one His best deal, a boat of almost 50 meters. The Frenchman Yachting is his life, It's almost within the genes. He's unstoppable. His passion, yes. I'm glad that he's in a business that he's genetically designed to do. It's not just a like. He's in the right business. -In French? He is in a business that suits him. [French spoken audio] Voila, a little lesson in French. Wow, did you see those colors, orange? Beautiful. With a little sailing boat. Despite these precious moments, in a few weeks, the Dolce Vita The businessman Enjoying the yachts We return to Dubai, to Francis Lapp, the Alsatian entrepreneur one of the most emblematic He lives there with his wife, Munira. Yes, let's say I live here part-time because I have 2,000 employees I'm here one week a month Francis can finally relax. His boat has just arrived. A lot of stress because we thought at the end of February, We missed the boat show a little bit, We'll invite our clients Until the end of May, There's a lot of dust and salt on it. You have to clean it. You have to polish You have to put the machines back on, What else is missing for you, Munira? Little things like champagne glasses, In time, we'll see what else we need. I think we'll see. Munira is 38 years old They met in Dubai three years ago. The couple quickly fell in love This is the viewpoint Yes, absolutely. You can see Burj Khalifa, Burj-Al-Arab, the Skyline. Everything is there. -What about the little private beach? The boating business, The future especially in the luxury catamarans. After all, as we sold two boats to Qatar. We also have Saudi customers. I think that Saudi Arabia Visiting the couple are Francis' parents, How are you, Mum? They made a long journey I haven't seen the boat yet. -It has your name. He loves us very much We put the Alsatian pretzel logo It's a bit of a tribute We're going to inaugurate the boat. -Champagne? A ten minute drive to the boat. Francis' pride and joy, the Marie-Joseph, The catamaran is due to arrive For Francis, finally, His solar-powered boat makes How do you feel? I'm happy. It's a brand-new technology. We're the first to do this, it's great. -It's a beautiful boat. France's son, Stefan, is there for the occasion. It's named after grandma and grandpa. Marie-Joseph, it's here, it's arrived. I would never have thought of it. Okay, Granny is coming alone. The whole family is emotional. A tribute to the region [French spoken audio] Francis, is everything okay? -Did it have a good trip? It's a change from the yard in Gdansk. There's the wardrobe there. -Do you like the colors? Yes, of course. [French spoken audio] I didn't think it would move me that much. There is emotion. I've always taken it lightly, but now that it's for real, it's still... Before casting off, Francis awaits the arrival It's Sheikh Racher Al Maktoum, He's going to dock, and he's coming. Close to the Emir, is one of the highest dignitaries -Hi, my friend. -Welcome back. -How are you? -Your Highness. -How are you? Thank you. Congratulations for this beautiful girl. Once everyone is on board, It's time to set sail. A yacht of the future. The Marie-Joseph traces its wake, and with it, a new page At the helm, no stress. The two electric motors Now see how much the wake is at the back. Its maximum speed is 15 knots. It's actually quite impressive. It's just electric engines. It's very easy to operate the boat. He doesn't need to do where you need to check and you cannot have the fridge This is just energy management He just needs to keep If it's empty, he'll start the generator -Easy life? How much is on the battery? On the battery, we have 23, 24 degrees. We did them in Gdansk Then we didn't do them for long, -It works well. It's great, it works well, It's just like we expected. Even some details We have a better speed. It's nice when you hear -Yes. -Now they come next to you. -You see what this is. You'll be popular now. Yes, everybody will talk about it today. -This new technology is impressive. What do you think? Yes, everyone will talk about it. As I told you, The first solar sailboat. An 80-feet, not a small one. As Francis had hoped, A proud ship and in complete silence. That's what we appreciate, It's not just a boat. The great luxury is the silence, We're not going backwards anymore. You don't buy a boat There is no turning back. The yachting world must evolve. To rectify the electric engine The next great promise for the sector that Francis Lapp and other manufacturers A new revolution that is already underway.