[ wz.35 Anti-Tank Rifle ] Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here taking a look at one of the anti-tank rifles in This is a wz.35 &quot;Uruguay&quot; is the code name that This was Poland's standard anti-tank rifle And it's a gun that has actually and a very diverse use So before I get started, I do to my friend and firearms researcher who ... gave me a tremendous So anything I get wrong in this is on me, but Leszek was extremely generous It won't fit in the YouTube comments so my own blog where you Anyway ... the story of Poland's when a Major Felsztyn in Polish service is experimenting with German And comes to the conclusion that this is a Not one that uses a technically but one that is entirely based totally traditional copper but is able to penetrate armour In 1931 this project is formally and they go about starting development. Now the whole project will remain exceedingly ... The different elements of so very few people had a In particular the development were done separately from ... Now this Major Felsztyn and fortunately for the Poles, he was and handle the coordination 1932, fairly quickly, there are two rifles that are One of them is ... very complicated, which is going to be what, It has a hydraulic recoil buffer system. The other is a rifle That's the same Maroszek who developed He's young, he's clever, He had previously developed (very close, like there was also a 1932 pattern) bolt action carbine for the Polish He took his ... simple bolt action, combined it with Did the calculations and realised that he could get away with a and it would still withstand the pressure If you compare this to something like the barrels on those things are huge, and the gun is incredibly heavy as a result. Maroszek's gun - codenamed &quot;Uruguay&quot; by the way, just to ... lead people away from any In theory it was going to be Anyway this gun weighs 10 kilos, ... It's actually a remarkably light handy gun, I can So Maroszek designs this. At the time that the current iteration of so standard 7.92 Mauser So that's a pretty darn long is a 57mm cartridge, And that was able to defeat a And the mechanism that was used here, what the Poles found is the bullet would essentially vapourise itself, But the energy transfer would knock and ricochet it around inside the vehicle So some of these tests we are talking (that's about 0.8 inches, it would create a 1 inch that goes shooting into the tank, bouncing So this was a like, un-intuitively, And there's enough testing that went on Which would be a surprise to the even after they captured the rifles, Now, even after the rifle design is ... basically finalised in '32, And the biggest problem they of the cartridge was that it was The gun had a barrel life, a service life, of 60 This thing was burning out So the initial plans to we want to have a service load of about 200 rounds So they planned to issue ... And the barrel is not a quick-change barrel, There's a fairly simple set (you'll see them in a minute) on the barrel, The sights are mounted on the barrel You didn't have to worry about re-zeroing And that's how they were going to give this gun Now by 1934 ... essentially a new powder formulation that They've also significantly extended the cartridge, This thing almost looks like some And this becomes the final version. This thing has a muzzle velocity of firing a 198 grain bullet. High enough, again, that it can of all of the very early war, the The Panzer Is and Panzer IIs were and a significant number and were potentially knocked out by these With this new powder and cartridge developed, None of the guns had actually been They extend of the barrel, it had been a That's a 47 inch long barrel, which is that thing going way out on the side. The barrel life is now extended Which is great, because that that they're going to issue guys in the field of So instead of issuing every they now take that three spare barrel ... transit case And instead what they're going to do they're going to issue one rifle to every platoon And then the company also So standard procedure here you would automatically swap Then there will be a Once they've got ... the whole army they'll then continue manufacturing and issuing So ultimately this means about with a grand total of just over 20,000 Now I mentioned earlier not just during the development, but also They are all packed in crates, you've got a crate with the rifle, And they are all marked as various types They are sealed, they And the plan is when people are ... there will be an order that goes out for And that happens in July of 1939. Germany's looking pretty sketchy over there, The order goes out: ... I should note here there's sort but a general understanding or belief ... led to them being ineffective because Well as Leszek puts it, he when the guns were sent out for its three best marksmen, the best These are guys whose standard issue which works the exact same way They are the best shots, and and a few demonstration familiarisation shots we'll read through the manual, figure out how OK this exists, let's start in our deployment and It's not going to be that hard for the to figure out how to use what is The recoil is of course more but that muzzle brake did a fantastic job And they probably recoiled less than So this wouldn't have been that much of a So anyway when they ... familiarise, The armourers for each company then so they have a nice fresh barrel in them. with the process of changing out the barrels. All the spent brass goes back into they don't want Germany or of their standard infantry armament, lest the Which by the way they did Had they done it before, they could have blunted Anyway, there will then be a subsequent like, &quot;War is here, oh crap, And that order comes on the And that's when these rifles go out into So we'll talk about what they But first let's take a (there aren't a lot) but at the Alright, so here's the First off, there are virtually The whole project is being kept pretty secret, We have a bore diameter, we have some proof marks, I will note this seam between the receiver and the barrel, and We have a pretty basic bolt action system, We do have a detachable box magazine With two release tabs, so you push That is your standard cartridge. So that's I can pull the trigger and pull the bolt out. We have two primary locking lugs, One additional safety lug And this has a safety lockout system much So if we put this back in the gun, And then I can render the ... striker off to the side, And to re-cock it, I just pull this back, The rear sight here is a very simple fixed The Poles figured that was about of the armour penetrating Obviously if you're just shooting but this wasn't for recreational shooting, And beyond 200 there just wasn't going to be enough Furthermore, there was no because with a muzzle velocity this thing is essentially just a giant laser beam, In that way it's actually an easier gun to shoot We have a folding bipod here To unlock that I'm just going to unhook This is very similar to early BAR bipods. We have ... a crossbar in You've got some pivot to the bipod, Seems fine. A little bit flimsy maybe, but and I think that bipod is Really the only other significant We do have another But we have a basic square front sight. And a ... one chamber, two vent And this allegedly did an extremely something like a 60% recoil reduction compared There really isn't much disassembly so you can see what the armourers would First off, I have loosened the screw on the front There we go, far enough that we We then have two action screws, one one here at the back of the receiver, So we can pull those out, that allows me You can see both of the magazine And we can then slide the stock off the gun. And there is a reinforcing box, As for the ... rest of the stock, We do have a recoil lug, which you would Everything else there is pretty ordinary: plain And then that gives us And you'll notice there are three flats So that's where the armourer's wrench essentially This by the way is just a So the barrel is going to come unscrewed here, you One point of interest here, there are There's a serial number on every receiver And they were not The rifles and barrels were serial And that was largely because Barrel life was really important and there were spare barrels So we don't know exactly how many of but we have a pretty good idea that the The highest serial number is gun number 6,588, that's in the The highest serial numbered barrel So this particular one is about and actually relatively early (there it is) barrel As you can see, overall not There's definitely going to be some they wanted to make these quite well, The final cost for the Maroszeks, for To put that in some context, cost the Polish government about 2,000 zloty, and a wz.29 bolt action So ... for the cost of a BAR you For the cost of one of these anti-tank rifles you Unfortunately for the Poles, even was not enough to let them withstand the It doesn't help that Russia invades them These rifles are used in combat, there are with guys showing off holes in The Germans will quite happily capture They end up with 880 guns The Poles actually made quite But they only have 630 barrels. It's a very long, relatively thin barrel who are captured or between tree branches to prevent them Still, that number captured is I think actually more than the Germans had of their And so the Germans do put they are designated the PzB 35(p), They will also in January of 1941 sell 250 of When Italy signs an the Germans will capture some of those What's really interesting to me is the The Poles do, and it seems But what the Germans do is with the tungsten core projectiles The PzB 39 is also a 7.92mm bore, and the So the Germans reload it all. This is actually So that's what the Italians and the Which is, by the way, part of I think as to what the ammunition really was. Because you have Polish records ... ammunition that still exists which is what we ... expect Anyway, that's the explanation for it. Now some of these rifles were also captured We don't really know exactly the Soviets didn't really go on to But they do appear to have in inspiration for the Soviet which would start pretty promptly once Germany The muzzle brake on this thing is remarkably which is the very first Soviet anti-tank rifle, That muzzle brake is pretty similar as well There's yet another use of these guns. There is a non-trivial number of Polish soldiers rather than be captured by the Soviets, They are interned by the Hungarians. Over time most of them are allowed to leave But the Hungarians keep the guns, And Hungary will eventually Now Finland ... didn't really trust 8mm so the Finns will use these as training rifles. from the Winter War, which is really cool, The Finns will use them as training rifles, and then This is going into the Continuation War, But they don't generally use these And ... by the time the most of the vehicles in service are not Early in the Winter War they would have been, Once KVs and T-34s are in the mix, the So ... I think that's all that I am aware of that They are pretty darn scarce rifles today, But the British Royal Armouries had this example, to take it out, show it to you guys So once again a big thanks, not just to the but to Leszek for his tremendous allowing me to present it to you guys I hope you enjoyed the video.