welcome and welcome to a new video of permaculture naturalia the cold is coming the winter is coming the time of fire is coming the time of firewood is coming and as we are launching a saga where we are going to work on what is mud and fire stoves kitchens ovens today I bring a video that is essential. How many times have you seen refractory tiles or refractory bricks that fall that come loose joints that expand too much joints that crack that break apart well today I bring you the solution to that problem with a mixture made by hand in your home with homemade elements and find them cheap if not almost free today I bring you good homemade refractory cement First of all you may be wondering why I can't glue refractory tiles or refractory bricks with common concrete Well what happens is that common concrete is generally prepared the way you prepare it With Sand, this sand expands by having a high coefficient of expansion, what it does is as if they were micro micropumps, yes, they expand with heat and end up shelling the mixture, so what we have to look for is a way to have some binding element together with cement that allows a low expansion that has a low melting point and that resists very well everything that is thermal shock yes the rapid temperature difference all the tests that I did with this with this mixture I did directly on a brick of mud because the whole saga that we are going to be doing is going to be about fire and mud, that is, every time you have to lay tiles or glue a brick it is going to be directly on mud. So I decided to try it in an Adobe that I already had, I did tests of grated with the notched trowel, which is when you are going to glue a refractory tile. I did tests as if they were mortars for settling between bricks and at the same time I did a joint test between refractory tiles and adhesion. The truth is that the results are surprising. Yes, point that I can lift from the bricks without the tile coming off it is really impressive How this mixture turned out So before moving on to the preparation I ask you to subscribe, comment on this video and pay attention because at the end of this video I will to leave a keyword that if you put it in I will tell you what are the next three clay game videos that we are going to be making if we reach about 50 comments that have that keyword I will count on YouTube below your comment what are these next ones videos well here I have the three components of this refractory adhesive refractory concrete Refractory earth whatever you want to call it which will be composed of common Portland cement the one used in masonry wood ash brick dust in this filtered case now I'm going to show you how to make the preparation but there is nothing more than these three components and of course water to make this mixture of well the first component that we are going to use is the brick dust yes common brick baked brick I have all scraps from when we were making some paths here in house Even in brick kilns or in places where they sell bricks they often have broken ones So you can get them maybe for free What are the ideal ones those that are half burned those called kiln mouth which are the ones that are a little more burned a little darker Yes, any way will work for you But if you can choose, I always chose the ones that are a little darker, which are usually the ones that are a little harder. What I am going to do now is grind it, chop it with a dough to finish. to obtain a powder Well, I already have enough chopped Yes, of course. There will always be larger pieces but what I am going to use is the finer part of the powder, which will allow you to create a concrete mixture in which the component that is usually sand, in this case it will be dust. Then the cement will be the hardener and binder and the dust will be the sand. Why brick dust, why do you think that this brick is cooked in wood-burning ovens? that can lift more than 100 grams Celsius. So this mixture has already gone through a heat process that will prevent subsequent expansion later when it receives temperature in the ovens or kitchens that we are going to do. [Applause] Well This is the result already shaken, here is everything that is coarse, this of course is ground again and what I have left is this, it is the finest powder. This is what I am going to use to make the mixture well. Here I am next to our beloved ecological wood stove. I leave you the miniature up here so that you can recognize it within the Canal and you can see the step by step of construction of a rural wood stove or ec wood stove. What I am going to do now is to remove part of the ash that has been accumulating During the processes of burning and use of the kitchen and I am going to shake it, you may also be wondering what we use the ash for. Well, I leave you below in the description several links with studies that have shown that the use of wood ashes in mixtures where cement acts, such as concrete, greatly benefits the mechanical properties of that mixture, giving it better plasticity, greater adhesion and, above all, greater mechanical resistance to both compression and resistance. traction we are going to use between 8 and 10% of ash in relation to the amount of cement in this mixture. The ash has phosphorus, potassium, calcium and also has silica. When it comes into contact with the calcium hydroxide in the cement, silica generates reactions that make the mixture much less porous therefore more resistant well here we already have the sifted ash Yes Practically impalpable it is very light Well we already have all the elements and ingredients to make this mixture this formulation and before giving you the formula I will to ask that you subscribe to our channel that you leave your comment that you share the material that you like because all that helps this spread in a better way and that we can continue sharing this type of content with you so down here you have a little button in which you can subscribe, leave your comment, we answer 100% of the questions, all the comments that will be down here will all be answered in this and in all our videos, enough of the chatter and let's go with the formulation yes in this case I'm going to use four parts of brick dust, one part of Portland cement and one tenth of the volume of cement in what is wood ash. Well, here we have what brick dust is. I'm going to take four parts with this little can, one part. of Portland type cement and what comes next is a demo of the volume that I put in Portland cement but in this case ash. Of course the truth is that I am going to do it by eye but you can measure it a little better if with this amount is enough And now, as in any type of mixture, everything is always mixed first dry and then the water is added to unify. Well, I'll go with the water now, of course you have to look. Yes, and the idea is to reach a mixture that is homogeneous but workable at the same time Notice that the consistency is as if it were any other type of mixture based on cement and sand, it mixes well well common Well, we now have our homemade refractory cement made with only three components, two of which are almost free and only one of You have to buy them and it really is economical so you can see more or less what we are saving. I leave you this table where you have the Industrial part, that is, the economic price of the industrial and the economic price of doing it yourself in your home, this comparison. I'll put it in dollars so you can see exactly what is being spent. Well, here I have a little piece of adobe where I'm going to set up and glue a tile so we can see what the process would be like. We're going to wet it. Of course, I always wet both surfaces too. the tile and now we are going to add the refractory cement. We spread a little with a notched trowel. We grate and assemble the tile with lateral movements. And that is the result of the gluing. There you can remove a little bit . We're going to clean up El Sobrante a little bit and look. Hey, yes, I just glued it on. Well, perfect, I think that for the sample you need a button. I'm not going to do the fire test in this video. I'm going to do it in the next videos. Remember, the next one is coming. fire saga and how it arrives Winter is the time to make your clay and fire artifacts. But before you leave and ask you to subscribe, I remind you to comment below on the keyword, which is Give me the saga if you write down here Give me the saga and there are 50 people who repeat that process, I am going to be putting below each comment What are the next three videos Thank you very much for joining us, see you in the next video