Earthen buildings during the reign of Emperor Kangxi of the Qing Dynasty And the surrounding 180 acres of rural park After several months of preparation Today we finally started working After more than 300 years of ups and downs This building has also undergone several rounds of renovations. Now I have the honor to take up the task of restoration again. I plan to learn the craftsmanship of Hakka ancestors in building earthen buildings Repair the old Upgrade the entire building again The second and third floors will be turned into an intangible cultural heritage museum Bringing together the country's outstanding traditional culture and art Gathered in this building This renovation project Covering the Wangsheng Building as the core And the surrounding 180 acres of rural fields Roads and earthen buildings There's money here 135 days left to construction Today I started cleaning the cage. Over 300 years Many of the facilities in the cage are outdated. This dust is hundreds of years old. Some rooms are used to raise poultry. Many of the tiles on the roof have holes and are leaking 10-meter-high mansion Some rooms even collapsed from the third floor to the first floor. We wear full body protection Clean up from the third floor down In the room There are many daily necessities left over from the past. Pouring in a big basin That bucket is still usable. Electric fans from the 90s Guess what era this Pikachu is from? There are really three old nets for playing football You see, this embryo base is the old one. In the past, Hakka people all lived in one building. Then we often hold banquets or something. But it's just a name There are words with treasure in it A family He took it out to use These nets can be kept There's something to look at. no This boss almost let me go ah Hahaha Look at this glass I thought it was money. From this angle You see, right? It looks like a copper coin. Angle Problem Angle Problem I thought it was money. This person sits here and loves things. It's too hot today Drink some water Keep working A very vintage box How much money did Lao Su guess? The price before 1.7 cents was really low There is also an old food coupon Last week's vintage lighter The one without oil. Give me a bite There's money here There are a lot of copper coins Go get a bag and put it in There was also an unexpected psychological process Maybe injured The whole board is warped. Renovation of a Tulou from the Kangxi Period of the Qing Dynasty and the surrounding 180 acres of countryside My cousin who was helping at the construction site joked You have taken this car 10 times so far. These completely broken boards were burned right where they were. Exhibition hall on the first floor Part of the Intangible Cultural Heritage Exhibition Hall on the second floor This pine wood is more than 300 years old. It has been recast beyond recognition. All gray Let's see how to fix it later. Because the third floor collapsed more seriously It was boarded up before. The whole wall collapsed. Tie a safety rope Start working My cousin who knows construction I saw that the place where I was working was very dangerous. Worried about coming to guide me oh oh oh All right Pry open this door too. This kind of cleaning can't be sustained by full body protection. Too much dust I can't stand it anymore and have to come out to breathe No, let's fix it. I also changed into a new set of protective clothing. Rectify Don't go downstairs first. One year left. No protective clothing to change into. Then whatever. Anyway, the clothes are all dirty. I don't mind a little dirtiness Hurry up and clean up and go downstairs to pick up the garbage These bags are filled with dirt. It's heavy and the aunts can't lift it. Let Uncle Tang and I load the car. Proud of youth Light heart Get Started Today I want to remove the parts of the dragon that are too modern and old All removed The floor is broken and people can't stand on it. Tear it down and replace it And these suspended ceilings were made later Also need to be removed Including this floor Prepare to use the old technology of earth building Restore to original state Hey, stop moving. This doesn't look like a cockroach. A bit like a mutant cockroach This one looks so flat and tall What creature Stop moving. I'm sick of it. This layer of lime is relatively thin If you use an electric drill, it will damage the bricks. So it can only be removed manually Although this wall is old But it's already a dangerous wall. Perform a bare-handed wall demolition Take down the things here first. Prepare to make a better installation There's something here I don't know who bought this item. I dug it out. I see you are from last week. I was walking in the haze and wanted to beat me up No This is obviously left by a kid. Time Capsule You see, they are all small toys. You see, this shell was not common before. Because Yongdi is an inland place This shell looks like it came from the seaside. Keep it We will return it to its owner when he comes back. Hahahaha Sort out two sets of old Chinese thugs Let him try The effect is pretty good Look at this old chain. Very good quality Handcrafted One-piece molding Not like the current chain It has welding ports He has such good braids What do you still use it for? Take this and I'll tell you He who trains dogs The broken fence and floor were restored In order to restore the old In order to make environmentally friendly use of wood When we were cleaning the earthen building I specially kept all the old wood that can still be used. Use these old wood to make it The effect is better than anything else A master carpenter with 50 years of experience I have seen a man in a tulou. Specially invite him Teach us some woodworking techniques used in earth building construction Start with the Basics of Woodworking Newspaper Fix the board Keep your balance on a special horse stool Rolling out the newspaper flat is a basic skill In the second step, the master began to teach me how to make thumbtacks Iron nails were relatively rare in the past The screwdrivers are replaced with bamboo nails. Used to connect wooden boards The axe is used to cut the bamboo nails So you have to use this gesture to pinch the bamboo When I chopped it down, I pushed my hand away. Will not hurt your hands Be careful, eh? Step 3 The master began to teach me how to use the old woodworking saw Although the current construction is more using electric saws I still want to learn Put the board on the horse stool Step on it with your legs When holding the saw, your hand should be firmly on the lower end. It will be more difficult at the beginning Use your fingers to guide you After sawing, just apply force evenly up and down. Finally, the master guided me again How to make a complete floor slab First, use a small awl to punch a hole on the side of the board. Then insert the two pointed nails Put several boards together The complete floor slab is ready. Prepare these tasks I started installing it. But then it suddenly started to rain During the break, I talked a lot with the master. I asked, &quot;Now all places are applying to become intangible cultural heritage.&quot; Have you not applied for this skill? He said these crafts Has been replaced by a new power tool Things passed down from our ancestors Young people, please don't despise me. I told him Today's young people On the contrary, I really want to learn your skills. Oh hahahaha We don't necessarily do it when Still can do it according to the old craft But we want to pass on this labor wisdom This is our ancestors A precious spiritual treasure that can be passed down to future generations The pride of our descendants It is our cultural confidence Another box Let's drive over now. For many people These are all old things lying on the ground that no one wants. But we are as excited as mice entering a rice warehouse This is the old blue brick we want Quite enough for us. This can Old windows These old door panels are also good. May you have good luck and beauty Take this cabinet back and refurbish it This is a charcoal stove. Used for roasting fire This old tile should not be produced by any manufacturer now. I wish I could buy the whole brickyard back. After bargaining with the boss We bought 1,000 bricks at 1.2 yuan per brick. go back A fruitful day Once the materials are ready, construction can begin Because this is also my first time to practice skills So I found an experienced master to help on site. Take me as your apprentice Also, you need to be able to knock half a brick Because some places can't fit a whole piece. Make some half bricks according to the actual situation of the wall After the master finished his instructions I started to build a wall for the first time in my life. My child, do you have Found a teapot Even buried underneath It's probably still an old teapot. It must be a bit old. After more than an hour of effort The wall has taken shape. Just when I thought building a wall was so easy Oh, it's crooked Too crooked. No, no No, what should I do? Remove this Tear it down. Tear it down. Take it down right this Two hours long Only 1 minute long I sorted out the remaining materials on the bricks. Drink some water and calm down Think about what went wrong Remix some paper towel ash Having the first experience The second time was much better. Sweep away the excess paper towel dust on the wall Otherwise he will become hard Under the guidance of the master Finally it's done The entire Qing Dynasty earth building has been repaired Entered again The walls have started to bulge and fall off. We plan to turn these four halls into the Martyrs' Century Exhibition The first step of urban management is to clean the wall The walls here are quite complete. After scraping off the easy-to-fall putty Another layer of gradient agent This way the putty and anti-cracking mortar will not fall off Wait for the surface to dry and form calluses Make a ladder This rain We moved around The dream of meeting each other day and night Next, use anti-crack mortar to repair the wall again of Neon can finally scrape putty Dan A Qing Ke A Hao Qing Ni Qu Wen Qu A Department of Lover's blessing Let me tell you one. Half full, half full I want half of it. Oh, where did you fall from? Oh, good, good Purchased a batch of wire pipes in the market But we are a Tulou You can't use this plastic tube. Use iron pipe Relatively fireproof Oh, this tube machine is flame retardant I thought that was enough Looks like it's time to change I also bought a more fireproof iron pipe. In order to restore the old All pipelines Also spray it with a color close to the original wood Ah Jia, I just bought it. It looks like the same color as the wood. See if you can use it. Okay, try it. This color is quite similar It depends on whose color it is. Uncle, do you think the colors are similar? It really looks like Then let's get to work. No way, you plan to use all those tubes. It's hand-brushed, isn't it? When should I paint it? My secret weapon Come with me and lift it. good This is pretty heavy. Use this rack when brushing later Wear a protective mask before spraying This will be much faster indeed. Spray these conduit boxes too. The color will be unified After spraying, wait until it dries before starting construction. Before the anger dries up Let's go find some guava. The weather is too hot The three above are pretty big. Not very familiar yet It's better to eat it after a few days. It's too bitter now. Pick some leaves and take them back. We don't eat guava. Do you eat leaves? This leaf is very good. Dried and can be used to make tea The house is not dry. The air is completely dry. You can start working now. Before installing the pipe First measure the distance between the two wire boxes. Cut to the required length Then install it. We use iron pipes as wire pipes Aren't you afraid of electric shock? Just check if I have updated the next video. have to Tighten this cut with a screwdriver Smooth out the sharp spots Then it is a constant nail installation measurement After the iron pipe is installed, put the wires into the iron pipe Finally, do not connect all the wires in the distribution box. It's all done. You need to make the most suitable mortar formula for the moment Still need to test one by one Make adjustments I chose three places. The ratio of sand to soil varies Sand is 30%, 60%, and 80% respectively. Collect the samples back Because I can no longer buy tools for making cement mortar. So I found some materials and made a few Buy all the ingredients needed in the recipe. Lime red oil, eggs and glutinous rice paste The Qing Dynasty Shiqiao method mentioned ash soil Lime and sandbag soil mixture The so-called mountain and river map In the reference picture It is mentioned that tung oil is added for waterproofing The Ming Dynasty Tiangongwu was mentioned in 10 articles Mix with glutinous rice paste Add eggs to mix Precision injection solid Never break Really sticky For better results Here we divide it into 3 groups of 6 for experiment Start knocking non-stop This pile is getting more and more scattered. In addition to this pile of relatively formed The rest failed. And this bunch of things didn't say it was very good. Just relatively okay I don't know why. Let me summarize. Start adding sand Increase the overall sand ratio by 20% This is the end of adding sand. Continue the experiment Adding water is also crucial. If there is no fixed proportion of water He can't take shape. In the past, when the ancient method of building earthen buildings was used They all say they will add eggs and glutinous rice But why does my house already stink? Is there something wrong? The surface has been smoothed with a putty knife. Now let's see the effect the day after tomorrow. The official laying of According to experimental results Mix the loess, river sand and lime together I used 3D modeling Show you the tamping process Turn on the TV and watch How many people are working hard for life Go on bravely Should we be content? It cracked again The wood I bought was wrong In the past, people had no money but time. Slow work produces fine results People nowadays have money but no time Mountains and soil gradually faded out of the public's view. Sprinkle the soil Pat the ground firmly After the entire ground is patted Embossing Finally, put the film on After thousands of beatings Mountain and river soil will be harder than cement Work carefully No inch of land is spared It is this careful and meticulous attitude Only then can we build Hakka earthen buildings that have lasted for a hundred years. We worked till 11pm again Finally all finished Because I'm rushing to meet the next deadline Afraid of damaging the ground So we laid the floor mat This is the result after a week. Because the floor mat Not completely dry yet But the hardness has reached the standard The effect of cement mortar is that it becomes harder the more you step on it. The more you step on it, the smoother it gets. Because the cement floor has not completely dried out The ground was protected before construction There are a lot of planks to cut today. Build a workbench After the preparations are completed, start painting on the wall Positioning done After the line is drawn, start sawing the material Use a fine-tipped gun to initially fix the keel to the wall Because the walls of the earthen buildings are all made of earth Worried about not having enough grip Fix it with steel nails Finally, apply structural glue again Such load-bearing capacity The wall collapsed but the frame is still there Because some walls are uneven You also need to tie some wood pieces according to the level ruler Flatten the entire frame After the frame is completed, the wood boards are installed. Fasten with a nail gun A complete display framework is created The remaining ones are made in the same way. Build a museum that may not make money The renovation of the Tulou is coming to an end. I haven't told you guys seriously yet. Why should I renovate this building? Today, as the transformation progresses Let me tell you something that most people haven't heard. But it's a story worth hearing. The story begins in the winter of 1929 It was the difficult period of the revolutionary war. Secretly moved to Xiashan Village in Qiling Town, Yongding I am currently renovating the Wangsheng Building. After the mobilization group found out that Chairman Mao was in Xiashan Village Carried out a fierce siege The chairman has recovered from his illness Arrived safely in Shanghang The Story of Xia Shanchun It did not end with Chairman Mao's departure Instead, I continue to write in bold and colorful strokes In the blink of an eye it was 1909 The protagonist of this building was born in Myanmar In the turbulent domestic situation at that time I could have followed my father's instructions. Living a petty bourgeoisie life abroad But he chose to stay In the same year, he was appointed by the organization to return to Xiashan Village from Xiamen. Become a teacher Secretly carry out underground work And the station where Chairman Mao's guard company was stationed The Wangsheng Building that I am renovating is his home. Everything seems to be arranged by fate The seed that Chairman Mao once planted Sprouting in his heart And this seed till today The same sprouts have grown in our hearts Let us make up our minds to return to Xiashan Village from Xiamen Time flies By 1940 This was the tense period of the Anti-Japanese War. A traitor appeared They want to win Enduring the pain Unyielding They really can't do anything to him. Force him to write a confession He pretended to surrender Just like Chairman Mao's departure The story of the people of Xiashan Village has not ended. I am not worried about Chen Kanglong's death. In exchange for a strong country Blood dyed the river red The people of Xiashan Village are still brave and fearless One after another From a village of more than 2,000 people By the time of liberation, only 400 people were left. So why is there an iron unicorn here? The hero descends the mountain So why is Xiashan Village praised as a place full of loyal heroes? So why I will come here when there are better entrepreneurial options. I want to tell everyone their stories. Want to attract more young people and children Come visit I want to protect and pass on the former residences of our ancestors. I want to do something that I can be proud of forever. I want everyone to see Their Sacrifice It has brought prosperity to our motherland today. The door of the building faded with the passage of time. A large area of the wall has also fallen off. This video I will use ancient purple gold ash and mineral pigments Repair it 1:1 It took about one month The final restoration results were recognized by the whole village. Door head repair work There were problems from the beginning Because the murals have faded badly And it was destroyed once decades ago. The couplet was covered The Phoenix reliefs have all had their heads chopped off. After setting up the iron frame I first carefully removed the lime covering the couplets. Preserve the relatively intact part of the door head Protect it first Then the door head was sliced In the future, the museum can also slice up the old door Perform the development During this time, many uncles and aunts from the village came to watch. The gate is not just a passage for entering and exiting the earth building. It is also an important facade of a Tulou. It is also the concentrated expression point of Tulou culture. Bad employee Not only did I fail the trust of the villagers in me, It also destroyed its original sense of history. After removing the original wall I started making the base of the door. Although we use ancient craftsmanship But in order for this door to last for hundreds of years without breaking Grassroots We use a modern interface agent with better effect Add anti-crack mortar Construction of hanging iron mesh Exaggeration The wall collapsed but the door is still there Waiting period I started making ancient purple gold ash Purple Gold Gray It was the mainstream wall construction material in ancient China. Non-toxic and formaldehyde-free Stronger and more durable than ordinary putty powder Advantages of good construction without polishing But in modern times Most of the market has been replaced by putty powder He needs to soak his hair with quicklime Then stir and soak with young ginger for fermentation Finally drain before use Finished Purple Gold Gray Before he's completely dry We replaced the I-shaped seams on the original wall Knocked out with a rope Purple gold ash finished It's time to start coloring Prepare the paint first When you start making couplets We encountered a second problem It is too difficult to write back to the old font. After some research I decided to use the copying method Repair the original text and print it out directly Then carve along the printed words Phoenix relief I'll hammer in the nails first. Then use wire to wrap the skeleton Then use high-strength exterior wall putty to make the body After a month of construction The museum's gates have finally been completely renovated. Seeing the uncles and aunts in the village Happy smile I know I have repaired the soil in everyone's heart.