I love And I remember saying one of the things I love most about is that people spend complaining and that they don't They get into the roller and then they spend screaming saying, Just get me out of you. Get me out of here. And then after the ride, that was so much fun. I want to do it again, or I don't ever And then the way the relationship and then it becomes to remember that we wanted and we also remember when to hold on Some couples live on a roller coaster feeling of it, don't want to live They want to live And then right They go to the other You know. They just want to go The spin Yes. Yes. The Ferris Okay. And this is what now with Trevor Noah. You're listening to what Our culture has never been more comfortable It's no longer It's practically I mean, for me, therapy has been a game helping me work from past traumas And, of course, I would argue that more to inject the language into the culture than today's guest, Esther is to get all of us to have healthier She's got her which should we Begin, which features through their triumphs She's got her books. She even just launched relationship courses to fix your world Esther but for the next hour, she's with us to lay out her theory satisfying relationships and to walk us cycle of a relationship from first dates together to yes, splitting up gracefully. So settle in. Esther Perel Of course. Here we go. So, Esther, I've known I, like many people, have read your your books and watched your talks And so in sitting down to have this I was trying to think of that you haven't And then I realized that everyone says when when when thinking a relationship sex and love, and the way and everyone says, I wish I had known this I wish I had. I wish I had started therapy sooner. we had spoken And as crazy I thought to myself, What if you could start with Esther Perel? What would it be like You know, Let's start with that. Have you ever met their relationships sort of gone Or do when things People used to come when things were going I think there was this attached Yes. That if there was really or not even on the And that has the idea because but you actually go certain things or because you've had other experiences and you know that there's certain vulnerabilities and you come actually still really good What should we prepare That is a major thing 40 years. In practice, How do we immunize what people are now It feels like we lived in a world where people and didn't want to deal And now that we therapies In fact, I read a tweet made me laugh Someone said, every is a proxy battle No, it's two people saying, well, my therapist said this Well, actually, said this about it. How do we immunize ourselves Therapist no matter? You know, it's It used to be that you had to be ashamed Now you are ashamed So the same idea that in this very that we are now it's a cashier in therapy It suddenly doesn't It adds. It stands for. I work on myself. Yeah, I seek insights. I seek to grow. I seek to be I think there is being overly therapists. I think that you can a professional patient. And then. But that doesn't mean in therapy For many people, extremely beneficial. Yeah. So it's not like you can make a statement you've been in therapy and show me You know How do we know a significant So for some people, this is a very important endeavor their life It sometimes is a way actually, you know, you can of but not much So it can be like everything is used for great gain And it can be also used to pretend that you're doing certain things, but you're not So I think that until you ask The fact that somebody or I have a therapist What are the I knew I mean, you set me up. I gave You know, they're never four times But you could ask what brought you And have there when the reason why you go Because the what brought you're still there. And have you had where you stopped? And at this moment, how would you define And if you thought that has really changed that you did in therapy, Wow. That that tell you something about how the person about their endeavor, what is the reflection and about I've always wondered, you are dealing who are telling you and how they relate but you don't get to relate You only see it Like, how does a good when the person who's how do they know when that person is Not not the truth, because everyone How do you know to work from how to guide the person presenting you with reality? not presenting me They are presenting me Right. And when it comes to the reality relationships Everybody comes to talk their relationship. They're coming of their relationship So that's you have to keep in mind that what you're hearing is a version that most likely if we're talking who may have a different version a different way to tell the relationship, in the relationship, you know. So once you know that you sit and you think if your partner or if I asked your partner or this person what do you And then you try to see this person has the ability that there can be It's one of the great challenges And one of the great is the ability That's Yes. So, you know, one of the things that happens to us a lot therapy is if I see you and you've told me and one day I say, I really would like And most of the time when you meet it's got nothing to do You know, over years, of what this person was This person was so sweet was way more aggressive, or this person couldn't you know, So we we also, a construct of who until and then you realize relationships are like it's like the holes. Everything mention is exactly what the other one And it's the story is the A lot of this actually reminds me about a conversation Yuval Noah Harari, And what I loved and what he was trying to do as a historian reality to figure out and then where people's stories It almost feels like you're what do we do now are the same? What do we do when those realities So how do. You even You know, how does How does your father So it's systemic. I am a systemically I look at relationships and I influence each other and even create each other. Meaning a person being a person in the context You become by version and behave in this particular and how you act, behave and believe is influenced of the other person. So we create each other People come into that This is how they are. We do. We do in this relationship, problems People become defined by the context and in a different They may act And that means that if you want to one of the most so is by changing I remember you said some things Yeah, because I remember once that The first time you said it takes two people It only takes one person Right. And that's essentially we have the ability by changing how we exist I had this situation actually on my team and challenging and situations where we become very reactive and polarized And he was talking about the religious faith which is which the family and everything and So has his partner, And the mother is often about all of that. And I and I could see because the mother and the son tries to boundaries. Yes. Yes. And I said, that doesn't Do you ever imagined that even though you landed in a completely what would happen I just want you to know how much I appreciate the things They really because your mother because you didn't Instead of telling her. Yeah, because this is No, I so think of you Every time I think of the essential values that you gave me. I made different choices But they are at the core of my choices. And you are of my belief system. And I don't want you You are still Try that for a change. And what that is, because I told him goodbye. But I've done this many, because instead of and saying, Drop off, I disagree with you. I've made a different You're basically saying if you became such that you were willing to change your life, then obviously you And that means that was given to you, you're doing it If you say to someone that they they will relax and they without you You often when talking about with their romantic and often times when people talk about the last thing they is their parents. How much does working with your parents, even in hindsight, affect your relationship that you're in a romantic situation? A lot. And why? Why is because the first place to desire to be loved, to have needs, be met to feel protected or not to be pursued with the people You learn about in those relationships. The people they're your caregivers. They don't have to be And you, you learn, you know, if it to cry or not, If it was okay to laugh, And if you were encouraged to thrive, you learn if you were going or if you had to flee you learn. If you could trust you learned about I mean, the entire range and you bring that in what you want and in what you want You know, says that is about having too much and too and like, And and so you, you, you I could never trust, you know, I have learned to take you know, there was Yeah, well, that I've learned to stand on my own I am built for autonomy. I am built You know, that becomes a lens with which, which you live and And then with someone who was raised for loyalty And that's a completely of how you are connecting with people, in people to them, of to be vulnerable, all of that. So I think that's, a very good distinction where you raised and self-reliance loyalty We're going to continue right after this so I'm really excited And I know it's going to be but I want you to as we play this game, just to give people of how approach moments So this is this You have Esther Perel from the get of a relationship. So somebody they say to themselves, I want to be They they whip out They they get themselves and they go out to bars How does Esther respond Like, what should I be looking at on my Tinder profile to get me or which boss to meet the personal always at a library Where where should I go? And how do I approaches. This to two parts There's that come to my mind. The first thing is, instead of asking What am I looking for? Or Who am I looking for? Why don't Who would you like to be in this relationship? Who would you like? Yes, I mean, this consumer mentality you know, that's like it's a bit strange when you think of it, who do you want to be If you know who you want to be, of what you are rather The next thing is and put make your profile and see what I also at this moment kind of return you know, where what are the things so that you can actually about the things that rather than meet people and start which is what are like these days, sitting in a noisy place while you're looking if you've got some moving in your belly. I mean, on what basis But if you experience you're you're in a museum, you're rollerblade, you're and you start talking that you're both looking Then you begin Then you find yourself suddenly walking and it's like and you haven't stopped That's very different. Then I'm coming to see because we're looking for a soulmate You know. If I'm hearing you you almost think What we're doing we're trying to achieve In many ways, I'm a ton of people Yeah, ironic about, you know, the one in the middle people How am that this is the one, you know, that is rather and disconnected because you live your friends, I'm going on a date, and that date takes of your life rather than I mean, to whatever we're doing. that's okay. So let's say so. Let's say Let's say the person used an app, maybe it wasn't but they did meet or let's say they were in a in an art gallery they saw a painting and they spoke to Or they were and they were sitting And a conversation that ran between them So now people have met. That does that feeling. And the next. Wait. This is something I'm Like what? I hear some people saying butterflies Other people say no or the feeling Exciting before butterflies Is this person eliciting In what way? I'd like to get to know I enjoyed this. Love to continue Could talk you for That's curiosity. I'm open. I'm curious. I'm. I'm. You know, it's You know, rather than is meeting my standards You know, is it No. Maybe you're not but your your open curiosity about that. Then you realize that I think about this. So now I'm thinking you know, and I'm kind of you know, And so now you start about who is this person and you start to about this person. I think that when you look in small as to what awakens you you know, and physically to, it's not just all mental, emotional, So it's mental, physical and sincere. And I would reverse the First I'm at ease. I'm comfortable You know, I'm We've had the different Talk to you. I'm not holding back. I'm actually what we like to call leaning in I'm curious to see, does he actually like is this the place if we were not I mean, did he pick this for me because that's And you have with the person with yourself at the same time you're And this is music. Different instruments are playing I love the sound of So now we've played we're in the beginning What's a perfect Is it a is it a movie? Is it a bar? Is it a Because you said, why do we meet one on You go, This is my and then I'm going to So what I met somebody. I have a life and I'm along for the thing So you meet a person and then you bring them to like I find there's something Meet somebody away from everything, away where you can get about the person way from your friends in interaction And then at some point you go You know, you're to meet your friends. It's it, it's there's something strange about that I mean, it's not that it's one way but yeah, there's we were going to have a Do you want to join? And then you don't make It's just is it's the person So I met this person and I'm and then you have a ton of information, because it's And not only do you have a lot of information, but you haven't to go meet three nights and then come back to But then how do we how do we balance and the pressure with meeting a person Because I mean, I wish I could be but I'm sure where I'll be, like, judgmental and there's moments So why do you like Interesting. I So they didn't laugh they You really think How do we immunize from choosing a person think would work for us? Because we've introduced We don't. But we don't immunize We we constantly look at people You look at them you look at them You look at how they You are picking up about these people's, as social creatures, your friends, you know, hopefully their opinion Actually, they often see They often, you don't care But what I'm saying is is such a split A disconnect. A disconnect between the life the things and the dates in this very, I think, So when you say what is a perfect day, the perfect date that you want to have It doesn't matter it's the fact to see the person again. And maybe that with an open ended ness that this was going to unfold and that open ended It's erotic, it's alive It's full And that that is the definition and that I'm talking not sexually, That's a good date. The activity itself A good first date of how you read the I mean, everybody Where did you meet, How did you meet? People want to know of the story, The first date is of the origin story. Today, I'm about relationships You know, and you know how finding the right person can feel just as important the right partner Both take patience, and a process that Ziprecruiter to a science. Next, big opportunity by Ziprecruiter Ziprecruiter helps with their job search, which means no matter they can help find qualified and when they say no the role or industry, You can see for yourself by going to ziprecruiter take this job listing. I came across a video Okay, Imagine to play video games Sounds amazing, right? But I imagine the challenge tester is keeping like it's still a job. You have to stay sharp even while playing My advice If you're looking lean into your passion, but be ready to show how you can bring value to the table and what skills it takes to land a role You probably need attention to detail, and the ability to give that makes the game If I were hiring for this role, What's your biggest when playing a game? Or can you describe where you found a bug It's kind of like your partner You have to dig whatever role Ziprecruiter can help with smart matching technology like the invites You'll find a potential Ziprecruiter is the hiring sites employers In fact, four out of who post on Ziprecruiter get a quality candidates See for yourself. Try it now for free at ziprecruiter dot That's ziprecruiter dot VOA are ziprecruiter is the is there that people should wait None of this stinks. I mean, no, no. I think that if you're somebody that you attached very, and that sexuality for you with intimacy, and that you have at times felt that you got close to people before you really were close to them, then But that's not because That's because you know that sexuality has a If you are a person casual sex is easier a nice it doesn't. Instantly. Bond you, it doesn't elicit He doesn't elicit your history of whatever sexual experiences Then it's less loaded And that's, you know, I think it's more and the meaning of sex for you what do you need to feel, to have with in order for you and to want to engage rather than a set Here's the thing. You asked me questions that that presuppose something you know, you're the And I really think that has all the answers because relationships are more complex So I answer you, think I'm right. I can sound confident, So this kind of long do you. Depends on you. Tell me what has happened Tell me your story. Then I can what would make sense at this moment If you're 16, If you're 24, it's And if you're 45, I think people would like as precise you know, frictionless, you know, one and zeros And the majority of are often dilemmas and paradoxes and not problems Not problems Okay. So let's move forward to the people are now People when me a lot of people will struggle Some people will say, Well, we didn't defined Others will say, you You know, Are we not a couple? What does that even What does it not mean? And then how do people become a How do people now feeling suffocated even though they're part of something Okay, Like, this one is what is the of a couple? How does one how Yes. But how we become with how each of us defines what is a couple. and so a lot of what is the synchronization of these two views And part of what defines is how you straddle autonomy commitment and separateness, It's those two lines every couple will need what is together what is me And in the beginning, you and I begin to want And now I was going or whatever, I'll ask Trevor because Trevor of my life and So decide now be gradually becomes have another plan. And I said, Would you And then and then the first time and I think that's And then the second time I say that's And that the third that my say, will because I got license now to enter into your membrane. Yes. Right. And slowly I start to say, another jacket because it resembles And I brought you that you enjoy. And as I get to know you and you get to know me, I bring things that knowledge of you. And that's part We and then and I And instead of making What do you think? I'd like to take a trip Would that interest you? And you start to see Now this is But now there is. At some point I wish we did more. We and one of us says, I wish there was And that tension is at the core of grapple with. We all are born with We all are need for the we, the connection the space, the freedom. But each of us comes some of us and more connection, needing more space And the person who needs and connection is often the person who is more in touch of abandonment and the person who is And individuality is often the person more in touch obliteration, right? One person more afraid person more afraid The one who says we to somebody who keeps I often that you asked me to the parental story. This is a very good where you want what is the origin that can help what is the charge and why do I instantly want We seen you three times and I'm already And you're like, and this is not we have different This is about this is about this is about This is about a lot of other experiences and they play out as in, you know, you know, I have a life. I have other people. I see I am ignored, But I invited you to to everything and you're like, Whoa, And it looks like it's because it plays out But underneath is expectations, It's all of that that is actually being activated why didn't you ask me to So in that moment, does it mean that people have No, no, no. This is synchronization. Synchronization with somebody who with a different rhythm, including the rhythm So it's, first of all, No, it's not. I just reject you. If I didn't call you or if I like to take my day off not because I don't like but I enjoy my own How can you experience as a rejection? It's finding where filling in the holes. The relationship and the two individuals in the creation and how it balances Fundamental said. We're going to continue right What I've is when I especially like couples who've been married I like. Me. Yes. I often find there are couples and this is not always but these are the ones that I find because I will meet a couple so much security. I mean, they they almost consistently in their mind. And they just believe I mean, I've met couples they're always like unsure, married for 20 years. And sometimes the couples are the most sure will They'll like I've literally talked I wish my husband I mean, he's so boring. I know where he'll be. And on the other side I just don't And my wife, I feel like she flirts And then the irony the couples insecure go, But And then the couples who are talking about we know where we'll be They'll go like, Yeah, I wish we could It just feels like it's It's it's all the same. And the question is is it that's How does a secure find the spark that And how does a couple find the security that they need or can they even Do they have to give up some of Like is what is the compromise and do And when do Because everything doesn't just happen What do you mean? It means that you come up kind of dance and we into the relationship, five years something happens wow, this is hard work. So no, it means that it means with one model for life, That would be boring and so predictable is that actually a thriving relationship breeds and every living straddles It's true true in relationships. And if you don't change you fertilize If you change you're disregulated That's the dance, So when something works, you don't let like this to the point It's needs to arrive. Changes in the political situation, in the world outside, And it says You know, you readapt, you become more because you need Until that shifts again. So that to me is actually is that this dance and we are between needs to breed. It's the best metaphor And I, you know, my first book was all But the phrase I often Fire needs air, In literally. So this is the answer to you know, you don't to have passion, but you can have space, you can have more more differentiation. There's not one model, there is no one size Every model can work if it works that are involved in it. And if it gets if it breathes, it expands and it contracts, it changes it adapts to That's actually ingredients a thriving relationship Look, I often say people will have two or three marriages or committed relationships in their adult life, and some of us will do who can do it It's those who are able to redefine You know, you're two young people They arrive to New York. You spend a lot of this. A couple the whole first phase was about building Yeah, helping each other finding the first place getting And then at one point that said they had defined Now they wanted So that's a classic. It goes in You know, you have people a lot of time and now it's time the relationship and consolidate what are the things so that you can both rely on It's like the relationship We start our adult life and but then there comes during 33 now of 39, you having. Who am I? You know. I know and this favorite thing to do especially who've been is hearing how And I've often been most that that that are told you know. I remember speaking I think, Her husband had died And I remember how long have you been And she was happy. he was lovely But how I wish I said, I'm sorry. What? I said, I thought She said, Yes, he was But she says, I only realized after he was gone that Is there a way to know? Or how do we know it Was that where people like After the. Fact? You only know Often when you're in it, if my finger is left I can't see I have to put it there So is there no tool as a therapist to know, like, for instance, can Know, you can know this woman could know that she she would have done She could know completely over to this relationship in that she just kind of disappeared But that doesn't mean I just went on tour, so and and there were that people ask you know, from how do I have where I don't lose That one came up or my ex-boyfriend was My new boyfriend You know, you are you know, it's And there is a way our partner in a certain role You know, this woman and boring boyfriend. I'm sure that with the passionate, you know, chaotic, I want stable, And none of these words at the So how did And what does it say wanting that person that you in the process kind of clip their wings You make them more boring in order to And what it may is more than about This reminds me of Not leave me to not be abandoning me, to not be predatory to not be threatening So I'm going to tame you in my imagination I'm going to make you And then I will get And then he doesn't fantasize. And this is a It's sometimes it says and what I need you than who you really are. And once you have worked in the realm as I have then you know that one of the big surprises that sometimes I never thought you were Who is this person? Which is such a when your entire reality So, you know, I when I work around when I work around desire, when you're I really want what does security And here's If I think about love, I think if I am loved, I feel if I am desired, I feel if I love, I feel if I want I feel. And then you look between love and desire, how they relate As we as we The big question I think a lot of people deal don't even realize how do we or is there healthy breakup? What does it mean somebody in a healthy Because it seems like You know, and you hear gaslighting people love and you hear, you know, people in the relationship and But how do we separate from people I met a person just in the last few days what a beautiful She said, you know, We met. I was very young and I grew up and I think we have come to the end But my partner We continue to have We are now And at some point they said to I've recently separated he must be so hard And she said, No, She's actually to live with. But I no longer choose And I thought, that is I care about you. I want good for you and benevolent. I don't know why when I see you because we still that is very much at But but not in the When when they they said what they wish they had done what they wished for, what they wished done differently, and what they cherished with them. Well, that's my four questions You know, And I often and read it out But I think that it's with resentment and competition and fighting around and fighting over that you wasted and feeling I mean, the negative stories them are multiple. And so it's about you The question is, able to disengage? People are divorced and that doesn't mean and emotionally Yeah. So a nice separation to the end And as she said, life. Whoever will need to know is a major person But I know different and that love I Esther, our story Unfortunately, have gone on longer. I wish we could have time together. But I know we will I hope you will always Thank Thank you for sharing. I mean, it's funny how it feels like everything is at the core of what humans Like there's this beautiful thing Because of the quality ultimately the quality I love that. Well, thank you so much, I hope we see you again. Thank you. Pleasure. What now with Trevor by Spotify Studios with Day The show is executive Noah Simmons, Again, our senior Claire Slaughter is our producer of Music by Hannah Brown. Thank you so much Join me next Thursday of What Now?