Although he's clearly living the dream, you don't behind to live deep in the rainforest, pretending do. Everything starts off great but as time goes feet look like hands and your hips move like covered in patchy orange hair, I guess that's You are now an Orangutan No, no, no, that's not how it happens. Wait, what legend. Like 19 million years ago we diverged from eventually leading to you. Pink faced, two clingy child needing constant contact with till you're strong enough to have constant contact solid food which she munches up in her own Luckily your main food source is still mum go of mum in a triumphant moment that only lasts cutting the cord, and can now actually watch mum lessons in nest building, a very important skill to. At a year and a half you're getting your It's scary climbing but you'd better get used to time is spend in the trees. That's your sister. The sons don't bother though. Together you've a ripe fruit tree. The abundance of fresh fruit but that's not a problem, it's actually a good have a long overdue gossip. This will be the it lasts. After watching your mum for two more and mum gets her nighttime personal space back. having developed a rough mental map of the forest nursing from mum though. This lasts up until and sent on your way. You are now a sub adult any animal you've finally got your independence, from everyone else. As you climb through the come across a strange animal that makes awkward offended you swoop them up and carry them or married, or. No. Legends again. The modern going to go there to keep it light-hearted. Like minding your own business. At least until you they look tasty. You watch for a bit then quickly Nice and juiced up you find a patch of forest and night. Bending nature to your will you create a 10 minutes later, once you've padded out the nest Okay so first you quickly weave together another see at the night. The next morning you're woken calling to the the local females that he's ready any would be competitors to stay out of his zone. getting down as much food as you can. Fruit is diet. All that energy is then spent having a area where you haven't eaten all the fruit usual morning quest for food brings you back to a lava streak to approach the human on foot. They wear their coat like the definitely innocent ape commit daylight robbery, so once you confirm that back to the comfort of the trees. It's already the you've done thousands of times before, then make you've been visiting mum then decide to head to to along till you start jabbing a sharp stick in the grasp. This is one of your many learned behaviors vary from region to region creating cultural Already bored of fish you're back to old habits. trick you picked up helps you decide if it's As you may have guessed, not all learn behavior this opportunity. The humans dock and you wait land you make haste, and GTA their boat. That's continue down the river till you come across had some upgrades. You quickly pick up the correct then stealth mode over and help yourself to some catch you on foot so you decide to steal a You decide to steal a golf buggy and make your years and another day has dawn. You decide so start eating the tree instead. Once you've and pinata a beehive, to get some sweet honey. you head down, only to find yourself forced into that's a nice hat. You point at them, then point laying it before them. You patiently hold out lets you try on their hat. It fits well and they so you quickly disappear into the canopy. At to bed for the night. What's that? You slowly orange creature prowling through the forest. so are too big and skilled at climbing to be you hit maturity meaning, you are now an adult any different. As a female not much changes as an and you're able to mate now. As a male... you technically a mature adult you still haven't grown ladies. The flangy dominant males will always be You track down a female and begin your unwanted her she's under the protection of the local flangy massive creep. Right you've learned your lesson, really knows why some males don't grow flanges start before. There's a theory that the presence leading to a delayed development, but for now it's cheek pads, and the massive throat sack making you're now a flanged male. You're double the drooping cloak of fur is the envy of Dementors. disinterest, which is fitting as your tolerance of that with your superhuman strength makes you a next morning and using your throat sack for max there's a new boy in town. Sounds like the old boy is still around too. seems ready to mate. There's just one obstacle each other... then try to intimidate each ending with you nibbling his cheek pads to victory. You can now mate which involves 3 to before you leave her alone to raise, educate, from you. Rinse repeat the cycle continues, videos of you spear fishing and code breaking who want to push your capabilities to their reveal all your secrets by making the odd mistake you know you're stuck correcting their origin so up until now you have just been pretending not [Keyboard Key Sound] [Music]