(music) Citroen in many ways were like the Tesla manufacturers were making normal, everyday and reinventing just what a car could be in to almost every aspect of the car was unique, not like different meant "wrong". The such as self-centering steering and rain-sensing So, with a pedigree like this, why aren't Why did the SM only sell 13,000 cars before This is the Citroen SM Story. (music) Andre Citroen, the company's founder, first attempt, the 22CV Traction Avant was his tragic death. But all thoughts of high-end War and subsequent restructuring, and by 1960 But thanks to its line-up of the 2CV, Ami range itself back in the black. They were selling their native France. The DS was a landmark car, but it was a family something sportier and started "Project point for the new car and Citroen knew they and the engine. suspension. When the car goes over a bump, a combination of a ball of nitrogen gas and the car already has pressurised fluid for same system. This gave a very smooth, limousine-like the corners - not good for the sporty "Project go flat through corners by pumping hydraulic The photo on the left and right are taken With the levelling system active the car on The work done here improved Citroen's suspension able to perfect flat cornering until the Xantia But the hydropneumatic suspension had a party for high ground clearance or to allow one with only three wheels in an emergency. to the engine. A fast, sporty car needed more could produce, so they worked on creating limited resources couldn't make a design new technology, they started work on a Wankel for the new car, and in fact Citroen could in the early 70's. making a hot DS to a high-end luxury car that had Mercedes, England had Jaguar, and the USA France needed its own luxury car. the brakes and suspension. Citroen had been with self-centering that they called "DIRAVI" or "Steering with controlled return". in the US as the slightly creepy "SpeedFeel". Mmmm! Speedfeel! It was the first commercially available variable assisted at low speeds with just two turns lock to The car would get the DS's innovative front to allow a clear view of the road ahead. But US customers had to do without this feature The car would have a long teardrop shape that to give it a low drag coefficient of just where the Mercedes 280SE had a drag of 0.45, Audi A6 manages a drag factor of just 0.27. makers who would only start chasing low drag lower drag meant a faster car guzzling less called a Kamm tail, similar to modern cars cars that were also chasing a low drag factor. but they still hadn't found the right engine and specifically the lightweight aluminium In fact, Citroen liked the V8 so much, the Kiam and those cheesy 80's Remington razor But Citroen's main market, France, had and Maserati's V8 started at 4.2L. With Maserati just 6-months to lop off two cylinders were appalled by the demands and hit back prevailed, and a rough engine was ready in The car would use a 5-speed manual gearbox, At launch there would be no automatic, but to appease North American customers. resin wheels, a forerunner of carbon fibre drag, V6 engine and weight savings allowed 8.5 seconds, with a top speed of 137mph or A fast car needs good brakes to stop, and that had one of the best stopping distances be operated by a normal brake pedal. Oh no! magic mushrooms, but the SM had a mushroom-like very little travel. Years before it became a feature on most cars, wipers. Instead of using a water sensor, the needed to move the wipers. Less current meant told the wipers to move faster. of 1970. It came second for "Car of the had been introduced the same year. And in the year in 1972. The press loved its smooth features like the lights, but found it difficult at high speeds and the limited travel brake, back and poor visibility. It cost the same as a BMW 3.0 CS, Mercedes and was more expensive than a Cadillac. Citroen XJ6, but the Jag started at PS1,800 in the And Citroen didn't even put the steering that to enterprising UK and Australian dealers Another problem was the learning curve. The and the brakes didn't inspire confidence test drive, it's easy to see customers being familiar. It's true that Tesla have a similar around a Tesla that Citroen simply didn't It was fast, but due to the size-limited 2.8L improved the engine in 1972 by switching out fuel injection. This not only gave it better start and helped it deal with the new US and also produced a more powerful 3.0L variant 225km/h. boat of a car, but the SM was entered in What's more surprising was it won! were issues with the engine. It was shorn It would vibrate excessively at idle a luxury car. To add to this, it wasn't far from sympathetic, further eroding buyer The rich and famous were drawn to its odd leader Leonid Brezhnev and of course many variant to drive around with visiting dignitaries. famous Popemobile. car at the price it was offered at, and not it was dealt a big blow in 1974. Citroen impending US bumper legislation, but at the to happen. This blocked their main export were extensive and expensive for such a low on a boat to be sold in Japan. the going would be tough, but then a bankrupt money the company couldn't afford to keep the production line in 1975. Citroen merged luxury cars went out of the window. self-centering power steering is commonplace hydraulics. Mercedes have used hydraulic suspension still available on the S-Class as "Magic Mmmm Magic Body Control... Even Rolls Royce licensed Citroen's self-levelling It takes a lot of time and effort to make or appear in the credits, please consider from just $1 or 80p a month and hit that subscribe Thanks for watching and see you in the next video!