My name is Tiffany. I'm based in Austin, Texas. I'm 33 years old. I am diagnosed with ovarian cancer. stage three and I'm learning how to draw for fun, in my free time. I was supposed to go, travel abroad for a year in 2024. I was supposed to leave January, like, so instead of, a year's supply of birth control with me. so I decided to get an IUD. So we did, like, the normal stuff She didn't find anything weird then. So there's that. so I got the IUD inserted, like about two days and after that, it was fine. I mean, like, I didn't it didn't and then I had my strings and that was okay, too. but I was bleeding a lot. about a week after it was inserted. I started bleeding like crazy. Like, pad for, like, every hour or so. and so they say it was normal, and so I kind of just left it but for some reasons, after the strings checked, the string I started bleeding a lot again. and I didn't really stop bleeding so that's why I called them so I remember I call them probably mid December or so, to get it checked and to kind of ask them like, hey, like, Because usually what happens is like you it's normal. It's an adjustment period for the IUD, And I was kind of like, I'm Like, I need you to, like, So finally, like, they they got back to me to do an ultrasound to check. and so I went in, I remember going in, I was like, I'm So, okay, they do whatever. Shouldn't be a big deal. So I went in and I was like, And I remember, sonographer is like going And then like, I looked at the screen and Like, I can't read the graphics, what is going on? Like, I'm than just this IUD problem. but she's not able to tell me because I don't think so I almost was able But then I actually had, so I had to, like, schedule it for, like, And so I was just, like, And then the next day I went in and the doctor was like, hey, look, The we don't know what it is. I'm going to need to refer you She didn't really say the word It was kind of like this giant mass, like, I mean, she's referred me so of course, I'm like, oh, shit. And then she ran the, this blood test for the tumor marker she ran it the same day. just so, like, the new doctor can get all the results and stuff. I went to the guy, not the the new doctor, And she basically was like, I need to see, like, an MRI. I just, you know, So I had to get that done the next week. and then after that, she didn't really say it was cancer even though my blood work thing my K 125 was like 4000 and the standard was like 35. So it was like crazy high. but, different things can affect your car 125 such as endometriosis, I all I knew was that I had PCOS. That was the only thing that I knew. Basically, she knew that she had to take out the ovary so that was kind of all we knew. But she said that, you know, hey, you know, like, what are your thoughts about having kids? because of it's cancer. Usually they take everything out. and so she asked me that, to get back to her because I had So, like, think about, like, but we ended up deciding like, even if it's cancer, because we wanted and see if, but going into surgery, I, I was mostly expecting that it would be borderline She thinks it's probably borderline that someone in their 30s so it is pretty rare. So supposedly. But it could happen. and so I went into surgery. I was just kind of like, it's probably borderline, which, but she said that if it is borderline, It would just kind of be like debugging. It ended up not being borderline. so she. So, what happened during surgery, with the ovary, and she said it was like it was a type where it wasn't she could just pick it up with the robot It was the ones that, like, melted and, like mushy and like, gross sounding. and so the surgery took five hours, I believe, because, besides, like taking it out, biopsy to see if it's cancer she does, surgical staging. So she would, swipe samples Like, I think it was like bladder bowels, my, uterus as well as the, for a biopsy to see So I didn't really see her And that's but we don't know the staging. we just know that it's probably more than likely more than stage two, based on what I saw so then two weeks later, during my post-op appointment, so the original report, cells in the omentum, but I think because, I want to say I'm not. So that's what it says there. So that would put me in stage three, a there was like another part of the report exactly sure So they were suspecting that it's either or possibly could be from the uterus, or it's synchronized. After she told me about my diagnosis, So I'm going to be having three rounds And then three rounds again the report and discussing it with her, so I started freezing my embryos. and that was that wasn't that fun? It was a lot of injections, a lot of doctor's appointments, and a lot of going back and forth, my insurance there were a bunch of organizations that would provide And there are discounts, for cancer patients, and I was able to get, help Livestrong, and, so the heart program they gave, all the medication for free, because the medication itself, And I think we were fortunate in a sense, they have to go through multiple cycles like 1 or 2 embryos. But, we were lucky in a sense that, well, it's just one cycle before chemo started. but we were able to freeze eight, so I'm really happy that we got that done. and then right after, like a week this is a little bit morbid in a way of how I kind of processed it. It was more like, okay, well, passed away in two years, I felt like at least I left something for, to decide on. Like, at least I left, like, Like, ultimately, like, by then, I mean, I have no idea. What. What? I hope he does. but that was kind of like my, like, I'm so I'm going to go through this, So the IVF process, so my first the first appointment was kind of So I had the option of just freezing but you still have to go through It essentially means the embryo part comes later. so during the process, basically, they would monitor, your follicles, to see, like, and, before they start, I think I want to say like, day I didn't really have. I was like, on a timeline, pertain to me as much. But I also, luckily had my period So it kind of worked out in that sense. so the first appointment, like how many like follicle reserve so like how many eggs are like already but I guess in a way it was fortunate so apparently, like if you have PCOS, it's actually better for the process so once, she thinks you're ready, so my first the first few days so these injections are done. subcu. so, like, under the skin. So I would do it on my abdomen. and so you would. The first injection was just so scary You don't have to. You guess you like your spouse or someone could help you, and so the the medication kind of helps, grow the follicles. so it helps to grow, So in my example, I think there were So I think for others they might have two. So for my one ovary, I think there were she saw like 18 So they're trying to grow everything Essentially what the medication. So the chemo regimen I'm so it's two chemo drugs. So in terms of side effects, and that pretty much happened, and kind of throughout cycle two as well. but I think after cycle one, I was like, Just get it over with. other side effects is mostly been like swollen hands. I'm having a slight neuropathy. just very slight Very strange. Yeah. So apparently it could happen to, like, just like, it's just a very strange thing. and then I think but that tends to, fade away so I would say so my chemo, regimen so I would say and then it's pretty much back to normal I know, like some women like, you know, I've always been more like, I guess if I cut it and it's ugly, Like, I be upset for, like, a minute, and then I'd be like, okay, So that's that's kind of like how? Like my relationship with my hair was, so I was expecting myself to be, like, but when, like, my hair started falling strands of hair, like, on my pillow, to see that much hair on I did get a little bit emotional. I was just kind of like, I think it, I think the emotional part was more wow, this is like real. in a sense, I think because I didn't have that much time to process everything. I think just seeing the hair kind of just, like, hit me in the face Like, this is happening. We kind of just like it just showed me so that was kind of like, and then I felt like I was really concerned I was like, attractive or, you know, if Like, I keep asking him, and that, like, that kind of thing. but I think, ultimately, like, not my head, but my hair off, I was I was kind of surprised that, like, I thought, and I went on a lot of shopping sprees, just for, like, new styles and wigs and, So my next milestone, So the surgery I'm getting will be a, total hysterectomy. so what that means for me taking out my remaining ovary, that attaches to the ovary, I am incredibly anxious about it, because once they take out that ovary, and for women that are like being in forced menopause, for like osteoporosis not to mention like, oh, I've been reading that are around my age, it sounds like there's like a thing called that will happen or might happen as well. so not looking forward to that. Also, all the other stuff that comes so I'm very, very scared, about like what might happen. and also they say that, like, get those symptoms right away. So it's not like I'm going to wake up so it might take like a few weeks and so I'm pretty nervous about it. I honestly think what has really gotten me through because, like, I'm still able to pole dance, and contort, which I don't understand how sometimes. so that has been pretty incredible. I hope very helpful as well. Like for my mental health, I think it's something that I've always used But now I'm really just like, really doing it all the stuff. But I think what shifted in the way just like, appreciate what I can do, versus, forcing myself, not forcing, but like going after certain things so I kind of see it in I look back, I do feel like I had the symptoms. I think I definitely ignore them. I kind of was just like, oh, I mean, I do, I do crazy workouts, so like, yeah, there's some tightness there but when I look back, I was like, Like, it was weird you know, there were days where, like, Like, training really, like, hurt today. Like today. And like, because it's like putting a lot And it's really pretty uncomfortable all. But I kind of just like brushed it away. and so I think, like if I did not get that IUD, I think it would have like but it would have been probably too late. I just like because I was like, I didn't think of it as anything. My biggest advice is to be really honest Like, kind of like really checking are you feeling something or not? But like, listen to that voice, when you're checking in with yourself do your research a little bit too, because, I mean, but if you don't, like you, you have the knowledge to back up, and then, like, be very assertive Like, I would say something like, can we do, like, a scan or something having them lead the way almost. you kind of want to, like, and then also be honest with them because I think sometimes people brush away symptoms because they're scared and I think it's I get that because I think that was me. but it's better to, like, know what it is