Feeling good, with 'perfect' figures: the advertising of cosmetic surgery clinics and agencies. Countries like Turkey are attracting customers with but the fantasy of a flawless appearance can often end with lifelong scarring... Yeah, I absolutely ... and in the worst She was so full of promise. Every year, hundreds of thousands cosmetic surgery and We only rent them Now, victims of and the families of those who have died are demanding accountability. Hi, I really got conned. I'm ok, I'm in a lot of pain, but ok. I'm going to be home on I'll call you then. Love you. It's that little bit at You can hear the A few days after this voice daughter was dead. 20-year-old Morgan from South London She wanted to put an She applied for weight loss surgery authority, but was on She couldn't stand the fact that to be on the waiting list. She was doing a lot of social media you know, beauticians, kinds of stuff, In 2023, she spotted an advertisement claiming to be the They would arrange cosmetic surgery included; a common Morgan was offered the surgery she would pay in Britain. She was referred to At the end of the year, Morgan posted a video Hi, my name is Morgan. I'm 20 years old and on the I'm having weight loss surgery, specifically gastric sleeve. It feels crazy to say that out loud My flights are booked. I've already had all my consultations with my doctor, therapist and all that sort with my package, and I'm... I'm ready. What Morgan didn't know: her agency, little more than a name on the We couldn't find an office. Upon inquiry, the agency by appointment only. Morgan was also unaware that the reputation for some time and that operate on her promotes specialist for hemorrhoid treatment. Shortly after New Year's Day, 2024, Jamie, flew from She thought 'Yeah! We wanted to learn more business and traveled to Istanbul. Hundreds of thousands of medical with the trend on the rise. The full gamut of beauty from hair transplants to breast all at comparatively According to the government, Turkey in 2023. A billion-dollar business for Most treatments are carried out clinics and doctors The fiercely competitive attracting ruthless businesspeople. 20-year-old Morgan and sought advice in advance from her followers: if you've had weight loss surgery, specifically a gastric sleeve or any weight loss surgery, and you have any tips for me, please do let me know. The day after her arrival, the designated private clinic A hospital which complaints on Turkish websites. Following the breast augmentation, the silicone has slipped. They're denying any responsibility. Egg-sized bumps on my They're demanding another 3,000 Allegedly, the employees have only for years now. In the past three years the When Morgan Ribeiro arrived at the doctor than the one she had This one didn't speak English. Morgan's boyfriend told us they After the surgery, Morgan Nevertheless, she was On the return flight, she collapsed. An emergency landing was made in the few days later, despite an Serbian forensic scientist for the autopsy. It was a profound infection, so spreading infection. Doctors had removed a segment of the small intestine, which appears to be damaged, injured during the presiding all these happenings, Istanbul, in Turkey. We wanted to speak to the people in Morgan Ribeiro's case. The director remembered the waived any responsibility... We only rent them the operating room. The doctor is not one of ours. They just rented the The doctor works for another clinic. A version of events that was disputed when we approached them. We also contacted the doctor accusations of malpractice. He declined to be interviewed. I've already said There was supposedly It's all too easy to slander someone. Morgan Ribeiro isn't the first has not survived an In the past five years, at least 28 died as a result of surgeries there. Some British politicians are now such medical tourism Sara Platt was lured Today, she says she barely survived breast surgery in Turkey. Back home in Wales, she's needed to return to some semblance I used to be very outgoing: I don't do any of that anymore. I absolutely hate my body now. On February 7, 2023, 33-year-old Sara flew to Antalya, on the Mediterranean Sea, accompanied by her parents. The Turkish metropolis is for medical tourism. She, too, had Yes, I was taken to the hotel, and - like, literally, I hadn't even they wanted payment. As soon as I got to the hotel. Following the surgery, Her wounds weren't healing. She was nonetheless and taken back to her hotel. I had pain everywhere, and I I was screaming... and then I passed out. Then I'd come back around, I've got the message still, like 'When do they and I had a message back on 'They don't. You leave them It's better for the healing, ' and I was thinking in nine days. Do you mean I haven't been washed. Do you mean the smell of I could smell rotting flesh. I remember Dean All this gunk just kept pouring out. I was screaming. I remember being like Even over a year later, she's still suffering from the fallout. She's sued the Through social media, she's of mishandled Turkish She intends to fight for her rights. With follow-up surgery, Swansea endeavored to help Sara He has many trusted and but the number of is on the increase. We normally see things such as wound-healing problems, wound infections, problems with the blood supply - which lead into skin necrosis, breast implant infections, and this sort of thing. The truth is, it's very important properly, because to turn back the scarring, particularly tissue loss, or often very, very tricky to to get a good result. Late June, London. Opposite the Houses of Parliament tourism fair promoting exactly these Sara Platt is outraged. She intends to confront exhibitors How is the Turkish beauty industry So many, so many... Platt shows pictures of her the event organizers. No. I am sorry for that. Really. Nobody should go through that. Aftercare is quite crucial. I was 28 days in Turkey because So, I wish I had the As soon as they've got I mean, there are always So here out in the UK too, when you still have the same risks Surprisingly, at an industry panel indirect admission that not The representative of a British careful screening of patients Please don't say 'Yes' The sooner we learn to say 'No', deliver ethical healthcare. Let us not harm. Just a few meters away, Sara Platt wants to Fitted with a hidden camera, feigns interest in The representative initially Your BMI? 29.5. 29? Oh, you don't look it. Ok. For gastric sleeve That's not possible. But not five minutes later, she same provider with Gastric balloon... It would However, a gastric balloon is BMI over 30. Some medical societies even advise The run of scandals hasn't deterred health fair: they trust 'Cause we see them in the But my opinion is that if you do your research If it really suits my needs, then I the company checked twice, or know it's the best place Sara Platt also researched knife in Turkey. She's now disturbed by the fact that Turkish cosmetic surgery industry freely in Britain. When I actually show them the that's when they're like, 'Oh, but something needed to On the other side, the Turkish health place the responsibility primarily swayed by the bargain If your only focus is price, this is not going to be the right decision. You have to understand why this is cheap. Check your doctor: if that doctor is medical authorities accredited international health tourism. You need to do that. If you have any suspicions, go to go to NGOs who are dedicated to At this stage, the only option left victims of botched cosmetic responsible in Turkey from Britain. It's a painstaking process - by British-Turkish lawyer, Burcu Orhan... A lot of the time, people who have solid cases come to me, they just can't deal with the financial or another country, therefore At the moment, I've about 28 ongoing many inquiries I'm getting - which is ten a week. She's of the opinion that stricter agencies, for instance, If these medical tourism agencies and they had to go through estate agents, you know, anyone really, surveyors, so none because what they will do then: these medical agencies will who won't make these mistakes. Mistakes that can end in death, Her mother hopes that public prevent other young women and their lives for looks. My daughter deserved to regardless of her size. She deserved to be beautiful, without being bullied. She deserved to have a life as or any other 20-year-old She hadn't even She was so full of promise.