"Come. Come. Are you smelling this? Why does it smell I don't know if it's like "[GASPS]: You - [LAUGHS]: "It's this burning. Oh, my God." [FUNKY MUSIC] "Hello, everybody. Vaughn here. Happy Thanksgiving. I am truly so excited. Thanksgiving is obviously, because it I am here today to show you working on for you Around March or I was basically given the task hearken those flavors but are also pies I think the best thing about We're going to make a hell so I figured there would to celebrate in the spirit a pie-stravaganza. I've invited some pals here of the day today, so But we're going to all enjoy and going to get some -- [LAUGHS]: some And without further ado, [FUNKY MUSIC] "So I have a confession. I really never I think it was was one of those things that every single time. And I'm a little bit But as I got to we became really good pals. And I think it I figured out a really So it starts, obviously, 2 teaspoons of salt, which but this does make The sugar, it doesn't really but it really does You kind of want ready at your disposal I'm going to fill this up enough ice to get All right. The last thing is Pie dough, in it's, is something that should How you do that is through because the smaller promote that tenderness, but up in the oven a little and create the flaky layers. So I'm going to start to of butter in the flour. I'm creating And I'm getting You can see I've got and then I've got some of continue to break So I'm going to make a little But I'm going to just start You want the option but you can't really take Work that water into the dough like And then I'll just take to hydrate some of those And now is when I can And it doesn't stick but you can see the Turn it on to my work surface. Bring it together here. I kind of pat the dough We're going to This is basically going to I'm going to go one step into quarters. And it's going to fall That is totally O.K. and one on top of that. I have a little bit on the surface, which is good. Flatten it out just with I'm going to divide So then I stack all four of And this is kind of like how You can already see those [FUNKY MUSIC] "Flatten it out there. We were doing our Thanksgiving last year. She rolled it in the plastic. That's such a smart tip. So that's bringing the dough super, super much. Corners in. I'm just going to try to make possibly can, which will make out later. So I've got my two rounds in the fridge for at Luckily, we have a swap I'm going to show y'all You probably want it to just to start to come But the big thing is you You can start it by This starts the process and it's going to also help And I'm doing those quarter that shape. I've already beaten so I'm going to start in the applying even pressure down. A quarter turn. And if you get cracking You can work it back into the So you just keep it Basically, what you're looking You can use a ruler. You can kind of eyeball it. So this is why I because I can tell a little thick over there. So what I do is I always I can line it right Just very gently press It also just kind of helps a little bit better. I definitely want to make sure overhang because I'm going but I don't want I'm just going to leave I don't have much of overhang, just take a little bit of It's not going to most cohesive crust. It's totally fine. Now, if at any point dough is getting too stick it in the fridge. Take the overhang, So you just fold it under, Now I'm going to crimp. So basically, I take my and then I take the And I just make all the way around. And this is also to the rim of the pie plate. So as much as it is pretty, Now that this is nice and this is what's called It's creating little in the bottom of this. I also to make small along the wall. I find that that it maintain its shape, too. My dough is nice and docked. She's got to go in She's a little too warm. All right. She's gorgeous. She's frozen. She's ready to be parbaked. I like to bake all of If it's an especially you can line your sheet I always do this so that make it smoky in your So what we're going to do now You want it to be crisp I found that foil it maintain its shape a than parchment. What I do is I crisscross I want to make sure coming into solid contact I'm filling this This is in order to help the You can use grains of rice I invested in these weights, which are just little But the really when you order these there really aren't enough of What I'm going to do is I'm hot oven for about 20 minutes, these pie weights And then you continue to bake 350 in this case, for another starts to brown." [UPBEAT MUSIC] "And it feels nice. It's like very matte but And it looks like So I'm just going to let this started on the If you like tart and this is absolutely The first step is to citrus you can find. And now I need a total of Mmm. I love oranges. A really lovely thing to is boil this, little water, Perfumes your whole house. It's gorgeous. My mom does it every year. This one's going [LAUGHS]: One for the chef. Ooh. So now I'm just going to I am going to put my I just like to do this because kind of extracts some of I've got five yolks in Now I'm going to go in with my Put it over like I'm going to switch from and I'm going to use it as done. Definitely not looking so you want to just take it Nappe is when you've got the back of the spoon and you it. And that's exactly I did this a couple times because I was like, The bits of could cause it to And it will also create So you will be discarding At this point, the zest, in that sugar, it's Pour this into my Every part of me wants to go I don't want a third tool to be, you use so many tools. But then they're also going to I'm going to get a spatula. I do not have a but here we have a really This one I do bake Now is actually a good time, to make the cranberry sauce. I was only able to find Totally fine. I need a tablespoon of zest Set this over like a and bring the So after I brought I did turn it down This is like now what I So once they start to burst, So this is good. It's a very loose I'm going to strain it while it to start to set up. Make sure that there And it will look super I'm going to let this It comes down to temperature. I'm going to check on the pie. It's been about 20 minutes. We'll see where it's at. Oh yeah, that looks good. If I very gently wrap it, That is what I'm looking for. So I'm going to let this temperature, and then I'm so that it is completely before we top it It's a very Glenda meringue us. So we're making You're combining your and you're cooking those boiler. So a double boiler over a pot of simmering water. As I move and whisk the it's going to be slowly cooking them to a curdle. Basically, just be But you do want to make sure that's built up on the I'm going to add my salt. All right. We're at 151, 2, 3, Take a little bit, and I grittiness between my fingers. Feeling really is kind of in the kitchen. Transfer this to the Whip this. We definitely want stiff It's basically like we're That is what That is a stiff peak. It almost looks like Frozone freezes someone and all the [LAUGHS]: anyway. I'm going to add half [MUSIC PLAYING] "So I've got my chilled You can see, in a everything gets nice and So I want to make sure And then I'm going to go in in there." [FUNKY MUSIC] "Go with a gentle Pile it a little evenly. Add a little bit more to this. And I love seeing So I'm just going to take to make some cute and indentations. Done. We're almost done with this. I'm going to let this I know we had brat summer, but to have a pretty bratty I was listening to I know that -- I know that this part, "Oh wait." "Oh wait. Oh, I forgot about that part." - [LAUGHS]: "If I'm going to be I never loved apple pie. I kind of tinkered with a and then we kind of because it brought in a of bright, ruby red element. There is a nice woven It's sprinkled with a The first thing is peel and core apples, of the worst culinary tasks. I always feel like I need Here we go. Oh, no. And cut these into This apple is not rotten down So this is kind of what All right. And that's kind of "Can I come in?" "Yes, please." [FUNKY MUSIC] "I'll peel. You cut?" "Yeah. Perfect. You can't spell "There's no 'I' in 'team.'" "But there is an "Done. I'm going to add my sugar, and with some cornstarch. Cornstarch is one of those clumpy, so the helps break up the I'm going to put that off to I get my lemons I feel like ginger and apples super, super well together. I don't have any cinnamon I just feel like it And I'm going to go in kosher salt. And then I'm just going to give So I'm just going to start to and I'm going to cook these minutes. Stir to coat all of my of like pomegranate I'm just looking for them to The knife goes in with a but you can tell that I need to cool this completely What I can do to try to is spread this out in this Increasing the to help whatever you I'm just going to let and then I'm going This is a double that there is crust on the I'm going to fill it [FUNKY MUSIC] "O.K. So I've worked this It is getting a so I'm just going to stick it my other dough. This one I really I want to be able Yeah. Using a ruler is very I'm just going to go through, [MUSIC PLAYING] "Maybe I'll go like Let's see. So I should get about So my filling is cool. You do want it to Because there's cardamom I'm also going to mix some of cardamom. And when this bakes up, Ah. I dropped stuff I'm going to take one of the We are going to fold this But you just don't want a so I always just start by And I'm going to space it so that I can get four strips. Trim that. If you stay ready, you Now what I'm going to do is strip and fold them up. So this is why we to be cold but not too cold. We don't want to rip it. I should be able to fit four. Perfect. Take these two strips, and So you take these two And I'll do this one, these All righty. And then I can use this So I've got my lattice here And I basically You don't want too much dough aren't looking for Fold it in on And then I'm going to Oh, I just love how So that looks lovely. And I'm just going all over, to seep into my filling. And then I'm going to and I want to make sure So I'm going to put it on a it. It's going to be And that heavy cream just Perfect. There is going to be some while it's in the oven. I'm going to tap this out and while my pie just kind of sets 10 minutes." [UPBEAT MUSIC] "(WHISPERS) Oh, Oh my God. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. She looks -- she's cooked. This looks fabulous. I'm just going to let and that's honestly going which is going to be tough. But it's necessary This is pumpkin pie. Pumpkin pie is one of how hard people tried, kind of the same. So this is a It's a little toasty. It's a little nutty. I've got my I mean, really, pumpkin pie so I love the addition because it helps make it a I'm going to just start to Obviously, pumpkin, luxuriousness. So this is kind It is your standard It does not really have any I like to add a little to add more of that Ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, We're going to level it up a sesame oil. I'm just going to mix this up. I've got tahini and a Add just a little pinch And then this is just Mix that up. All right. So I take about 3/4 then start to layer probably about half of it. And then you can So the reason I do get a little bit more I felt like when I just added the color of the pie was very The rest of my pumpkin, then the rest of the tahini." [FUNKY MUSIC] "You can go swirls. You can go whatever I usually go through. You just do some nice swirls. Kind of a little spider Now, I'm going put this in the to 40 minutes. It's going to start to on the sides. The center will If you overbake it, you do We are also going to Since it puffs up a little you also run the I will say, Sometimes it does not. All of the time I do have a tiny a little bit of cracking. I'm not really worried about Right now, it's still I'm going to cool it to room in the refrigerator to chill if not overnight. I'm envisioning some bourbon buttermilk Can we do that?" "Yes." "This one probably truly is This pie tastes like Bourbon buttermilk maple that's that me by the time this comes out. I mean, it's already You get that nice coffee note, It's literally just mixing Let's get started. It's just your eggs. I don't have that Maple syrup is sweeter than sugar. That is the predominant I would like get a good one. I've got some buttermilk It's just a And if you don't want to It'll be great anyway. But the bourbon really just Mix this up. Also in here is going that has been So cornmeal is in your Southern chess pie. Just mix it really well." [MUSIC PLAYING] "Now you'll see some They will pop. It is fine. Should we torch it? Whoa. Well, was that necessary? No. But was it fun? Yes. I feel like I'm in We're going to do You're basically just looking of a burnished brown. Oh, Holy Moses, I They'll settle into a flat to put your whipped It's just kind of the It almost souffles up on the My friends are coming soon. We have to finish the pies. This is the espresso for the bourbon pie, which I think just really Truly makes it taste I love it. Just very cold heavy cream. You need it to be cold so My powdered sugar. This is instant espresso and Start it slow to get Then go fast. Finish it off. O.K. So I can see that of the whisk, which And I think I've got some Dollop it on top, Offset spatula. I'm doing this pretty gently and I don't want it So I'll take my spatula." [FUNKY MUSIC] "It's pretty mesmerizing. Ooh, ah. You're getting very sleepy. I really want these pies Candied orange just represents the I think it's fine. I'll try this one Sure. No. All right, we're good. I hate it. I hate it. I can keep going for days. We gotta go. We gotta go. We gotta go. My friends are coming. I'm going to take these off, The salted coconut This one could be Affectionately known because it is like So the first thing is make the dough is a chocolate pate sucree. It really is shortbread Frangipane, which is texture, toasted drizzled with chocolate, really good. So it all starts with You can do this by hand. I make it in a food processor It's more cleanup, but less Some Dutch processed cocoa. Powdered sugar is basically with a little bit It adds the sweetness, but it This is just a So I'm just going to pulse incorporated. But try to get all those Yeah, ooh. Now I've got some cubed, (SINGING) I got to, got to O.K. So I'm going to just You're basically coating the All right. So now what I'm going to do is a little bit of vanilla. Put that in there. And now I'm just going to around the blade. That was basically it. Let's make sure. Alrighty. It's good. It's O.K. that there's little the top of my food processor. And just kind of like I did It's so much easier to basically start with the in already. Gently roll it into the edges Just kind of keep Chill this at least 30 The firmer it is, though, to roll out. O.K., so my tart dough is It's definitely firmed up. It's still pretty pliable, Oh, hello. This rolls out super easy. You don't have to be But I do want to a nicely floured surface. And I'm going to flour Flour my rolling pin. And you can keep it moving, Make your little quarter I'm again looking for kind like I did with the pie dough. And it is kind of delicate, it's not the most I just find it's easier for me do press it like this. My dough is really I'm going to freeze it without for a cleaner trim. When it's frozen, it'll O.K., I start by trimming and then that way I can if I need to. I want to make sure it's all too because these little bits these scraps, I mean, this chocolate dough. And you can roll and make little chocolate (BRITISH ACCENT) a Now, if you really wanted to, and trim it flush, which is So I just take the knife and this creates that Do the same thing I did making sure it has that Bake this on a rimmed baking just until it starts to look Wow. I'm exhausted. We're rocking and rolling. We're almost there. My tart crust is cool. What is cool is that The frangipane sounds but it's truly so easy. It's softened butter. Add my sugar, My you're just throwing this all [MUSIC PLAYING] "I feel like Zoolander. The files are in the computer. You could also do this What? Oh my God. Whoa, whoa. How high does it go? Oh. I don't want to test it yet. Add my egg one at a time. Oh, which one's going to go? Which one's going to go? Whoa. This thing's got So fun. Eyeball it. My almond flour, toasted I'm just going to Whoa. I'm going to go ahead and fill Just use an offset spatula This is going to go back to 25 minutes, just kind of baked through. You think you just fell O.K. We're the last stage of We got to make the You can make a caramel. I promise you, You do not need to be scared. Repeat after me. I can make a caramel. I am going to do what's So I'm basically starting of water. Set that over probably right now just to get I'm going to continue to stir dissolved because I don't So I have a measuring cup So if I see any bits of I am going to go You'll know the sugar is clear. I am going to You really just want to swirl really dark bits of caramel on on another. My sugar is all dissolved. These bubbles are essentially because it's driving You can see around the I'm starting to get more I think I'm about ready And I'm going to go ahead and my coconut. It will bubble That is O.K. And I just really down so it reduces even more. I want this to be So if you have a 250 is what's considered So I'm at 250. You can see that the to slow down a little more viscous. And now I'm going to and my toasted coconut. And this really just helps Oh my goodness. The addition of the makes it smell truly so good. Let it hang out for and then I'm going to pour earlier. Forgot the vanilla, Cool. [LAUGHS]: Oh, it already cookie. We're filming this and I want to make sure So you can see it's It's almost like a frosting. My chocolate dough but this kind of O.K., I think I'm going to and try to take this out. Everybody's looking at me I think it's going to [MUSIC PLAYING] "Now I'm just going to drizzle sprinkle it with a I'm going to blitz this in You don't want it to seize, and stir every few seconds. See? I'm going to stop. Yeah, and I O.K. While the chocolate sprinkle it with Now I'm going to let it set of our pies before I am taking you to Guy Fieri would love it. This is the salted We're going to start which is Nilla Wafers crushed There it does need especially with the We want to flavor this My sugar was a little want to get some of And then now I'm going to pistachios. Wow, those are really Get it nice and mixed up. And this is perfect I do this anytime I'm making Even it out. And then working from make sure that And then I take the flat You just start working your way You want this crust I like my crust like I like I don't think that You can see that it's a the walls. Once I get the bottom that's when I'm going to go sides nice and squished in. You can see when I did this, not very compact, so I It seems like I'm pretty So now I'm just going to minutes because that's going And this only bakes It's really just Ooh. I smell a teaching moment. All right. So I don't know if my crust before I put it in there, but because we were running I wouldn't typically do I would do it in just a a glass pie plate. If it does slump, You can press it back up. Just be gentle with it, or All right. So this is going to be butterscotch pudding. Dark brown sugar, a a medium, medium-high heat. So I'm seeing these Once I start to that's when I know I'm pretty So I'm going to add a mixture And it may sputter up at you. It may not. And then I've got my milk. Whisk all that in to combine. If you get any bits of that's totally O.K. So essentially what I'm doing milk up to a simmer. You do not want to boil While that's going, I'm going yolks. Boo. It'll look like and then it'll And this is basically what's If I went ahead and added right now, I would What I'm going to do is which basically means adding that's more room temperature to temperature. You do want to stir fairly this. And then what I'm going to and I'm going to add it stirring. So now I'm going to turn my medium-high heat. And basically what I'm looking bubbles, Shrek's Once it's thick enough to that is when I switch to the also going to help me get into of pesky. So I'm getting those Add softened butter. You could also add but I love that rum and some salt. Setting that off to the side. So now I've got my crust, so I'm going to layer. I mean, you don't have to Slippery little suckers. Layer some. Overlap some. And I'm going to reserve And basically you just All right. So I've got my bananas Give your pudding, a And I'm going to pour hot Top it with the It's kind of like And you can see the to set up, which is great. Mmm. Cover this loosely just so Cool for 30 minutes and then chill it completely if not overnight. It looks really good. This is a stabilized which basically means whipped of fat in there. I chose to do creme fraiche. You can do creme fraiche. You can do sour cream, tangy, honestly, because through a lot of Start on low just to and then I'll O.K. I think at this point of flavoring. You could either add vanilla. Or since I used rum I am going to just and then a little All right. So for piping, I to just about stiff peaks. So let's see. Yeah, that's I just want it to be stable This is just for like, And just make squiggles Why not? This is up to artistic Just one layer down below and it'll have me. Go in different directions. Because that butterscotch I really like how that through it. Under pressure, maybe not my So I'm going to top it bright green pistachios. And you've got your with pistachios. This is going to just go Stravaganza Got a nice little Everyone's here. The pies are out. I'm so excited. I'm actually getting I'm really just like, O.K., friends. You look fabulous." "Oh, thank you." "I am so excited. All right, everybody. Come enjoy some pies." [FUNKY MUSIC] "Here's to you [CORK POPS] "Woo!" "Woo!" [APPLAUSE] "A little champagne for you. Cheers." "Cheers." "I'm going to slice the pie. Y'all are going to have "Thank you." "You got the first slice." "This is incredible." "You like that one? I tried with vodka, but then More bubbles, too, so enjoy. Everybody, thank you so much Hey, if you want the "'New York Times "[LAUGHS]: [SNAPS]: Happy Thanksgiving, [CHEERING] "Yay! You deserve a slice."