Does anyone else have that situation where... everything feels good, the sound is beautiful And suddenly It should be easy. Scales are one of the first things but for some reason you just can't quite You keep missing notes. You're wracking your brain the last time you even practiced a scale. And nothing feels right and everything is It well, yeah, We pianists underestimate scales. We always think that there's something or more interesting But then in a moment like this, in Bach or Mozart or even in contemporary music (this is Saariaho's Ballade!) That avoidance of scales Make sure that you practice your scales I do sound like Mrs. Nussbaum down in the Bronx, who gives lessons for $0.25 Of course we don't have to practice scales five with our teacher looking over are much more efficient and fun ways can be a tool for everything I'm Robert Fleitz from Tonebase And today I brought together artists on how we can practice scales in and I think some of these tricks But before we continue. Be sure to like this video if you're interested in more educational And also be sure to check out Tonebass where you can watch the full version And they're the platform Now let's get into it. Scales. why do we practice scales? They're a great exercise for gaining They underpin all our harmony, of them in almost every melody So we need to be able to play them Scales, I think for me, are very vocal. If you treat them vocally, then I have never forgotten my own first Rudolf Firkusny, where he said to me, Then he played a C major scale from the which would have made my mother they also create fluidity perhaps no spaces between the keys you're playing on the strings, but It's not as complicated as many musicians one of the fingering principles on black keys and short And I'll show you where Chopin would put And that's right here Now you see that my long fingers are placed My short fingers are a little farther back from the fall board on the white keys, and I have this really nice natural hand It's got a nice curve to it. If I just drop my hand, it's that I would get if my hand were at rest. We want to keep the arm quite light. If you're pressing down into the keys, So you want to start There's really no point All the fingers need to do So I start with a parachute touch very soft and loose and can make So we can just do... One quick way to learn this is by clumping So I'll show you quickly white key, clump; white key, clump... I can cap it off and come back down. That's it. Left hand. I'm going to follow exactly the rules so I have a small clump here The next finger down is a fourth finger. So this is a key Don't worry about it. Follow the clumps so I'll clump and if I want, I can separate automatically I'm watching ahead for the clumps The rotational movements of one, two, are based on the physiological condition And the body only wants to do this. Right, left, left, right, left, left, left. So. And together, it'll look like this. So immediately we make an observation. Every thumb rotates towards So you look toward my body. Toward my body. Toward my body. Toward my body. Away from my body. Toward my body. the things that I say from once you go above one octave, and the right a C major scale. And to me it feels like one right up and one Now, you could change articulation You could do starting loud Or you can do starting soft Going like this. Or you can do the opposite. So Imagine you have a canvas dip the paint, just do this. Just get used to doing this So I always use the piano, like a canvas, and you just paint the keys. and that's all you want to do is achieve one line up and one line down. the section that includes these scales. It's important to practice them with a lot of energy in the fingertip so that the fingers are always sure And the hand is always very flexible. You never want light fingers in a passage a little bit pressure to show this line If the fingers are too light and you're nervous, the hand will pull out and the sound isn't reliable. So always start this sound at the beginning. I also really recommend playing but just the same throughout, next is always predictable. And in this case there are two groups of four and then a group of six. So I don't really have to play much faster And so I can simply practice and gradually over time Going on. We enter the second thematic but people often refer to the genius of Mozart, and you know, if you really start which I encourage you not to do! we look at something like that I see a bunch of scales... It is in Mozart's sense of the proportion that he uses and his sense of how in a beautiful mosaic So bear in mind that that has to sound but a very beautiful scale. Thanks so much for joining us today. What are your favorite scale exercises moments in piano rep? So be sure to sound off in the comments also let me know you'd like to hear more you'd like to scale up your playing, They're the platform And you can watch the full version of all these lessons, arpeggios, and much, much more by clicking or looking right up here. And again, be sure to like this video if you haven't already. Thanks for making it