(4D Shapes Falling) This is a video about Flat lifeforms in 2D landscapes, psychedelic beings that can ignore time. While our 3D brains can typically only perceive of computer simulations and a bit of sci-fi mind-blowing hypothetical realities. So, say goodbye to the 3D world you know, We'll start by voyaging down a dimensional The beings of this universe can only move If we were to stick our faces through the be frightening, as the two-dimensional lifeforms thin slices of our three-dimensional bodies machine. To those beings, we would be shape-shifters with no explanation. But could life really function in 2D? Sure, here's some now. This is a simulation running in ALIEN, an two-dimensional ecosystems. These virtual cells might not be life as we and adapt to environmental changes. There's lots of impressive 2D life simulators of a computer, it couldn't be made of the Scientist Timm Hurton successfully simulated so our hypothetical 2D organism could be made One of the biggest hurdles for two-dimensional Nearly all three-dimensional animals are built their bodies, with a hole on one end for eating, But if a two-dimensional lifeform had such as this 'advanced simulation' shows -- with apart. But there might be a solution. Certain animals like Sea Anemones just have needs. Which is... something I'm not going to think But perhaps our theoretical 2D lifeform could leading to a simple digestive tract. Of course, it's worth noting that just because As far as we're aware, there is no secret hypothetical. But what would happen if we went up a level, The innovate game 4D Toys is a way for us our minds around four-dimensional objects. At first, these objects don't seem to make even disappearing from view entirely. What's happening? To answer that, let's return to our metaphor through its flat realm. From our perspective, these 3D objects are don't follow familiar rules, appearing and As 3D beings, we can see the objects just 2D plane, but the 2D entity has no awareness And that's exactly what's happening to We're three-dimensional beings that can objects. Take this ball pit filled with 200 4D hyperspheres. At first, it doesn't seem like there's our third dimensional slice through the fourth slice through the third dimension, we can This model of the fourth dimension is more These shapes have long been researched in 4D cubes, are well-documented structures. Now, some of you might be thinking, 'wait, Hold onto that comment, we're going to get For now, there's lots of cool stuff you fourth-dimensional abacuses, which really with a toy. Ever tried to fit a tesseract into a 4D hole? It's not easy. I'm convinced this is how USBs work -- you they're 4-D objects -- wake up people. Trying to think in 4D can be a humbling experience, For example, let's imagine a 2D entity is From our 3D perspective, the solution is obvious, But to a 2D entity, disconnecting the two our solution would look like magic. But we'd have similar difficulties with These two rings seem like they could never we can't perceive along the fourth dimension, It drives home the point that to a fourth utterly perplexed by the most basic of their "Struck by the evil prankster's dimension ship." But shapes are one thing. What would it be like if a fourth dimensional world? The answer might be the game Miegakure. Created by the same developer as 4D Toys, dimensions -- though we can only perceive But Miegakure allows you to move your 3D slice sides to buildings and landscapes you couldn't It can be quite trippy to look at, but this ways. Say there's a wall in front you. You can move your plane of 3D until you reach there, then walk right through. Now, despite being in development for a while, to play, for the understandable reason that a three dimensional being is quite challenging. "Great Galaxies, where are we?" "Location, Dimension 23." "DiMenSiOn 23?" Another promising 4D game is 4D Miner. Created by youtuber Mashpoe, this game resembles with the mouse wheel and realize we're once landscape. Surviving in this world stretches your mind. Sometimes you'll think you're in an area around you, just hidden elsewhere in the fourth Other times, you think you've found a small But most challenging of all, is the fact you Those hovering shapes belong to fourth dimensional Called hyperspiders, their bodies extend into larger than we can fathom. Because of their fourth dimensional bodies, harder to hide from. If you build a house to take shelter in, they'll This is because as 4D predators, hyperspiders can easily overlook. "Meanwhile, back on the world in our dimension." "What are we going to do?" "I'm afraid gentlemen, we are at their There are other ways of simulating four-dimensional 4D Particle Life is a game that works just in 4D. The artificial life on screen right now might cell has a much more complex 4D body. It's interesting to think about how games games, 4D. Although side note: many classic 2D games can pass in front of and behind objects, so What's really weird is that when you play a 3D slice of a 4D world rendered on a 2D So now that no one is confused, let's talk "Now to switch on my time conveyer!" You might have heard that time is the 4th 4D life but, like, with time instead. Whether or not time is best classified a dimension of debate, but let's run with the idea. After all, you do 'move' through time. All of us, right now, are constantly traveling in moments ago, simply by existing. So, by some definitions, you're already and one dimension of time. "What was that strange field we just passed "It must have been some sort of time barrier. Look, a water dinosaur!" The difficulty is, of course, that we can We are constantly traveling forwards, and end up. If you could see your fourth-dimensional self first moments to your very last, it's interesting means to be human. If, from the very beginning of your story, that even be a life as we understand it? One of the few sci-fi films to seriously consider is Arrival. The aliens in the movie, called 'heptapods,' with every moment in their lives, including other. We're not talking about a lifeform that entities that can exist at any point along And as the film progresses, the main human the heptapods do. It's an ability that proves both beneficial in her life become contemporary instances One of the hardest parts of time passing is But if you knew every tragic event in your change anything, would that really make things Another reflection on the melancholy of non-linear in the scene where the lead character falls where they're able to see into the past The strange realm is called a Tesseract, even spatial sense. But like Arrival, Interstellar's portrayal device than a physics lesson -- a meditation We all want to know where we're going, but couldn't change course, perhaps you'd "You are now in dimension 5, the 5th dimension. Give me the library of Gorr!" "It was lost when you pulled me into this But what if you could steer the ship, moving lifeform could move through space, would that While you ponder that question, let's play And by that, I of course mean "5D Chess 5D chess plays... basically the same as regular chess. With the small exception that if a game just your pieces backwards through time, creating differently. And you can do this as many times as you like, multiple different parallel realities. You with me so far? While playing, you can take pieces out from You can send your king through time to another timeline and making it impossible for you There's a strategy called 'Jurassic Rook,' the way back to the beginning of the game, original state like you're in Back to the mind completely shattered. "I just saw a trillion different realities of metal forming a single blade." "Yeah, yeah, the time knife, we've all But what's potentially even crazier is imagining function in an ecosystem. Say you're a 5D organism, aware of yourself If you're caught by a predator in one reality, In another point in another timeline, you're Or, you could go full Jurassic Rook and take little, or better yet, take out their great It's mind-boggling to think about a whole to out-juke each other across multiple timelines, And to be clear, this vision of the 5th dimension scientific... but while we're here, can we push things "This little trinket just sent you into The dimension behind mirrors." Branching off into alternate realities from you could explore completely new timelines This multiverse model of reality has become more pieces of media exploring stories where It's a concept that doesn't really line quantum physics, but let's not get into The most relevant piece of multiverse media life is probably the film Everything, Everywhere, It's a story in which various characters of themselves from across alternate timelines. An interesting byproduct of this is that as single reality at a time, focusing on one in another reality suffers. Like Arrival and Interstellar, the film's vehicle for themes and emotional beats. It's not just a movie about what would happen Well, it is a movie about that -- but it's infinity. In the context of limitless realities, what It's a question that feels particularly We can download and experience all these different But it can also be overwhelming. In one of the film's most stunning scenes, of herself across every conceivable reality void of unlimited stimulation. Everything, Everywhere, All at Once is the being here, now -- an ordinary lifeform with "My readings indicate we are not in time Apparently, the natural laws of our universe In terms of higher temporal dimensions, there's every point in time in every possible timeline. But if we leave time and return to spatial You now know what a 4D cube looks like, but of space instead of time. Or a 10D cube? Yes, all these points and lines represent out in a way that we can perceive. You can really keep adding additional spatial out of control, with the monstrosity that's Unsurprisingly, there's not a lot of media of dimensions. The closest example probably comes from Douglass In this series, what we know as mice are revealed belonging to vast, higher-dimensional beings. It's a comedic concept that riffs on the Much like how from our top-down perspective in Hitchhiker's Guide find our mazes absurdly dimensional being. "You can hide nothing from me. My x-ray intelligence." We could also head in the other direction the same creator who made 4D Miner has a great The game is technically a three-dimensional vision, as a completely 1D-game would just Playing the simulation is kind of like living with practice, you can actually get better Or how about a zero-dimensional game, which... I guess mathematically wouldn't be a line things too far. In the end, imagining versions of reality dimensions can be challenging. But there's so many interesting things you Some forms of media might make you wish for appreciate what you have. It all depends on your point of view. "We will not live in a two-dimensional world. We won't go in one direction, or zig where We will walk through walls. We will not be confined." There are plenty of other games and pieces space and time in their own way that I didn't If you found this subject thought-provoking, discussed in this video down below, with more are building worlds in higher and lower dimensions. As always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.