We're gonna talk about specifically, one increasingly Alex Jones, the Walter Cronkite of shrieking (CROWD LAUGHING) And I know you may be thinking, there is nothing more I need Because you've probably seen ALEX JONES:<i> <i> It's a gay bomb, baby.</i> <i> And I'm not saying people <i> have homosexual feelings. You think I-- (GUFFAWS) so I'm up here bashing it (YELLS) I don't like 'em that turn Do you understand that? (GRUNTS) Crap! Wow. If he is that upset about that is not happening, he's gonna be when he finds out Like the fact is turning raccoons bi-lingual. Oh, that's right, they're all and they will be working And that famous clip Jones is a charismatic performer on a regular basis, of lesser known outbursts My spirit is close than evil and my whole spirit just goes... They call that crazy, that's my will, &quot;Crush those Go after the enemy, be honorable! Crush the snakes under Well, at least now we know would've looked like -a nasty PCP habit. Go after the enemy! Crush the snakes Clear ice, full house. Stop those snakes, (CROWD CLAPPING AND CHEERING) Now look, ideally, ideally, about<i> The Alex Jones Show,</i> But, unfortunately, of a lot of people's An estimated six million people or watch it online every week, and we know at least current Russian Ambassador -Donald Trump. He-- he supposedly called Jones has tweeted content from and just a year and a half ago, TRUMP:<i> your reputation's amazing. You will be very, and I think we'll be speaking The only thing that could've is if Nigel Farage, Bill Cosby -were all on the same call. So look, it is no wonder a lot of coverage, recently. We even mentioned him back in February he seemed a little annoyed Your ratings are in the toilet, they brought you back, out of the gate, After you lectured us could never win, as you know, everybody knows a British accent (CROWD LAUGHING) You know, there's no facts And now, you make fun of me and I'll go, Hey boy, people want legitimacy, They want to hear somebody and touch 'em inside. -(CROWD GROANING) A few things there. And two, my British accent Believe me, I sound passing through a wood chipper. But-- but I will give him this, that too often, people don't So tonight, and let's first set aside that Alex Jones has repeatedly to fuel speculation was staged by the government, for the parents of those That is disgusting in terms of ever taking Sadly, doing things from being taken seriously, doesn't really seem to be much But-- but there is a piece you may be less aware of and that concerns the nature It is four hours long, and if you tune your most shocking discovery and shamelessly he pitches In fact, remember that clip from yelling about snakes? Let's just go back to that Be honorable! Crush the snakes (SIGHS) Get behind me, Satan! (PANTING) Now before I go before I go any further... we gotta fund this operation, we got the very best I don't know if I can run this we wanna run this that's like 11 days. 'Cause I don't want it Twenty percent off <i> -infowarslive.com.</i> <i> infowarslive.com!</i> Woah! That is a hard turn (YELLS) The Satan-worshiping are gonna murder you Open your eyes, sheeple, they're coming for all of us! (CLEARS THROAT) But first... -McGillicuddy's Oatmeal. The perfect way And look, that clip In one week of recent broadcast we found he spent nearly either talking about or pointing you And if you have never gone for whatever the exact opposite Because there's the kind that you would expect like organic shampoo, as well as products like a ten-dollar pack that can be used anywhere including the perineal area. Which, if you're wondering, -(CROWD GROANING) is trying to sell you And-- and when you are done the area between your genitals with a glorified wet nap... why not pick up Which, according to Infowars, to let Bill know and that you know the truth. That truth, by the way... You just spent six dollars Oh, that's right we bought this with a free -bumper sticker... ...that we most assuredly radio hosts doing ads but since 2013, on promoting his own products, under his Infowars Life brand, particularly, vitamins which I believe are the result fucking the word (BED CREAKING) I'm pretty sure but this-- this is a big part Two thirds of his funding from selling his products And the reason I know that Now, let me break them down There is a Super Male Vitality, &quot;Wake Up America Patriot Blend&quot; Brain Force Plus, that cost 120 dollars a bottle, and Child Ease, a herbal blend, is &quot;designed to sooth the mind which is a profoundly, And then, there is Caveman True a chocolate flavored drink mix, and the dust Now, according to Infowars, new health trend And by the look on Jones' face, exactly as good as it sounds. You pour that in on a couple And folks, it tastes... when it's creamy and thick, And it has got all the bone This is why, the ancients, had such better bones, were so much healthier, This-- you could freeze this than, like, Mm! (CROWD LAUGHING) (LAUGHING) Okay! that Alex Jones did not enjoy Because, I have got a glass And I can confirm to you (COUGHING) It taste exactly how you imagine that's made from chocolate It-- it comes at you in waves. And that is not the only time as a guinea pig to sell And a warning, now, the following footage of a man with his own body, Just ten minutes I decided to do this in a while. <i> And then again <i> and the weight loss <i> already from what happened (CROWD LAUGHING) Okay, so you're redder... The only thing I can discern between those two photos is that you walked shirtless to a belt store. You-- you could flip those and the effect would be And look, to be fair to Jones, who consults on many Doctor Edward Group III, in a Director DVD But he's actually even less Here he is in an Infowars ad explaining the importance <i> GROUP: If you're suffering <i>allergies, even like headaches, <i> weakened immune system, hair loss, uh... excess gas, muscle pain, nervousness, <i> if you look at some <i> and then us opening up <i> and all the other countries <i> you're just dealing with <i> or are harmful organisms.</i> <i> You can type in I mean, the CDC is going crazy Actually, I'm pretty sure &quot;refugee spreading disease&quot; it just takes you for xenophobia, which, is a real time saver for you. that Doctor Group looks like if Tom Petty was machine washed (CROWD LAUGHING) ... Alex Jones swears by him. In fact, he's been about Doctor Group's It doesn't matter you've got and everywhere else the media makes fun of you -(SIGHS) That's right. we cannot sell coffee, That's right, that's right. I-- I've been for a long time, I do have-- I am MIT alumni that I do research Okay, stop. A-- Look, let's break down Jones mentioned. Group does have from Texas Chiropractic College, but, while he listed-- lists all we checked and he didn't In fact, we asked him he does not have And as for whether he's he only completed a non-degree in fact, just to be sure, and according to them, he has a degree from MIT... would be inaccurate (CROWD LAUGHING) Which does make sense Because this man doesn't look He looks like at the University So-- so just to clarify Alex, that is what we are making of Doctor Group. that he looks like if Iggy Pop got &quot;The Rachel.&quot; (CROWD LAUGHING) And look! Jones can inflate all he wants. He says a lot But it is noticeable to selling his supplements, that is pretty out of character. bend over backwards what he says, Maybe you've had maybe you've had nerves This creates tingling, this-- their feeling come back. if this research is true. but it's not (CROWD LAUGHING) The other stuff's synthetic, This is made but the bacteria is GMO. I'll just tell ya up front... but it's not like It's a bacteria that's just to be able to then secrete It's just like beer is bacteria, obviously, but this one-- that's how the Japanese do it. This stuff is only found And in trace amounts (CROWD LAUGHING AND CLAPPING) Wait. Wait. OK, so let's break that down. It repairs nerves It's organic but not really. It contains GMOs, which is bad, except for when he's and you can only find Oh, and blueberries. And it's the drop off that is really incredible. You can only find this stuff and in trace amounts And look, Jones's products For instance, he sells of Vitamin D3 for 29.95. But consumerlab.com, points out that you can buy from other sources, But Jones will often give you Sometimes, he'll tell you than the ones that you can find and sometimes, It is absolutely the strongest, you absorb it. So, folks, don't go out from, say, It'll kill you! Woah! Wow! I honestly that you could imply Four out of five dentists and the fifth dentist is dead of Wrigleys in his mouth And to hear Jones tell it... his products are marked up just enough to keep As he explained <i> Rationalizing Low Ratings</i> It may cost 45, 50 million How much money is being made? Well, the money that's made is pretty much put back Okay, so that is remarkable First, 45 to 50 million dollars And second, that every penny they earn into a show that looks of a low-budget porn parody In fact, as he frequently tells he needs them to buy more his truth telling crusades JONES:<i> <i> and we find ourselves We're at a shortfall now sustained economic attacks in just two weeks I could have to sell my house... to keep this place running I could have sponsors I don't do it. Fund us, give me the energy and I will attack the enemy. Exactly! It's like for people who hate NPR. Infowars is perpetually He even has a link where you can just to help fund the fight And contributors &quot;Twenty-five dollars but I know But Jones seems than just keeping his head Ex-employees describe with one saying, in an hour... And in one of those clips we noticed he's wearing worth around 8000 dollars. Which... cool. And, y'know, we noticed he also seems to have And you know... cooler. And here's the thing, He can have fancy watches. There is nothing wrong I get paid to make this show. But it does fight that he needs you to help keep his show going. seems to be about that disconnect. But don't worry, in a truly amazing way. I wear a blue sports coat because it's a symbol and humanity having prosperity for respect and stealing the image with a Rolex, So, I dress as a Satanist, so that I can enter their world that none of it means anything. Oh bullshit! How stupid do you think Okay, you bought a Rolex so you could dress up What are the other two for? And incidentally tormenting should comfortably get you I believe that's the easy pass of the champagne room is. And look, so, at the start I promised Alex Jones in context, because he is right that if you place small clips he looks like a loon. But if you play them in context, he looks like a skilled salesman frightening you about problems and then selling you an answer. Remember that gay frog clip He did a follow-up show, were being placed in the water and reduce the population, and then immediately We shell five different brands <i> water filtration systems <i> They're amazing, <i> of the glyphosate, <i> the pesticides, the fluoride.</i> I mean to an untrained eye, he was using the idea to sell his products, which, -the WB network made. And-- and listen, listen! the only reason Jones is talking systematically feminizing us, is to sell over-priced so he can buy luxury watches, it certainly wouldn't be that you've heard So, if Alex Jones wants this is it. The fact that he happens to sell should really re-contextualize about what he is claiming Think about it like this. if at the end of this segment feel a little dirty, I tried to wipe that gross feeling away? Well, I certainly hope not, because that's what we are doing (CROWD CHEERING) Come with me. Come with me that we've been working and I would like you Please, please welcome -(CROWD CHEERING) Ah, so happy to be here. We-- we're so happy A-- and we are-- we are here, the John Oliver Moisture Armored The first tactical wipe on the perineal. That's right. don't use this anywhere else. -Right. -JOHN: OK. Now... now... now Doctor, Doctor, how is this going about what they've seen tonight? Well my studies show this taint wipe, that distracts the brain -been thinking about. OK, and again, and everywhere else, The media makes fun of you -They do. Just-- just for the record, Well I've definitely That's... that's essentially That's what I've been telling Now-- now you can actually at infowipes.com This is real. for a million dollars apiece, and don't even think in a store, because those wipes Yeah, also, these wipes to heterosexualize frogs. So uh, that's very nice to have, 'cause that's been -what with all the refugees. And look-- look, this tactical incredible results, Absolutely, it sure has. Look at this photo of me. <i>And now look at this photo of me <i>-after applying the taint wipe.</i> You-- you're much redder there. -I'm so much redder! -So disturbingly red! So, if you want to spend on a taint wipe, and if you're thinking, &quot;Well, all I will say is, people pay for a jar of chocolate flavored so anything is fucking possible.