I think the concept of fearing God Mainly And I've heard believers it just means to respect So if, for example, our parents, it would probably mean So naturally, we'd fear letting them down. And I know tons of people who connect and honestly, I feel like this But honestly, it's shallow. the fear of God is deeper than us And our thinking on the topic Just respecting God. So to help us dive a little bit that every Christian should bear in mind Number one, the fear of God Revelation chapter one, verse 17. And when I saw him, But he laid his right hand on me, I am the first and the last. In this passage, Jesus revealed himself And Jesus didn't appear to him This passage describes And John said, the face of Jesus and his voice was like like a blazing flame, Now, to put this into perspective, and sunny day. Next, note that despite it feeling hot, the sun is about 93 million miles away, or 150km away from the Earth. So if the sun's intensity can be that overwhelming for us could you imagine standing Because that's what it was like for And then John says that the voice of Jesus And I don't know if you've ever been to a large waterfall but it's loud. I remember going to the Niagara Falls and seeing a waterfall that gigantic there was powerful. so for John Jesus, his eyes and face And the sheer power of Jesus And Jesus's first words to him were, And we don't just see this kind of terror We also see it in the Old. Look at Exodus chapter 20, verses Now all the people witnessed the sound of the trumpet, And when the people saw it, Then they said to Moses, but let not God speak with us, In this passage God was on Mount Sinai, and his power caused the skies And as the people saw they'd rather talk to him You see the people were rightly afraid of God and the reason And if you consider who God is we should reach a place of complete He is the creator of the universe, and he's the creator of our souls. and is the judge of them, and is the ultimate decider in heaven or in complete torment Just imagine that God decides I know many people today will mock God and will depict And they'll make comics or YouTube videos And some have even created that they have for God. and for people who do such things, of who God is is completely inferior And this is And we'll use God because they do not believe So all that to say, I think the fear I think it's looking at that actually implies, and then responding Because when John saw Jesus, John, fell before God, being completely dismayed And if that's his response, God in such a way Hey guys. Joe here with impact here For the first time ever in Impact's So some of you guys behind the scenes But this has been a long time coming. I've been working with our talented We've been creating some designs. Miles and I have been prayerfully creating getting them drawn, all this fun stuff. And we finally are ready to put this up So what we're going to do is we're going Our verses collection, they have a image and a verse reference And what that is going to do is it's going to hopefully They're going to see the sticker, and they're going to see our channel. And hopefully it leads them We really love But we don't just have stickers, we have We have all sorts of fun things. I'd encourage you guys to check it out We're running a really cool special. We're going to run try to run a special If you are a member with us, we want to get you guys a special deal So all of that's going to be coming So if you're interested, you can click That will take you to t public. That's our preferred affiliate. But if you'd rather use the, you know, that'll take you to a different store, for convenience so that you guys And that's also a great way But we're really excited about this stuff. I'm super excited about this again. This has been such a long time coming. We've been seeing those comments. Where's the merch? We're super excited about it. So we hope you guys will enjoy this stuff. We hope that we will be able to continue We're going to try to do one update a new design, one every quarter. Put them on And yeah, We know that there's been and we're not done there. There's going to be a lot more to come in the future, And with that, let's get back to the thought number two. The fear of God should be paired Matthew chapter six, verse nine. in this manner, therefore pray, Our Father In this passage, and he teaches them to first acknowledge and then to remember that he is in heaven So when it comes to fearing God, yes, But we should also remember that for Going back to the passage in revelation right before It says that Jesus laid his right And what I find so interesting Jesus describes which seem to represent the control So the same hand that possesses is the same hand and note Jesus's response was not, Good. Now stay there. Rather, Jesus felt moved to touch John that wasn't fearful. So when it comes to the fear of God, I definitely think that fear in God because I think that there should be fear that understands that God is God. At the same time, we should also remember who adopted us into his family because Jesus, as he taught us to God as our father and then to own the fact So if that's the case, as we fear God, those feelings with the truth Thought number three the fear of God Proverbs chapter eight, verse 13. The fear of the Lord is to hate and the evil way and the perverse mouth. I hate. In this passage, King Solomon speaks and King Solomon says So when it comes to fearing God, a natural result that should come out of So this is what it looks like. As followers of God, we understand that God is the creator And because he's just and righteous. He must punish all sin and evil. And that's a problem. At the same time, he's also loving and wanted to give people So since the punishment for sin is death, for the penalty of our sins. and he died in our place. So note here that Jesus died for the sins So just think about It's not something that he enjoys In fact, sin was the reason And in Romans chapter one, verse 18, God's attitude towards And it says that God has complete So if we as God's children shouldn't we also adopt his heart I think oftentimes we coddle sin and we watch shows or videos or we hang out with people or we allow things in our life When in reality, our attitude towards the things that hurt And if we hate those things, we would take And I should clarify, So don't just associate people with evil The idea is to see the evil To understand why he hates it, To hate it, to You see, there's a reason And it's probably And the list goes on. but the idea is to understand we should begin seeing evil And if we do that correctly, to a place of disgust and hatred. Because those sinful actions whom we love, died That number for the fear of God Acts chapter nine, verse 31. The church then had peace throughout and it became stronger as the believers And with the encouragement of In this passage and it says that the church got stronger and because of the Holy Spirit, No how strength and growth So in the same way, and should cause us to hate evil Our fear of God should also affect To God, people are priceless and worth dying for it led to those people being strong, and strength that they exhibited caught And they too, And the church grew. So all that to say, our fear of God like the early church, it should also Someone who demonstrated this King Saul's life. king. Saul was jealous of David And when David had the opportunity And the reason why is because David knew that Saul was a bad guy, That God chose. any ordinary person would have gladly killed But David's view of God affected and as a result, he chose to spare him. So in the same way, our view of God our dad, our family, and those people Because at the end of the day, And if that's the case, we should consider how God feels about That number five, the fear of God Matthew chapter ten, verse 28. and do not fear those who kill the body, but rather fear him who is able to destroy In this passage, that they should not fear people but you instead fear God, who can destroy And here we are He has the power And if you think that's evil, it isn't. It's actually completely just. Because according to the Bible, we're all sinners But God made a way out of hell for people. So if people believe then they can avoid I think many people confuse hell as being the devil's place But the reality is that heaven and hell going back to that passage in revelation, that he has the keys to Hades chapter 20, verse 14, being cast into the lake of fire So this means that Jesus has complete or the lake of fire. And owning because it gets us to think differently I mean, yeah, people could kill us, And it's only a one moment thing, there is no end. And Jesus tells his followers Because there is no comparison between So note that yeah, we should love God. But Jesus flat out And that that fear should overshadow So for us, we need to remember this Because God is not just the God of heaven, and according to Matthew, chapter 25, Hell is a place of eternal fire for the devil and his demons. and while this can sound scary I want you to think of that. Number six. The fear of God should lead to safety. Proverbs chapter 14, verse 26. And the fear of the Lord. There is strong confidence, and in this passage, King Solomon in the fear of the Lord and that God's So note that while fearing God can come to seeing God's power, is the very same power you see, God has a heart for his people. And when his people honor him and love him God rallies next to them and becomes So note that one whatever their loved one So when the Israelites needed deliverance God sent them a deliverer And when David needed protection God gave him victory and valiant men And when people were on their way to hell Jesus to save them, and he paved the way So yeah, God is God, and he is At the same time, to create a place of refuge and safety so for you, yes, fear God, what God's power has done for you. Through his power, we have the hope of and gives us the strength to overcome And that, number seven, Proverbs chapter 23, verse 17 envy sinners, In this passage, King Solomon tells his listeners what ungodly people have, but And here I want to point out the fact is something to live in always. Tozer rightly says. What comes into our minds when we think about God Because if we understand completely just and perfectly wise, then we'd rightly fear God. And when that fear is tethered with the truth of God's Word, So that being said, the fear of the Lord And not just for unbelievers, need to own the fact Because a heart that fears And treat people correctly, because And while that may seem intimidating, while he is terrifyingly a heart that desires to hold us Okay, so if you have questions on what it means remember these seven thoughts. The fear of God should come from The fear of God should be paired The fear of God should lead us The fear of God The fear of God should overpower The fear of God should lead to safety. And the fear of God should be a lifestyle. So may we all learn to fear And may that fear turn to comfort so may you rest in these truths. And as you do, I hope you remember