In the countryside, bees are dying, and honey today In Paris, apparently, everything's fine. There are no problems, they make Honey from French towns which have tripled in just 15 years. A booming market All the lighter masses There's a sanitary problem Sometimes we find dreadful things, There are loads of things. Honey is a well-known sweetener, but its healing powers are often ignored. In the Quran, &quot;Everything that passes Could honey and other hive-related The nurse had never seen anything like it Spreading honey on a piece of toast People talk of dwindling bee populations but often neglect another aspect, the increasing scarcity and of everything Honey is featured in every civilization and is one thing that man At this apiary in the corner of Park we witnessed the first spring harvest that Alain Sandmeyer We can harvest the honey It's like when a jam is ready, When the honey is ready, the bees know and seal it up here. The honey has to have whereas the nectar when they collect it, It's essential that they remove the water. It's only when they estimate that they seal up the honeycomb with wax. At that point, and we're sure it will have and that it can be preserved No problem. Here, the frame is perfectly sealed up. The honey is ready to be harvested. Alain Sandmeyer is in charge of the apiary He's passionate about bees, and especially the honey they produce. It's fantastic To produce one kilo of honey, the bees have to fly You can imagine the work involved in that and the respect Forty thousand kilometers or almost a trip around the world When will we stop seeing honey because it's sweet? Looking for high-quality honey often means A vast majority of French honeys today are sold by beekeepers This is a spring honey I harvested -This one? Real honey enthusiasts Appreciating honey means identifying like with wine. Here we have French thyme, which is rare. In her shop in Paris, Sylvette Vidal offers tastes The initial taste of this one and then it changes a bit. It's delicious. It's very unexpected. There's a taste of licorice in there, Yes, it's surprising. It lasts a long time, too. The oak honey comes that's where it's produced Exactly, it would be hard to deny it. Every season brings a new honey Every September when I open the shop, the customers arrive and they all ask me: I have to surprise them every year. This year there was one beekeeper who put his hives in a place and rhododendron honey is quite rare, but the flowers came late so the bees collected and filled the hives. Then they went back This meant that he didn't get A mountain honey. A mountain forest honey, We can benefit from this mistake and next year, perhaps we'll find Sylvette Vidal knows each which is far from being the case In France, and when the prices are low, around EUR2 for a 250-gram jar, Paul Schweitzer is a biologist. Every year, some 2,500 honeys What he sees in the low-cost honeys All the lighter masses that appear here When we have yeasts like that, It forms whole layers and when they multiply, Paradoxically, the honey we've just tasted Why? It's because the honey began to ferment but it was then pasteurized, but the ones that had multiplied and it's their dead bodies The dead yeast is not dangerous but proves that these honeys in badly cleaned containers. A flagrant lack of hygiene, that for Paul Schweitzer, It's not easy singling out one country, but what's obvious is that all coming onto the market Some will have less yeast but they all have There's quite clearly a sanitary problem It's not the first time For two years between 2002 and 2004, because it contained traces an antibiotic that can have At present, the Chinese honeys and are authorized They're not as catastrophic but in terms of the yeasts, To the extent that substantial amounts almost certainly meaning that we know it came from China. More than half of the cheaper are mixed with Chinese honey. The problem is that distributors apart from a country of origin stipulation To taste a really exceptional honey, In the Sousse valley, one of the country's finest honeys The conditions are ideal, and a well-preserved It's hardly surprising the Valley of Paradise. You can see the poppies. The bees are gathering nectar from the dandelions too, and the cactus plants The bees collect pollen from all of them, We have all these flowers and that's why we have very pure honey. We don't give powdered sugar to our bees, Thanks be to God, we have all we need In a good season, the honey provides a living and has done for generations. A heritage only rarely threatened. There were some very hard times when we had to move to the north and there was one year The treatment to get rid of them Some of the bees here are still kept Modernity has appeared in the form but not in farming methods. Local agriculture When you see a frame like this, regular with no holes or imperfections, it means the hive is healthy. In these regions, honey is a feature of every festive meal The first thing offered to any guests. In this family, That's euphorbia honey, thyme honey, and this one's carob tree honey. This is argan oil honey. We produce the orange tree honey first, That's the most important After the thyme, and then it's the carob tree season. This allows the bees We keep them here as long as possible, we let them collect the nectar Among the different varieties, Thyme honey It's the best in the country. They say here, It is really top quality. That's why it's in such demand This thyme honey could become a rare commodity. Our encounter with this elderly man I used to come here The first collection was always mine. I'd eat it all day long and I loved it. At the time, I was 15 years old. I used to come here with my father. This communal apiary, the biggest in the world, but 25 years ago it was fully operational There was a lot of thyme The bees had plenty of food. I even saw my grandmother At the time, but now look. When I see the state this apiary is in, God willed it. With successive droughts, and less skilled labor, the thyme honey once produced The prospect of shortages The price has never been higher At the local market, a level that prohibits exports as the price of a good honey in France, [Moroccan spoken audio] I've come far. I've traveled ten kilometers today People buy it even if it's expensive. When they can't afford it, they find a way but they do buy it. It's become a luxury product to the point cheap substitutes appear, looking like the real thing, No one here is fooled. They know that their thyme honey, has an almost sacred reputation and is renowned In the Quran, there's a verse that says something like: &quot;Everything that passes It's a vital product here, too, In these isolated regions, thyme honey is a godsend, and it can treat If one of our children is sick we give them a spoonful of honey When someone has an irritation in the eye, we apply a bit of honey and it goes away. [Arabic spoken audio] If someone burns themselves we apply a bit of honey and it acts like medicine. Sometimes we mix the honey like white wormwood, oregano, or lavender. It's good for coughs and your lungs. Ancestral wisdom passed down and today, studied by Western medicine. In France, too, honey is used for healing. The healing or cicatrization properties including post-surgery wounds, like in this digestive surgery department Does it itch a bit when we apply it? -How is it? -Okay. Is it unbearable? -Oh, no, no, it's very mild. It's true, it's quite impressive Were you surprised to learn how the nurses Oh, at first, yes, of course. I didn't think you could help but it's good, it doesn't hurt We've observed over a number of years now that the healing process That's why we use it. When you say interesting... It means we gain about eight days. An old wife's remedy that the hospital staff here The initiative came through the intuition Professor Descott, It began with Professor Descott in the 80s when we used very few products, Our knowledge of cicatrization to doing what was normally done. We didn't understand what was going on, so he set us on this road with honey, and he said: A group of us got interested because of the honey That's how it started. It certainly had a miraculous effect If he can walk today, it's because he instinctively understood After climbing Mount Everest in 2008, On Professor Descott's advice, My mother had read an article about Professor Descott We got in touch with him. At that point, and he said: &quot;and it can even help -Was that the case? The doctors who had amputated it said it would take a year with all the risks of infection After a month and a half, The scarring process was spectacular and also eliminated the need From one day to the next, The nurse had never seen 30 or 35 years in medicine, She didn't know what to do, It was miraculous. We'd ordered It's funny because I was expecting to see with some kind of sophisticated lid but not at all. It was just a tub made by a beekeeper. Organic honey. In three months, we used maybe 500 grams. The 500 grams that were left, or in our tea. Should we still have doubts its effects on cell proliferation, When will we finally know all its secrets? In any case, At the Limoges hospital, a medicinal sterile honey This is a tube of honey It's a rather special formula that uses that were selected against most of the germs I think that having honey in tubes will mean the medical profession and that's a step forward. It's reassuring The name of the medical use This covers the use of honey itself, pollen, and propolis. Francoise Sauvager Have you seen the Queen? She became involved with propolis when she wrote a thesis notably with herpes. It's often her first choice In her garden, in the suburbs of Rennes, to supply her with the special ingredient. Propolis is this resinous substance that you can see on the material The bees don't like holes, It's also a medicine for them because they use it They use it to embalm the dead bodies For example, larger creatures and lizards that might come into the hive. They're killed by the bee's venom and to avoid the bodies they cover them completely with propolis, and they become disinfected. It's like the Egyptians The bees use the propolis to mummify A product from bygone days this time to alleviate the problem Since the end of the 19th century but particularly at the end when chemical synthesis began, we've tended to overlook but now, with the problem due to the overuse of antibiotics, which resist practically For example, the Staphylococcus aureus There are strains that are resistant whole families of antibiotics, which was the main anti-staphylococcus We are now confronted In this case, propolis in particular There are also applications Numerous clinical studies are being carried out today. Near Argent, in southwestern France, Patrice Percie du Sert sells propolis to further the cause of a product There's another product of the hive A former beekeeper he is a pollen specialist. His work is focused on determining He's just returned from Andalusia, where he went to find something The pollen of a flowering plant These are images that aren't easy to get as the bees In these images we can see the clusters of pollen with their hind legs They contain a truly exceptional In pollen, you have what we can find but in colossal concentrations. For example, in a soup spoon you have 40% of the recommended Vitamin E is a vital vitamin, are 30% short so a soup spoonful It also provides polyphenols. We talk about polyphenols but if you take pollen one soup spoonful as 4 or 5 liters of red wine or green tea. That's the nutritional value of pollen. He believes the pollen in order to preserve He has patented which enables him more than 50 tons of pollen He is also targeting as he is convinced that pollen I'll cut off a small branch. He works regularly to identify the therapeutic properties This is a male catkin or the male flower cluster We have another plant which gives the willow seeds. The bees have to transport the pollen to stimulate fertilization, so the tree can provide fruits. Without bees, It is little known that the willow pollen, is of great interest to medicine macular degeneration, that affects some 30 million people The willow pollen It contains as much carotenoid as carrots, but they're not the same carotenoids. Carrots contain mostly beta-carotene, whereas willow pollen which are very valuable from age-related macular degeneration. This is one example among many pollens that scientific research For Patrice Percie du Sert, He finds just 15% and from one year to the next, the pollen is becoming This is a mix of prune trees, prune tree flowers, The bees have moved We gather this every four days, we've collected 500 grams. His mission this year, to keep his company is to find 20 tonnes. He's currently in negotiations a country where he's sure Romania is the European country and where the bees are in good health. There are whole regions like Transylvania and the Carpathian Mountains or almost no pesticides. That's because agriculture is mainly They're very poor so they get by without them, This morning, he's on the phone Good morning, Frederick. -Good morning, how are you? He's concerned Last year, he had a major problem The weather's nice, How are the willows coming along? Well, it depends on the region. They're starting to flower now, not before. I'm not worried We'll be able to get what we need, That's great. This partnership deal is a great success, You've reassured me, No, no, really, the news is good concerning the two beekeepers They've both given us some new contacts Well, I'll certainly sleep better. Listen, keep up the good work, Thanks, see you on Friday then. It's a very emotional moment, because it's a huge deal for the company. It represents one-third of what we buy One-third of our suppliers, With a company like this or seven percent and if we have no pollen to sell, It's all very fragile, do you understand? That's the way it is, Despite everything, Patrice Percie du Sert Is French pollen This is already the case with royal jelly, a concentration of vitamins that is said Within the hive, and this exclusive diet enables her to live The proof, apparently, is in the eating. Barely a handful of beekeepers like Remi Puglisi, National production in France covers just Well, there you see, I've been lucky. I was looking for the Queen, I'll separate her and I'll put her over here. Producing royal jelly entails playing making them believe the queen so that they feed new larvae making a replacement queen. Three days is the optimal time. If we wait a day longer, we'll get a huge larva so there won't be any left. It's after exactly three days Gathering the larvae, placing them in the honeycombs, extracting a small quantity each step is complicated making the jelly an expensive product the main reason Royal jelly is a question of time, and we know that for everything or elsewhere now for that matter, not just in China, the labor costs completely change which is probably We go to meet the biggest As it happens, he's also the biggest dealer in honey Benoit Marie, nice to see you. The family company that Benoit Marie runs They have 23 shops in France and have recently developed and beauty salons. He knows how to make royal jelly to show visitors, but he's decided to stop producing it The types of bees are not automatically It's hard to combine with royal jelly production. All the royal jelly It's a cost issue, although as a businessman How much royal jelly Oh, a few tonnes, let's say. A few tonnes, that means how many? That's confidential. In fact, he imports and EUR15 for a ten-gram jar in a shop. It would appear the royal jelly Benoit Marie doesn't like people Does it bother you to talk about Mongolia, I prefer it if it's possible. If you like, it's a problem for us as people aren't bothered about talking and talking about Mongolia That's the truth, Any mention of China is very negative, It's awful. Mongolia then, with its high plains, and where the environment Admittedly, Benoit Marie He takes us to his warehouses to explain His royal jelly is transported by ship, frozen, and then stored in his fridges. It's defrosted After that, it's sent to a laboratory in terms of amino acids, to guarantee there are no contaminants, After that, it arrives here, and we stock it here In view of the risks of defects we decided to have We go back to see Paul Schweitzer. With regard to the antibiotic tests the same as with the honey, so it meets the standards, but we have to see One of the problems, one of the easiest ways is to add honey to it, because the market price even adding just ten can be extremely lucrative We have various techniques We can analyze the sugar levels to see and if the sugar profiles conform Here, we haven't observed any anomalies, There are no signs of bad quality. There are Chinese royal jellies That's the case with this one, Others are catastrophic, That does happen. It's a phenomenon Along with his colleagues, he's created a French royal jelly label The bees have to be fed He's highly critical They don't put anything in the jelly, Not as far as I know. It's above all It's possible, and I would repeat, It's not systematic, when Mother Nature with all the elements then they might add certain products to replace the nectar and the pollen. Like what? With the pollen, or you can replace it with flour. What they use the most is soybean flour, Products like that, things like dried egg white, Whatever you can imagine, Will these ersatz royal jelly products be allowed Who will determine that honey are noble foodstuffs Honey imports too, continue to soar. France alone has lost 15,000 beekeepers For those who remain, Loic Leray is a beekeeper The pesticides sprayed have turned him into a bee doctor His harvests in the past six years and this year, with prolonged droughts, Already we have those frames This one suffered more than the others. At this time of year, Here we should have two supers of honey. In this hive, in any case, we can say that we haven't got There's something around the apiary The spring honey harvest has been lost. There are 90 hives in this apiary, so that's about a ton. Between 900 kilos It's a bit depressing. Such observations have led Loic Leray and to mix business with politics. He decided to set up his hives in the very center of Nantes, To his surprise, It's chock full of bees. That's a sign of good health. That's magnificent. That's a real bonus for us, it's great. It's a pleasure that's renewed Seeing the hives in springtime like this, or even overabundance. When it's like it is today, seeing this makes it all the harder It's heartbreaking. This is getting interesting here. You'll be needing a ladder soon Hives on rooftops. Are cities becoming the only refuge possible Are we being a teensy bit manipulated? In Nantes, there are no pesticides so it allows the bees Some are fuller than others. They usually start to fill up Here, we have one side frame Here, I get the same feeling not worrying about what I might find Like seeing dead bees lying around or a colony that's been weakened It's reassuring but in some ways, the beekeepers' places in the country. These bees here are essentially The bees' rural exodus is well underway. The trend of setting up hives The bees are seen The idea is to position hives particularly on rooftops, in order to publicize the fact It's perhaps a purely political maneuver, The trend has enabled Nicolas Geant He delivers and maintains hives All the swarms for this year I've got a few inhabited hives No, there's none left, It's funny because I've been a beekeeper Twenty-five years ago, 20 years ago, nobody was interested they couldn't care less about bees. Then all that changed, five years ago, Everyone became ecological, fantastic. I spent half my time at dinner parties It's quite surprising. Bees became fashionable whereas before nobody wanted to know. You see all that, those are acacias. Again, there all along, they are acacias. Some of them are flowering now. The white clusters we can see They've been open for a couple of days, Also, over there on the right, If you look closely, Paris is very green, like most big cities, even though we're much less green Today, he has four hives in the La Defense business quarter. It's a novelty for the company and perhaps a symbol too. They'll be fine here, they won't get the sun in the morning, They'll do very nicely here. The next stop is in Montreuil, -Hello. Your two hives. Fine, let's take a look. Urban apiculture can be a tough sport. That's the first one. Is that a good spot for you? Shall I push it back or bring it forward? That's more for you to tell me but we're in the part If you could step back, They'll come out, They'll fly around the hive three times and see where they are Then they can go to work looking for nectar and pollen. How many bees are there? About 40 or 50,000. There's a queen and for the moment, they're what we call drones. Don't they work? Well, yes, they do work. They do? -Their job is to fertilize the Queen. Nice work, if you can get it. -There shouldn't be too much wind, right? We're nice and shielded here, The hives also help to provide the company One of the criteria I thought that was a nice idea It seemed like an integral part and obviously, people talk about it more Nobody's bothered about that, but with the hives, -Hello, welcome to the Tour d' Argent. Nicolas' last visit for the day He's installed six hives here which have been producing It's the only honey on the menu. This year too, It's nice and lively, good and active. What you see in the middle there shining, is the nectar of transforming into honey. Unlike the honey in the country, Nicolas never has The quantities are regular Last year my best hive where we were this morning, between 80 and 90 kilos, at that place at that particular time. This year it might be here, where we were this morning, or it might be somewhere else, we'll see. Is the honey produced in towns and cities What about traffic emissions To get a definitive viewpoint, we make a final visit We looked for the presence arsenic, cadmium, lead, and mercury, and there's nothing abnormal here. We then measured the PAHs, what we call which come essentially with compounds We looked for about 15 such molecules, we found traces but it has to be said we're going to find them more It won't make the honey dangerous because I would say you'd need to consume to suffer any consequences. If bees can put up with urban pollution does this mean we will only be consuming Just north of Paris, Last year, At an event organized the locals come to appreciate It's like being in the middle It's also an opportunity for a beekeeper to raise awareness You're the mayor of Abbeville. -Are you an MP as well? To spread the word about saving our bees and the risks any opportunity should be exploited. The vitality of our bee colonies with such massive mortality rates For example, Argentina used to produce Today, they make 60 to 70,000 tonnes. France, between '70 and '95, was the European leader At the time, Today, we're importing In just ten to 15 years, It's a dramatic situation. Yes, I do believe honey Confronted by these potential shortages, do we not run the risk of seeing more Honeys of inferior quality, fermented, and above all, devoid of the healthy virtues