[MUSIC PLAYING] Confirmed descent from 11,500. Let me know when you are Oksibil, we won't We're going to fly direct to Copy that. Left base leg? That's not what it They took a shortcut? Oh, god.oh, god! [SCREAM] Pakistan International is en route to Kathmandu, On the flight deck, Captain He's a former officer Force, who's now a senior pilot The first officer is Hassan with the airline with almost A300. Flight 268 leaves as it begins the In 1992, Kathmandu to track its planes. Every movement, must be accurately reported The mountains require pilots to make what's Pilots must descend to a at certain distances Here it is. Watch my levels. The details of the are laid out on a The crew works its way through approaching from the South. They should be touching Alpha Charlie Hotel, continue Pakistan 268 is at 10 miles. Report your level. We crossed out of 8,500-- 8,200 now. Roger. Clear for final. Report 4 miles. Runway 0-2. We'll call you at 4 Clear for final. Runway 0-2. Runway 0-2. Flight 268 is now less than Air Traffic Control waits for report. Three minutes go by. Flight 268 should have reached the next step by now. Pakistan 268, Tower. Pakistan 268, this is Tower. As the minutes tick by, come to a horrifying Flight 268 is missing It doesn't take much time controllers to get word that somewhere in the Himalayas. Within hours, the is found on the The flight was carrying and the plane is completely All 167 people on [MUSIC PLAYING] Nepalese soldiers have retrieved from the wreckage Investigators look at as the crew prepares They started their They're at 10,500 feet, at 13 miles, 8,200 at 10 miles, until impact at 7,280. The data reveals an So 1,000 feet too low Wait a minute. There you go. Perfect match. They were flying the What if the problem is the To avoid the mountains pilots follow an approach of a large postcard. It provides the pilots must take at set They study the same chart So is, let's say, 8,200 for 10 miles or 8 miles? It's hard to say. Even harder when Investigators need to have prepared themselves for They examine the cockpit International There's no place to clip There is just here. Now, only the And he'd have to keep Unlikely, they used that. More likely, he put it here. The other clip is a full 3 That's not much better. It's almost impossible to read. And that handle is blocking They learned that Pakistan has only two places for Both positions make to read a 4 inch Could it be? Then, quite by accident, discover a key clue regarding of the approach chart. This definitely makes is the correct Robinson finally has a theory Kathmandu Tower, good afternoon. Pakistan 268, 25 Just a few minutes the first officer reports at the correct Pakistan 268, report 16 miles. Wind 180. Expect Sierra approach. Roger. Call you at 16 miles. Expecting Sierra approach. Sierra approach, commander. But when the captain looks his thumb may have obscured Here it is. Watch my levels. Now, instead of Captain Janjua dials in the Descending to 10,500. --oblivious that his plane's The crew has now unaware the airliner towards a violent collision [MUSIC PLAYING] 33,000 above the border a CRJ200 jet during a late night mail run for companies. ILS approach to Runway 01. Inbound heading 009. Minimum-- It's been a routine flight. And the plane is expected We need to climb and turn right. Acknowledged. And according to we can expect light what the hell? Suddenly, the captain sees [BEEPING] He pushes the nose down. [BEEPING] What? What? The pilots can no of what the plane is doing. Mayday! Mayday! Mayday! Air [INAUDIBLE] 294. Mayday! Mayday! Mayday! 294, understood, mayday. What is the nature of The plane loses almost towards the ground at more Oh! Bank angle. Bank angle. Bank angle. Bank angle. West Air Sweden Flight 294-- [CRASHING] --hits the ground at The plane is obliterated. It takes three hours before Even from the air, it's have survived. The next day, a team of Accident Investigation arrives at the crash site. Investigators waste no to pinpoint the orientation as it crashed. That's the front of the plane. So they were traveling east. This is the left But it's in the wrong place This is [? Arvidsen's ?] The left wing is found in and the right wing For a plane traveling east, it If they were coming in is over there, then they The position of the wreckage paint a picture of a plane upside down, and at a [CRASHING] Incredibly, both of the plane's They're sent to France, where Investigators hope the on why the plane was so [MUSIC PLAYING] Investigators in Stockholm try in Flight 294's flight data. Right here, the data but the plane flies level, Investigators soon just the pitch data that's off. Right here, heading and All four parameters called an Inertial It's made up of gyroscopes to the cockpit displays and There are two IRUs, one The FDR gets its data from The captain's display and both get their pitch data Now, this is what the Investigators are coming The captain's instrument the plane was pitching up when And that it was when it was actually What the hell? It's now clear, the pilot from a faulty IRU. [BEEPING] Is it possible, the The FO's instrument Investigators learned that the captain's instrument. A second IRU feeds the and is not recorded by So is it possible that both If the first officer's he should have seen flying straight and level. So why did he allow the into a high speed dive? To find out, the team in a simulation based on OK. Start the animation. It paints an almost Three seconds after his he pushes the nose down. When the captain his ADI continues so he keeps pushing the plane dive. And they begin to The plane continues to roll, Eventually, they do reach Flight 294 hits at a speed of almost Investigators can now but they still don't the failure of a led to such a sudden How do you go from level flight per hour impact in, what, [MUSIC PLAYING] UNI Air Flight 873 is nearing Flaps 11. Flaps 11. The crew prepares to But as they close struggles with the landing. Too high. Too high. [SCREECHING] You are sinking too fast. I have control. The captain takes You have control. The captain engages the thrust The plane touches down with to come to a stop. But as the plane slows-- [THUD] [FIRE] [SCREAMING] What the hell? [SCREAMING] A fire erupts immediately Passengers instantly panic. Moments after the fire Mayday! Mayday! Mayday! Black smoke spews from the [FLAMES CRACKLING] [SCREAMING] Panic is as dangerous You have to stay calm! The terrified passengers aren't They rush for the exits. Seconds after the blast, the The captain issues the order-- Evacuate! Evacuate! Evacuate! [SCREAMING] The 90 passengers only have seconds to escape. The captain is the last crew Like some ship captains do, and made every effort to [COUGHING] Anybody there? It takes more than an hour [SIRENS] By the time it's out, only are accounted for. When firefighters finally they board the for the missing passengers. To everyone's relief, aboard the burned wreckage The missing passengers but it could have [MUSIC PLAYING] Taiwanese and are struggling to determine what aboard UNI Air Flight 873. They turned to the Hualien Tower, good afternoon. And as investigators it's uneventful. Except for a somewhat After touchdown, the reversers and hits the brakes. What the hell? It came right out of the blue. There was absolutely no hint of The sound itself could be the It wasn't the very rapid, high Send it in for analysis, please. The sound of the explosion is compared to sounds of [DIFFERENT EXPLOSION SOUNDS] We determine it was But the flight data recorder with the fuel systems Whatever it was, exploded here. Investigators now focus on the They wonder if someone brought Investigator Tony James decides for clues that may James focuses on the area around On the far side, underneath seat I've found something. It's not the look of his attention, but the smell. It smells like gasoline. The bottle fragment was found in of the exploded bin. Could this be the source Investigators order of the bottle fragment. The fragment is soon from a bottle of a common But lab results showed that it No question about it. It's gasoline. It's a remarkable discovery. An innocent-looking is now the prime suspect in Investigators believe for gasoline. The gasoline could have Maybe. The team gets their but it raises new questions. Why would anyone bring [MUSIC PLAYING] Parking brake. Set. Detroit Metropolitan Airport. The crew of Northwest prepares to depart from Memphis. Man, I don't think I've In the tower, controllers that's blanketed The ground controller to the active It will follow a known as Oscar, that will take you to Northwest 299, what's OK. We just turned down Roger. Switch to tower control 118.4. Roger. As Flight 299 nears the runway passes from the to the tower controller. The 727 is now at preparing for takeoff. Northwest 299, Metro Tower. Runway three center Roger. Flight 299 is [PLANE SOUNDS] The 727 is seconds away but danger lies ahead. A DC-9 is stopped In the cockpit, Captain Bill Schifferns are lost in the fog. This is a runway. Yeah. Oh, no. Oh, damn! There's very little time Oh, god. oh, god! [CRASHING] [SCREAM] [SCREAMING] Inside the DC-9, it's chaos. [SIRENS] Firefighters and raced to the scene. Eight passengers it the deadliest incident in almost two decades. [MUSIC PLAYING] OK. Let's see where they go. And let's confirm any with the FDR data. Investigators combine the with the heading changes to better understand every movement on the ground. Three center, exit Did you get all that? Yeah, but I'm going Kind of wind around is going to be right OK. Investigators discover Captain Lovelace asked his Left turn or right turn? Yeah. Well, this is the We're still going for Oscar Six. So left turn? Yeah. So when they should go they turn off it and go east. We're headed eastbound Just as the controller go east on Oscar Six, Northwest 1482, you were Yeah, that's right. The investigators next that was supposed to get Northwest 1482, at Oscar Four, Report crossing 927. Roger. At an Oscar Four, make The DC-9 crew was to continue eastbound and make to get back on track. So what do we do here? You make the right turn The captain is now on his first officer. OK. So the last instruction turn right onto X-ray. This is-- Should be 927. Are you sure? That's what he said. Yeah. Yeah, this is 927. They are totally disoriented. Tell them we're out here. We're stuck. Somehow, they've made it here. And we've got two planes facing But there's signs and surface I don't get it. Why didn't the airport marks prevent the pilots This is a runway. [MUSIC PLAYING] Just after midnight, is carrying a planeload from Bogota to the of San Andres, an ocean Sea. There are signs of a Now past the halfway the captain is increasingly of heavy storms gathering It doesn't look like any relief from this storm. Yeah. Lots of activity tonight. Get a report from OK. I'll ask. The San Andres Air is also keeping a close eye San Andres, good morning. Aires 8250. Go ahead. We want to know how the weather Aires 8250, there is a right now. OK. Roger. Thank you. Gear down. The weather in San Aires 8250, there at the airfield, and visibility In deteriorating conditions the captain confirms in the event they have to abort In case we miss the approach, Yes. Correct, sir. 500 feet from the ground, The captain lines up his plane. Aires 8250, winds at Then, the wind picks up. 50 knots head on. In case of wind shear, we use Don't touch flaps or gear. Agreed. Yes, sir. Caught in a sudden deluge, 50. Look out, captain. The first officer too low to make a safe landing. Can you make it? 20. Climb, captain! The captain pulls back but it's too late. [CRASHING] [SCREAMING] At 1:47 AM, Aires 8250 slams passengers and crew on board. [SIRENS] In the aftermath one passenger is dead after by a tray table. A second passenger, who was dies in the hospital The Colombian needs to find out one of the most widely-used [MUSIC PLAYING] Aires 8250 has crashed in San Andres and broken While wreckage crews to a nearby facility investigators wonder what played in the accident. Can I show you this? The team already knows quickly just before the crash. But they need to determine if them up to date. I updated them regularly San Andres, good morning. Aires 8250. Go ahead. We want to know how the weather OK. Aires 8250, wind, calm. Visibility more Scattered clouds at 1,500 feet. There's some bad weather but right now, there is no rain. Every time the weather changed, Gear down. Aires 8250, there's a little A little what? Drizzle. Ah. Minutes later, it turned Aires 8250, there at the airfield and visibility Did they seem concerned No. They didn't sound I was very careful to Investigators need was lightning near the 737 Sure looks like lightning. The timing fits. The team studies the static Static wicks are located on wings and help discharge any If the plane was they should be melted or burned. But they are not. Investigators can find no on the aircraft surfaces. They're clean. The team still has a lot about the weather at the Wind shear is a the wind's direction or speed The team learns that before the crash, as the storm were gusting. Digging further into So lots of headwind, Investigator Julian discovers the powerful head on not from above. Not enough to slam [MUSIC PLAYING] May 18, 2011. Sol Flight 5428, you Roger. Sol Flight 5428 B1. Rotate. At 8:05 PM, Sol from the airport in Neuquen. Positive rate. The plane will fly to Comodoro Rivadavia As per their flight will climb to a cruising Looks like we're Nothing to worry about. We're expecting It should be better At 19,000, water droplets from clinging to the aircraft. [TICKING] Building up some ice on my wing. OK. Let's get it down to where Ask to descend to 14,000. Roger. Then-- Feel that? --the situation Propeller's vibrating. The pilots feel some vibrations. It could be a sign of ice Put them on max. Roger. [RATTLING] Oh, hell! [BEEPING] What's wrong? I don't know! The turboprop is suddenly [SCREAMING] Pull back! Pull back! Pull back harder! I'm trying! The pilots struggled to get Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! Come on! [BEEPING] Pull up. [CRASHING] The turboprop in a remote region of Patagonia. [FIRE CRACKLING] [SIRENS] Argentina's Civil Defense to the crash site. But because of its on a desert plateau it takes hours for [HELICOPTER WHIRRING] When the crews do arrive, they [MUSIC PLAYING] OK. Let's add the flight path. Investigators now to the weather conditions on This is the flight path Look what's waiting They flew right into Investigators wonder if of the icing conditions to protect the plane. It's something only The airline's flight with crucial information. Investigators the flight dispatcher the potential for severe icing. The report you gave them but it was actually severe. Where did you get your report? The team learns that because the closed at 4:00 PM, the provided was more than longer accurate. But establishing that the pilots than they expected is not enough their plane. In icing conditions, anti-ice protection. On the Saab 340A, of pneumatic boots The boots inflate and break up edge. But did a malfunction bring down Sol Flight 5428? [BEEPING] Sol Flight 5428, mayday! Mayday! Mayday! [MUSIC PLAYING] Investigators of Sol Flight for confirmation that a failure brought the plane down. All that survived OK. Let's get them checked out. Yeah. The primary function is to control the flow that inflates the Was there a problem When they test the it's discovered that was passing through the Take a look. No failures. If the pilots knew and the ice protection then ice alone doesn't [MUSIC PLAYING] Cougar Flight 91 This is a commuter run from to offshore platforms in The Hibernia oil fields are By helicopter, it's So for workers on oil of transportation. 28 minutes into the is leveled off at the 9,000 feet. 9,000 feet, copy. Three weeks on, three weeks off. Life on a rig. I don't know what's worse, [BEEPING] Gearbox pressure. Gearbox pressure. MGB oil pressure. Emergency checklist. While First Officer Lanouette Gander Center, Cougar 91, go ahead. Sir, we have a main gearbox Request immediate Cougar 91, roger. You can make a right The controller contacts the in Halifax. Halifax, Gander Center. We have a mayday call currently on return to St. The pressure gauge indicates pressure is well below the Confirmed. MGB oil temperature But the reading on is not what it would be if there Cougar 91, dispatch. Go for 91. Rescue is asking if ditching or possible? Dispatch 91, If possible, can you update our Dispatch, I think, we have pressure sensor problem. Matt, can you The gearbox oil temperature I don't think we've lost I'm on a heading if this goes south on us. Cougar 91 is still 35 miles But now-- [RATTLING] Oh, hell. Dispatch, we're ditching. [BEEPING] Ditching. Airspeed 122, Matt. Brace! Brace! Brace! Brace! [CRASHING] The passengers and are now trapped inside [WAVES CASHING] [MUSIC PLAYING] 17 people are dead. There is only one survivor. The close-knit is shattered and The answers lie 554 of the Atlantic Ocean. [MUSIC PLAYING] Investigator Alan Chaulk's provides a big break Within days of the the helicopter's has questions about the crash. That's right. The whole main gearbox. Sikorsky. All right. Yeah, good. Yeah. We'll be expecting you. Great. They're coming? Yeah. And the FAA. They want to take a look We are. It turns out, Sikorsky and Administration, or interested in the same piece Investigators learned a Sikorsky S-92 in Australia [BEEPING] Gearbox pressure. Gearbox pressure. But that S-92 reached land without incident. The circumstances are identical. Is there some flaw in the So what went wrong? Right here, the oil filter bowl. The oil filter bowl of oil circulating It's fastened to the The investigators now focus Here we go. Wow. Two of the studs are gone. | discovery confirms saw in the FDR data, an They now have concrete because of the broken studs. So what made the studs fail? What is it made out of? These ones? Titanium. This looks like galling. Galling is a form of wear caused against each other, particularly under pressure. Titanium is prone to galling, with steel. Sikorsky studied the Australian and concluded the galling was to fasten them. Here. Take a look at this. Alert two operators of the S-92. Replace all titanium studs hours. Six weeks before the Sikorsky issued an advisory studs for steel studs. They knew the studs could fail. Sikorsky said that would last at least a year. Cougar got the but maintenance didn't think to replace the The question now delay replacing the studs? [RATTLING] Oh, hell. Dispatch, we're ditching. [MUSIC PLAYING] Sentani Airport in Papua Trigana Air Service pilots Officer Aryadin Falani before their fifth The pilots have already flown This leg will take them back to area. The plane reaches its cruising The flight is so is already preparing for Without the aid of advanced at bigger airports, must keep the runway in Wings there, 1250. Confirm descent from 12,000. Report when you are Five minutes later, the air realizes Flight 267 hasn't Hey, this is Oksibil. We've lost contact Have you heard from the pilots? You haven't. We might have a problem here. Word of the missing As the news spreads, with Indonesia's National Committee, the KNKT, Flight 267 was only 15 when it last checked in but search efforts Until a pilot flying out smoke billowing from [PHONE RINGING] Yeah? 140 degrees. 29 minutes. 51.18 seconds east. OK, got it. Thank you. The wreckage is at on a ridge of Tangok Mountain, Airport. A search and rescue team to the crash site. At over 4,000 feet there are no roads, The only way to get to The team finally A field of debris stretches [PHONE RINGING] [BEEP] Go ahead, Oksibil. Jakarta. We reached the crash site. No survivors. [MUSIC PLAYING] KNKT investigators are to determine why Without recorded flight data, recorder is to learn what was at the time of the crash. Fortunately, the CVR data All right. We're ready? OK, play it. The CVR contains including from the two flights I'll call down and let Investigators first listened into Oksibil from in the hopes of finding clues. Oksibil Trigana 267. Trigana 267, Oksibil, copy. We're beginning our approach. Would like to descend Confirm descent from 11,500. Let me know when you are Oksibil. We won't be over the airport. We're going to fly direct to Copy that. Left base leg? That's not what it They took a shortcut? The CVR reveals that the pilots in their approach during their The official approach to fly over the airport, and But on the earlier flew directly to runway So they take the same shortcut The last flight proceeds much into Oksibil. Big plans for the family? Investigators listen closely Yeah. Looking forward It's been very busy It's what they don't hear They're not doing their The team now knows that the on their approach. While listening to the investigators make a That's it. [MUSIC PLAYING] It happened so fast. Sounds like they didn't [CRASHING] [MUSIC PLAYING] There is still no evidence why in Namibia. The investigation to DAAI offices in Is this the last inspection? Looks like it. They begin looking into the maintaining the plane. November 28. Day before the accident. Everything seems to The Embraer 190 purchased has a spotless record. Yeah. There was nothing wrong With no evidence of the team turns his attention They review from the day of the crash. All right, Dennis. The data from [? Mon ?] Did bad weather bring Great. Why don't we start from The team scrolls through a spanning the duration Just some scattered clouds 3,000 Nowhere near the What was the wind like? Nothing stronger than 11 knots. So no problem there. With both the machine and investigators have only OK. Let's look into Were the pilots responsible Investigators consider played a role in Captain Herminio dos Born in Mozambique, Here we go. How familiar was Captain Positive rate. Gear up. Gear up. The team scrutinizes Captain Fernandes was 2,500 on the Embraer 190. 9,000 flight hours total. --he was a very Investigators have exhausted and come up empty. Any news on the recorders? Not yet. But I'll check in. OK. Search-and-rescue aircraft Mozambique Airlines Flight 470. But it's park rangers in National Park who first come It's clearly Mozambique All 27 passengers and The site is in a of Namibia, straddling putting the investigators OK. We got a lot of ground to cover. Let's find the point of impact. The team combs through the could help explain the crash. The last radar showed the plane was in an before the crash. But the crash site OK, so the plane came headed in this direction, Flight 470 was headed in the It was not off course. Investigators look for to see what else they can learn. At the point of initial find two nearly identical pits. 32 feet. That's the distance It's an important lead that in which the plane Investigators study the actual OK, we're 487 meters from The wreckage pattern The extensive trail of debris Maybe they were trying to land. To answer that question, the Tires aren't blown. No damage to the treads. No puncture marks. They were retracted. This wasn't an It's the first tangible the pilots may have been doing. If they weren't were they coming in so fast? In Douala, Cameroon, is almost an hour Ladies and gentlemen, to wait for the to improve before we take off. A severe storm must pass Tower. Kenya 507. Looks like there's a Requesting startup. OK, 507. Startup approved. Startup checklist. Quickly, please. Uh, generator's on. A few minutes before is finally ready for takeoff. OK. Takeoff thrust is set. Speed building on both. Check. 80 knots. Check. V1. Rotate. Just after midnight, finally departs for Nairobi. [INAUDIBLE] [BEEPING] Bank angle. Bank angle. Suddenly, the 737 rolls The captain fights Bank angle. Bank angle. But it continues banking [BEEPING] Bank angle. Bank angle. Despite the pilots' [BEEPING] Bank angle. We're crashing! Yeah, we are crashing! Left! Left! Bank angle. Left correction. Bank angle. Bank angle. Five hours later, the controller [PHONE RINGS] Douala tower. No reason I can think of. They should be there by now. Kenya Airways Flight 507 45 minutes ago, but the [INAUDIBLE] And no one even knows where Two days later, locate the wreckage Its 3 and 1/2 miles The 737 has crashed and is submerged There are no survivors. The crash of Kenya a key piece of evidence the 737's flight data recorder. Well, looks pretty Technicians in Canada have been Any malfunction warnings would provide an important clue. No warnings. They find no signs of As the team continues But look at this. --they discovered that just a different kind of Bank-angle alert at an For investigators, this is happened to Flight 507. Any rule exceeding 35 degrees Once reaching that alerts pilots of danger. Rotate. When investigators review the they make a critical discovery. Gear up. OK. He was turning left from the And then, he keeps making It looks like he's trying But what caused the slow roll Bingo. It's the way the It was a slight right roll. The flaps increase a plane's On this particular provided slightly more This discovery explains kept his control column immediately after takeoff. Well, that's weird. But it doesn't explain an of the flight data. Look at this. The captain's control It's like he just let go of it. Six degrees right, 11 degrees, 15 degrees, 20 nothing. As the plane's bank angle neither pilot took action to roll-- [BEEPING] Bank angle, bank angle. --until the bank Bank angle. And then, he does this. Right, left, right Bank angle. Bank angle. Bank angle. The data paints a baffling flight. Who flies like that? That was puzzling to us. So it really highlighted more information and more data. And that data is the CVR. The CVR is what tells What might they have But after weeks of there's still no sign of It's 6:45 PM. Loganair Flight 6780 near Scotland. Take a look at that. I don't like it. There's some bad the end of the runway. Approach, Logan 6780. There's a big storm cell on We might need to discontinue. 6780, roger. The pilots consider How much fuel do we have left? 2,500 kilos. You want to head Well, let's circle. Make another attempt. As the pilots circle for Oh, crap! Circuit breakers look fine. I have control. But something's wrong. The controls feel really heavy. Mayday, mayday, this Please clear the airspace. 6780, copy. Without knowing what's It's really fighting me. --it's too risky in a storm at Sumburgh Airport. We should divert Better conditions. Agreed. Aberdeen Airport Let's try climbing to 4,000. 6780, we're going to Something's wrong. I can't get the plane to climb. How's your side? It's really heavy. And then, the Oh, no! Come on! We're dropping! [GROANS] Flight 6780 plunges towards the North Sea. The pilots wrestle as the plane speeds toward the Speed. Speed! In a last-ditch effort the captain increases We're climbing. Requesting flight level 240. 6780, roger, climb The controls are The pilots of Loganair Flight to Aberdeen Airport. Aberdeen, 6780, established Not knowing which the pilots carefully configure Flaps 35. Flaps 35. Control feels normal. Having avoided their sole focus is to get the 130. Speed looks good. Decision height. Runway in sight. Continue. All right. 50 knots, coming out of reverse. Check. I'm happy to be on solid ground. Puzzled by the crew's account 6780, investigators turned for answers. It will answer many questions the way they were and how the and interacting together. Aberdeen ground, 6780, taxiing But something's not right. Aberdeen? This is from when they Right, can you stop it to play it again, please? Aberdeen ground, 6780, taxiing That's all there is. Well, that's not going to The CVR has recorded over the It's a major setback Right, this is what The lightning struck. The autopilot disconnected. They had control problems. Then, the plane did a nosedive. And let's review the data. Will the data recorder they need to solve this case? Flight data recorders that simply can't be gained And crucially, quite that's gathered from offers a slightly to what we might get from Stop. This is where the lightning Right. And then for the there's a slow, uneven And then, they are in a very towards the North Sea. What were the pilots doing Look at the control column data. Right after the the crew pulled back to pitch the nose up. The FDR data confirms the problem. But why? The captain said they were Pitch trim moves the tail to maintain the pitch Could we take a look at the All right. Investigators make a Look at that. The elevators are to pitch down instead of up. After the lightning was fighting the pilots' column and the pitch trim. The crew said the the autopilot disconnected, and Right. Could we take a look at Finally, the team The autopilot was on Investigators discover that the pilots were in a tug So we then had to look misunderstand the Execuflight 1526 is flying northeast from Dayton Zipline 1526, descend to 13,000. &quot;Zipline&quot; is Descending to 13,000 feet. Thank you, Zipline 1526. Let me check the weather. Automated weather observation. Wind, 290 at 07. Overcast, 1,800. Temperature, 09 Celsius. All right. We have overcast weather. The crew prepares for OK, let's see. Akron. Right. Heading? 249. Flight 1526 continues Akron, visibility Sky condition, The crew learns the weather Temperature, 11 Celsius. They need to know if it's 1-and-1/2-mile visibility. What visibility does 1-and-1/4 miles. All right, so we Six minutes from Akron, the A flight instructor is how to land in bad weather to Flight 1526. Flight 1526 is now four as it starts its final approach. Can you check if Ignition. Everything is all set. Stand by. 2 and 1/2 miles from are still searching Finally, the plane breaks Ground. Keep going. OK, OK, level out now. I got it. Pull up. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Execuflight 1526 has crashed building. Everyone on board is dead. Incredibly, none were home during the crash. The NTSB must now determine Execuflight 1526 plunged into in Akron, Ohio. At the crash site, through the wreckage for clues. We found the angle in the cockpit wreckage. That's important, because at the wing will stall. Oh, what angle were you at? It was damaged extensively. But they could see that the Investigators determined as it approached the airport. Now, they must understand why. Pull up. Pull up. That's great. Get that to Washington. The cockpit voice recorder is recovered and sent to NTSB The CVR is doubly since the Hawker 700 wasn't recorder. While investigators wait they work with what they have-- the documents found in Weight and balance. Will you look at that? We found that the weight for the auxiliary power unit. It's a little jet that helps power the aircraft So they had no APU. The team wonders how this discovered at the crash site. Hello, APU. Looks like they were carrying Investigators believe they documented weight and balance. Were they too heavy? Wonder how much this The pilots made their for any APU. But there clearly The NTSB calculates the during its final flight. The APU weighs 300 pounds. And according to the they were loaded with but they only wrote down 7,700. So how much in total Oh, there were only The plane's actual than what the pilots recorded. It wouldn't really have made on the aircraft. The weight of the APU was not enough to affect But it did tell us that wasn't following their Somebody wasn't watching what Investigators need to explain why It's almost 6:00 in the The pilots of Comair for their pre-flight briefing. Ladies and gentlemen, we'd to welcome you on board Comair We'll try to keep it Hopefully, you can catch It's our pleasure having There are 47 passengers on today's flight. The pilots begin their briefing. Right flex. Takeoff procedures off of-- he said what runway? 24? It's 22. Today, they are bound for a 67-minute flight from Lexington's Lexington's air clears Flight 5191 At your leisure, Comair 121. Ready to go. Comair 191. Lexington tower. Fly runway heading, Oh. All yours, Jim. Captain Clay hands to First Officer My brakes, my controls. Set thrust, please. Thurst set. That is weird with no lights. Yeah. 100 knots, checks. Something's not right-- V1, rotate. --as 5191 prepares to lift off. Whoa. Damn it! Comair Flight 5191 hurtles into from the runway. This is Lexington. Alert 3. West side of the runway with a 49 people are dead after the 5191. First Officer Polehinke The question NTSB investigators is why Comair Flight 5191 NTSB investigators to discover why Comair Flight a mile from Lexington's The wreckage path that the plane was struggling Was it engine trouble It looks like they took But hang on. 26 wasn't in use last night. Lexington Airport Runway 26 and Runway 22. According to the were supposed to take How the heck did they Investigators are surprised to off from the wrong runway. But being on the explain why the plane barely Let's take a closer Yeah, they were Evidence of deformed were running on impact. Something else must have kept Maybe they were too heavy? With engine failure wonders if the plane was to take off. Hmm. Oh, here it is. CRJ's max takeoff And the load manifest 49,087 pounds on that day. It's close, but it's The aircraft wasn't In that aircraft on that how much runway would be Using the actual weight of specifications, investigators the plane needed to lift off. 3,744 feet. 3,744 feet. And Runway 26 is-- 3,501 feet. Investigators reach an Runway 26 is 243 feet too short. They ran out of runway. They now understand why the But they're still mystified. Why didn't Flight 5191 take It's just after 5:00 AM as 181 passengers settle in Lion Air Flight 610 from Jakarta over the At 6:20-- Rotate. --the MAX 8 lifts off [BEEPING] But immediately, The captain's control a warning that the Take off config. OK, but what? The pilots can't identify They have no choice but 5610, fly heading 248, follow Lion Air 610. The air traffic controller an issue in the cockpit. The pilots get a warning that do not agree. Airspeed disagree. What's going on? Should we request a Landing gear up. Lion 610. Climb to flight level 270. Still unaware of any instructs the crew to continue Altitude disagree. The first officer now notices show conflicting readings. [? Knowledge ?] The situation is Now flying 5,000 Captain Suneja struggles to Flight path vector Lion 610, turn right heading Set the pitch attitude. Roger, heading 070. Flight 610 is flying and becoming increasingly The controller allows Flight the pilots choose. Uh, please clear 3,000 OK, will do. What altitude would you like? 5-- uh, it's diving. It's diving. It's OK. It's OK. Flight 610 is now Airspeed. And the pilots are Fly up. Up. Up! 30 minutes after crashing the wreckage of Lion Air There are no survivors. It takes three days for to lock on to the signal coming 610's flight data recorder. Divers recover it from The recorder has preserved data previous flights covering almost Master caution goes leave the ground, probably don't agree. Stick shaker activates here. The data shows a repeat of the Faulty readings caused between the left and right [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] From the FDR data learned that this plane had that affected both Left and right are off by 21 degrees We suspected the new installed in Bali or the installation process On the MAX 8, the doesn't just measure Altitude disagree. It helps calculate precise That explains why airspeed throughout the whole flight. The malfunctioning sensor resulted in a difference between and altitude displays. Then there's this. The data clearly shows that there is a corresponding [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] The NTSB brought a to help us in our investigation. We're trying to understand It looks like the What's that? Boeing points to an known as MCAS, the Maneuvering System. It only kicks in when these Boeing explains that when it senses that the when the autopilot is off, and an extremely rare combination. Tragically, the data of the faulty maintenance and Flight 610 ended up meeting [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] The series of the left angle-of-attack Investigators dig and discover the MCAS [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH] The MCAS installed in the plane MCAS only took data from not both. [BEEPING] Most protection systems are so a single failure doesn't Southwest Airlines Flight to Dallas, Texas. The crew flew in earlier The four-hour trip to Dallas flight of the day. When this Flight 1380 controllers at LaGuardia over to New York Southwest 1380, contact Copy that, 1380. 20 minutes after takeoff-- Thank you. --everything changed. What the-- oh! We had a very large bang. We had multiple in the cockpit and a throughout the entire plane. First Officer Ellisor struggles banked steeply to the left. I immediately grabbed the You still got it. I was not able to see because the vibration It was just a blur of colors. And so I can't see anything. Still got it. Luckily, it was a clear and I was able to and recover the airplane. First Officer Ellisor and begins a steep descent. Flight 1380 is 10 minutes away Airport and closing fast. At an altitude of just from Philadelphia the pilots prepare for Southwest 1380, runway 27 left cleared to It's seconds before touchdown. Flight 1380 is flying towards Speed break. Armed with the green light. The pilots are unsure of They're making a high-speed from only one engine They might not have enough 50 feet. 30 feet. Captain Scholz is a She's landed F-18 But this is a landing Speedbrakes up. The thrust reverser on If the reverser could overshoot the runway. We touched down. It was a great landing. Thank you, Lord. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Lord. I'm just going to pull her Flight 1380 rolls to a stop. Investigators study for the fan blades in the They did a full Let me see. They learn that all the fan were inspected during a six years before the During the overhaul, on each of the Then, a fluorescent identify any fatigue cracking. Investigators review the work during the 2012 overhaul. This checks out. It says they did a full Investigators determined that at all the fan blades were found But how were the fan blades Airlines after the overhaul? They're supposed and visually inspected between There are seven more They're all comprehensive, This was the appropriate and that all technicians If fan blade 13 was checked and passed all its wonder when the crack began. So what do you got? Have a look. A microscopic examination might tell them more about I see. The crack was growing. Using high magnifications, can see tiny tracings There's thousands of them. Investigators tally on the fractured blade. That means counting tens of on a tiny piece of metal. There's over 32,000 striations. What's that tell you? By counting the striations in 13, investigators the beginnings of the crack. This crack could have started It's an important development. The fatigue crack likely began before in 2012, when the blades The pressure on There are more than in service using the The same inspection regime is also used throughout The catastrophe that struck US-Bangla Flight 211 Their destination is It's a 90-minute flight The crew is flying a BS 211 tower, wind 8 knots, BS 211 is on final Tribhuvan International Airport Planes approaching the airport 02, and from the But BS 211 isn't ready to land. Have you seen the runway? BS 211 has overflown and is now headed north I think we're Concerned by what he's seeing, steps in to assist Flight 211. OK, Bangla Star 211, Kathmandu air traffic BS 211 to turn left But the plane isn't Bangla Star 211, turn right. You have the runway to land. Confirm you have Negative. Where is the runway? Sir, runway. Runway, 3:00. Affirmative. We have runway in sight. Request clear to land, sir. BS 211, clear to land. He's lining up for the taxiway. BS 211, that is not the runway. Over, that's not the runway. BS 211, that is not the The pilots make a to try to line up their But the airplane is headed instead. The pilots of desperately to get their Banking. [EXPLOSION] US-Bangla 211 bursts into flames 49 people are dead. A multinational to investigate the tragedy. It consists of delegates from representing the Canadian Bombardier. BS 211's flight data recorder Will it reveal if in control of their aircraft? These are the inputs the captain And these are the of the flight controls. Investigators compare to the actual movements of They make an They're identical. The plane was doing everything Let's see later on the flight. Take a look at these inputs. They're so extreme. Bank angle. Bank angle. Sink rate. The data shows Captain Sultan to his control column near Bank angle. Bank angle. If there wasn't a why was the captain flying This is the flight path the To better understand exactly as it approached the compile the heading the exact course of the plane. And this is the flight What the data shows It looks like they And flew loops very Looks like the trouble 17 miles out when they Pilots navigate by following locations along Guras is the last waypoint Investigators dig to understand why BS 211 They programmed the flight pattern of the Guras. Here. The FDR data reveals that the pattern about 34 miles And when they reached like they start their But the heading data complete their holding pattern. The question is, why? It's late afternoon at in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Dozens of US Air prepare for late-night Major Kevin Sweeney and the crew review the final details Dart switches. He's the commander. Flight start. Sweeney has over 20 years of It's his job to know the But the aircraft commander If you have to make it's your responsibility, to take input from the and listen to them. At 5:25 PM, Whale 05 Tonight's mission takes them an aerial highway for north from Jeddah. When they reach turn east before making their point less than 180 miles from border. Whale 05 reaches As they get closer the pilots reduce radio Moments later-- What the-- --things go very wrong. [BEEPING] Oh! I got it. It takes just a to roll 110 degrees to the left. The crew can't tell if there's or if they're under attack. We're going to lose her. We got to get her level. Just as it seems the plane is it snaps hard to the right. Just when all seems lost, Speed brake! Speed brakes are devices to increase drag during Sweeney deploys the speed hoping it will It's a procedure Sweeney It works. Incredibly, the pilots have But they're not All right, I have but we're losing altitude. We've got fire lights The pilots discover a problem Steve! How bad are the fires Checking. If there's a fire it could lead to disaster. Oh, my God. The only thing I could on the wing where and fuel being vented They're not on fire. They're gone. No fire? Affirmative. No fire. The engines are gone. Roger. US Air Force tries to understand how wake a gigantic tanker aircraft. Separation between the That's it. Wind was 85 knots from the West. The wind was blowing to push the wingtip airplane into the flight They accounted for everything. They were foiled by the Perfect storm. But Stokes still doesn't know got a chance to form. When you're taking off on a daily basis, the arrival is very critical. And in this particular was parked in such to go first and be followed the one that had further to go. The solution that was a perfectly And that was, we're going and then you're Had the number-two to the left of the the mishap never Investigators finally understand 05's level. On a wartime mission over two KC 135s switched Altitude hold on. Altitude hold check. The wake turbulence generated into the path of Whale 05. It creates a flips the plane so violently, off the left wing. [GRUNTS] Often heard flying of sheer boredom, of stark, raving terror. In this case, the that stark, raving terror. And there's too much stress! The oscillations almost push the beyond the point of recovery. Speed brake. But with the quick thinking of the plane levels off. Coming back to level flight Greg, are your NAV Yes. INS is functional. Radar is still up. Well, give me a The coordination of Nose gear down and locked. Runway in sight. --brings Whale 05 Aircraft commander was But the fact is he had every in tandem with him, sure they didn't miss anything. Brakes. I was very fortunate to fly one Force, in my humble opinion. They did their job in And it wasn't just me It was the team got We did it. Whether it's a refueling We did it. --or a routine domestic the importance of teamwork It's 9:00 in the morning as cruises toward the city of William McGrory is flying for an early morning meeting. I was working for I was based in were based in Palmerston North. As we were on approach-- I don't think the landing Can you check your window? No, I can't see the In the cockpit, Captain are already troubleshooting As Flight 703 nears the pilots follow the procedure manually. Airspeed below 140 knots. It's 140. Karen was sitting right and the next minute-- And then, I'll have so I'll probably head down to-- Another crash, and then Eventually, we came to a stop. I guess it just clicked and didn't really matter Just, I was alive. Get out of this plane-- the only single thing that Saw a hole in front of and saw that as an In the airport's tower, tries to contact I don't know where they are. There's no signals at all in. They're off radar. Way out in front which was facing I saw my little briefcase. So I grabbed that knowing full well that I rang 111, and they said, Ambulance, fire, or police? And I said, send the We got a plane crash. Send everything. And she immediately changed her and we'll get back to you. Did he say where they were? OK, did you get a number? The operator has notified of McGrory's call. Perfect. Thank you. [PHONE RINGS] Hello? William, whatever happens, You have to stay on Can you see if you can anything that can help The passenger who said, I'll have a look around. So he went off up had gone quite a distance And he came back some there's a big holding pen for We're next to a very Looks like they're stockyard up by Hall Block Road. With the location of the rescuers make their Flight 703 has 10 miles from the airport 15 passengers and both Tragically, three passengers Gallagher are killed. We were very, very lucky I think so sadly for those The hostess and the others was so unnecessary. Investigators need to examine to determine why the pilots gear down. But the muddy terrain is It was virtually impossible to It would just slip, and and slide down hills and so on. Vance comes up with a solution. They had a huge helicopter What we suggested to them that and put the cable The ribs were in that they would basically hold With all the investigators are able to gear to understand why Vance is joined by Jim from de Havilland, the When the landing holds a roller on the gear's When pilots lower moves the uplock latch to the landing gear to extend. This is probably Latch is definitely Over time, the roller into the right-side latch. It was enough to prevent it from Here's another. Landing gear fails to extend. Yeah. It definitely was an issue. Investigators dig through Yeah. The inset fletcher had And both are Dash 8s Ansett New Zealand's experiencing landing-gear Just the left side. Gotcha. Thanks for that. They replaced the But we're waiting on Ansett only replaced the because that is where the majority of their issues. But all of these gear problems In every case, the pilots to lower the gear. And they all landed safely. If the gear didn't pilots could pull a handle disengaged the latch, drop into position. The alternate system There has never been an issue extension system failing But evidence from reveals the first officer didn't to release the landing gear. We saw that the handle was partially pulled. Failing to lower the But it doesn't explain why the slammed into a hill just a It's the first flight of the day 420. Today's flight is from Dorval to The plane has been in [BEEPING] What? What is it? Looks like we lost hydraulics. Dorval approach. This is Popair 420. We've had dual Request clearance The metroliner has One controls the flaps, Looks like we're With no flaps, the pilots without stalling. Then just 30 seconds before they've started What's going on? It wants to roll left. Really? Holding a right. Something's wrong Need to trim half If the plane is rolling applying trim avoids the need Trimming it right and levels the plane. As Flight 440 gets Fire. The left engine is on fire. --an even bigger Left engine shutdown procedure. The pilot's attempt the fire in the left engine. Left power lever. Confirmed left. The captain executes the Back to idle. Confirm left shutoff lever. Confirmed. Pulling left engine stop lever. Dorval approach Propair 420. Left engine is on fire. We've shut it down. Propair 420. I see you are I can give you Affirmative, direct to Mirabel. While flight 420 is only they reroute to Montreal's which is closer. I see flames now. Flames from the engine nozzle. The situation goes Fire crews park at Mirabel Airport landing of Flight 420. Captain Provencher is Now, he has to lower the with no guarantee it will work. Gear down now. Gear down. The nose and right but one light stays off. Prop air 420 is 20 Rolling left. Not now! They're just five seconds when disaster strikes. The plane crashes into a watery Despite the best no one makes it out What is it? Looks like we lost hydraulics. Investigators now turn to of Propair 420 to determine both reported an engine fire. I've got the call I'm I can't believe it's taking this Hang on. Control problems just 30 The Dorval is here. They're barely out of the gate Haven't even begun their start acting up here. Fire. The left engine's on fire. Is that a passenger? Fire in the left engine? The passenger report of an The engine overheat Left engine shutdown procedure. The captain follows but it doesn't I see flames now, flames I don't have the fire lights. The cockpit voice recording with their biggest lead yet. Maybe the fire started That's so close to could have made that mistake. The team discovers that pieces are burned almost The team finds that several breaks show significant Piston housings are melted. Cylinders are blackened. Investigators can that an in-flight fire began in the left wheel don't know what started it. This is the left. Brake disk, correct. One component is key. The thing got The grayish-blue The landing gear would need But the wheel well is nowhere tanks. Investigators focus on the well called the nacelle. Hydraulic line there. Dorval approach. This is Propair 420. We've had dual Request clearance The melted lines would cause the first problem So the heat from the Hydraulic fluid There's your fire. Right there. It's a good theory, but they Investigators design if hydraulic fluid exposed to overheated brakes. They heat the disk to the temperature needed to give the left brake Whoa. It's an early summer 1354 climbs over Kentucky. Tonight's flight from to Birmingham, Alabama The crew is flying of the Airbus A300, equipped and flight management Notice to airmen-- Runway 24 closed. Localizer Runway 18 in use. Landing and departing Runway 18. The runway they were expecting They'll have to The alternate runway is shorter. With the plane nearly they'll have to carefully on approach. Landing on Runway a more demanding approach known In a non-precision pre-program the flight computer or descent profile to Five miles from the realizes something's not right. Unbelievable. Too high. The autopilot hasn't to the airport. The captain tries to on its programmed glide path. If the plane remains too high the crew could overshoot it. Autopilot's off. The captain prepares to fly the As they get closer Did I hit something? Oh, no. Oh, God. The pilots can't as it cuts through No! Oh, my God! UPS Flight 1354 crashes just Tower, did you see that? Yes. Yes. Airport 12, there's UPS 1354, heavy Attention, aircraft crash, Rescue crews rush to extinguish Despite the plane coming and crossing a highway no one on the ground is injured. Tragically, both Within hours, the National begins the investigation. Verify the glide path agrees within 1 degree. Did a malfunction in used to program to the crash of Flight 1354? Verify approach. 0.1 degrees. The flight management in an airline operation Because it is the automation. It is the typical way of If you have bad will cause bad things to happen. OK. Let's hook this up. Investigators recover the from the wreckage. They prepare to of errors or malfunctions. Investigators went to figure out what exactly management computer. It was damaged, so they had and place it in a functioning This should tell us if If the flight computer investigators should be It's working. It turned out that there was management computer. But had there been, that could of the accident sequence. The computer was working. Looks like they programmed it. Final approach is armed for a Wait a minute. They've got two separate They forgot to They discovered the in planning their route They failed to programmed destination. It's a troubling find. You can load a and then if you deviate from the flight management know what's going on and And that's called The crew programmed the to Birmingham Airport. 20 miles out, they needed and program a specific But the crew didn't which created the discontinuity, There was a conflict between the airplane to and where the computer knew and that was a flight That's why the autopilot path. The captain basically was that the display was to descend as when there was no reason for it. The team knows the crew The question is why. [MUSIC PLAYING]