Today, we are playing another competitive Mario DS Mario Circuit. This track was actually my pick. I had a really, really nervous start, and I've times, trying to figure out, like, what do I to compensate for that this time. So, this time, a lot less nervous given how that event went--no play as normal as possible, which means super going around for coins. Let's go! Okay, we're expecting to get shocked the moment I exited my and I need to remember that because when I and it--it doesn't work very well. Okay, we're teammate's in second--let's see how they do at the bullet. I think I'll just use it right here. well--not the ideal item. Let's just try this. mode now. Uh-oh, uh-oh, triple greens. What? Where water over there on the right. Oh, okay, okay, and just hold third unless they throw it away. No! I No one hit me. I still got second place, let's I absolutely could have gotten first place if I Okay, Randy, White Yoshi, tag &quot;R.&quot; My teammate is Yoshi. I reacted with White Yoshi as well. Okay, track like I told him to. Why are you going for the coins on the left if you're in first. Okay, slight lead already right at the start. [Music] I'm not time trialed this in a little bit. But mini-turbo is so much easier to get with Mr. this is the problem when you're not practiced. would you? Okay, they got red-shelled, that's all these fake warnings. Thanks, Nintendo! this because I kind of messed it up, but pretty good. No blue shell yet though. That could strategies. Orange mini-turbo because I missed so I always do that shortcut at the beginning, not doing it. No! Right after items. A grow before the shortcut. I might be okay? Wow, that was so nice. I didn't get hit all race. why you pick your favorite tracks, your but I will do pretty well. And Randy is being the Ninth Place, Randy. [laughs] Thank you, Randy! Stadium a lot in lounge, and I'm gonna be able still have hangover from the Waluigi Stadium win I should do super well on this track, and then make uncharacteristic mistakes because of all We're just gonna have to go around here. Gather wasn't supposed to trick there. Pfft! Just took hits my teammate. I'm so scared of getting bumped shortcut and to recover. Wow, I'm getting bumped these bumps are terrible. Okay, nice coin. Gonna Randy took my coin. I don't care if my teammate here. There's a boomerang ahead--oh, there's It's a blue shell coming for Randy. Okay, didn't get the mini-turbo trick because I would gonna go for a shortcut again right here. Only up. Still need to go through this coin. Wow, race. [laughs] Okay, this is good, I'm first one red-shell me. That's a really good part to be same speed as when you're big. Where is it? Uh-oh, performance yet. I just got second, first, first! got 10th. It's okay, it's okay, Randy, you got just have fun. I feel like if your name is Randy, time, you know? It just makes sense. Okay, we're lag snipe, some crazy lag snipe, but then I got totally fine with this. If I can get a mushroom. it's so hard to navigate and grab the coins that second--what? What just happened? I just went from Pass me with your red shell. Oh, Ken? Is this--this mushroom is all I need here. Oh, there's fire. but couldn't do anything about it. Okay, that was There's a red shell right here. Please trail that part up. I'm going wide. Wow, okay, good. This is a kind of &quot;Hold Your Position&quot; don't need to win every race. If I can do well, Please tell me that hit. Nice. Okay, I did not want to deal with them. And these forth. It's too hard to come back in this section unless I trail him first. Yes! Uh-oh. Would well, we got sixth place. That's still really teammate fifth. Nice! Randy's playing a little at keeping track of who is our main competition. now that I'm playing competitive is, uh, the I like Rosalina's Ice World for starting in off and trailed by everybody, and just now try and draft or pull a mushroom at the start But I still don't know if that was technically pretty good track for that function. And now we a runner. I don't think you really draft at the There's a red shell behind me--I don't know how this banana. Ooh, okay, they're not throwing waiting for the blue shell. Let's they got me. I thought I was gonna get so it was like a calculated risk I'll just go wide, I need to slow down anyway shell, and there are red shells right in front want protection in case I accidentally pass Hopefully--no, ah, this is so awkward. Trail me or strategies, just slow down a lot. Tried to wall have seen that. I don't think this mushroom helps Okay, we can make a--maybe a last-second push. This mushroom's great. Still got third. Wow, okay, so at least holding third is really, really say to me? Nice, mate. You so strong. Thank you, I'm just here to have fun. Okay, not very good at Plant Slide! I almost said Piranha Plant Cove. Oh, I got a draft. This is actually pretty good now. top spot here, this is really good. Double red shell sniped on this section. I played this and it was brutal. Was hoping to wall dodge that, No! Alright, this is about the first bad thing complain. Let's make sure I get more coins. And my I didn't see that. [Music] Really hoping for extension coming up, but my coins are really low, it. I'm so far behind, I can't risk losing this we're not. What is this? Wow, I think the bullet Randy. There's the red shells. Cannot Got to watch out for these stars. I don't know if just need to stay safe. It's the number one thing. Second. [laughs] I have not gone to a bad race Yes, Randy! Randy is French. Aller! I think in French. Go! [laughs] Hopefully, I do not get main problem playing this track starting from I'm fine with you being right here. Oh, jeez, didn't want to lose my green shell, but now I'm literally held the L button--I don't know why like I meant to hold the L button. This is fine. if you can come back on Pla--Piranha Plant Cove, on this track. Hard to get coins, though, so someone drops some coins--nice. Gonna go this for coins here. And then take the wide path. Wow, there goes the blooper. I'm gonna hold the star yet, it's quite early still. Oh, their boomerang. I should have went up for an item--that was a here, there's an extension. I honestly could have people did I pass? Ah, it dropped me early--it's Uh, what am I doing? Okay, okay, the shock teammate? My teammate's in the back. I can I should have gone around. We're gonna boost panel. Ahh. Oh, well, there's two Just don't be a red shell on 11th, I hope. this is even worse now, I have to dodge these could be fine, this could be fine. Teammate's Umm. No! Okay, passed one person at the can't really complain. Oh, S got bottom two? Okay, race. Starting in ninth, I start with four coins, hard to get coins, and bagging is really good, I run until--yeah, until that happen, then I bag! for coins early, make sure--are you serious? That good. [Music] Okay, I'm already very far behind, gonna chain all these items. [Music] Nice. Oh! and then I'm--I get out of my star, and then I can through the pipes when you're in a star, but yeah, so I'm just bagging. Perfect! Okay, I'm gonna my teammate's right there. Okay, so right here here you hold right, and then it's gonna do the shouldn't have gone for the bullet extension. they're gonna hit me next. I need to stay in front Please give me mushrooms. [gasps] That's perfect! Okay, that--that was horrible. I was so thrown first a second ago? Okay, well, S got first and but it's gonna be close. Thanks for carry. mate. [laughs] Oh, that's so sweet. Okay, so is that a full room? Oh, that's a CPU, that don't play lounge enough to know like what happens bumps I've ever seen. No item. Are we seriously before the race began--I don't know what's going Wait, no one's a CPU right now. What? What is Okay, motion glider, let's go. Oh, slight teammate? Can't be dropping this bomb. If I drop so I'm just gonna hold it. [Music] Make sure I get ran into one of the track hazards. Honestly, close. I think I'll just hold these. Let's not run don't be a blue shell all race. Get him! Yes! completely safe throw, and I still have two red first time in a long time that I haven't run into happened when Bowser--when Bowser almost punched just gonna throw that away and hopefully get blue me! Oh, that's so sad. Invincibility, nice. What gonna get fourth, maybe worse, maybe get comboed. got a good race. Oh, the person who disconnected Wario Stadium. I'm just surprised we haven't of competitive Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, the one of and I guess Excitebike Arena is also one but it just--something doesn't just doesn't feel Arena. Okay, they lost their trail, but they well, they hit me anyway. Let's grab my coin. three here. I think what I've noticed is that when of out of my element, the first thing that goes downfall. So, we're just gonna make sure I go out but Randy's right here next to me. Hi, Randy. How am I over here? I need to be invincible Let's end someone's life right here. Nice, I'm in gonna lag snipe the red Yoshi. Nice, got him. unless someone has a red shell. Go for this someone right here, unless everyone takes that's good. Actually made a comeback on this early instead of just panicking and just keep Randy's actually doing alright right now. I love even--I know nothing about wrestling. Randy sent me here. I wonder if they're gonna win. Okay, somehow mini turbo there, so I might lose first right now. At least I got some coins out of it. Draft, draft, messing up all over the place. I should have right now, and that should not be a purple mini deal. Um, that was the perfect throw. Congrats was coming anyway. Everything's working out for me throw, but this is a good--I'm getting trailed--I I did not even notice it was Randy here. Okay, Randy can get an item soon to be able to handle right now. Randy has a coin. Randy could Randy. Randy bumped the wall. I brake drifted hitting the pipes. I trust my partner not to Yes, let's go! That was wonderful! See, this can't protect themself. You got to protect Randy. Let's go, let's go, alle! Thanks for I'm gonna send Randy this. Randy's not gonna see Neo Bowser City is... I guarantee you, this is one worst track--the track that I always lose on. I always happen to me, you know? It's like, I wasn't all the time, but only good things would happen to just the way probability works, some tracks are I need coins, actually. Eh, and toss that Didn't want to hit my teammate. Don't want to look. See? This is what I mean. Bad things that might have been the same fire. Hit me twice. No, no, no, sorry, Randy. I'm so sorry. That was apologizing to Randy after this race. What just of the race was not my bad, but that was my bad. shock dodge, and I might be able to come back. Just need to get up to the front right now. if I spammed that... I wanted to get a few but there was no shock the whole time. I We're going for this box. No, I was gonna get what did my partner get? 10, 11. Okay, well, I wonder if we won. Okay, let's do some quick but I'm about 30 points ahead of second, so we us. Very nice, very nice. Two wins in my comeback even--even another team is complimenting me. You when that happens. [laughs]Thanks for being an Okay, Randy started out his ninth-place master and ended up getting eighth. That's