- Some babies kick a lot in the womb before they're born, and others wait til they're out, like our next guest. We got a 21-month-old mini martial artist who has kicked his way to Let's take a look. (bottle thudding) - [Caesar] Only the cap. - [Caesar] Oh, ah. (audience applauding) - Please welcome Joshua: Super Baby, and his parents, Caesar and Natalia. (audience cheering and applauding) - Thank you. - So, Caesar, how did - It started when he was seven months old. I saw Josh had lifted up his leg and start kicking before walking. And I am a Martial Artist myself. I'm a Taekwondo master, 6th degree. I've been over 44 years in - [Steve] Oh, okay. - [Caesar] And also, I think he gets a little bit after his father's footsteps. So, I try to invest my time in him. So, after that, this guy became, like a- he became one of the most because he can kick, like- he kick everything he sees. But, what's most impressive about Joshua is his balance and how he can concentrate on the time when he's doing the kicks. But, yeah. He start at 7 months old. (Caesar laughing) (audience laughing) (audience laughing) (audience laughing) - So, let me ask you something. Natalia, you've got your - Yeah. - This must be in the genes. I mean- Are you a martial artist, too? - Yes. I'm a black belt (audience clapping and cheering) - [Steve] Oh, well, this explains it. - Yeah. - [Natalia] And I was training until the last day. - [Caesar] Wow. (audience cheering) - Did you all meet in the martial arts? - [Natalia] I graduated from - Oh, you went to law school? - Yes, but then I decided- because I wanted to do but my parents kind of never let me do it. And one day, I was just driving home and I saw the martial arts in Beverly Hills, and I decided, Okay. I have to walk in and And I met Caesar and he just told us I can do private classes and I started to train. - [Steve] Oh. So, she walked in, - [Caesar] Yeah. - [Steve] You knew right away - Exactly. (audience laughing) - [Steve] So, private - I guess so. - Private lessons right away. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. - Are you two shocked by all that Joshua's getting? - Yes, I am. The video's, like, more all over the world and people actually - [Natalia] (to Joshua) - This one, he was 1 year And when I saw that, something in him is very special and as a master in Taekwondo, every kid is very good. I think martial art's awesome for them. Build, you know, And Joshua has all of that at this age. So, I think he's just gonna - I mean, he's not even 2 years old yet. - No, no. - [Steve] That's young. - 1 year and 9 months. - But, you said something about balance. That's really- that's very unique at that age. - [Caesar] Yeah. - To be kicking and staying (audience clapping) - He's not even 2. Where - I think we're gonna go- he's a big star, you know? He's loves action. He loves attention. And wherever we go with- wherever I go with him, yeah, he likes to do a show for everybody. So, I think we have a little new Hollywood-born (audience clapping) - Okay, well let's see. Show me something. They got a little demonstration. Let's see him do his thing. - I have some stuff here. Let me ask if he can do it. Joshua, do you wanna- Joshua, do you wanna take this cap out of my mouth to show them? Hold on. Let's see. - [Natalia] Action. Kick. Kick. - [Audience Member] Whoa! (audience cheering and clapping) - Whoa, you see that? Joshua, you wanna do a Oh, ah. (audience clapping and cheering) - Oh my god. Oh my god. That's was good. Now, let's see something here. - He just be waiting. (audience laughing) - Look. Aww! Joshua. Can you take this out of my mouth? (audience clapping and cheering) - [Natalia] Good job. - Wait, but, do you know - Now, we're gonna try something. See if he can break a board for everybody. Gotta hit hard, okay? 1, 2, action! (board breaking) - Yay! (audience cheering and clapping) - Good job. Give me a five. - Give five, give five. - [Steve] But he don't Ain't no set up. (audience laughing) - Go 'head. What, you got something else? - I wanna do a challenge here. Joshua. I wanna see if you can do something Josh is gonna take a carrot - Joshua- (audience laughing and jeering) - [Caesar] Let's do it. - Caesar, look at me man. (audience laughing) I don't want your baby to mess around and kick me in my mouth 'cause I ain't really good at the, 'Oops, I'm sorry', I don't really- I ain't really good at that, Caesar. And then, you being a 7th degree Taekwondo and then she being a black belt, I'm just gonna end up getting (audience laughing and clapping) - Ain't no need in me going through that. But, I can hold it. Let me hold something and see if he'll kick it. - If you put in his mouth, - If I put it in- - Yeah. Joshua! - [Natalia] Joshua. - Joshua! Do you wanna kick? Look, Steve- Steve gonna hold something for you. - Okay, hold on, hold on. Okay, now listen to Listen to me, Joshua. Slow down. Take your I'm gonna put it up here by my mouth. - [Caesar] Just go a little - Your eyes is too wide. Wait a minute. Step back a little bit. - [Caesar] Step back. You're gonna kick the thing - I'm nervous. (audience laughing and clapping) Don't want this carrot. - Okay you gotta kick it outta his mouth. - Okay, I'm gonna do it Stop all this, here. You looking at- you making me nervous, now. 'Cause you're too edgy. Let me get down here. Okay, now listen to me. Wait, wait until I- wait. Just wait. - [Caesar] Wait. You gotta - You gotta kick it out- I need all these teeth. I make all my money- Right here. (everyone cheering and clapping) - Yeah! (Steve screaming) High five. High five. There you go. One more time. One more time. High five. (everyone cheering and clapping) (jazz music playing) - Ladies and gentlemen, (audience cheering and clapping) - Hey, you made it to I gotta lot more that you're gonna enjoy, so click to watch the next one. And make sure you subscribe to always know what's happening.