- Why is what we did at Well... Let me think about it a second. Computing was coming into its own. But in all of the other by industry and by universities, the target was research and development of computing Whereas, here at Dartmouth, undergraduate students who are employed later on, social should learn how to use the computer. Complete nutty idea. (bright piano music) So, it's around 1952 or '53. Don Morrison, who was dean under (mumbles), was worried about the math It contained more than the that were just about ready the old-school of mathematics. Don Morrison happened to know Al Tucker at the math department at Princeton. And so he called Al &quot;I think I know the guy you need.&quot; John Kemeny was born in Hungary He was a Jew, lived in Budapest. His father happened to be in and had connections So, when the dark clouds John's father saw the and got the family out of Hungary. Their possessions didn't - So he spoke essentially no gets put into a sophomore of school and three years later, Over the next 10 years, he goes to being a professor at at Los Alamos, including working to do his army service in Gets his thesis completed at age 23. An outrageously accelerated time. Extraordinarily rich period of his life. - And Don Morrison said, &quot;What I want to do is to bring &quot;a completely free hand to - [Jenny] My father is and von Neumann recommended him to Don. - [Tom] So, he arrives on - And so we have derived the - V.H. Brown was on old roley-poley guy. Had been around at Dartmouth a long time. He's alleged to have rolled &quot;Things are going to be (chuckles) And lord knows they were. John von Neumann was one of immigrated to the United States immensely to the scientific - My father attended a lecture And it's described in his he thinks it's the only place And in it, von Neumann of what a modern computer should that it have an internal program. And it could remember instructions that it could do X, Y and Z. And my father distinctly &quot;God, I hope I live long - Kemeny was back at Princeton recruiting. And I was in statistics at Princeton, not straight mathematics. And he was interested in I thought, well, I don't what I was gonna do for a life's work. But I remember saying to my wife, &quot;Well, maybe I'll try - There was essentially There was nothing close by. And, Kemeny, in his expensive mode, he wanted to get into the in the world and about that the 704 and he made contact They were, I think somewhat anxious to reach out to other schools. - So, my job was to act as and the MIT computer center. And it involved taking punch cards, and everything was punch And put them into a steel box and going down once This involved getting the 6:20 train out at White River Junction, Went down to MIT and put input hopper into the computer for 2 or 3 hours until then took that all that Well, I figured out that we talk about gigahertz was 1.67 bits per second. That was the data transfer rate. - It was a very slow process. - After a couple of maybe it's time to get our own computer. So this was about 1958. So at that time, the... The Bradley Mathematics How can we get a computer There's no budget for it. Ah, but there's budget for Ah, a computer is a furniture, right? Yeah, okay. So that's how they figured - The main reason to get the the fact that it took all day on a big machine, you could which is a quite small machine but you could get results immediately. So the LGP 30 arrived, I some time in 1959 before And so we had to put it somewhere. And we put it in the And John Kemeny got the Science Foundation to provide money to support undergraduate research assistanceships at Dartmouth because we didn't have Well, the background of this Okay? Do you remember Sputnik? - [Radio Host] You are transmitted by the earth's One of the great scientific - And the United States Okay? So the National Science Foundation developed all kinds of programs to support science instruction in the universities, graduate level and undergraduate level. Kemeny was Johnny on go to places like the Bronx High School of Science and recruit students to come to Dartmouth if they were good in math. I mean, cultures recruit football players, Kemeny recruited students. - One of the people who was was George Cook, who was a person Kemeny George's job was to prepare a program in connection with the The idea was the LGP 30 New Hampshire on the basis On election night, he was in basement of College Hall So I watched over his great things and produced - And so I think we room with the LGP 30 running in from the WDIC reporters (lively orchestral music) - [Reporter] The headquarters networks are equipped of tabulating machines. And with electronic computers of the election on the - [Anthony] My memory is that at 9:30, that evening, the LGP 30 made a prediction in New Hampshire, and NBC made the opposite prediction. I don't know which way that went, but I do know that the LGP 30 was correct. - I remember Bob Hargraves But he wrote a very it was a higher level - DART was in an attempt, and to put together a language but a simple enough language like A equals B plus C divided by seven or have a square root And I put together an idea and actually wrote a whole And I remember going to a BLGP users conference And they were all sort of things like that on the used as one step up from calculate insurance premiums After I got that one done, &quot;Gee, if Hargraves can Which was a much more difficult language and he did indeed make - Tom primarily had the idea have a higher level language So the question was, not whether there should be So there surely was a emerging computing community But I think the biggest impact Tom and also John Kemeny that available to undergraduates and they could use it to And so that prompted Tom how could we make it How could we accommodate more students? (jaunty piano music) At one point, I could I was still going down John McCarthy, famous in had been at Dartmouth and better computing facilities And he said, &quot;You guys Okay. What was time sharing? So, time sharing was an one job to completion and was a way of running and then doing something would get it running it for one second. And the next job, the In this way, if you had a small job, you could get the results quickly. And if you had a big job, you had to wait, just as in the old days. Well, all we had was We can't do time sharing on a machine and the input/output So I came back to Dartmouth and I said, &quot;John McCarthy thinks we So, Kemeny said okay. - Well, at some point the notion was raised that Tom and Well, as I understood it, try to talk to GE into I didn't know how the trip to result in a computer being but the airplane ride was long and I had a lot of chance to talk to Tom. I think as I reconstruct matters, it must be that on the airplane in the way of a blocked - GE couldn't have cared less We were treated as customers. So that was kind of an We decided to do the other companies to submit proposals. And the companies were IBM, National Cash, Bendix So it turned out that more in line with what Not only was it the best in terms of what it but it was also the cheapest. So it was a non-issue. And we put in a letter summer of 1963 sometime At that time, the NSF was funding purchase of computers by universities. So we put the proposal in and for the computer purchase proposal, we were going to develop a undergraduate students as programmers. And the peer review was, students writing software Fortunately, Kemeny with the people at the Science of these slightly negative The whole project was governed by the idea of introducing computing to everybody on the Dartmouth To that end, what we had to do was to make a computer system that was easy to use for everybody. Easy to use. And of course that meant time sharing. We also had to invent a that was also easy to and that, of course, was BASIC. - I expected, and I think would become the language But this turned out not to be the case. Kennedy didn't like ALGOL. - And I know I looked that were around at the time. With the idea of making simplified subsets of those languages, it could and I couldn't do it, because it was a different language. - So at early stage there, Kemeny was thinking in - I quickly came to the We needed a new language. - So I was coming at it from intensely interested in And his skill was it could be understood by ordinary people. And this is from a different later on when I was on the topic of alumni where have all the heroes gone? John gave a one hour lecture - I put an outline of my lecture in case you're taking notes. Those are the five parts of my lecture. - And the lecture started about what it was like school in Princeton, and person and what it was Weaving in things about and stuff like that, and Einstein, of course, was noted Of course everybody knows the This was getting to be the hour lecture. And then he started &quot;Well, let's look at this &quot;Where does he come up with And about 40 minutes I get this sinking feeling that John is about to try to a group of Dartmouth alumni And lo and behold, he He somehow isolated out and put it in a language You came out of there thinking that you could've proved it yourself. - That, of course, is best-known result. - John was convinced that and that's the real origin of BASIC. - So we're getting involved probably thought to himself, &quot;I'll bet I could write a compiler.&quot; You know, a compiler is a big program. 3,000 lines of code. &quot;I'll bet I could write a compiler.&quot; And he could. And so he did. And he started that in, I and he hired a young man a young Tuck school to do some test run on it. - He'd wake up at three or four AM and work two hours doing the programming. And he would come in with the code and I'd meet him at 8:30, He would go over it with me. And it would be handwritten. I would then have to put into punch cards of the GE computer in Linn. - And if any computer scientist compiler, it was hard to Only somebody with John's a beast of that complexity - During that summer we but there were still a But the first time that successfully was when we could enter in a halfway decent sized program and get the results we anticipated. And I can tell you for sure, I was the first man to see BASIC run. My claim to fame. (relaxed jazz music) - I had a scholarship. But as part of the scholarship, where you had to do something during the academic year. My freshmen year, I ended the math library, which meant sitting behind a desk and doing nothing. So it wasn't bad, but it And so the next year, again, list was of things that I was, well, you can work on caused me to ask, &quot;what's a computer?&quot; - There was a meeting. Mike Busch was there, John And Tom handed out manuals - So we each had to write some actual code as part of the exam to - Mike had some sort of So, he wrote by far the best for scanning the serial lines and ever-after, he was - And so we were learning what became called an operating system. They didn't have one. I don't think anybody had one what building the Dartmouth - Some of my earliest are Tom Kurtz had a couple of memos. Memo number 0 was a memo on memos. And then memo number one was system, in which he laid including, wherever there was and another approach, - The computer arrived, I of 1964, and the two operating systems for and John McGeachie, had a - Working on the code long is actually quite hard to do because you don't really - It helps to have some that might be experts, in the way of experts at that time. - So there was a lot of hand coding and hand analysis that went on. When the computers came, It took the GE engineers maybe a month to get it all up and running. And then we were on it in the sense that the undergraduates who were part of the student assistantship program, basically had priority of access to the machine. And it was, for all intents our machine, which we - I remember in the handing professor Kemeny a he running it through the of the GE 225 and then together the printer, he hoping did the right thing, me did the right calculation. And it was a glorious experience. - The whole time sharing the DATANET 30 and the GE 225. Sort of talking to each other - They weren't really built There was nothing built - I spent an extraordinary amount of hours at College Hall trying - At the time, we didn't know that this was We didn't know how, or I this was going to be. Kemeny and Kurtz clearly had some vision but I as a freshmen you know, this is fun. - May 1st, of course, is a John McGeachie and Mike operating system for the GE operating system for two storage device which was It was quite a complicated And the BASIC compiler by John Kemeny and as part of this mix. But John McGeachie and Mike Busch didn't have to work with that. They just had to use it. So, on May 1st, overnight, they were working all night. And we say four AM in the morning, we don't know really when What happened was they got running a simple BASIC program on separate teletype So we call it the birth of BASIC, but it would be just as of DTSS, the Dartmouth - What really happened on May 1st was a clear proof of concept. A clear demonstration that into the thinking about actually share a machine the thinking about whether this All of that was proved correct. And then from then on, improving it, expanding (upbeat music) - In the fall of '64, we were invited to make It was a big deal of computer There was a room of maybe We hooked up the acoustic and we linked up the Model 33 teletype to Hanover, we got the dial tone. And all of this was videotaped And we were entering programs in it and lo and behold, up comes the answers And everybody went bananas on this simple BASIC language being compiled and run in San Francisco over ordinary telephone in College Hall in Hanover. And we were bombarded with And that's the first time impact of what the - We had taken a fairly expensive computer that could only be used and converted it into something users who could use it, it using this computer simultaneously, writing programs, getting answers quickly. It was a combination of immediacy and simplicity that had - I know Kemeny was pushing math classes to do - Will be the solution of a quintet, or fifth-degree equation. This is particularly interesting because-- - [Man] If this had been built Fortran, instead of teaching how to use BASIC, one would trying to have them and a lot of students - Writing this program in - So this was the first, to effort in undergraduate - [Reporter] Today, approximately undergraduates make use of the computer. Students in more than 100 courses, ranging from the sciences and mathematics to economics, education and psychology, to languages and sociology, the system in completing - So we had many different many departments who - [Reporter] Instructor Wade in the study of Latin, As well as preparing elementary exercises in beginning Latin. - I would say that it was certainly a revolution for because people could People would come up with their own idea. &quot;Hey, I have a computer, &quot;and I have a right to use that computer, &quot;and I can use it for anything I want.&quot; And they would. - Very quickly after the System became available, (chuckles) It was a leading sign of - Then we wrote a program that would run on the computer. It was very popular with you could sit there and call the plays. You could pick simple run, tricky run. Short pass, long pass. Punt. - Somewhere during the on the field who'd come up. You know, that game Had nothing to do with happened at a real football - [Steven] Turned out that started getting more use there's this great football game. - Qubic was another one. You have a three-dimensional by four board, people will - We didn't care what And they did a lot of interesting things, I'm sure, that we never heard of. - [Man] In the Fall of on the school board of And he arranged for Hanover - We learned pretty quickly were just as eager and just as good as undergraduates at writing programs. - We grow up, I think, as Kids who had computers - Then before you knew it, about computing, ask your kid. - [Man] Pretty soon, we - There was a big phone company add new trunk lines into - Well, they just bought New England. Bought time on Dartmouth on the 235 system that was running in the basement of College Hall, later in the computer center. - [Tom] The interesting thing it was designed to hold a big computer. So there was a big central computer room with glass doors at the front and the back so everybody would come in and see this wonderful computer machine sitting there. - I can remember tourists the admission tours the largest computer in the world, you could see through the glass. I also had heard that key wit was third on the Kremlin's list, and Sac, Omaha. That the big tree outside planting tipped up, that - I once estimated that even before Bill Gates got into the action at all, five million people in the world knew how to write programs in BASIC. There were something like 80 United States that offered And it was all over the world. I even got a letter from A student in Syberia This is before Gates, BG. - No, I was here when key wit was built and I was there when I tore it down. I was kind of sorry to outlived an operating system, - Looking forward 20 years, I'm quite certain that will have a significant and most private lives. Whether these effects as they could be, or in-part harmful, will depend on whether those are aware of what computers - There's a couple of of Dartmouth time-sharing First of all, it was history of computing to and make it simpler and so that the masses could use it. - Kemeny was amazing. A visionary. He had a view of where we all Before most of us even realized - The second thing that was it was all done by undergraduate students. Nowhere else do I know of has something like this been done. - As I grew up and I realized that this was of what's called an aligned team. - I've had a few super teams in my career, but looking back on it, is probably the most particularly considering it - Oh, the third thing is, - [Kemeny] I hope the thousands and the contribution I has to be my number one contribution. Secondly, things I did to of computing, which I hope Dartmouth and indirectly to the nation. (peaceful music) - [Robert] Kemeny was very helpful to me in my last year at Dartmouth, I took a course from him. The night before the final exam, I found out by telephone and my mother that my father had died that day. Kemeny spoke to me and said that I should skip the final And that all worked out all right. But then there was a So, my father having died, there was no money, neither Well, Kemeny wrote letters to the appropriate and I was given a and an offer of a loan. In addition, somehow Bob and Anita Norman of Meanwhile, in 1962, Tom had hired a secretary for the summer, and that secretary ended Kemeny found out that the requirements for graduation from the University of Maryland to be accepted by the summer school. And as you may know, summer They don't give away free anything. I think Kemeny paid the tuition himself.