The world, the whole universe, And we call this stuff &quot;matter.&quot; But what does all of this mean? What is matter? What's the difference between and the matter that makes up water? And why does it matter? Eh? See what i did there? Let's see if we can answer these questions, and we'll start with the simplest ones: &quot;what is matter?&quot; and You might have heard that And that's true! You, soccer balls, iPads, all made of matter. So that's interesting. But what is matter, exactly? [music] The scientific answer is: and takes up space. You already know about weight, right? That's just how heavy something is. Like if you've ever been to a doctor's office, the first thing they do is have so they can measure As for taking up space, another way of thinking about it is that all matter has volume. It simply fills the area it's in. When you pour water into the water's volume is the amount of So all matter has volume and weight, but it sure doesn't all look the same. Well that's because matter comes Liquids are a state of matter If you've ever poured yourself you might have noticed that because once the space Gah! Right on the carpet. You also know that water has weight if you carry a water bottle. As you drink from it it gets lighter because you're removing water from it. Solids are matter, too, of course. Probably the most obvious kind. Rocks are solid, and so is ice, Soccer balls are solid, iPads, and every single guy in One Direction. And just like rocks, all those things Now, you know what's weird? Sometimes matter can't be seen or felt, but it's there. Like the air we breathe. Air is an example of gas, And I probably know what you're thinking... How do we know air is there if we can't see it? Well, we can prove it by doing an experiment. SCIENCE! [music] Let's start by asking the question: Because if it is, it should take To see if air takes up space, look it: I can easily drop an empty but a full one won't fit. That's because the air that is bigger than the space inside the box. Now, does air have weight? Let's try something else. Take two empty balloons and tape Then we'll hang the meter stick on a Now, let's see what happens if and put it back on our meter stick. Check it out! The end with the full balloon sinks. It weighs more than the empty balloon [music] The balloon full of air will always because air is matter, and matter whether it's a liquid, a solid, or a gas. So listen: the next time someone tells you can tell them to their face that technically, everything is matter. And tell them Sabrina said so. You ever hear someone say, Well, you do. But you also look like a million particles. Let me explain. You and I are both made of matter. I don't mean we matter, like we're important, (even though of course we are) I mean we actually are matter. Matter, as you know, is anything that And we did a whole video about it! But what is matter made of? [music] It's made of particles. So you, as a big thing of matter, are made of particles. The device you're watching this Your dog is made of particles. You get the idea. Particles are so tiny, though, you can't see them. Just picture them as super small balls And how an object looks and behaves, which we call its properties, has a lot to do with those tiny Let's take a look. [music] You know that most matter solid, liquid, or gas. Particles in a solid are packed and they keep you from like a brick wall. Now, don't try running just trust me on this. But in a liquid, there's more That extra room between them allows them to slide around. That's why you can stick an like dropping a straw in a glass of soda or wading through a pool of water. And there is so much space between the constantly that you can move around in them easily. In fact, when you walk from one you walked through a bunch But if something is a solid, will it always stay a solid? Is a liquid always a liquid? Do gases ever become non-gases? To find out if matter can change states, let's find examples of when Then we can figure out what's Here's one: a candle. It's solid, right? Made of wax? But when you light the candle, and the wax begins to melt: liquid wax. So, a solid can become a liquid. Now here's another: let's say you've got a pot If you heat a liquid up, its particles that they can't hold on to each other. When that happens, and become a gas, like the steam you see when you boil water. So a liquid can become a gas. Okay, one more. How about a forest on a really cold night, or even on your front lawn, when it's cold enough? Water vapor, a gas in the air, which you see on trees or grass. The free-floating particles and form a solid around the plants. So a gas can become a solid. But my favorite example of a state of change? The Wizard of Oz, definitely. Remember when the Wicked Witch She totally goes from a solid to a liquid! Okay, but seriously. [music] An object made of matter when it changes states. And remember, it doesn't make a difference solid, liquid, or gas, it's still always matter. To sum up, matter is everywhere. Matter is made of particles, therefore particles are everywhere. So like I always say, never trust a particle... they make up everything! So now that we have an we have to ask more questions. Like, how to figure out what kind of And how we can figure out what an object is, just by having measurements Well, let's take a closer look. Hey guys, remember what it was like in preschool? If you don't remember, here's a reminder: it was way easier! Playing with colored blocks, learning shapes, those were the days. Good times! But here's a fun fact: when you are learning how to put or stuffing square-shaped you are also learning something very fundamental. And that is how to judge an object's properties. But what do we mean when we [music] Well, let's start with this: the stuff that makes up Doesn't make any difference or all of the air that surrounds the Earth, everything is made of matter. And a property of matter is just any like how it looks, feels, or acts. For example, my characteristics include: having black hair, wearing glasses, and, well, you get the idea. Properties of matter are also This means that they have differences For instance, I'm currently observing that my desk is messier And to round it out, properties of That is, we can compare but instead of just looking at them and getting a general idea of how they compare, we measure them by using tools that give us values, or numbers. Now, let's put all of these ideas to work by demonstrating how we can find Let me grab my measuring tape. [music] Okay, okay, look. I know I was just talking about how but let me be clear: I am not playing with these blocks. This is science, people! Now, let's start with a couple of questions. One: what properties does this block have? Well, there are some but we can't really measure Like this block's color, or what it's made of, or even the fact that it holds its shape, which makes it a solid. So a better question to ask might be: what can we observe and Let's start with the big one here: length. Length is just a distance of And this block's length is... eight and a half centimeters. Width, meanwhile is the distance And its width is... eight and a half centimeters. Height, that's an easy one. It's the distance of an object Not to mention a major factor in being And the height of this block is... nine centimeters. So length, width, and height are some But there are a lot of others, too. For instance, our block is also that takes up space. That is, it fills up the space it's in. We call that space the block's volume. We can measure the volume based on the measurements that I just made, but we can also get a more by making other observations. Like the medium block easily so we know that the medium block But there's no way the medium block so we know that the medium block Finally, weight is another Weight just tells us how heavy an object is. When you go to a doctor's office they're using that scale to measure your weight. Got it? Good! [music] So all matter has properties, and properties are observable, that we can use to tell them apart. And we got to know some of the that we can put a value or number on, like length, width, height, volume, and weight. So, hey. Blocks? Not just for little kids! Also super handy for doing science. Have you ever gotten up in the and stumble out of bed, and then SMASH! and then after that OW? Well, that has happened to me. In fact, just last night. Got up, went to get some water, and kicked something really hard, and now my toe hurts. So bear with me. But if you're at all like me, having this happen to you likely Like one: turning on the lights would Two: what did I trip over? And three: who left it there? The second of these questions is pretty important because it's a question that's And that is: what is this thing? [music] No matter what that thing is, I can tell you that it's made up of matter, and all matter has properties -- specific characteristics that separate If you remember from the last episode, properties are things we Things like an object's But how can we use to identify an object? I am so glad you asked, because we're going to do [music] So today, we're going to &quot;What did Sabrina trip over i And we'll do this by examining the Which I happen to have right here, hidden under the cloth. But before we start our investigation, did you know that there that can be used to measure things? You can measure in If you wanted, I guess you could but that would take a long time. So we'll just go ahead and use also known as the metric system. You might know these units And the markings on my measuring tape here divide a meter into 100 Each of these is a centimeter -- Okay, now back to this mystery object. Feeling around, it's got nice, straight sides, and two sides are larger than the other two. That means we're dealing with a rectangle here. Now, let's give those sides a measure. Looks like it's about 23 centimeters wide, about 30 centimeters tall, and about 5 centimeters high. So we have some measurements, that's a good start! But it's not enough to tell us what this thing is. So let's measure another property: it's mass. To do this, we need a different tool: a scale. And we'll use a different unit, too. In the metric system, the unit A paperclip has a mass of about a gram. Whatever this is, is kind of heavy. It's almost 3,000 grams. So here we have an object that is pretty Let's see...what other objects do Tennis racket? Nope. It's not my socks or And we've already ruled out my tablet. Oh, I know! I was doing a little reading last night and put it on the floor [music] So we've been able to by observing and measuring its properties. We used units in the metric system such as grams for mass, and centimeters for And those numbers gave us enough of what I kicked in the dark. So remember: when it comes and when it comes to identifying avoid identifying them with your toe. Okay, so now that we know a bit more let's look at how matter can change. Let's look at how coal can One note though: it takes a lot like a lot to You can't make something from nothing. I mean if you could, you'd see me surrounded by an and Jolly Ranchers right now. But what you can do is take some stuff and change it to create what's basically brand-new stuff. Well, I can't, Last time, we talked about how by altering their properties, like turning glass into But they can also create new materials. So today, we'll find out how and with whatever properties they want. [music] But first, let's do some review. We all remember what a material is, right? A material is an object made of matter. All materials have properties. A property is a distinguishing like its color, shape, size, or weight. And material scientists study the and invent completely new ones. Think of a material that we use all of the time, like rubber or plastic. Chances are, at some point in history, it might not have existed until a material scientist invented it. And more often than not, materials are made to Let's take a look at a real-life to have the properties that they wanted in order to solve a problem. [music] This is a diamond. Sparkly! These are also diamonds. In fact, in a lot of ways, these They're both materials, or but one of these materials was the other was made in a lab. That's right, we can grow diamonds in a lab! Well, maybe not you-and-me we, but materials scientists Natural diamonds are far below the surface. This part of the Earth is super hot. There's also a ton of pressure there with the weight of all of that This combination of high pushes atoms of the to form diamond crystals. Their hardness and sparkliness are that make them different like graphite or coal. So when people want diamonds, do they just drill down into our planet Um, no. Diamonds are cool and all, The diamonds that we see are the ones that have been by violent volcanic eruptions a long time ago. This means there's a limited which is a problem because they're also really useful. Namely, diamonds are some of the so they're super handy for surfaces that would break almost anything else. Tiny diamonds are actually used in that can cut through rock and even concrete. But since natural diamonds are so rare, they're also really expensive. So a bunch of clever scientists figured without having to spend One process for making diamonds in a lab is called high-pressure high-temperature, or HPHT, for short. This process basically tries to replicate using just a key natural Scientists place graphite, and the stuff that you can under intense pressure and heat. Heavy blocks in the HPHT machine creating pressure, while a zap of The pressure and temperature start And BOOM! In just a few days, Of course, jewelers would need to cut but even in its raw form, you and much harder than That's how one material , went from a form of material to a form with the properties we wanted. [music] Humans can make materials using when they really need to There are also tons of other examples out there of materials that people have created, like rubber, or plastic, or nylon. None of those things existed until some Who knows what brand-new Diamonds and coal are one thing; I think we can all understand them. They exist in a solid state, and if you hit either of them hard enough, they'll break. But what if there was something weird, something that didn't behave like normal, or Newtonian, substances? Shall we talk about Oobleck? You know what we haven't talked about in a while? Things that matter. Like mass and materials and particles. I guess what I mean is, things that have to do with matter. We've already talked a lot about you know some matter comes others in a liquid, and still others in a gas. But are you ready for a question What if there's matter that fits Is there such a thing? If there is, what's it like? And can i make some... maybe in my kitchen? [music] Before I answer any of these questions, Let's take a closer look at You remember what a solid is. It's matter that has a definite size and shape, like this desk that I'm sitting at, and well, all of me. I'm a person with a definite size and shape. Liquid is matter that has a definite size, but no definite shape. The water in this glass is a liquid -- it has a definite size, Like, you could say that but there's no such And a gas is matter that has The air around me and you is a gas. It's not shaped like anything, depending on how big the Now, all solids, liquids, or objects made of matter. And all materials have properties, or traits that help identify them, like their color, or shape, or size, And now that you're properly I'm going to cheat and answer or at least part of it. Yes, some materials aren't so easily These unusual materials can actually Neat, right? Want to meet just such a material? Then let me introduce you to non-Newtonian fluids. The non-what now? Non-Newtonian fluids are substances These fluids might look like one thing, but they behave like another. So what makes a substance non-Newtonian? Let's find out by making a Say hello to Oobleck! [music] Believe it or not, I didn't make this word up. It comes from a book written by Dr. Seuss. You know, the guy who wrote the Cat in the Hat? In another book he wrote, called There's a king who gets bored so instead, he makes sticky That's where Oobleck, the stuff gets its name. But the stuff we're talking about is real. Our Oobleck is a non-Newtonian substance with a pretty simple recipe All you need is about one and about one cup of water, a big bowl, and a spoon. Pour the cornstarch into your bowl Keep stirring until the mixture In the end, it should look like this. Now, grab some of this goo in your hand. When you squeeze it, it'll But when you unclench your it'll slide between your fingers like a liquid. All fluids have a property known as viscosity, which is basically the rate And Newtonian fluids, or normal fluids, flow at a consistent rate. But non-Newtonian fluids, flow at a different rate depending on how so your Oobleck flows at a much slower acting like a solid. But when the pressure is removed, Good for you, Oobleck! Being normal is overrated, right? [music] So if an object's viscosity, or changes depending on it's a non-Newtonian fluid. Which means, yes, some materials can fit These materials are called non-Newtonian fluids, and they don't play by your They'll be a solid sometimes, and then a liquid at others. Matter is weird. But it's pretty much everything, all around us. Air, water, me, you. It's all matter. If you enjoyed this, check out the [music]