Hello Heungsam's families from YouTube! Welcome to this channel. I'm Heungsam. I'm Heungsam's Mom. I'm Heungsam's Dad. Today, we're at Goryeong's Daegaya experience camp. There's a camping site, and we can build a tent, and there are also caravans. And what are those called? - Tent? Galowbung? - Bungalow? There are also bungalows. They have it all set up. So we were sponsored by Goryeong-gun to advertise this place. We have Gopdoritang and Samgyeopsal. At a place where they sell the specialties of Goryeong we also bought all the vegetables. We also bought rice. From November 16th to November 24th, for 9 days it's apparently the week of youth travel. So they set up photo spots in the Dasan gingko forest and they're conducting various tour programs such as tracking. So I hope you all visit Goryeong. For those information and events I'll organize them into the descriptions and the pinned comment. First of all, you're hungry, right? - Let's eat. You have to be careful of the bones. - The part with the bones do taste better though. But I don't want you to hurt your teeth. Wow, I had the first bite and I always eat pot samgyeopsal but having them at a campsite It's more fun, right? It seems to be more delicious. The air under the mountains are nice, and the vibe is also nice. It feels new. Wow, this... This is a great side dish for alcohol. Is it alcohol again? I can't. Since we have a pack left, eat it at home with alcohol. I guess it's because the rice is good. So earlier, I prepared it, and ate rice again. It's been a while since I tried pot rice but it's still alright, right? Because the rice is good. It's Goryeong rice. Oh, right. We need to eat it with vegetables. I should try spicy chili pepper. Ah, it's spicy. - Is it spicy? Try this. I'm scared. I almost fell over because it was so spicy. Exactly, I was surprised. Wow, it's actually spicy. I'm sorry, but can you hand me the rice again? - Mom usually doesn't eat this much rice. You were hungry. I was hungry but the rice is good, so it tastes better. - That's good. Have you ever been to a campsite? I've never been to one with everything set up like this. There's section B, section A, and all that. There's a management center over there too. The facilities are really good, like the draining facility. Water and bathroom are nicely set up too. Here, the leaves are about to turn red now. Starting from November 16th, for 9 days if they come within that period I feel like the leaves would be completely golden and it would look better. - Isn't there more rice? The rice is literally so good. Everything tastes good when you eat it outside. The ingredients are good too. Give it to me, too. We're eating until the crust. It's good. I guess Goryeong rice is definitely good. The rice makes me eat so much rice. - The rice makes you eat rice? - Is it taking in itself? Look at this. Look at the crust. It's perfectly golden. Having crusty pot rice at the campsite. - Are you going to put it in? I'm going to eat it, put it here. It's weekday today but there's still a lot of people. - A lot of visitors. They came in families. - And it's near Daegu, right? It's easy to come. - Is it Friday? - Now they'll all It's delicious. It takes about an hour and a half from Pohang. - It took longer for us because we took the truck. Eating nurungji after such a long time tastes really good. - Eat the last one. - Me? But since I'm eating it here, I want to eat more. Yeah, right. - It goes in well. - Can I eat it? Later - Huh? It will get cold at night so it's good that we made broth. It's actually autumn now. I'm wearing short sleeves though. It doesn't feel enough to end it here. - Should we eat dessert? This Shine Muscat. It's sweet. Goryeong also has Shine Muscat crop units formed. Earlier What was that? The place they sold agricultural products. They have Shine Muscat, tomato and they also had persimmon. During the autumn, they also have sweet potato. Here, water is everywhere so vegetables like potatoes and sweet potatoes are grown well. And there's a lot of sunlight. That's why the rice tasted so good earlier. The scenery is also really good here. They have rivers and all. They also had good bicycle roads. It's connected to Daegu. - The bicycle roads? Here, at the campsite you can use a griddle or If you want to try the pot lid version, just like Heungsam's If you want to try eating it on the actual pot lid, not the griddle For those people earlier, at the Goryeong traditional market I saw a place where they sold pot lids and you know the fire pit like these? - They also made and sold those as well. When you go to Goryeong traditional market, they have places that sell those. Buy it from there when camping here and you can do mukbang like us. - And at Goryeong, strawberries are also famous. So this is strawberry konjac jelly made by grinding Goryeong strawberries. This is from Chamsali a really famous restaurant at Goryeong. I heard they sell it there so we went over and bought it earlier. Try it. - Do I drink it right away after opening it? Suck on it. - You can really chew the strawberries, right? Wow, it's sweet. They're very thoughtful. When your mouth is oily and stuffy after eating samgyeopsal or something - eating this is... Even the dessert was perfect. I can't finish it all. - I ate too much rice. Everyone. Goryeong invited our family to their campsite so we made such fun, delicious memories. Was it nice? I've always been passing by here - and I didn't know this was such an organized campsite. - And when we went to the food direct sales place they were selling various vegetables at cheap prices. - Exactly. We should go tomorrow. We'll show that on the vlog. Everyone, we ate so well today. It's our first mukbang at a campsite. Thanks to Goryeong-gun, we were able to have our first camping at such a nice place, so we were very happy. The video finished here~ Thank you for watching.