- I randomized everything Oh my God, the starters! There's just a whole Steelix. Oh, I'm walking through him. (Bruh sound effect) Oh, Wooloo and Crustle are kissing. (kissing sound effect) Alright route one has... Blissey Yveltal oh my god There's no way I catch this thing, but I'm just going to go (oof sound effect) Okay, is that Celebi too? (here we go again sound effect) Gosh dang it Yveltal. Alright route two Zubat, Mew! You know, just for fun let's No I cannot. What is going on? This grass has Spectrier and Dada Zarude. Oh, you're aggressive. Oh my God, oh my God. (wow sound effect) What the heck, man? I want a dauntless Oh and it's landing a focus Exc what, what? I caught the roadblock. It's dragon fairy type. I made it to the wild Oh no what on earth. Why is he flying? (high school musical music playing) Does this thing have parental bond? It just hit me with mud slap twice. I'm probably not going to catch it, but I feel like I got to (intense music playing) (oof sound effect) No ho ho Okay this is my last throw. This thing has a catch rate of three. Like I can't spend all Alright I got some Poke Balls. So now it's time to see Bouffalant okay, maybe you'd be good. Alright I caught something. Ooh it's a fighting type with This is--whoa look at the Rayquaza spin. Go Team Sky! *hawk cry* What I'd love to find is at a low level like Caterpie, because then it would be easy to catch and it could evolve into holy crap that's Zekrom. Whoa! (damn boy he thick sound effect) It's huge, oh my God Jesus Entei. I'm growing a little concerned that normally sells potions is randomized. So where am I going to get my potions? Oh my God they have a Ho-Oh. He has a shiny Zarude. Oh my God. Wait, wait. This Ho-Oh just used a (bruh sound effect) I did like no damage what is going on? Draco meteor. Why do a team God tier legendaries where (wow sound effect) I may be able to see a rare Oh my God the DLC. Time to see what the Galarian A Nidorina. Avery, are Oh no, (sad trumpet sound effect) Oh my god. (bruh sound effect) I'm gonna mmm--my only I have no good moves. How And he swept me with a shiny Guzzlord. and I can't buy potion? Can I progress without fighting him? Oh God, no I have to beat him. And now I'm just going to ( I already did its sound effect) (a few moments later sound effect) You've gotta be kidding. Are you kidding me? Oh Alright there's the Guzzlord. And I only have Avalugg left. Oh, it's faster. And there it is lost again. Vending machines, I'm saved. It's clear to me that I'm going with legendaries until So back to the wild area. - Ha ha it is I Grunty boy. - Not now Grunty boy I'm - And I don't care. I'm so excited about the Raid Shadow Legends that I have to tell - Blaziken I want a try and catch you. - I've been playing a lot lately so much so that I decided to for fun, create a list of my top five Number five is my bedroom. Number four is the hideout common area. Number three is your Number two is your office And number one is your shower. - Is it a steel type? - Yeah, it's a really great game. You can better with over 500 champions against various enemies in the campaign, big bosses in the dungeons or other players in the PVP arena. It's so fun to collect more champions and they can be made stronger training them up in the campaign or sacrificing your weaker ones. - Yes. Got the Blaziken. - And they're currently running a schedule of nonstop events, especially such as fragment events to get brand new legendary champions. - Oh my God. It has levitate as a steel type, that's so good. - Dude are you even listening to me. - I am not because I don't need to. I am already aware of how fun of a game Raid Shadow Legends is. I'm even aware that by hitting below or scanning the QR code right here, new players will get who was amazing in the one XP boost, one energy So you can summon an awesome champion. As soon as you get in game, you'll find rewards here for 30 days only. - Oh wow. You're - Venusaur hi, hi, hi, hello. I got it. - And he's back to not listening. Well I guess I'll be the one to say thanks so much to Raid for sponsoring, but now back to whatever he's doing, ta ta - Hop why do you have a Mesprit? I've been through a Alright, there goes his stupid Mesprit. It just occurred to me in this battle was the setting turned on, that makes all rival Wait there's Eevee, I My first random evolution is Ooh, okay. There's a good chance, this'll be a waste of Poke balls and time, but I feel like I gotta to try his rocker, Dragonite. (wee sound effect) I did it I caught the Dragonite. It's a ground type with overgrow has this ground move though. Alright, time for my first gym battle. Oh my God, he has six Pokemon Did he just off himself Magearna right after Palkia why. Alright I took out the cause this thing is so bulky. The evasiveness rose And now I can't hit it. He's pumped up about his Baltoy (fart sound effect) and it is a ghost type, Okay. Alright, buddy. Let's KO this fellow ghost. (oof sound effect) what is it really ghost normal. Alright, I won from hail damage. What a ridiculous battle. What I really need is That's my main problem. The Pokemon that I have but none of them have a Oh, wait, I get to get the gift Toxel. And maybe it'll be randomized Yo, ghost psychic with simple. And it only knows lick Oh, they didn't scale up his levels. Oh, okay, I can definitely Good riddance you stupid Guzzlord. This dude had a Guzzlord, and I haven't even seen Okay I actually beat him this time. Yuh stupid jerk. And now I actually get to and that is cool. Oh my God I forgot about the Diglett's. I can get gift Pokemon this way. Alright I collected 37 Diglett's and now I get some free Pokemon. Ooh. Oh my God. I knew finding It's normal type is not my favorite, fur coat is pretty cool though. Celebrate the Pokemon (part horn noise) The Vulpix randomizes to Fire and ice with the magic guard. Okay I found two more, this I can't believe my luck Is that no way. The slow poke have been (dash sound effect) Look at it, it's so fast. (yo you want to see some What I gotta try it, an ice dragon Cobalion I know I have a really but like I got to try. It's got the yellow aura and everything. Okay, and 1, 2, 3, oh my God. I got the Cobalion. It's got ice face as its ability. Will that even do anything? And of course it's got Cause nothing has stopped I got another leaf stone, and now we're going to see what it becomes. And also it came with an Ooh. This is something Well, I thought I'd be able to buy but it seems he's been randomized, Free fast balls. And now I have a team with more which puts me just on the same level as every other trainer in this game. Alright, gym, number two. Okay, she leads with Sandshrew. Which gives me a great opportunity Alright I got four dragon dances set up. One down. Oh boy. Wait, what? Why did I resist super power? Does this thing have normalized? That's another there's the legendary. And there it goes. Oh no, no, no. Oh, oh my God. How did that do so little? This has gotta be a steel type. Okay it didn't complete the sweep. Got it. And her ace is Volcanion, but I know what type it is Oh boy still intimidating though, but we take those. Ah Oh, that doesn't do very much. The stupid defense boosts I needed a crit. Going for Oh and it didn't more about Why would it do that? And now I protect, and if it's skull bashes again, I win. Okay. It didn't do it this time. we been aftermath Snowplow This entire field as mythical except for that fricking Lickilicky. (SpongeBob hi how are ya sound effect) It seems like every time I the shop's re randomize. He I'm not going to cheat and and then play the rest of the game. But this is going to up to the rest of the team, way easier. Another thing this does to get random level up (excited happy noise) The Mew is steel type. Sorry Blaziken you're a but this mew is definitely better. Alright let's see what these It's got a shiny why. Alright let's see if my One down. This genderless Xerneas has I kind of feel bad for it. (I just wanna be appreciated sound effect) Wow bolt beak is nasty on Tapu Koko. I hope I don't have to fight one. Oh, he's got Gigantamax Garbodor. That's fun, it's also dead. Oh no, it's not. Okay, now it's dead. I have a feeling that this easier. Now that I have and I am very excited because this first chunk Kinda rough. Look at this Spiritomb scooch I caught a Barboach cause I figured I'd give it a shot. No way. Pure poison with no guard. Well this little Goldeen's So that's fun. Come on little fish, expand on to land. Into a beautiful, (fart sound effect) it's fine. We can evolve Hopefully this is the last one. (wow sound effect) You gotta be kidding me. One more, just, just this, Okay. I got enough Diglett so let's see what we get. This guy is stacked. What, what is this move oh, why you gotta ruin my He's got a Groudon, I don't like that. Blue flare? No! Okay, we got the KO. You have Kyogre and Groudon? I swear if one of his Pokemon is Rayquaza. Oh but it's shuttered, no! Oh, why do all my legendaries weaknesses. Oh, come on man. Come on. Paradox just land I think we only need one more. Let's go. And his last Is he going to Gigantamax it? There it is. I will Ooh ow Yep it was a fairy type and I win. So I'm defeating Bede's last Pokemon here, which is a Latios, which is funny because not only did he already have a but he also already had another Latios All right time for the fifth gym. And unlike the very first I should actually get The wizard, you're a wizard Harry - I'm a what? Your favorite color is purple. Boosting my stats even more, But the stupid Pyukumuku So I have to switch soon. Oh, primordial Sea? Oh, I Is it raining? It is raining. It's just not showing it, that's weird. And now when you turn out. Got it. Alright Opal you're 16, just give me the stat Your gym is built on lies. And she has Gigantamax Butterfree, which is probably the Oh, max flair did so much. And it's over. That was pretty easy. It just occurred to me Bulbasaur or Squirtle as really fast Kyurem. So I'm going finally do that. Alright I'm going to pick the Bulbasaur. Bulbasaur becomes Ooh. Typing is kind of garbage. Of course it's Cramorant into shiny, and he's got a shiny Mew, where are you finding these What the heck dude, Archeops Oh my God, dragon dance Holy crap. And I have an Oh my God, and it now it's My God, these moves are so broken. On Pokemon that are really fast. I struggled a lot in the but now I have a no defeatist and fishious rend and I am After so long, I'm finally feeling really And I feel like the only better is you subscribing to this channel. Ah haha All right, Melony, I'm gonna You've gotta be kidding me. (oof sound effect) Come on! Literally the first Pokemon I hate this Milotic so I was so excited to sweep with And you just killed it with a Oh my God. That did so much. Alright dealt with the I think we'll just go down Boo yeah. Oh, okay. That's actually fine. I'm a rock type. And her final Pokemon is in a sandstorm, but it's probably not I think I should be able with a max flare. The battle's over. I think I might try using instead of dragon dance. if I don't get off the dragon But with the choice scarf, I Hey Hop has his starter Crustle again. Hop why do you always have so many shines? Oh, Yveltal again, stop haha. I escaped the Yveltal There are so many Yveltal's on this route. What is attacking me? Fricken Yveltal's! There's so many of them And Marnie has one too. What is going on? Oh, thanks for the rain Corviknight. And it's a week to water ha. What a terrible ability and type combo. Alright Piers time for I took down the Maractus AI is always good. They're that's strong against me or no, they're not I know cause I have one Got him don't know what Vikavolt is, but I'm just going to go if he had a Pokemon to counter water-type he would have sent it Alright! Okay, he finally brought in So now I go to my other attack Pokemon. Diancie is ground type, Got him. The final Pokemon is how Palkia! Oh boy. I don't know what time you are. I hope fishious rend is Piers is done. No way. The shop got randomized Oh my God. (evil laughter) In all seriousness, I'm not just going to go around really ripped legendaries. (12 seconds later sound effect) All right Keldeo you You want to be aggressive Keldeo, well now you're coming All right. The final gym battle. Quick draw Cresselia giga drain, no! Okay we got that KO. I'm going to double I really want this thing dead. Sweet it's dead, done another crit wow. Lanturn goes down easily. A Pangoro resists bolt beak but I want to finish off the Pangoro. And there is the horrifying monster. Enough to KO the Pangoro okay. And this probably KO's yep, okay, yep super dead, that's okay I But now I've got a fire up against a bug grass type. This is going to be over quickly. Oh it barely lived are And the final gym goes down. So now that I have all eight badges and can catch any Pokemon, I poke around the Crown I avoided this before because I don't believe the crown Tundra Pokemon scaled down in level. So I wouldn't have been or beat Peony, which I'm realizing I'm Gotta fight him. And he's got a Rayquaza that's level, 84 that I OHKO'ed wow. That's amazing. Celesteela, alright I beat one level 84 Pokemon. Can I beat the other five well I'm not in a good Cause it knows both bolt Which is super effective Well, I poisoned it. So if it could just avoid which I don't think it's going to happen. Is fishious rend enough at this range, no, I mean, it goes down this Magearna, dude could you Okay how much is this Not enough. Oh no. Oh yes. (oof sound effect) Oh no. Okay. I got the Magearna. Alright Oh, I'm not faster. Oh no. It might be frowned upon, but my only way to win this Okay if the choice scarf is I can defeat this Septile. It's not enough to make me faster. That is absolutely devastating, but I did enough damage anyways. Okay. I only have two Pokemon left to beat. I only have two Pokemon left myself and one of them is half dead and I had to max revive what? He not only is but I've seen five of his Pokemon and four have been legendary I'd have a chance if I was faster, but with that reflect up. Okay, I heal hear Glaciate Get more chip damage with hail. It's going to get my speed even lower, but whatever the next Pokemon I'm switching. Okay. I KO the Eternatus, there It's Yveltal five legendaries, 20 levels higher than my team. I will max revive Tapu Koko. Alright. And KO's Teryx. It all comes down to this. bolt beak doubles in But if Yveltal is faster then I lose. No Oh, oh, it's so close. Oh, do I not Oh, I get to go and I get Hello? You want to get in my master ball? Well, uh there certainly including legendaries that I can catch with the throw of a ball, but I kind of feel bad doing so, but like, I don't feel that bad. Whoa, what look at the Arctovish. (upbeat music) Some overworld models but some have, and whenever All right, Marnie, you're going down. (bruh sound effect) Oh, come on. Marnie are you kidding me? I don't have any full restores. I've had no way to buy them. Wouldn't be a proper battle ah Kyurem my old speedy friend. Oh, she's going to have (gurgle noises) I move first though. Oh, so close. And it is over. I didn't even have to Dynamax All right. Hop. What legends in shinnies Well there's the first legend. Oh, come on you son of It tricker treated and then shadow clawed. What is this Gigantamax brain Strat. Oh my he's going to Dynamax How much will bolt beak do Oh crap. Alright big Leviathan you got this. Oh, it's enough for the Ooh, leading with Calyrex. Oh it's shiny Terrakion rubbing it in. Goodbye Tapu Fini Magearna too, This guy has a team chock and his Gigantamax is the Eevee. What the heck was that noise? I would like to point out though with only Archeops, which I think is the So I'm feeling pretty pleased with myself. Alright Raihan what you got more like Mew too slow, Mew too dead haha. Oh, his Gigantamax its Urshifu. Ooh. That's a lot cooler You got this zero max Running through the slumbering wailed that is a Necrozma oh my god. Trying to find the legendary Pokemon. Stop a crazy CEO from blowing Is that a Grapploct? You good? I'm going to catch you I love Grapploct's. Wait, wait. Why does the Grapploct I'm supposed to go find it at the alter Hop I found it. This Hello Chairman Rose Oh, he's got Urshifu too. Okay max strike I think we'll be okay. I think max slur KO's now Oh, that did so much more, what the heck and Rose is done. Oh, it's not randomized, I'm sure its attributes are. And it's dead, that was quick. It's psychic rock with huge I want to use it, but also even more weak to ground So I can't believe I'm saying this, but I'm going to keep the Lapras. Also that look at legends I but I haven't been using, Alright it's finally time Do your worst Leon, leading 74, Nice super effective U-turn. Oh thank God the sleep powder missed. Okay freeze dry time. One down, 77. This whole time I thought clearly I was incorrect. Got him two down, got him I don't care I'm using special moves Mew's down that's four. Okay quit copying my team Leon. You know what I'm going to Max hailstorm, the special version, So it's not impacted by reflect The bouncing well that's annoying. He's wasting a turn of my Dynamax. Man I was hoping to still be alive. At least have one Dynamax or whatever it's going to be, but no, the stupid Lapras had to bounce. Oh and now I have to beat Inteleon, I have not fought one. I've no idea what type it is. Gigantamax Inteleon max Mindstorms is that a psychic type? that did a lot. Oh, you're setting up the sand. Why didn't you do that the first time. That was a four time super effective hit. You know what this is fine charged stone, can't be hurt by the sand. We hit first and it KO's. I beat Pokemon shield with everything randomized and frankly, very broken team. And it was fabulous.