Meet FRED, the largest strategic airlifter And FRED is a weird one, with many unique 90-degree rotating landing gear, the fact in reverse, yes in reverse, and its strange toward the rear of the airplane. Being a strategic airlifter, FRED can transport ballistic missiles ... except for one thing, resume, but it's Not What You Think! Now you are probably curious who this FRED Well, FRED is the nickname for Lockheed C-5 I just couldn't say earlier what FRED stands during the first 30 seconds of a video. But since we are in the clear now: Meet FRED: The C-5 got this nickname because of the enormous aircraft, which was due to the everchanging But aside from FRED, the Lockheed C-5 Galaxy Aluminus" and "Linda Lovelace". Ooo, I see some of you who were lucky teenagers Linda Lovelace was an American actress specialized The C-5 Galaxy can kneel and take huge loads people of our late actress. So, before we get into the unique features about FRED's relationship with Boeing 747. Spoiler alert: the 747 can do some stuff that During the 1960s, Lockheed, Douglas and Boeing the C-5 Galaxy. While the US Air Force considered the Boeing Boeing lost the competition to Lockheed's But don't feel bad for Boeing, because they 747 civilian airplane which took advantage they had developed for the C-5A. While there are lots of speculations that appears not to be the case as the Boeing's of the Boeing 747. But enough with history. Let's shift gears and go in reverse - just But there's a problem. While the C-5 can travel backwards on the have a backup camera like today's cars do. The solution is to open the rear cargo door, All it takes is to advance the throttles "off" for FRED to move backwards. And there is no &quot;beeping" when going backwards, But the truth is many aircraft can back up Be it an old SAAB 37 Viggen, or military transport C-130 Hercules. Similarly to military aircraft, commercial using reverse thrusters, but they almost never See, reverse thrusters are most commonly used aircraft by reversing the direction of thrust. With a few exceptions, civilian aircraft are up at airports, and that's why you typically the gate. The ban is mainly due to safety concerns, can damage the engine or anyone nearby. Reverse thrust is also very loud and consumes In addition, newer high-bypass engines cannot are already moving. Sounds like reverse thrusters can be pretty if you reverse the engines' thrust mid-flight? You may be surprised, but thrust reverses According to pilots, FRED's wings produce to come down from altitude ... but with a reverse on the two inboard engines, FRED descends In fact, reverse thrust can be used on many up the rate of descent, which could reach The C-5 Galaxy can also carry passengers since hold. But unlike commercial jets, the seats on this reason. Back in the day, Lockheed discovered that compared to front-facing seats. That's because when aircraft come to a sudden their head and back against the seat, and energy of a crash. But if it's safer, why don't commercial According to one theory, it's because forward-facing Let me explain. Since backward seats need to be able to absorb more strain from the passengers when compared Therefore, the backward seats have to be reinforced heavier. Adding weight to aircraft means increased profit for the airlines. So kudos to Lockheed for going "backwards" nice resting area for the crew of the C-5 area. The washroom is roomy as well! By the way, it's my dream to fly in a C-5, While the C-5 Galaxy is the largest cargo not the largest in the world. The Ukrainian AN-225 Mriya, which was destroyed It has been reported that a second Mriya is Apparently all of the essential components manufactured. But with Mriya gone, for now, the largest able to carry 150 tons of cargo. The C-5 Galaxy, in comparison, can only carry to 25 million 844 thousand and 746 ... ping But on a more practical note, you can fit inside FRED's cargo bay. Or you could fit three AH-64 Apache helicopters. For tetris lovers, removing the rotor blades helicopters into the C-5. You could also fit one coast guard boat, or Even the fuselage of a C-130 would fit inside. The C-5 can also accommodate the transport tons each, or fit in 2 Bradley Infantry Fighting An A-10 Warthog would also fit, and so would After all, the C-5 is a strategic airlifter. Just to put things in perspective, during made up 12 percent of the combined airlift cargo. The US Air Force even managed to airdrop a from the C-5 as they were conducting research nuclear missiles. Upon the extraction of the load, the ICBM the minuteman engines ignited - proving But what was that one thing that FRED couldn't That would be the space shuttle. If you're wondering why the Boeing 747 could it all came down to the tails. The C-5 has a T-tail, which would have been by the shuttle. It was the 747's regular tail that won this But what's interesting is that even though tanks, they rarely do. FRED is capable of transporting two M1 Abrams would rather not do that. The first reason is that airlifting tanks A more efficient way of transporting tanks distances, is by rail or sea. As a result, tank airlifts are incredibly The largest airlift of tanks using C-5 Galaxy War, when Israeli forces suffered heavy losses States. The US government sent 29 M60A1s and M48A3s 200 units were transported by sea. And even though the C-5 could carry 2 tanks over the airframe. Similarly today, while the C-5s can transport the sheer weight of these vehicles results out the airplane prematurely. This is why C-5's only carry one Abrams is required. It's worth noting that back in June of 1989, it performed a world record airdrop. The C-5B air dropped four 42,000 pound Sheridan Bragg in North Carolina. The Paratroopers had to wait for the tanks that a tank landing on you is directly correlated The C-5 also has one of the highest operating at $100,941 dollars per hour. Still slightly behind the B-2 bomber and E-4 One of the reasons for this high cost ... is Aside from the 125 tons of cargo, the C-5 it. In fact, the FRED's 12 integral wing tanks is equivalent to six railroad tankers. And sometimes that's not even enough, so With all that weight, it makes you wonder, weight of this massive bird? The landing gear of the much heavier Airbus But the C-5 Galaxy, even though lighter, has But that's for a good reason. The A380 can only operate out of airports to its weight. But the C-5 was designed so that it could FRED's 28 tires and their unique design, a larger area, which allows it to taxi on Yeah surprisingly mud, or more correctly wet of the landing gear, at least in this artificially During testing, it was found that FRED had highest thrust, only on the first and second After that, the C-5 would have compacted the Lockheed even performed similar tests on soil Not surprisingly the aircraft had no issues Finally, the C-5 can also take off from unpaved as well. Several other considerations were taken into One aspect was the C-5s requirement for a it to transport mixed loads. Secondly, FRED has a unique ability to kneel loading the cargo. As a result of this requirement, having 4 when loading heavy cargo such as tanks. Additionally, kneeling is especially important of a truck-bed, which facilitates loading These special requirements meant that in order landing gear assembly had to be designed so In case you are wondering how the tires are up in order to perform maintenance on all because each set of wheels can also be individually The C-5s were produced in two batches. One of the batches was defective to say the Eighty one C-5A's were produced between 1968 between 1985 and 1989. The defects surfaced in the mid-1970s when The decision was made to limit the maximum Then seventy seven C-5As underwent a re-winging $7.1 billion dollars in 2023 money. The redesigned wing featured a newly developed aircraft was first produced. New wings have a structural service life of The C-5Bs, of course, were already built with modifications that improved reliability over In 1998, the US Air Force decided to further that showed 80% of the C-5 airframe service As a result, fifty two C-5 Galaxies were upgraded remaining airframes being retired in 2017. The C-5M Super Galaxy featured new avionics, new engines: the General Electric CF-6 engines. The new engines, however, were not new technology. The CF-6 engines entered service in 1971. Nevertheless, they had been upgraded over and 747s. They provide 20% more thrust than the legacy The fleet of Super Galaxy is expected to remain