Have you, like me, ever looked out your window, it was? As you watched clouds float by, or stars twinkle why we live in a universe that looks quite "All great truths are simple in final analysis, are not great truths." So said Napolean Hill in his book "The Law I believe that he is right. There have been many complicated mathematical to map out the universe, but when great breakthroughs universe has been advanced, it has often been incredibly simple. F=ma. E=mc2. These are succinct enough to be explained characters. But more than just the clouds; what are the What is time? Why does the universe look the way it does from everywhere? Why does light have a speed limit? I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching And if you have ever wondered these same sorts that I've developed with my brother might Ultimately, a great truth must be simple. The ideas here likely still need development. But I believe that they explain the subject just be the starting point we need to find To begin with, let's start with a fundamental What is time? On this channel, we've talked a lot about As black holes warp space around them, we've We've discovered the time-influencing effects can peer through time to the distant past, light. This all may make sense so far, but what actually You can't taste it, touch it, or feel it, and is pushing us forward whether we like Doesn't something that impacts everything Thanks to this first model, we are going to down as velocity increases, and why shapes speed of light. This model is based on recognised scientific and combined them into something you may not But before we get to that, we have to begin another dimension. Now, before you double-check that you haven't let's discuss what I mean by dimensions. While in popular culture, different dimensions are very similar to ours, yet subtly different, dimensions, we are referring to the dimensions or 3D space, which may be far more familiar This is by no means trivial, though. 3D space is all around you - it is the "around Let's begin by making sure we understand them before we add a fourth D. Broadly speaking, to space that can be measured in three different, The perpendicular nature of these dimensions Three-dimensional space is usually described all have 90deg angles between them. Simply put, objects like us that exist in and forwards and backwards. Here, we might need something that looks like them. Maybe have a little ball moving around in of space. Using this as our basis, it becomes much easier 1D space. To move from one space to another, all we of measurement or movement that must be at angles. So, 2D objects can move in a plane that's x and z directions, or the y and z directions, 1D objects can only move either along x, or Imagine a person who lived in such a 1D world. Their whole existence would be found either All of reality would exist either to the left as a singular dot. They could not move or see in any of the other such directions as even existing. Photons whizzing by them would only be visible a 1D person's whole area of existence. Now, adding extra directions of movement is to 2D or 3D. So, in theory, we can predict what we need However, here we hit a snag. While it's easy to draw a line that's line: Or to draw another line on top of both two previous lines: How would we draw a 4th Surely such a thing is impossible! Well, within 3D space, such a thing is impossible. The best we can do is draw approximations. For instance, it's possible to draw an approximation like this: These lines are all 2 dimensional, that this is a picture of a 3D shape. So in the same way, we can probably do something like using just 3D lines. Mathematicians have attempted to do this, confusing. Although this is mathematically sound as a find my understanding of 4D space deepened So, I won't focus on it in this video. There is some evidence, however, that a 4th it right now. That fourth direction, or dimension, is time. Einstein predicted this connection when he in his theories of relativity. According to him, time and space are two parts To me, this connects with 4D space very nicely. Just as there is no real difference between so too would there not be any difference between albeit one that we can't see. And time is important. Without time, our 3D space wouldn't move. It would perpetually be in one state, because it. But why can't we see it? Why can't we look in the direction of time? To explain this, let's look at the difference We best notice this when we consider what move around in 3D space. This is where we start to delve into the model. Let's begin by visualising a standard 3D But because we want to eventually see all a little. Let's compress all of 3D reality as we know In this plane, let's make that our xy plane, up the z dimension for "time". In this model, all 3D people are now just A 2D person could exist and live their lives of our chart. However, by moving them up on the chart at time. Let's for ease and convenience say that the bottom is the past. So, the higher up our 2D person goes in this As we don't seem to have a whole lot of time, let's imagine for a second that our as if there is some consistent force or wind Sadly, we cannot slow down time for ourselves we might want to do so. However, it is misleading to say that we can't The faster we travel in space, the slower This is one of the guiding principles of Einstein's This model can express this idea through the As our 2d person tries to move to their left While travelling at a fixed rate, like a sail as fast as the wind takes us, so the vector the same. To travel the fastest through time, our 2D the "future" direction, or upwards. However, if they are to travel any amount only do so by pointing their vector away from They have motion in the x-direction now, but in the z-direction. They are moving through space, but at the Taking this to its furthest extreme, our individual only has motion in the direction of x, and They have velocity in "space", but not So, I suppose this implies our vector is the If this is the speed we're talking about, not have any noticeable difference in our We'd have to go really fast before we started The vector still mostly points upwards. An interesting result of this model is that, really changed. He has his own view of what reality is. For him, the vector coming out of his chest The dimensions of the plane he's lying flat To him, it's the rest of the universe that's normal. However, once he reorients himself, it is on without him. This is clearer if we introduce a second 2D Initially, both of our individuals do not in the direction of time. Nothing that strange seems to happen so far. However, if our stickman on the right turns a bit and then reorients himself, while the it becomes clear that our 2D men have not Assuming that our two stickmen can still somehow somehow project an image of themselves onto immediately notice that there is a difference The one who travelled at the speed of light the other who remained stationary, and so But why do we find this model so compelling? Well, it is because of what those projections From the point of view of the first stickman, seemed to be fairly normal. However, as they started travelling very quickly in a direction away from "time", a 2D From a face-on perspective, it goes from this, appears to flatten, with an effect that's flattening taking place in the direction of The stickman who remained stationary might to their friend, never comprehending that in 3D space. Now what captures my imagination about this According to Einstein's theories of relativity, would appear from an external observer to This squishing effect happens exactly in line However, from the person whose travelling's the rest of the universe that warps. I talk about this in greater depth in another of spacial warping in a computer model. From their perspective, everything would stretch destination would seem further away, which The only difference is that in this model so the stretch is in only one direction, while in 2 directions instead. But that is what you might expect, as you and start orienting yourself away from time. But if this is correct, so what? Why does this matter? If time is truly a direction, then it deepens It also raises more questions. What is the force that pushes us ever-forward Why does it seem that we can never move against Although in this model there is no reason real life this doesn't seem to ever happen. This model also answers the question of, if time? Does part of us protrude into the past, or According to this model, that does not happen. We are flat pancakes in the 4th dimension, head on, but revealing our thinness when we That's a strange thought, but may just be This might explain why we are unable to see in that direction for it to be visible. Your form might be quite different than you It's useful to consider the existence of but there are other edges and frontiers in For one, does space ever end? Is the universe inescapable? If we were to conquer the limitations of light edge, what might we find? Just more space? Infinite planets and planetary systems? Or would we somehow come back to where we Amazingly, according to scientists, all of comes down to the nature of that unseen world We need to understand the shape of space. And to do that, we need to begin by talking You likely are already familiar with infinity. In maths, it is the concept of a number so Of course, no such number exists - for any a number that is at least 1 larger than it. But in a way, that's sort of the point. In infinity, there is always another number. And when it comes to our universe, we have There may always be another star or planet. An infinite universe is a little mind-boggling We live in a very finite world, with edges So, the idea that there might be literally bewildering. However, as we develop more and more powerful and further at the edges of what we can observe even the darkest patches of the night sky So increasingly, an infinite universe might But that is not to say that just because the number of things in it. That may sound a little counterintuitive but Believe it or not, there are different kinds Three possible scenarios could be true: a universe. Allow me to explain. In a flat universe, if we were to form a grid seem fairly standard. All the lines would either be parallel to An infinite universe of this variety would and ever. This is a little boring, so I won't spend However, this is a lot like what we perceive For the most part, all lines of direction We can distinctly see the planets and stars warping. However, this is not the only way that the Consider for a moment a black hole. You may immediately notice the strange rings well as across the top of it and along the This is something of an illusion. There are no rings across the top or bottom What you are seeing is the equatorial ring However, due to the powerful gravity of the not bouncing off upwards or downwards into Instead, the rays are curving towards us, You are seeing the top and the bottom of that Light being bent by gravity... what do I mean by that? Actually, this is an excellent example of In a flat universe, all the lines that make But what if we were to come up with a rule each other? There is only one way such a universe could Consider trying to draw two parallel lines You might start off well, but would quicky All lines would converge towards each other, back to where they started. What would a universe that was based on these Essentially, rather than going in the straight would be travelling in a massive curve. It's a little bit like those computer games only to reappear from the other side. In a spherical universe, you could try to only end up arriving back to where you started. With a powerful enough telescope, and if light sudden, it would be possible to look at the This kind of universe contains a finite amount you'd keep bumping into the same things Thanks to objects like black holes and powerful reality sometimes is a curved, spherical one The inside of a black hole's event horizon what path you take, you can never get out However, let's consider our last example This one is the hardest to visualise, but Instead of having all lines remain parallel move away. From everything. Drawing this is inherently tricky, because The only way you can do that is to either something like this: Or warp what you are image are squares. However, they are squares that are obeying away from each other. This leads to the very strange situation where corner, instead of the usual 3 that is possible All right, this seems a little confusing. What does it mean if space is hyperbolic? Well, let's consider what it is we are curving You might have noticed when we talked about we were curving around. That direction of curvature is in regards Imagine if you will a series of timelines: between space and time in my last video, which But for now, just remember for this model timelines in the direction of "up", or If they move left or right, they are moving other. If we introduce a large mass into this model, small object travelling along one of those your path of travel no longer goes directly right towards the mass. There are reasons for this, but the essential "straight" path towards the future pulls to accelerate away from it just to stay on In a nutshell, you are experiencing gravitational Even the planet is effected by this - the the centre of mass, as if it were being forced Let's get back to Hyperbolic space. In this model, the opposite thing is happening. All lines are moving away from each other. We could represent this by curving space and nice because it captures the idea that from forward normally. But let's warp this slightly so that it's It's all a matter of perspective, after But this time, rather than converging, all Everything moves further and further apart... Hmm, why does that sound familiar? It is because that is what the universe is This is not noticeable within a galaxy, where together. However, from what we can see of the universe every other galaxy. Scientists try to explain that with dark energy. But maybe all that is happening is that the shape? So what would that mean if the universe really Well, for starters, it would mean that the The flat space we looked at was infinite - for discover another light year's worth of space. However, with hyperbolic space, you'd discover space. It's like opening infinite doors, except The possibilities would be far more endless, models. But also, it means that, given enough time, from us until our galaxy was all that was Scientists have looked out across the universe, space in action. In fact, things all look pretty flat. So perhaps flat space is the correct answer. Yet, this still leaves room to me for hyperbolic After all, if matter is curving space towards make sense that the universe was curved in Perhaps all three models are true: Perhaps mass brings it together in such a way that the universe to the point where everything There certainly seems to be some evidence But it's very difficult to know for sure. Which model do you think is correct? Or maybe you feel that we do not live in an Please leave a comment down below to tell But for now, just remember - the unseen universe than we are currently aware of. There is one last question that's always thanks to our last two models we are now equipped Why does reality have a speed limit? It is common knowledge that the speed of light does this cap on causality exist? And why is it exactly 299,792,458 m/s? Why not more? Why not less? If you're like me, you've wondered about I think I might have found an answer. And it lies in hyperbolic geometry. And the more I've considered it, the more Let's talk a little bit about light. There is an interesting observation we can From an external perspective, it appears as This is true no matter what perspective you whether you are moving towards it, or away It always looks as if it is travelling at However, there is a single, interesting exception The photon's perspective. Einstein has proven that for an object travelling that it would be at 0. If you were to suddenly start travelling at notice 0 time passing, but would observe that And then would promptly die of the lack of burn along the way. But what happens if we try to calculate your Well, S=D/T. So, 679million/0=... If you tried plugging this into your calculator, Calculators do not like dividing by zero. This is because, the smaller the denominator number becomes. If you reduce the value of the denominator can work is if your total answer becomes infinity. If you travel for 0 time over any distance at infinite speed. So from light's perspective, it is travelling call it "c"). So why is it that everyone else detects light is going infinitely fast? What I am about to share is one possible theory. It's going to incorporate the 4D space we time, as well as the hyperbolic universal models. Both models were important building blocks hyperbolic geometry. This may sound intimidating, but it's the Let's compress all of 3D space down into dimension free to be made into the "time" For the hyperbolic element, all it means is from one another, always. This has the effect of warping space in a but essentially means there's more and more But, exponentially so. Other than that, travelling through this space 3D space uses, in terms of the physics rules Objects that start moving must be acted upon at the same rate. Objects at rest remain at rest. Conservation of momentum is maintained. Now let's imagine that for whatever reason, past that sent us all moving in the upwards A big bang, if you will. I wonder where one of those might have come But this expansion was not simply in space, We are now in motion, moving solely up, at we are not moving anywhere in space, we are We travel consistently, and will continue upon by another object or force. But as we are new and there is nothing but infinitely - there's nothing up there Now, let's imagine for a second that we Let's try to change direction. In physics, any change of direction is a form This may not make much sense intuitively, split our vector into two components: our in the y-direction. It then becomes easy to see that changing with one of our values and accelerating with We don't have to change both values, though. Let's just give ourselves a little impetus Obviously, the more we are pushed, the faster vector begins to lean towards a perfect horizontal The size of our vector increases. However, lets say that we want to go faster. In fact, we want to go so fast that we are are only moving in the x-direction, or "space". Is there any amount of push we can get in we are actually going completely horizontally? No. You could increase the distance in x by a has some value, you will never actually get The only way you could get your vector in you pushed against something that's ahead But if everything near you is in the same against. You can only push each other left or right. Nothing is ahead or behind. Interestingly, with only this available to to flat, but it never actually reaches it. And increasing your speed produces diminishing vector. You have hit a limit. You would essentially need to go infinite go infinite speed, you would need infinite Difficult to get your hands on. Of course, that is where this idea diverges There's nothing here so far that imposes You should easily be able to go faster than With infinite energy, you could go 3 billion But in the real universe, we don't see that. Everything normally seems to be capped at There is a similar trend where the more energy get, but that occurs at close-to-light-speed, So, our 4D model seems to have failed. But this is not a regular 4D space. This is a hyperbolic 4D space. Let's observe what happens when you try lines start to bend: Here, you have zoomed as you can manage. "Speed" is a little tricky a concept here, you covered a distance of 400,000,000m in So, faster than the speed of light. What happens? Well, you hit this little curved line over Although it is bent to be almost a "c" see that it is a time line, not a space line. And because it is hyperbolic space, there Let's jump over to that point, and see where Although in our movement vector by our origin end destination, we have ended up at a point sideways, and by only experiencing a second we have ended up many seconds into the future. We have taken a shortcut into the future. This is what we observe in the real world to suddenly experience reduced time. They believe only a few seconds have passed, observer. And suddenly it really throws off our maths. Because how does an external observer record If we started at an origin point of 0, but in the future, they have to say that we travelled 40,000,000m/s. Far below the speed of light, no matter what Which is kind of like what light seems to And the faster you push yourself in the x effects of hyperbolic geometry, and the more limit cap of the universe. It will never let you exceed it. This explains why there is a speed cap to Not even light, which as far as it is concerned to overcome it - provided the base we were soon as the photon slid above the plane that of this hyperbolic 4D space. It would trace the limit of it, true, but And then, from our perspective, it would start at a speed of c. 299,792,458 m/s. After all, we would see it leave, and then at its destination. It doesn't matter for us that it believed a shortcut through time. We would just record it as having arrived So, there you have it. Why is there a speed limit for our universe? Perhaps because space is curved, and our 4D At least, so claims this theory. It is, it must be stressed, just a theory. It's possible that smarter people than me is wrong, and it doesn't entirely account 4D space. However, it does neatly highlight why light - the faster it moves, the more serious geometry it encounters, which I find quite In fairness, it would be intriguing to see than the speed of light. This model claims it is allowable, but we so it would be difficult to test it. The fastest a human has ever gone is 11,083 from the moon. It would require incredible amounts of energy If it is true, though, it would provide firm in nature, and sadly, quash any hope for us So; sorry, time travel fans. But at least we can console ourselves that past, travelling through shortcuts to the possibility. So, there you have it. The universe is a strange place, filled with for with our intuition. However, with the right models everything Time and space are no longer quite so mysterious. Of course, as time goes on we will likely force us to reconsider our models, but in really is going on. Through theorising and developing our theories create a model that accounts for everything. Until then, hopefully the models we've discussed about. It's incredible to me that although much of seen, it's possible to explore it. But that is the beauty of the unseen world. Although we cannot see it, we can detect its It shapes the motion of our day, as we pass It lays out cause and effect happening one before the cause. It bounds the universe, and gives us the scope The reasons for this happening are sometimes us to catch glimpses of the truth that underpins It just takes us stopping occasionally and Why?