Last week we were all ill, but after resting inside for a few days, we were itching to get outside into the fresh air and tackle some outdoor tasks. with the start of a new week. We're still feeling under the weather, but it's so nice to be outside, rain or shine. As we dive deeper into spring, our garden looks more and more luscious. The birds are singing their lovely tunes and all of this just draws us towards the outdoors. Okay. This was still something that was left here that I didn't clean up last time is the netting and some more black plastic. I took the excavator down. I'm just gonna tear it out with the excavator. it needs to be gone. Because as you can see, the brambles and everything are growing back. And we can't mow this until everything of the netting and the black plastic is gone. Once that's gone, I'm going to straighten it out a little bit with the excavator, and then we can mow it and maintain it. This netting would have been great to reuse But as with everything here, it's all been left scattered around and then nature goes in between it and we can't use it anymore. Okay, let's straighten this out a little bit more it hadn't disintegrated yet, so it was easy to remove. Welcome in France where you got to mow your lawn in the rain because you have no choice. But the moment you stop mowing, the sun will come out. Or the moment I stop sitting on this chair, the sun will come out. The moment I will sit down on this chair again, the rain will come out again. Well, that was it for today. Thank you, Mr. Weatherman Love it. Absolutely love it. Now that it's raining, lovely weather. The only thing that's good about it is I can check the attic now. Check the floor. Check the roof to see if there's any wet spots. And there isn't many (excuse the lights) there might be small one here. This might be another one. We have these little pinholes. I might put some silicone in them to stop any drops from getting in, but they're so tiny, This is from an old leak that I fixed. Was, at the skylights. I fixed it, but I never knew if it was fixed enough. But by looking underneath now you can see the old marks from the water ingress that we had. We had water in our bedroom even so. But since I fixed it, I don't think it's leaking anymore. The attic looks quite dry for all the rain we've been having now, so I'm pretty happy with that. This is a Blackberry bush without the thorns. And it produces these big, nice berries. So we were keeping it. But with all the rain and the storms, it has blown over and a few of them have snapped, so we put three pools and we're going to put three planks on it. So it will keep them centered and hopefully not blow it over any more. Of course, it's going to start raining. Unbelievable. As I was walking towards the compost pile to dispose of some green waste I suddenly stumbled upon a snake. We think it might be the same Green Whip Snake we encountered near the chicken coop almost a year ago when we first arrived here. I'm going to get these onions planted before another rain shower surprises me. The fence around the veg garden is finished. I didn't film it. The only thing that I still need to do is make a gate. But there is no wood at where I get my, woods from, so they'll have to wait a little bit, I hope, next week or something, they get a delivery so I can start building a gate. For now, we can go around the house and, get in here. But, yeah, it's fine. It's perfect. Not too high. we'll see if deer or something jump over it. I hope not. And I'm guessing not. I haven't seen them here. And the boar I don't think they will try I see them in the garden, but more down towards the fields, so. but the good thing is the chickens, they can't enter any more. June enter anymore. Odin can't enter any more for now. That's a good thing. We are going to go over it with the tiller a few more times. Get the big rocks out. There's a little bit of plastic that I'm still finding, but that's normal. and afterwards, rake it out a little bit, and then, we're going to plant the seeds because today we are Friday. Saturday is another good day And then, from Sunday it's again a week of rain. So, needs to be finished. The moment of truth. Yesterday Anicia's mother and Dirk were here. Well, they were here for three days. we cleaned up this path little bit. I don't know if you guys remember, but, the rabbit cages were here, and there were still some concrete on the ground here. We moved it all over there. So this path is open, making it a lot easier to maintain. where we did most of the cleaning is all planted now with seeds. I'm just going to put some more, wood chippings. The wood chippings we have on the other side of the chicken coop. And as someone mentioned in the comments, it's good for the fungi and mushrooms and everything because there were mushrooms growing on the pile. So hopefully it helps with the cleaning whatever is left in there. In the sense it will be good that it will be raining Sunday so the seeds can be activated. I also placed some big stones on the corners. One, two, three, four. So in the future, we still want to clean this part that I know where the boundary is. So I don't do, do double work. We're eager to tackle as many of the little outdoor tasks as possible before the rain returns. You might think it's only rain here in southern France. But we did enjoy three beautiful days of sunshine. So we take what we get. Just something quick. Something I didn't think I would be doing this often when moving to a bigger property is maintaining the lower deck. It wasn't mowing properly because with all the rain, sometimes the grass would still be wet, but we had to mow it anyways because it was getting too long, but it apparently would stick too much. Everything from underneath it. So the blades would have a hard time and the blades need sharpening again. There's big chunks missing out of them here on the side, and there's a big rope again around the shaft. You can see sometimes stuff gets ejected at high velocity. It broke this thick plastic. So something shot out of here. I can see dents from inwards to outwards. So that's rocks and metal that's just gets flung into there. But overall, it's still holding up well,