[MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Welcome back. You made it to season three podcast on the back of an amazing and as you know, in the we're introducing you to built the products you know and love. And today, for the very first which fits nicely with the we announced at I/O, and of course, the are three Googlers who are intimately Please, say hi to Justin Savage, Gentlemen, thank you for joining Now, before we discuss the brand could we just quickly talk and how you ended up here? Justin, let's start with you. Justin: Yeah. Thanks so much for having me. I'm Justin Savage. I'm a Senior Product Manager working on the newly launched Pixel 7a. I've been at Google for, and have supported mobile here, but been a PM on the Pixel I'm really looking forward we've been up to and the latest product Rasheed: Amazing, a decade Much has changed in George, great to see you. What do you do at Google? Thanks for saying having me. So my name is George Wang. I'm a Product Manager as well on Pixel. I work on all things that fold, and I've spent six years at Google, It goes by fast. Rasheed: Amazing, and we'll get into and Chris, finally. Chris: Thanks for having me. I'm Chris, a Product Manager at Google My focus is on flagship hardware we're here to talk about today. I've been at Google for just and previously, worked on some like Nest Audio, Nest Really excited to be Rasheed: Thank you, Chris, and I'm in Nest Audio, for Now, one thing we do is do some deep research means we go into our internal state their own mission. I just wanted to run them by you, see Now, Justin, yours is hashtag Pixel for the win. Justin: Yeah. I think it was a declarative statement. Obviously, I think, like I'm a fairly competitive person. You know, we got into this business to and deliver all the helpfulness If we do a really good job of that, to use our products. And so yeah, that was my little up every day to come work at Google. Rasheed: That's some great George, Power Pixel's everywhere. George: I'm probably not and this has not been updated, I As I said before, I worked on that supported the Pixel and so that's why that's there. But I think it works well for Rasheed: Definitely does, and Super Nintendo, Sega Genesis. So what if you had to pick Chris: Super Nintendo, no question. Rasheed: Today, we have our three latest Pixel products. Justin Savage is a product but already worked on phones Remember Nexus? That's how long ago. George Wang is a product Google's very first foldable phone. He joined Google over six years ago, first. And Chris Chen is a product manager He used to work on Google's like Nest Mini and Google Home Max. Chris has a big back so stay tuned to find out what it is. I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. Now, let's get into today, what brought us together, revealed at Google I/O yesterday. And I wanted to kick off with Pixel 7a. We've, of course, already seen but can you walk us through what fifth generation A-Series phone? Justin: Yeah. That's a great question. The A-series has always been a It's always about bringing down to a more accessible price point. It's really the entry point for many that we have to offer as Pixel. Compared to previous you can expect a lot more in terms through everyday helpful photography, video, and security. At the heart of this device and represented by Chris is Google Tensor G2, and that's in-house SOC. And that's really us to platform the experiences from all the way into the A-Series. You know, one of the big what's going on on the inside Kudos to the engineering team. We've completely re-architected introducing an all-new We really wanted to focus the inevitable when falls or drops and hits the ground. And so with this new we're really pleased to our most durable A-Series device yet. So awesome to be able to When we look at the design it shares a similar sort of design Pixel 7 and 7 Pro, highlighting that and as well as the kind of along the sides of the device. But you asked a good question. Like what's new with this year? I'm really happy that, I think more we've delivered a ton of new, for the A-Series. We've got a 90 Hertz We upgraded the RAM to 8 gigabytes just and then of course, we're enabling modality for users. So really excited about bringing and it wouldn't be a have a fantastic camera experience, and We went all in on camera For the past four we've had the same front and so we're really excited We felt it was time, and so everything wide, to the main, to the delivers a fantastic experience experiences that we offer, at Rasheed: So what is the proudest Justin: This probably isn't going but it really is the engineering feat such a well-constructed this all-new mid-frame architecture. The team just did a fantastic job. We really worked on delivering still a great, large while keeping the dimensions But yeah, I would have to that we've been able to deliver and construction of the device. Rasheed: Excellent, and then just charcoal, we got snow, we What's your favorite one? Justin: I'd like to consider and we have this beautiful, Yeah. So I think, if push came say that that's the but it is only a Google We're making it available through our first-party excited to go to deliver that fresh Rasheed: Thanks, Justin. Now, the second device is Google Pixel's first George, why did we make a foldable? George: Yeah. It's a great question, and we've been Well, I've been working on So first and foremost, there and get the feedback from users. But back to your question, we've at the data for quite a bit, and of phone buyers are considering But then when you actually you actually see 65% of stated interest in foldable phones. So we scratched our heads, and And so we actually went to go use We talked to a lot of users, We saw four key things The form factors were awkward, and is the device that you use the most. You change the form factor, use the device that you use the most. So there's that. There's durability. There's something to be left for there. Some of the great experiences that like camera, I think Justin talked as well as these just generalized were underwhelming as well. So we really tried to and it really did start We really dove into that and phone and the best tablet in one. And the really important element of that get to see and feel this device, And the difficult part than one of our traditional but you still have to pack all and bring that to our users. So for numbers-wise, and that's about 2/3 the however you want to look at it-- of one of our regular phones. So a lot of work went into that. And to give you an example of what had to re-architect and re-engineer a phone and the components and is something like the camera. We redesigned all of up to ensure that we could experience in a envelope those experiences that you that you expect from Pixel. Plus, really utilizing this type of form You have two different which I'm about to get to kind of give you a new experiences. The hinge is the key thing that and I'm really excited to share that. It's our custom, fluid-friction and really gives you all the Rasheed: I guess the hinge is probably really think about, while at the same it's probably one of the one of the most difficult George: Yeah, exactly. I can probably say it then partnered with They work in tandem together. So you can't really separate the two. Yeah. The team has been working and really trying to master that and Thinking about like the force and it, how it feels across the things like how does it shut closed And then one thing I didn't can hold its own state, you could Where you could actually lay the tabletop mode, such that it could Rasheed: Right. George: And that state is and making sure that that's sturdy. But it does open up a lot like taking a group selfie or watching and maybe controls on the bottom. And so it does give us new opportunities Rasheed: So let me get this right. So when it's folded, it mostly I suppose. Then, you open it up. Then, basically, you of the screen you had just before. Then, what happens? Like what difference am I going George: Sure. Yeah. So the key thing that we focused a smartphone silhouette when folded. So the aspect ratio and the size is It is on the more compact side, when you did fully unfold it into a tablet kind of landscape So obviously, it gives you the best of can travel with, have in your hand, you want to do with your smartphone. And then when you want more entertained, more productive, Rasheed: That's amazing, and it Now, Chris, let's get Maybe, you can tell us a little the device came to be, and a little bit what a tablet is. Chris: Sure. It started with looking at and our research uncovered Meaning that they spend a majority and yet they often sit unused, And then those few moments and you pick it up, the battery is This can be really frustrating. So we developed the charging speaker and to ultimately make it more useful, to ensure that the tablet is also, more useful when you're Rasheed: That sounds amazing. So you had to come up with Tablet on the charging speaker doc. So what's involved in making Chris: That's right we and the docking experience, that you always wanted to return the So we collaborated with our to develop a unique magnet array and to find that sweet spot, strong enough, so that knock the tablet off of the doc. But weak can enough so that, it could ultimately come off It's a slight learning figure it out for the it becomes really easy and intuitive. It's just a delight to Rasheed: And then as we saw the whole software experience changes. Chris: That's right. So when it's docked, the tablet enters a and hub mode is a set of experiences It includes a digital photo frame, shared entertainment experience, from the Google Assistant. Rasheed: I guess, Chris and George, you had to be done when it comes to apps. Right? Because they have to compared to apps on So what's the kind of things that had beautifully on the bigger screens? Chris: That's right. We approached apps both within Google, community, to optimize their apps for alike. I think a great example of that is in of when you open the Photos app takes so that it's really easy to browse But then things really you load split-screen mode, which the foldable as well as the tablet. Where you can load say and then drag and drop a to make a really quick attachment. And the app itself is to kind of fit the window easy for you to juggle multiple things. Rasheed: And then, Chris, we know people I found that really beautiful to that doesn't get in the way of the doc. So I'm just wondering, did you spend coming up with that idea? Chris: This one came from I don't know how long the prototype but it was just a really fun approach We use it for our nightly video call to to just have an easy way to stand it I used it to stream the and it just really easily, we could plop And then another fun position is You can just put on the It's a really easy way Rasheed: Oh, like a coat Chris: Like a coat hanger, Yeah. Rasheed: That is really clever. Now, when it comes to Pixel, we all quality. So I also wanted to talk been making across camera capabilities to the next level. Justin, what's changed with Pixel 7a? Perhaps, compared it to 6a. Justin: Yeah, pretty much everything. I touched on this a little bit earlier, has been completely upgraded to experiences to even more people. Just to double click on that a I'm really excited about, so upgraded 64-megapixel It's, in fact, the largest ever shipped in an A-Series device. That's important, because we think a lot to capture light in Light is effectively data that we use to of our AI and ML models quality and low light performance. Plus, we have an all-new, It's a wider field of so you can take great landscape And then really cool is that on the front of the device as well, of it being a wider field of supports 4K video. So all sensors on the Pixel We're bringing in some really cool We've added long exposure, which of the more computationally heavy we're able to enable on the And this really gives that kind to objects in motion on We're also, with the Res Zoom, able to capture up to 8x So really excited about the Rasheed: I think one feature we didn't guess transformed Pixel years ago. From what I understand, there's been Justin: Yeah. You're absolutely right about that. When we launched Night I think it really redefined what users performance, really showcased to how we can deliver great experiences And with Night Sight that we're the team has done a fantastic It's now operating twice as and then with twice the sharpness. So you're getting these really dynamic and it just comes out Quality like this is not something at a product at this price tier. If we look at some of our they don't enable it at their like we do with the A-Series. And so I think that's just one of those Shots like this in the past would have without a tripod or a DSLR a testament to Tensor G2 that serves enabling these capabilities. You can even capture with astrophotography, and so the really nice. Rasheed: Excellent. Now, moving on to Pixel Fold, George. You already mentioned all the the camera in such a thin device. What does it do for the user experience? And I guess, you know, there's maybe because the front one and the rear one can How do you take George: Yeah. We got really creative, just kind of fun to think you could use a device like this. So a couple of things were I think one that which we call rear camera selfie. Powering this was Tensor G2, pun intended-- Where we unfolded it, and which we, like Justin said, just look higher quality. And then also use the external and so you could take a really using the 48-megapixel main sensor. Or you could even use the with the 120-degree field of view, or to get the whole group in, so I think I did also mention the take the selfie to do that, get of ditch the designated always tends to be me in my family. So I'm never in any of my shots. And then the other cool thing that that we've worked on is called kind of lay it open in the other-- with the external display facing out and and kind of leaving in a Tent Mode. And that actually works really well with Sight but the astrophotography can kind of take a beautiful but have no need for a tripod. So we really did think through, but then how could we also raise that Pixel is really known well for? Rasheed: And then Pixel Tablet, Chris, what has been the focus Chris: It does. So we took the opportunity to and to focus on the use cases that namely video calling. There's a lot of fun on running to improve and elevate One of my favorite features is So when you're in a Meet call, and the camera actually follows you kind of where those faces are. And it uses a couple machine One is to track where the is to actually zoom in and do a of the image, especially so that you can get more details that you're talking to. Another really fun one which can also be set within Meet We actually have a pretty running that's segmenting between and the background for a really and a solid rendering of Rasheed: Yeah. So I saw you using that we were in a briefing with reporters. So it looked like, you know-- and I I guess, got sort of comfortable But then this is that if the background moves along. So it's much more immersive, on a tropical island, in that case. Chris: That's right, and I'm not but I think it's just a fun way George: Chris is a liar. I've been on many DBCs with him, and [INTERPOSING VOICES] Rasheed: That looks great, and that's powering all three of Now, I'm wondering, could you as to what the flagship processor starting with you, Justin, for Pixel 7a? Justin: Yeah. I mean, I think the first is like we made the decision years It was really with the latest and greatest of Google's We have this tremendous bench of and scientists, and we really wanted to the forefront. And when we ship these And Tensor G2 is the latest iteration and it really does showcase And I think that translates in, we have experiences Res Zoom, Night Sight, and so forth. But it also translates across all the like live translate, which helps to drown out background the caller that you're so you can hear them more clearly. Of course, there's optimizations that are delivered so much that comes off this chipset. And the fact that all share that same processor means we're these experiences and our very best product of Google's helpfulness. Rasheed: George, when it comes to Tensor it delivers in the world of foldables? George: Yeah. I think Justin talked about, and investing on this kind of brings all that greatness. But particularly for the is around productivity and multitasking, you have multiple windows it can get pretty But Tensor G2 has been able to and help kind of do everything that Chris was talking So it's been really great for that. Additionally, some of the things particularly rear camera selfie is all powered by Tensor G2. So it really does help us Rasheed: Great, and then, Chris, of in video calling, but there are more benefits of Chris: Yeah. That's a fun feature to use every it's not a feature per se. But just to echo Justin's that this is part of a and we are building a single to support a number of devices and That means users get a really consistent Tablet, in terms of interface, in terms of capabilities. And that's something that someone is as they continue using As it pertains to tablets in a real win that we get with Tensor G2. One of the concerns that is that there isn't tablet out there that kind of hits but also is competitive And we feel like we've really met that, So that your games have your videos stream smoothly, to multitask and juggle different apps. Rasheed: You guys mentioned the single Does that also mean that they when it comes to software and security? That's right. With Tensor G2, we stand three years of OS as well as five years that the truism of Pixel devices over time with feature drops as well. And so we're all really excited that the product that a gets better, more secure, instead of degrading like those Rasheed: And with that, we like to ask our guests to So I'm sure our listeners are going devices, or maybe two or all three. Why not? And I'm just wondering, you know, what would you say is should try out with the things Chris, maybe we can start Chris: It's definitely the case. I've worked on many, many hardware and my wife is I think one Rasheed: Right. Chris: And most of the products or this is pretty enjoyable. But the case she cannot stop of the most clever things that on, and it's really exciting. She shares it with her whenever she can, and just excited to people with a tablet. Rasheed: Amazing. That's a great top tip. Get the case. Great idea. George, for people, perhaps, and selecting the Pixel of course-- what's the first thing George: I think it's multitasking. It's something I use each and every day. Pro tip for all of us you can use it split and then see what the Warrior or just keep yourself in the moment. So don't tell my Rasheed: Let's hope the or maybe they are doing the same. Who knows? And Justin, finally, to let's say I get that beautiful I unpack it, and I love the color. But then I turn it on. What's the first thing I'm going to do? What's your top tip? Justin: You know, there's so The photography experience is, like any of the other Pixel devices. I guess maybe one pro tip to highlight, It does come default So if you really want a more anything with touch animations, go into Settings, under Display, And that will enable you where it toggles between of 69 [INAUDIBLE] hertz, dynamically. You'll be able to benefit from Rasheed: Amazing. Those are three great tips. Gentlemen, thank you so and I hope we can get you maybe even separately, so we can deep been working on. Thank you so much for joining us today. Justin: Yeah. Chris: Thanks for having us. [MUSIC PLAYING] Rasheed: Well, I hope are about our brand new Pixel products. Why not check out the Google And a big thank you to for giving us all their If you're not a subscriber of then definitely do subscribe and to be the first to know Take care, and talk to you soon. [MUSIC PLAYING]