- [Jared] The USS Arizona. This was the famous at Pearl Harbor at the Today, it's a memorial in Hawaii that you can go see up close. In this video, we'll learn about the ship and what's on the inside, and then we'll talk and what happened to the Arizona. (electricity buzzing) (explosion booming) (gentle solemn music) The attack on Pearl Harbor is the event that into World War II. World War I started in 1914 and World War II happened and it lasted for six years. The United States did not enter the war until the end of 1941. Here as the United States and back then there was growing tensions with the country of Japan. And in response, the United States Navy started putting more ships So here's Hawaii, and it's made up of This island is called O'ahu and it has the capital city of Honolulu. Right next to it is Pearl Harbor. It is a major naval base In late 1941, there were at Pearl Harbor as a protective measure. This is Ford Island and right next to it was Some of the strongest ships in the United States Navy (gentle music) The Japanese took several just north of O'ahu. On the morning of December 7th, 1941, they launched over 300 planes on Pearl Harbor. (dramatic music) Over the next two hours, many of these battleships The most well-known is the USS Arizona. At the time, the Arizona had a crew of over 1500 men during the attack, If we now look at all of you can see that nearly half This is why the ship Let's learn a little more about the ship. The Arizona was commissioned right in the middle of World War I. It served as a training never actually seeing any of the combat. The Arizona was one of two ships that were built to the They called these Pennsylvania The Arizona was built Over the next 25 years, it would travel to many It would even get a chance of the United States. Starting in 1929, the ship which means the ship was upgraded. The older style cage masks were replaced with much stronger tripod mast. This had more space for the various platforms The modernization also to the ship's, armor, weapons, and machinery underneath. At the front of the ship is the bow. The back of the ship is called the stern. The very bottom of the and then the four propellers and the rudder to steer the ship. The part that overhangs they would often call this the fan tail. In the front, you'll see some chains. These connect to anchors on the side. The Arizona obviously was but it did have some planes. These would be launched The planes were not meant for combat. They were sometimes called spotter planes. They would get up in the air and then radio back positions When it was time to come back, they would make a water Then the airplane handling lift it back on board. On top of the ship is the They were often called tripod mast because they were held up There were several control stations. They were used to help This is the Searchlight platform which would've been very helpful at night. A lot of these rooms in the front were used to control the ship. This is the Conning Tower, a heavily armored control room where you'll find the commanding officer. They can still see out in the front of the but will hopefully be You'll notice we have several often used to carry men These boats could be launched by one of the boat cranes on Up at the very top here is with the smaller Down here, you'll find the (gentle music) (explosion booms) And below that, are the guns that are in the water, such as enemy Of course, the major weapons on board are the four triple turrets making a total of 12, 14 inch guns. They can swivel in just and they can be tilted up to 30 degrees. They can hit a target up to 19 miles away. The turrets extends several decks below. It takes more than 80 men to operate a single one of these turrets. When the turret rotates, the inside rotates as well. It's placed inside of a barbette, which is the armored housing of the turret that does not move. These are the cylindrical the turret to rotate. Inside the turret, there are a few different levels. These are the projectiles or shells. Basically the massive out of the gun. Below each turret are the handling rooms and then close by are the powder magazines which stores the powder These are needed to fire the massive guns. Moving these powder bags They had to be carried to which would then lift them These projectile hoists are Then at the top, there The platform trays had to be pulled into position ready for loading. A mechanical rammer pushed up into the barrel of the gun. Then four powder bags are for a total of 12 bags. Each gun had a breach block. These were now rotated or the opening in the back of the gun. On some battleships, the But on the Arizona, all three guns were There is a lot of men that for this to work. I can only imagine what in the middle of a battle. The USS Arizona had a On the outside, we have and the upper deck, and then (gentle music) Most of the living areas On the main deck, you've for the crew to sleep on hammocks. But in the morning, they would put away the hammocks and that same space could be used for other activities like eating a meal. On the second deck, you've and then on the other side, are the nicer accommodations. The officer state rooms the captain's cabin On the third deck, you start to see a lot of machinery, storage and there's also more officer state rooms at the very end. The bottom three decks are for most of the ship's On the first platform, you'll right below the turrets right next to it. We saw this earlier in the video. The second platform had and the hold is the bottom deck. It has the engines for the ship. If you're familiar with the Titanic, you'll notice some similarities They were built around the same time so the technology was similar. The Arizona had six and create steam. Some of that steam is for the ship, but the rest of it travels through pipes back to the These turn the propeller which moves the ship forward. Now, the Titanic used It was stored in these bunkers The Arizona however, used oil. And it actually kept the oil There are tanks here and here but a lot of the oil is towards the outside of the ship making use of any extra The attack on Pearl Harbor (plane engines roaring) Japanese planes flew over top and dropped bombs onto Battleship Row. This was one of the main The USS Arizona received One of them landed right penetrating several decks probably landing in one of the powder magazines. This created a massive explosion which killed most of the men on board. (explosion booming) Within minutes, the ship sank (gentle somber music) In the weeks and months many of these battleships were put back into service so that they but for other ships, the On the USS Arizona, most in their final resting They cut off parts of the ship and they were also able to and equipment on board. But the rest of the ship was left in the harbor right where it sank. Today, there is a memorial constructed on top of the Arizona. It opened to the public in 1962. Millions of people still You'll notice that the shape of the memorial droops down in the middle. This represents the initial defeat of the war and then moving back up to the high point as There are seven windows on each side and also seven windows on top. This represents the date of the attack. December 7th, 1941. If you want to visit the memorial, you'll start over here at the Pearl Harbor National Memorial. There's plenty of things to keep you busy lots of museum exhibits to walk through. There's a World War II submarine that you can actually go inside and then you can take over to Ford Island and then The Japanese surrendered on the deck of this battleship in Tokyo Bay. This officially ended World War II. The Arizona Memorial is To get to the memorial, you have to take the ferry The ferry boat leaves from here. There's room for up to 145 people and it takes just a few White buoys mark the position of the stern and bow of the Arizona. You'll get off the boat here climb up the ramp and enter the memorial. To many people, this is There are three parts to the memorial the entry room, the assembly room, and the shrine. The entry room can serve as a gathering place for ceremonies, but for the most part, you'll move through to the assembly room. You can learn more about the Arizona on these center displays and then look off either side There's a large hole in so that visitors can look down directly onto the deck of the ship. The last room is the shrine. It has a large marble of all those that were It's a long list. The sunlight can shine through some openings in the side walls. This design is called the Tree of Life and it's a universal symbol The tree of Life is on the other side of the memorial as well. There's only a few parts of the Arizona that still stick above the water. The largest is the Barbette and then one of the legs to the main mast. There's a flagpole attached here. If you look closely you can see oil still This is often referred to as black tears. It's almost as if the over what happened. Some survivors of the Arizona have decided that when they die, they'll inside the ship to join their crew mates. My name's Jared. I'm the guy that makes these videos. And wow, it takes a lot of work. If you wanna see more animations like this click one of the cards on screen. Thanks for watching, and (gentle music)