How do you hire an app developer when some do's and don'ts that you should be more requests to help save software similar inquiries keeps increasing. So, I I'm Adrian Ching, the founder of Upstack Studio digital products. And in this video, we're developer as a non-technical person and should know before doing so. Want to be the perfect developer for your project? To succeed in launching a start-up or a new product, there are three key and the Product itself. A mistake that most that they end up hiring the wrong knowledge. They are unable to assess the a team that is not able to properly companies fail and waste hundreds of in the process. That's why we've decided you to the things that really matter developers. We'll first get started with things to look at when hiring an app dedicated to each of these to go more in let's get started. There are a ton of business. You can easily find all these for Mobile App Developers. However, there aren't many developers that one can consider great. Most in fact are the reason for it typically falls into categories. Poor execution, usability or ability to solve problems, not enough many more. Your developers have direct impact your development company is incredibly areas of competence to look at. First of product development can save you time product that can actually succeed in the tries to sell you on building a feature lot of time and money to build, run! A good developer isn't afraid to say no to products that succeeds. These developers some features so that they can get your sooner. Look into the Agile and Lean Startup methodology if you're interested to learn more. is how you solve users' problem and critical to look at your developer's developers that you meet might not even outsource the design process which is but some just designed the app developer you are talking to don't have without professional help, once again, UI and UX is an important piece of your setting your app up for failure. After development process. To build successful established process. What process your product's chance to succeed. The two methodologies today are waterfall and agile. The waterfall model is one in which each phase of a products life cycle flows steadily downwards through these an iterative approach to software planning upfront, Agile focuses on being Products, MVPs, over a set period of time methodologies have their own pros and Agile instead of Waterfall due to the a later video. However if the developer a clear process when it comes to The next aspect to look at is definitely great team. A good company will offer an members. Having a company that only will have to hire external designers, a being new to each other will have to team is like a well-oiled machine together seamlessly. At the very least that your developer is providing. developers and a project manager. Next, we offshore. Where your developer based the service you'll get too. Cost is that most clients or entrepreneurs care the quality itself. Even though cost is for you reduce cost. Why do we say so? only $20,000 is expensive because you've drives real business value and grows a dollars. track record plays a big role and Diving deeper into your due diligence Find out who they work with and ask for details and reach out to those whose ask for references. Do not just look Have a look at the apps that they've built that you are expecting. Now, over to you, means you're most probably a an app development firm. What do you think to take note of? Which one would you the comments below. This is just an to check out the other videos where we We'll create a playlist for this so that together. yet to upload the videos, make sure to notified when we launch the videos. We here on this channel so go ahead and video right now. Thanks for watching this value out of this. If that's true, don't this so that more people can benefit and I'll see you in the next video