The year is 2004 and Denmark is the center of attention as Crown Prince Frederick is marrying At the wedding, Queen's and princesses from all the royal and they are all wearing This is the story of the jewels Magnificent historical jewels, they are beyond priceless. We don't count the carats. We count the centuries. Behind these precious gems, aou will find dramatic family But also of great love and happiness. The story begins with a made for the coronation of Napoleon Today, it is worn by the I've never seen such a set before... or had no idea of the historical The Danish and Swedish queens have given special permission and show the family's private movies and photographs. For special occasions, when you put on your best If it's a wedding which is held with an evening, even if it's bright daylight. There's more sentiment attached to quite a lot of jewelry Certainly jewelry which has been even though they can perfectly There's something special about jewelry Because they were made to be worn. A few days before the wedding, a bride attracts special attention royal set of jewelry. My great grandmother and she brought to Denmark a set of a necklace, some very fine And the story of that is that it belonged to Queen Desiree of Sweden, and she is supposed to have worn them And precisely this a few days before her wedding with Crown as the future crown princess of Denmark, she is now going to wear the jewels for the crowning of Napoleon in Paris. When the ruby set was presented to me by my husband and my coming mother in law. I was very overwhelmed. I'd never actually seen such a set before. And and for me, as a newcomer to to think that I should wear this is, of course, a very overwhelming thought. Because this set of jewelry by some very significant women various royal families and has been part of the making of history. The unique ruby set that starts in France, emperor in 1804. At the crowning the ruby sent is worn by Napoleon's Nine years earlier, Napoleon and she was definitely not uninterested. Bonaparte was in love and he asked for her hand. And Monsieur Clary, the father, who was a silk trader in Marseilles, Not only is he poor, So he said NO. And finally they found another man who apparently had a future. But I don't see which who was Bernadotte. Desiree fancies Bernadotte and becomes Madame Madame La Generale Bernadotte At the same time Napoleon meets but he never forgets Desiree. Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte is one of and during the coronation he and Desiree And just 6 years later, a Swedish crown princess, something she would probably not even Not since the days of the sun king at the Palace of Versailles has In order to regain the prestige, splendor and power of old the propaganda means to prove that France is still the greater power. Napoleon gives his eighteen marshals and tells them to buy jewellery to emphasize the grandeur They were part We are the richest, we are the grandest Desiree Jewels are inspired by nature, elegant leaves of diamonds Some of the world's In her hair, matching the necklace, the brooch Today, the Danish crown princess from the bouquets for the hair, whereas Napoleon is the time when jewelry began not just bits and pieces that you could That is when the tiara starts and the The international language of jewelry and parure is the French name They went on being fashionable right the way through the 19th century That's why they've been preserved The Swedish king Gustav the 4th Adolf, goes to war against Napoleon, The king is narrow minded and ignorant the fact that Napoleon has allied himself The king loses the war That was a catastrophe to Sweden. And they then made him abdicate or they deposed him Then youngest officer called count Merner said that he thought because in Sweden the whole thing of that And how do you get that back Finland? Well, you go and find somebody so they thought, well, they were all in So he went down and asked the whether he would accept to be adopted And he said yes. Desiree - Bernadotte's wife absolutely adores life and she is appalled when she realizes a place she's barely heard of. Desiree... she wasn't stupid, but she wasn't particularly interested And certainly not in politics. She was a happy go lucky, She did come to Sweden but found it terribly cold, terribly dark and very forbidding. She said that in Sweden one is white and the other's green. Desiree cannot stand And after a few months, and her son Oscar, She had a long standing affair And I think certainly why she wasn't particularly interested Jean Baptiste has become King Carl, the 14th And as a king, he has won the trust He was exceptionally intelligent and he was a hard worker too. He saw which chaotic situation. Sweden was with a huge debt, and he paid with his own private fortune. He paid the debt... He hasn't seen his wife for 12 years and his son Oscar has become So the king starts to look And finally he chooses the young She was very young when she married, and she was the granddaughter of the French Empress Josefine. She was a god daughter of Napoleon. And of course this was very important because she, Josefine, and she made that Queen Desiree came to Sweden back again. After 12 years in France, Desiree is back as Queen of Sweden, when she dies in 1860, the ruby she wore goes to her daughter in law, Josefina, now the ruling queen of Sweden. Josefina ends up owning as she inherits jewels from several She inherits jewelry from her her grandmother, Empress Josephine, And finally her mother, one of the most imposing jewels sets Josefina inherits from her mother is the Leuchtenberg Sapphires allegedly a gift from Emperor Napoleon when her mother married It's an excellent, This is a very dark blue sapphire. It's a beautiful. And you have diadem, you have the broche, but you have also little pins, which you can use in your hair. And of course, you have the earrings. It's easy to wear. It's not heavy. You can close it like a diadem So you have lots of possibilities. And and it's very practical It's very easy to transport it all other diadem, they are quite complicated Among the many treasures is the very large diamond tiara There has never been any And no, let's say paintings But then we found when she is writing So we believe that it came to Sweden who was the Empress of Brazil - Amelie she had married Don Pedro the 1st. And this for me, is, as you know, my mother was Brazilian and and Empress Amelie was very much loved in Brazil. During the Napoleonic Wars, the Portuguese royal family When the King returns to Portugal, his oldest son stays behind and pronounces himself as One of my favorite ancestors is the Emperor Pedro the 1st of Brazil. His life is like an adventure. More than Alexander Dumas could invent. He invented the modern Brazil. He invented the independence of Brazil. He was very naughty...had many mistresses many illegitimate children, Well, anyway, he married first and she died there. And a rumor was spread in Europe because of the many mistresses So when he tried to find all the grand houses of Europe's royal said, to have the cruel fate of poor So he found as his second wife, what was considered Amelie of Leuchtenberg. And she was very beautiful, charming, immensely popular in Brazil. And oddly enough, It was a right couple. And Pedro and Amelie have a daughter, at the age of 22. And when Amelie dies in 1873, it is her sister, Josefina in Sweden, who inherits Amelie's The inheritance contains, among other used at the dinner, Some remarkable emeralds beautiful diamonds set. It's a beautiful tiara. Complicated to wear because it's heavy and it moves. So it's not so easy to fix it. But it's a beautiful ensemble. It has also earrings. They are magnificent. The diamonds and each earring with an exquisite color They are the size of quail eggs. The set has never before but the Swedish Royal House has granted the complete set. This we only wear and very, very, on the states visit, like His Majesty's I wore it on Crown And I will never take it outside Queen Silvia did make one exception during the Swedish state Wearing it in Denmark... We are so close, So that's why. I was thinking what should I wear? What would Queen Margareta like to see? All those tiaras, so I thought the Brazilian diadem is So then I thought, would be nice to the to wear it. With you, dear cousin, we - my family and I - have always had a close relationship. To compliment the Brazilian diamond tiara, Queen Silvia often wears Here, the queen is photographed In 1976. I have been wearing it also You see the Brazilian diadem, but you see and it's a pink topaz of a very, They are of extreme beauty. And we know that It was apparently given from and then it went over to Saxon and then to Preussia and from Preussia to Baden and then from Baden to Sweden. It's one of those piece of arts who have been traveling And this makes things Of course. For the gala show in the opera during the Swedish state visit to Crown set of Amethyst, Crown Princess Victoria, She has worn it and it's a color which fits her very well. The ametysts are beautiful stones, And then you have this very, We haven't changed anything, but I wear it very often as a diadem. It is Queen Silvia's idea to mount the heavy necklace on a frame, Thus making a closed tiara. Two bracelets are part of the set as well, and they could be combined Queen Josefine she had of the parure and the emeralds. They were very significant of course, During the 2nd World War the Emerald set ends up under rather dramatic circumstances. The Norwegian Crown Prince Olav When the war breaks out, Olav leaves for England with his father, who is to govern Norway Martha is going to America, among whom is Norway's present king. Martha at first leaves for Sweden. But before traveling further, Princess Ingeborg, on the central station Ingeborg has packed the emeralds in a bag, at their final parting. None of them knows Princess Ingeborg told her daughter, Please take these jewels and if you need money, Because they went to an exile Norway. Martha stays in America and during those five years When Olav arrives for a short visit in 1945, she returns to Oslo to be reunited Passionately, the family came back to Norway, which you can admire them and it fits her very well because it's her colors tiara. In 2010, it is wedding time in Sweden as Crown Princess Victoria is marrying Family members have been invited to the wedding. And the women are wearing all their Crown Princess Victoria is wearing a tiara Also from Josefina. The cameos are seashells carved in relief, making the subject stand out very clearly. And the contrast Even this set has its own special history. It was made for Josefina's in 1809 by Napoleon's court jeweler Nitot. For a mother it's a big, big moment of your life when you see your own daughter and of course, wearing the diadem I saw the beauty of the tiara and her happiness. I now pronounce you man and wife. Today, the women of the Swedish royal family that tell the symbolic story of the human who has to suffer I had only one wish. I hoped so much that she would find And it was a very harmonic picture of her, her happiness, Long may they live! I know also that for His Majesty, It was a very special moment, too, knowing that his mother has worn it. It was beautiful. For two centuries, an empress, queens Even the Danish Queen Margrethe's mother, this rare jewellery set. In the early 30s, They made a big evening in Stockholm and various Swedish ladies were dressed up And my mother took the part of Queen Josephine of Sweden that was made to look like something In 1869. Queen Josefina's granddaughter Lovisa, is marrying the During the wedding she is wearing parts of and her grandmother, Queen Josefina, is to follow Lovisa to Denmark. The ruby set was given to Princess Lovisa as a wedding gift from Queen Josefina. And when giving the gift to her, she stated that the Danish colors must go to Denmark. Lovisa is now the crown The year after the wedding, And within two years, Lovisa With this, she inherits an enormous and Holland. Lovisa is just 20 years old, she is the owner It was said that out on a on a large billiard table, the table underneath. Part of Louisa's large inheritance which goes perfectly given to her as a wedding present I honestly don't know why to give such a splendid present But anyway, she did which are also pearshaped pearls, and which match beautifully with the tiara. She used that a lot, I've used for special occasions. In 1898, the Danish Prince Christian, the son of Lovisa and Frederik the 8th is looking My grandfather, who was a young man, Europe to visit various princesses young girl, the charming, They were married a year later because her father died. were not made And they were married privately in Cannes. She was very young when she married. She was only just 19, I think. And then she came to Denmark At the wedding Lovisa gives her new made specially from the brooches with vine leaves The rest of the set - and several more brooches Queen Alexandrine was and her mother was a Russian She was called Being a Russian princess, splendid jewelry into the family And my grandmother, of course, inherited quite a lot of that jewelry. Which is how she brought Among Alexandrine's jewelry Alexandrine's mother was given the tiara as a wedding present from her uncle, You can see the tiara on To this day, the boxes still bear She was very modest, really shy person. She would - for great occasions - She would put on the jewelry But I remember that I remember her as a child. I was 12 when she died. In April 2010, members of the royal families came to Copenhagen to celebrate I celebrated my 70th birthday and for that occasion we had several possibilities And so I wore for one of the evenings and I was a pearshaped And then I wore the three part flower tiara on the third occasion. What is 70 years? Throughout the years, The flower tiara was bought by her father, The first time it was used, It can be mounted It is also possible to mount it in three You can fix this sort of jewelry and which which I enjoy, like wearing it And I think my headdress and enjoys To my dear mother, a beautiful queen The Danish Crown jewels are permanently They belong to the Danish state and This is the only place in the world by the head of state The crown jewels of Denmark but it would be my son's wife one day. I allways - and I know that my mother did too - always feel a great responsability, the way other jewellery we wear is, and shown at the Rosenborg So we don't take them out for very long. And not too often either...but... but I also know that people think that the fact is, that that's They're not just museum pieces. And I think it makes them more alive. The crown jewels when Christian the 6th's queen Sophie Magdalene, to the future use of Danish Queen's. The collection mainly consists of two with diamonds, one with rubies and pearls, The emeralds are considered as the gems are very pure, The most valuable set of jewelry worn by These diamonds have been in the possession And are given their age extremely rare. The Queen usually wears the flower tiara with the brilliant set. The central square diamond in the chain used to be mounted in a ring that belonged She had to give it back following her love affair The necklace with the 19 large pearls is the oldest piece of jewelry It dates back all the way to the 1600s, silent witness to a major drama There has been some speculation that they might have belonged who was imprisoned by her half brother, It's a long and complicated story, She was extremely rich. I Think her husband had made off But anyway, she was imprisoned for a very, very long time and the She's portrayed with pearls of that kind. But most great ladies of those days And if they didn't, In 1947, Queen Margrethe's mother, Ingrid, and thus acquires the right But the necklace with the 19 pearls These pearls hadn't been used for a very long time, It's important next to the skin that keeps My mother borrowed them for Rosenborg and for the first many weeks, even months, She simply wore them under her clothes. She wore them actually at night. So to give them a chance of And they did. And they are very beautiful now. Queen Ingrid's mother, of the British queen Victoria. One of the most coveted princesses. In January 1905, she meets Gustav Adolf And four weeks later, they are engaged For the wedding at Windsor, very many people were invited. But here the khedive of Egypt because they met And of course And he came with the most which was made by Cartier. The Cartier tiara is the main piece of jewelry and Queen Ingrid's She wears it quite often, when she allows her three daughters When my youngest sister, Annemarie, married, I think my mother thought. It would be suitable to wear as a bride. Because it's a pretty. Light. It's not a heavy one. And she was very young. It was suitable. And then, of course, My elder sister, and I also were allowed to wear it. And of course it was a wonderful thing tiara with the history and Very lovely. In the next generation, my youngest sister's eldest daughter Alexia, each wore for their respective weddings. Today the Cartier tiara is owned the former queen of Greece Anne Marie, Who wore it at the wedding in 2008. After the wedding in London Margareta and Gustav Adolf where they are received in a festively decorated Stockholm. The couple have 5 children. Ingrid, being the only girl, and later when Margareta is pregnant she develops an inflammation of the middle And she dies Suddenly. She is 8 months pregnant It is a terrible blow for my mother she died from 5 children. But she was a very, She was never forgotten. And her memory is very much alive and certainly in my family. In her will, Margareta has decided that her bridal veil must cover her But it is not to follow her in the grave. When the coffin is closed, the veil must be removed 15 years after the death of Margareta, Ingrid has fallen in love who is 11 years her senior. The wedding takes place Ingrid is wearing a treasured memento the finely laced bridal veil Crown Princess Margaret Princess Ingrid, would also wear it later on her wedding day. Queen Ingrid, in fact, wore on her wedding day. And since then, all of her descendants have worn this beautiful Irish lace veil. And I was also very honored Queen Margaetta does not have daughters who could wear the bridal So she decides quite extraordinarily Princess of Denmark will also wear After the wedding Ingrid leaves her home country and with her husband &quot;Dannebrog&quot;. Upon arrival the beautiful couple Ingrid is wearing a new diamond brooch. When my mother was married, in the shape of a daisy, which, of course She has called Margaret, And so he had a beautiful which had belonged to my grandmother who wore it for her wedding. And then when I was married, And then 10 years ago, when I was 60, She gave me the daisy brooch, which I must say I was extremely touched Well, it's it's a brooch, First, because it was my mother's because I wore it for my wedding. And then I was given it, the way And that was very special. As a bridal gift, Ingrid's gives her the magnificent ruby set made for the coronation at the court of King Christian the 10th, there is a certain barrack like mood. The King prefers a military way of ruling But with her motherless childhood Ingrid is used to grumpy old men, and she does manage to win her father in law's heart. During the Second World War, The Crown Prince couple's She is later to become Queen of Denmark after her father, Frederick, the 9th. In the following years, and Princess Anne marie arrives. When the girls get a little older, they are allowed to explore Perhaps we even said. "Mummy, can we please And we would look and and take them out, because we knew that they were old And during a private theater performance Benedikte is even allowed to wear My mother made a sketch because she, in fact, had the dress that Queen Desiree wore For the coronation of Napoleon. And I was sort of in the right moment, And that was, of course, very special. And I felt very proud. And I was very anxious to you know, and my younger sister, and very sweet time I must say There's some very lovely pictures Princess Benedikte has inherited originally from the Swedish It belonged to the Princess who received it as a wedding present It's a really lovely tiara. You don't so often see So today I have the privilege of wearing it lent it to each of my two daughters, Alexandra and Nathalie. The Ruby set becomes Ingrid's favorite through more than six decades. My mother used to wear it a lot I have never worn it and she wore it also when she was a widow, The idea is that that is to stay And we waited a few years and then we could see Crown Princess Mary wears at the official state dinner That first evening there was so much new there was so much overwhelming for for me, It was the significance of the whole time, which I was going through. So I don't really think I thought so much about what I had on in terms of jewelry, except that it felt new to have such a significant of jewelry on. Everything that was going on at that time was was part of a very new and overwhelming time. I mean, it wasn't just the jewelry, I mean, I've ever worn The whole thing was overwhelming. Crown Prince Frederick has inherited the ruby set and now the new crown princess This set was belonging to Queen Ingrid that was very much loved And here was I coming from Australia, So at that time it felt very much And it's, I suppose a process that you start to feel like that you can wear it in your own right. But as the years have progressed, that it's it's mine and that I wear it as as Crown Princess Mary. I enjoy seeing on her very much. Queen Ingrid usually wore it but in the last few years Of course, in the start, anyone by doing the wrong thing or or wearing the jewelry in a way So I naturally discussed it with my mother in law how it could be used and and not used. But she's also very creative So she was always very open I mean, I've changed the earrings, as just a solitaire, a single earring so that long pendant can be taken off, Or I've worn the brooch The tiara, without the large necklace I like to play with it a little bit. The tiara made for Alexandrine, was worn as a headband. When the fashion changes, Queen Ingrid So now it is worn on top of the head. Very often things are reset. For example, the tiara. My mother had the two little brooches to fill it out a bit more, because it suited my mother to have a I know that the crown Princess so that it suits her face that is perfectly normal And I've just done it recently it was on loan to me and this tiara everyone remembers her in the Ruby set. So of course, that went into changing the tiara as as much in the spirit of Queen Ingrid. I just wanted to Very little was changed, actually. We removed some of the bouquets and it was put on a new structure so that today I can wear it as it's meant to be worn more upright instead of lying more flat on my head. The jewels of the European Royal Houses tells a story of strong family ties Desiree's Ruby set has been handed down Today, Crown Princess in the Danish Royal House. In 2006 Queen Margareta decides one of the jewels Queen Ingrid inherited the sapphire brooch I received the brooch when our first And I also wore it What is the Child's name? Christian Valdemar Henri John. Queen Ingrid usually wore And I know, for example, that she wore it Later, my mother-in-law, Queen Margaret, And she has also followed somewhat And has used the brooch, for example, of a Prince Nikolai. Some people learn history through and through wars or famous people. The jewelry is just as good It shows how the families have married and it doesn't only talk about lineage, to personal events in families. For example, worn, has always been worn Except that now I have it