Being a human being is not because we're born and nobody Our parents might be a little bit, our college teachers, et cetera, mentors, but generally we're on our own. And it's a very, very difficult process. You wake up in the morning and you don't really know what you can do. You could choose 12 different paths. It can be very confusing When you find that sense of purpose, when you find what I everything has a direction. Everything has a purpose. Your energy is concentrated. It's not like you're just going down a single narrow pathway. It's not like life becomes boring and it's just about discipline It's actually the most exciting thing that can ever happen to you because you never have that lost feeling. You wake up in the morning and you go, &quot;Yeah, this is what I need to accomplish.&quot; People come at you with and boring and irritating things. You're able to cut it out. It's just the most marvelous that you can have. So I genuinely wish that kind of internal radar. And so it's not easy There's no instant formula because we're all about instant formulas. It's difficult and I want you to know that so it's not like Robert in three minutes. No, I can't. But there's a process involved. It's not a mystery. You can follow a very singular process. And the idea is you're The way I like to frame you are a phenomenon. You are unique. Your DNA has never occurred in Going back billions of years, it will never occur in the future. Your life experience with your parents and everything that you experienced in your early years going on up is unique. It's yours. You're one of a kind, right? So that is your source of power. To waste that is just the worst thing you can do in your life. And what the power is is What makes you you and and how you can go deep into it and use that to create And so I tell people when you're a child, when you're four or five or even younger, you have what the great called impulse voices. They're little voices I love this, I hate that. I like this food. I don't like when mommy moves this way. I like when daddy comes from here. You're very cued into who you are and what you like and what you don't like. And these voices kind of direct And when you're very young, they direct you towards as well. And there's a book I It's Howard Gardner's It's helped me immensely. The idea is he talks about Our problem is we think of intelligence as mostly intellectual, but there are many forms of intelligence. There's the intelligence There's abstract intelligence that has to do with There's kinetic intelligence There's social intelligence. He has five of them. And the idea is your brain naturally veers towards one of them. It can veer towards two But generally one of them And it's like a grain in your brain that's going in a certain direction. You want to go with that grain 'cause that's where your power will lie. So when you're young, if you go back and think about you can maybe get a picture or voice inside of you that I know for me, it was words. I can remember when I was six years old, I was just obsessed with words, almost like in this almost I would spell words backwards. I would take them apart. I would do anagrams. I love palindromes, right? So I had a thing about words and language. It's very primal. Some people, you know, Albert Einstein, when he was four years old, his father gave him a And he was just mesmerized The idea that there are in the cosmos moving this needle. And he's obsessed with the Steve Jobs, when he or maybe younger in his father, they passed by a store with technological devices in the window. And he was just hypnotized by and the glass tubes and everything. So he wanted to go in that direction. You know, Tiger Woods saw in the garage and he was He had to do that, right? You know, I could give you a million different examples of this. Of course, these are people We can go back and find that. It's easier. But what happens to you, and please cut me off if No, please continue, please. What happens to you is you're seven. Now you're getting older and you're starting to not You're hearing the voice of you're not good at this field. You need to get better at math. You know, you shouldn't be or anything. You should be going this way. Your parents are starting to tell you this is the career they want for you or the direction they You start hearing that And as you get older, it gets Then when you're a teenager, it's all about what your peers, what's cool, And that kind of is more, so all of these noise enters your brain and you can't hear that anymore. You don't know who you are. And so you go to college, you kind of maybe choose a major that seems practical that your Maybe you kind of wander And then you enter the work world without that inner radar And brother, you're lost, right? Where should I go? Well, I need to make money, right? And so you make a choice based on the need to make a lot of money. Not everyone, but some people do that. And I understand that need. We all need to make a living, but that can set you because you're not connected emotionally. The thing is when you figure that grain that's inside of you, then you have the energy to go through boring tasks, to learn. You learn at a faster rate 'cause you're emotionally engaged. When you're emotionally the brain learns twice, three as when you're not. I always give the example. In college, I studied foreign languages, which was kind of a passion of mine. For three or four years, I studied French. And then I went to Paris It was useless 'cause it didn't teach me anything practical, right? I was totally confused. And then, but I was in and I wanted to live there, right? And I had a girlfriend and I And I can tell you in one month, I learned more than those because I wanted to, My emotions were there. It was like I had to Whereas, so most of us, we to learn this subject. We're half, we're paying half attention. But when you find that thing you're paying deep attention. Your emotions are engaged. You're learning at a And so the thing is, how do you When you're 21, I give and it's usually not so difficult. We can go through that process. It gets harder when you're 30 and you've been wandering I didn't really start, find my exact path until I was 38, 39, to be honest. So there's hope. When you get 40 and you get 50, it gets more and more difficult, right? And it's very sad if you that I'm talking about. And I tell people there and we go through a We have to dig and dig and dig and find those bones from your childhood that indicated what you were meant to do. But when you find your life's It doesn't mean you figured out, okay, I've got to aim for this That's not how it works. It gives you a sense of direction. You can try different things. You can experiment. You can have fun when you're in your 20s. You're going to learn. You're going to learn skills, but it gives you an overall framework instead of, whoa, all of this confusion, this chaos, social media, the internet. I could go here, here, here. You're lost at sea. It gives you a very important As you describe this, you mentioned animals that presumably don't have a lot of flexibility in terms of the niches they can exist in, but the way I imagine this process is that as a human, we're and here I'm using an analogy where we don't really know if a terrestrial animal, or an avian, right? Or an amphibian. for that matter, and to to be an amphibian who's trying to fly, although I'm sure they're out it's not just a waste of and not to over-dramatize the failure of finding one's purpose, whereas perhaps we could just say that the process of finding one's purpose is to realize like, ah, I'm an amphibian, I can go in and out of water, whereas a bunch of other stop at the water's edge, right? And this is really cool, and like these flying things, that they can't actually Some of them might be on but they can't do what I can do, so the process of self-discovery, it sounds like it's about to a sort of wedge within the and for me, I can certainly it helped me recall that I experienced as a very Can you describe that? Yeah, well, without making it too specific to my unique tastes, as a I loved learning about biology. Sure. but animals and how and fish and going to for the first time for me, and going snorkeling for the and even as I describe it, it's I feel it in my left arm of all things, and it feels like there's It's not just that I'm in observation of things that delight me. It's like there's an activation like I got to do something with this, and typically, it's until they won't listen anymore, but oftentimes, it's to to think about them, and It's a constant source of delight, and so seeds such as those, and there are a few other of flora and fauna, and learning including the human animal, and then organizing information It's like a drug that, this eternal spring of life, right? And so for me, that's what it was, and in 2015, when I was the course I loved, but I was in my scientific career, and I realized, yes, I I love teaching, but there's and it has to do not with a podcast. I didn't even know what a podcast, I probably, I knew what a podcast was. I was listening to podcasts at that time, but I wasn't on social media. I had no thoughts of having a podcast, but what I wanted was that feeling in its total number of forms. That's the goal, get that feeling in as many forms as possible. Is that about- because the connection to it's not an intellectual it's emotional, it's physical, right? And you feel it in your body, it's like it's at your level. It's like you're swimming You feel that things are easy, there's a delight. Not everything is going to be delightful, there's going to be tedium involved, there's going to be moments of boredom, but you're able to withstand because you feel that So yes, that's precisely I mean, for me, it's a is I said about words, but the other thing that I was obsessed with when I was a kid was early human ancestors. Don't ask me why, I just was so obsessed with our ancestors millions of years ago, and how it's possible to be living here in the '60s or '70s with but to come to where we are now. And I wrote a short story about a vulture, it was of a vulture watching the first humans kind of emerge on the planet. I'm sure it was absolutely but the weird thing is and all I'm doing in that book And I feel like a kid again, So I can very much relate to your story. You mentioned these five or frames of mind, as And I'm certainly aware a more intellectual interests, although, as you pointed the delight is visceral. And the actions are actions, they're of the body ultimately. One has to draw, speak, to transmute that excitement For people that are not but maybe are kinesthetically I can only wonder what that's like. I'm not completely uncoordinated, but I don't think I have or frame of mind. But I, for instance, had that they think in feels, that they literally experience thought as sort of a patchwork And that thought for from the neck up, but which to me was really intriguing. And so I only raise this because there have to there's an infinite number of based on our unique DNA and experience. But what do you think explains or as you point out, like the direction that the I mean, it's partially going to be nature, it's going to be DNA. But we're talking about this or awe-inspiring or delightful Can it be the other way too? Can it be, you know, one has in an intellectual you know, I'm going in the, Things of the mind, of And does it matter whether to our purpose by recognizing or are both useful? Oh, they're both very, very useful. You know, a lot of We think in terms of images, we're very much infected by So I know for instance, my mother is very, very She's obsessed with history. And I probably absorbed I don't think there's a genetic, a gene for that interest, you know? So you're going to absorb things So it's not all just genetic. But yeah, what you hate But the problem with doing that is if you go into a direction and you're in elementary and they force you to what it tends to do is it turns you off from learning in general. You think, I don't want to be disciplined. I don't want to go through anything because it's painful. It doesn't lead anywhere. It's not immediate frustration. It turns you off from learning in general. So it's really, really to have the love experience so that they can know what they hate and why they hate it, right? And then they can rebel and as opposed to, I hate learning. I hate discipline. I hate studying. I hate trying things over and over again. If you're kinesthetically oriented, and you know, a part of me, I understand that because I love sports, is you have to practice. It's going to take a lot of, you're not going to instantly And that's going to require But if your math experience, 'cause I hate learning shit, you're not, it's going You're going to hate So it's very important for parents to let that child have at least glimmers of that love moment. I know for me, when I finished college and I had to get a job. I got worked in journalism. I hated it. I hated working for other people. I hated office politics. I hated all the egos. I hated the smarminess. I hated the lack of quality. It was all just about, you know, making money and getting things out there. And then I worked in Hollywood. I hated Hollywood. I hated working in Hollywood. That formed me very much, made me go in the but only from the basis of, I knew that I wanted to be a writer. So, you know, that's very important that it's not just hate. It can form you, but there also has to be that positive, deep emotional love of something that also is grounded in you in some way. What you just said really that energy and motivation you know, desire for something or desire to get away from something. And earlier when you were talking about how we are so much more engaged and driven towards things and actually we know as you know too, I'm sure, that only by the release in the brain and body would our brain have any If you don't feel agitation and you can do everything of course your brain wouldn't change. Like, why would it, right? That agitation is a signature that are saying, &quot;Hey, Right, right, right. You might need to do something different, including rewire yourself, right? And that can come from positive Of course. [MUSIC PLAYING]