(tinkling music) - [Child] Tic Tac Toy! - [Announcer] This video is (lively music) - Okay students it's time for Addy to share her report with the class. - Yes, I've been waiting - Now the assignment was to describe in detail what your dream version of the best day ever would be. - Ooh, I can't wait to hear this! - My dream best day ever would all start when my sister, Maya and I would walk into the American Girl store. Here we are Maya, at - Let's do this! (upbeat electro music) Where do we even begin, Addy? - By selecting our dolls. (upbeat music) Let's start with the - Yeah, over here is Julie. - [Addy] Wow, look at them all! - And here's Melody. (upbeat music) And there's Kit over here! - Wow, she's from 1934! (lively music) Wow, Mary Ellen! - It's her seaside diner! - [Addy] Milkshake, who wants a milkshake? It's Kaya and Aniya and Mary Ellen. - And here's Julie, Rebecca, and Melody. Hey, Maya! I heard that we can find a (Gasps) - You mean the Truly Me dolls? Yeah, let's go find them. (upbeat music) Here we are Maya. Okay, I'm gonna find the doll that looks just like me! I have blonde hair just like these dolls. Which one do you think looks just like me? Hmm, maybe doll 27. Yeah, I think you're right! She has blonde hair and blue eyes. Just like me! Okay Maya, it's my turn. Help me find a doll that looks like me. - What about number 59 in the back? - [Addy] Yeah, her hair color is spot on. - They're beautiful, Addy! - Totally agreed. And don't you just love their outfits? - Oh, for sure, I wish (spring boings) - Oh, I just love the Truly Me dolls! They're like an 18 inch best to have your same style, spirit, and look! - Totally, and there so it was easy to find ones - Wow, that really was - Oh, it's only the beginning, Maya. - What? How could it possibly get any better? - Well, you know those cute - Yeah? - Well, it turns out that they (Gasps) Plus, there were tons of for us and our dolls. - No way! - Then, once we changed to the American Girl hair salon to get matching hair and manicures! - For us and our dolls? - Why, of course! Let me continue on. How should we get our hair styled, Maya? - I don't know, there's so many choices. - Ooh, I think I want - Oh super cute! I think I'll do the waterfall. - That will look adorbs. - But before we do our hair (upbeat music) - I'm gonna add blue and pink - I wanna do blue, pink, and purple. Now, which ribbon color - I'm gonna do blue and pink. - I'm gonna do blue and pink, too! - Maya, your doll's looking great! - So is yours! It looks amazing! I can't wait to have - Your doll's all done. What do you think? - Love it! Think I should match - For sure! Time for our hair now! (upbeat music) How's mine looking, Addy? - Fantastic! How about mine? - Totally adorbs. We are so twinning with our dolls! - I know and I'm loving it! - What do you say we all - Fabulous idea! - I want gold and sparkly. - And I want pretty and pink. - Ah, this is the life isn't it, Addy? - Absolutely Maya, for us and our dolls. - Yeah, I think mine is just as much as I am. (happy music) - Oh, it's time for my doll - What shade of polish - I went for pink, just like mine. (upbeat music) - All done and they look fabulous. - All right, Maya, our hair is done, our nails are done, and we even - Yeah, and she didn't even whine! - Well, what should we do next? - Hmm, let me think. (spring boings) Wow! We even got our dolls' ears pierced? - Sure did, and they even But I didn't think you - Good call. Maybe next time. - Well, you did an excellent job on your best day ever report, Addy. I'm thoroughly impressed. - Oh, but I'm not done, yet. - But, how could this day You've already picked selected matching outfits, had your hair and your dolls' hair styled, What more could you possibly - A visit to the American Girl Cafe to have delicious food (upbeat music) - Here's a special seat for you. - All right, ladies, what shall we order? - I think I'll go with - Excellent choice. I think I'll do the same. - [Maya] Ooh, a pink lemonade sounds nice. - I just realized we haven't - You're right and I think - I love the name Lily. But I think since my doll looks like me, I'm gonna call her Lil Addy. - Okay, Lil Addy. Love your name. - Time for some fun - Okay, what's the first one? - This is a good one. Would you rather be stranded on an island with your best friend or your sibling? - Definitely best friend. - Hey, but I'm your sister! - And my best friend. - Aww, perfect answer then. - Oh, here comes our food. - Let's dig in, Maya. - [Addy] Drink up, Lil Addy. - Mm mm mm. - Here's a bit of pasta for you, Lily. - Eat up, too, Lil Addy. - [Maya] Mm mm. - Thanks, Maya. Lil Addy loves pink lemonade. - Okay Addy, did we save room for dessert? - Um, don't we always? - Yeah, that was a silly question! (happy music) Unicorn shakes were a great idea. - You can say that again! - Unicorn shakes were a great idea! And now for the Dream - Dream come true is correct! - Mm hmm. A Unicorn Milkshake and chocolate cake? This really is the best day ever! - And I loved that Lil Addy and Lily got to enjoy the meal with you! - Yeah, and if you don't the store has plenty of dolls that you could choose from to join you at the cafe! - Well, I'll say it again, (applause) - But, I'm still not done! - You're kidding me! There's more? - You bet there is! In my best day ever we leave the cafe with our dolls and take them - Doll hospital? - Yep, they'll need a checkup before we take them home with us. (energetic music) - Wow, they even got a hospital gown! - Well, her heart sounds nice and strong. I bet you take very good care of her. - I hope she doesn't have a fever. - Well, looks like there's no fever here. - Phew! - How's her vision? - Perfect. She's got good reflex, doesn't she? And I also want to check her hearing. (bell chimes) Can she hear it? - I'm so glad Lil Addy's okay. Why don't you do Lily's checkup, now? - Okay! - Oh, her heart sounds very strong. And no fever, either. That looks like a normal - So glad to hear. - I'm gonna use my flashlight Oh, looking good to me. I'm gonna ring the bell. Three, two, one. (bell chimes) Can she hear it? - I think her hearing's good. - Oh, she's got good Looks like Lily's completely healthy. - Thank you, Dr M. - You're welcome. - Let me check your teeth, now. Looks sparkly white to me. - E, F. - Wow, she has perfect vision, Maya! - Lily, do you have - Oh no, I think Lil Addy - That was an x-ray mix up! Lil Addy's just fine. - Phew! (spring boings) - Wow, until today I had no idea that there was a doll hospital! - Me, neither! And that was a very thorough checkup. I'm glad to hear your - Me too. But the hospital also has crutches, wheelchairs, eyeglasses, and all sorts of accessories available - Best day ever. - Well, Maya. - Are you about to tell - Well, we still need one more thing to truly make this the best day ever. - Really? I'm dying to know what it is! - A shopping spree! (spring boings) Okay Maya, ready for a shopping spree? - Shopping spree? Of course! - There's outfits, accessories, pets! Where do we even begin? (happy music) It's a camp hangout! - It makes me wanna take We can grill hotdogs, pop - There's so many puppies to choose from and even a kitty! Or her own hedgehog house! Maybe I'll get the husky. Yeah, you'll make a great pet. My puppy will need a doggy bed. Donut pet bed, I'll get this one! Oh, and I can't forget a leash! Flower leash set. Sounds awesome! - Wow, she's a gymnast like me! I wonder if she can do back And she's even gotten a medal? - Three in one Game Night Set? I love air hockey! And I bet you would, too, Lily. - Wow! It's Blaire's Family Farm Restaurant! We could have a picnic, Little Addy. And Blaire uses all farm fresh produce. And check out the food cart, Little Addy. - Look, we can make cookies Care for some tea? Definitely adding this (energetic music) - Cool, a bowling place? (ball clacks) - Lily wants to bowl, too. - [Addy] Well, welcome to - Oh, I'll take some candy - Should we add it to - For sure! (happy music) Best day ever. (spring boings) And that would be my dream best day ever. - No kidding! - So absolutely amazing! - If only it wasn't just a dream! - Yeah, if only it would really happen. (phone rings) - Oh, I have to snap out of my daydream! Toy School, this is Miss Lucy speaking. Hi this is Addy's and Maya's mom. I'm so sorry to interrupt a fun-filled day at Toy School, but could I speak with the girls for just a second? Why of course, just one moment. Addy and Maya, your mom - Huh? - That's odd for her to call us at school. - Hi, Mom, what's up? - Hi, girls. I need you pack your backpacks up because I'm coming to pick you up early. I've got a fun surprise for you. - A surprise? What is it? - Well, I wasn't going to tell you. But we're going to the (Gasps) - Best day ever. - What? What am I missing? This video was sponsored by American Girl. (tinkling chimes)