So guys, you must have seen many games where Carlsen'. He plays the perfect moves &amp; slowly I'll show you 2 wild Magnus games, where he is going for strange openings &amp; even blundering top-level grandmasters by playing this way. Before sponsoring this video. Alright, so in the first c3. This is a blitz tournament, Magnus is in a fun bringing out his queen this way &amp; then just in his first 4-5 moves against grandmasters - its anticipated this &amp; so he straightaway played b5. Wow, Wow, Naughty! So Magnus says, 'You don't allow me to play queen a4, no worries, stop me if you can. King e3, king d3, king c2, king d1 &amp; Magnus achieves his goal. That is insane At this point, Magnus Carlsen has literally done with all his pieces in the center. Let's see what But Magnus doesn't care one bit. Black picks up the center. Black attacks the queen, so he moves could've exchanged, but I guess he doesn't want in development. Therefore, he goes for queen g5, take hoping that he could activate &amp; attack with instead he cuts off the queen from its defense but then the knight attacks with tempo. Now Magnus accepts the trade &amp; eventually he slides break open the center. Takes, takes &amp; still king vulnerable to all these different attacks. already moved his king in the opening. seeing some tension building around these pawns. Black pushes on the queenside. He could've Anyway, Magnus closes down the center. Again black exchange, he again locks down the position. Rook bishop g2 comes to defend. Now Black tries to get rook. Black is closing in, Magnus tries to push going to come under fire, so he starts running the rook also joins in. And just look at this barge into white's army, but there's actually so beautifully - these pawns are well-defended, I guess black could think of sacrificing his he's frustrated and plays h6 - and that's a weak side! He obviously can't take this because white is dominating &amp; this passed pawn becomes the position, but Magnus is on the attack. This coming to defend. Now suddenly, all the focus has backfoot. The king steps down, the knight jumps this pawn, then Magnus can also attack with his there's a check now, he can atleast block with the he's just 1 step away from getting another queen. because after takes, takes, black captures the deadly attacks on the king. Therefore, Magnus back. This was probably a good opportunity from promoting, but he missed it &amp; went for the doesn't care, he just promotes &amp; after takes, seconds left on the clock, he plays king f8. Then also have a checkmate threat. So, black is forced a full piece now. The lonely king tries to save ready to attack. Black should not let him through, a checkmate coming, so black decides to exchange my queen.' Its almost over now for black. Still a check, but unfortunately, there is no way to its impossible to stop Magnus from here, I mean more moves, black tries to delay the inevitable. because of all these different checkmates. you should definitely hit the like button below game to show you. But before that, I would like to just like an intense chess game, life can also or anxious situation, I try my best to distract not in your control. That's when you need the help mental health. Finding the right therapist can very easy for you. Well, BetterHelp is an amazing own convenience. It's online, it's remote and just a suitable professional therapist. The best part therapist, you can even switch to a new one at NO make therapy more affordable &amp; more accessible so Its really easy to sign up. All you need to do is better-h-e-l-p &amp; using this link, you'll get description box below, so do check it out. where Magnus Carlsen is playing as black. After the board. White brings out his bishop &amp; Magnus the pawns are exchanged. Bishop g4, bishop e2 &amp; a few more development moves &amp; finally Magnus exchanged &amp; white makes way for his pawns to push advances as well. White offers a queen exchange, Magnus blunders his queen. Rook attacks Magnus is completely losing this, but can he fight because he is well ahead in material. He wants that. Both players have less than 40 seconds on his rook to a knight. But still white is ahead. around this e6 pawn. So Magnus blocks this line makes an exchange sacrifice to break open the defense around this pawn. White realises that from here so he moves his queen to a more active Magnus again moves the king &amp; white manuevers his pushing on the kingside. The pawn is lost &amp; white so the king looks for shelter. Eventhough Magnus started attacking with his limited pieces. The now we have a fork. White tries to retaliate, he's the dangerous bishop. White saves the knight &amp; attacks. Now black is going after this pawn. White knight moves &amp; Magnus grabs another pawn. He saves short of time, so he goes for the attack, but closer, and Magnus moves his rook to a much more keeps following it. Eventually, Magnus decides to on his pawn advantage to win him the game. The this pawn. He is slowly marching forward with his it. Now for some reason, white decided to trade it away for free. The time pressure is clearly pawn, he could've given a check like this, but he e6 capture. I believe it would have been game giving checks &amp; ultimately, the rook is lost. he just went back. That's what happens Magnus moves forward, and after queen e4, king f6, he missed it. Instead he played g4, allowing this pawns versus 1, and white still has the queen. At anticipating what their opponent might play. And and he doesn't even take back the rook. Magnus takes it. But still Magnus manages to hold onto a white runs out of time &amp; Magnus wins the I mean making blunders under time even the best. Let me know in the comments some that you still can't forget. Alright, so it's turn &amp; you need to find the best move for white. many of you get this right. Guys, do Subscribe