My shortcut Thanksgiving experience starts I'm 24 hours from the big feast, and I have I've got the turkey already cut up into I have the butcher do that, and that is I've been arranging some fresh herbs on a I've got rosemary and thyme, and now I'll herbs. Cooking the turkey in pieces the day First of all, it cooks a lot faster than if Second, you can cook it ahead of time, carve have to spend carving on Thanksgiving Day. I'm just going to heat it up with some I tell you what, this is probably going to ever made. All right, I got the meat all on there. I'm going to sprinkle everything very I want this turkey to have a lot of flavor I'm just dotting the surface of the turkey I think butter is the best seasoning you can It just makes everything so golden and All right, now, believe it or not, I'm going good measure. Just make sure all the skin is the oven. It's going to roast in a 350 until the meat is 165 degrees. It looks absolutely. Perfect. Look at that golden skin. Now I'm just going to cover up the turkey. I'm going to let it rest. And then I'll come back after about 45 Okay. Time to carve. First the breasts. I'll cut them into nice juicy slices. That's one. Then the second. Next come the thighs. I'll pull out the bone to make it a little Then carve it into slices. That's one and two. Then it all goes on to a clean sheet pan. The legs too. And it's all ready for the big day. I'm going to cover it with foil. And tomorrow I'll just sprinkle it with So I'll get the turkey in the fridge. This is the Thanksgiving turkey I made It still looks wonderful. I'm just going to sprinkle it with some dry out in the oven when I reheat it. You can be pretty generous here. Just kind of making sure all the surface is And then I want there to be enough in the foil. Hey, I'll get the foil back on. Into a 350 degree oven. It's just going to take him about an hour to Oh, boy, oh, boy. Look at that. The turkey couldn't look more Oh, yum. Now I'm going to take the turkey out of the That's why I love these racks. I'm just going to let it rest for a little And I'm going to pour off all the wonderful, juices from the pan. I'm going to use that to make gravy in a All right. The last thing I have to do is The turkey's out of the pan. I poured all the yummy drippings out of the drippings. All right, now into the grease. I'm going to sprinkle in some flour, and I'm turkey yumminess and then just whisk it If the paste seems to be overly greasy, or paste, I just sprinkle in more flour. Oh, I'm going to grab a carton of low sodium I always use low sodium chicken broth when I more salt later, and I'm just going to whisk Okay. The next thing I'm going to do is pour Now the drippings are all the liquid from I'm going to pour in about a third of them. I don't always pour them all in at once. Now I'm just going to let the gravy cook over It's going to get thick and start bubbling. And while it does that, I'm going to get to I've been boiling them just in simmering them back to the gravy, and that just makes Now I also boiled the neck. I don't want any part of the turkey to go to of the meat off just to have a little added So I'm going to go ahead and throw all the Then I'm going to stir them all in. Now this just needs to thicken for a couple I've learned through the years that the more So I did some prep work yesterday, including You just throw three cups of apple cider Then you throw in the leaves of four fourths of a cup of kosher salt, two cups of peppercorns, five whole bay leaves, and into large strips. Then you stir the whole mixture until the Bring it to a boil, cover it and allow it to Give the turkey a good rinse, then put it Then pour in the brine mixture and just My turkey's been brining in the fridge since lodge and get started on the feast. County fair turkey legs. So I'm going to make a seasoning mix first. And it's paprika, chili powder, cumin. Time. Oh, that was more time than I meant. Garlic, garlic powder and lots of salt and You can honestly use any kind of seasoning That's just a good basic, really savory And basically you get this roasted turkey just gnaw on it as you go. Yes. So I've got these turkey legs and I And so you really want to generously and then turn them over. So after you get all the seasoning on the You can cover them in plastic wrap if you Oh, clunk. Just put those in there. But I have these and they've been in the I was a little more careful with the that. It just gives the seasoning time to So let's get these in the oven. So they're going to roast at 325 degrees for temperature of 160. Wow. They smell so good. So I'm actually going to turn on the Let's wait for it to stop beeping. And I'm going to put them under the broiler. But first I want to brush on a little bit of magic I think just kind of dab it on and turkey legs can get a little bit And there's so much like savory stuff in honey just kind of gives it a little bit of Really yummy. All right. Do those look properly glazed They really do. Wow. So I will put this back into the oven Finish up under the broiler. And again, you know how I love a dipping I'm going to make a quick little sauce to And it starts with barbecue sauce. A little bit of soy sauce. A little bit of hot sauce and more. Honey. Get down there, honey. But if you want to serve these at a party at serve with it. So I'll pour it into this Cup. Oh my goodness, that was actually the Oh gosh, those are good. Now at the State fair, usually they're kind sit and rest for just a little bit. But how fun are these? Oh my gosh, it just makes chicken legs look Unabashedly big. All right. County fair turkey legs, also known in some Tell you what, if you like to get your right here. Spatchcocking a turkey. So I am just melting a stick of butter, and starting with a third cup of maple syrup, and thyme. What a delicious butter. I'm also going to add a little bit of salt All right. That's already starting to mix And while that happens I'm going to So this is about a PS14 turkey. And I'm just going to go in with these And you just want to use the kitchen shears It allows the turkey to cook really evenly. But then when you've done it right, you've So now what you do is flip the turkey over You got to take your two hands and just When you hear that bone break. Just kind of spread it apart. But basically you wind up with this turkey So it's going to roast so evenly. So I'm going to put it into the roasting And I've already got a bed of veggies in the Carrots onions and celery the classic veggie And I'll bring the pan up. Now for the maple herb butter. I'll just brush it all over the surface of I mean, this is a beautiful site. Okay, I got most of that butter brushed on The maple syrup is going to help caramelize going to be incredible. Season the outside of the bird pretty Oh, that is one beautiful bird. So I'm going to get this into the oven for I'm going to put it into a 425 degree oven. That's a pretty high heat, but it's only for started. Okay, the 30 minutes is up. So I'm going to turn the temperature down to And I'm going to give it a quick baste So there's all this buttery liquid in the Brush this over every centimetre of skin, and thermometer registers at 165 degrees. And once it does, I'll take it out of the The moment of truth. The bird's been resting and there it is. Woo! Look at that beautiful skin. It's just perfect. So it's carving time. First I'll cut off the leg and thigh. Next I'll remove the breast. And the trick to carving it is to cut it I'll cut off the wings. Side one, then side two. My final task is to put the delicious turkey with the entire breasts in slices. And I can't forget the wings, so everyone Roasting a Thanksgiving turkey is not hard. All I did was I started with a PS20 turkey, of course, and now I am going to trust the So basically you just want to criss cross And this makes sure that the turkey stays Okay. So what I did was just transferred the And I'm going to put it into the oven for And. For that stage. I've got to cover the whole thing with foil. Here I go. So now, Alex, let's go to the Okay. Okay. 20 pounder. Hiya. So this is going to go into a 275 It's going to bake for about ten minutes per So I'll see you back here in 3.5 hours. Okay. So we're going to move right along and all over the turkey. So I've got two sticks of salted butter And I'm adding the zest of two lemons and herbs. I've got sage and two tablespoons of And then chop thyme about a tablespoon. I love fresh herbs. They make me happy. I love them in the morning. I love them in the night. I love them full stop. So the butter is all smeared together. You see that, Alex? Oh, yeah. Doesn't that look yummy? Okay, so let's go to the oven. So. Oh, gosh, I don't want to do this. Oh, you're getting your workout in. Oh, my gosh, that's so heavy. Now, I want to warn you before I take this It is not impressive looking at this stage. It's very pale. Okay, but that's exactly what it should look Now, you can be neat about it and just smear But I have never had more luck than when I So basically, you just want to smear this Give me a nice. It is. It's just like giving it a massage. It's very strange, but so what this is going golden skin when it finishes roasting. Not only that, but it's going to add flavor And that's what we're going to use to make So all of this is going to make perfect Okay. So I'm going to put it back into the But before I do that I want to put a meat And you want to go right behind the joint And that way you know that the temperature the turkey. So you know it'll be done if So I'm going to leave it uncovered, put it degrees and let it finish roasting. It's going to take about an hour and a half Okay. See you back here, then. I think the turkey's ready. Are you ready for this? Oh. I'm ready. Oh, it's. Oh, hello, my beautiful baby. Oh, gosh. It looks amazing. The temperature's at 165, and that's when I It'll keep cooking for, you know, 10 or 15 So you don't want to overcook it or dry it So I need to let the turkey rest before I So I'm just going to loosely cover it with Lots of foil on Thanksgiving. And then I will come back and carve in a I'm here to show the kids what carving a level best. I like to start with the breast, so I cut Alex, do you want to get this? And there's a little breast bone. And you want to cut right down either side And so now you have two halves of the I never want to kind of cut it short and not This is a juicy turkey. Here is a beautiful breast half. Okay. So I'll put that over to the side and It helps to have a very sharp knife, lad. Who. I mean, look at this perfectly cooked Oh, baby. It's gorgeous. All right. Now I'm just going to keep going. It's just going to take me about four So isn't that a gorgeous platter. And then all that you need to do after that And I like to do oranges. Paige, you want to come help me shine and I love the combination of citrus and herbs. It's so pretty. What do you say, Paige? Should we go on down to the house and leave Whoa whoa whoa. Happy thanksgiving. No, I'm just kidding. Okay. This is beautiful. Roasted Thanksgiving turkey all carved out Absolutely perfect. Happy turkey day. All right. Time to take the big boy out of This is heavy. I always do a PS20 turkey also because that's what I've always made. So I do it the same every year. Okay, now the brine worked its magic The salt works its way into the turkey. Meat. Makes it really tender. Kind of makes it juicy, but it does make the So I'm going to give it a really good rinse. Get in the crevices. It's like getting one of my babies a bath. And then I'm just going to submerge the going to let it sit in there for about 15 And that'll make sure all the excess salt in away. All right. Now I'll just stick the big guy on a baking I've got some paper towels on there, and I put him on the roasting pan. Okay. Nice and dry. Now you don't want the wings sticking out So I just lift up the bird and tuck them in Okay, now for the legs. I'm just going to tie them together. Tie it nice and tight. Now I've got some really heavy. Eminem foil. Just chuck it over the handle. I want to trap as much heat in the pan as Now for the first stage of cooking. This is going to go into a 275 degree oven All right. The turkey's been in the oven for I'm getting ready to take it out and get it I'm going to smear butter all over the with rosemary and orange zest. I've got two sticks of butter, and I'm going rosemary. And then I shaved some orange peel little slivers. I'm going to add a little salt and then just This orange rosemary butter is a nice nod to The brine has both in it. Okay, now it's time to flex my muscles. I'm going to get the turkey out of the oven. The house smells divine. All right. Here we go. One, two. Three up. Oh. And I'm going to raise the temperature That's what the turkey you'll need on the All right, I'll take the foil off. And that is exactly what it's supposed to It hasn't gotten brown yet. It's just started the cooking process. So I'm just going to use my hands because butter all over the surface of the turkey. I want the orange zest to kind of stick to So pretty. Okay. Now, my father in law, Chuck, is the in the bird. The rest of us like it in a And I'll just stick it in the oven before Nan and I always joke around that Chuck Everything he eats, he wants it to be nice And that's why he likes his stuffing in the Now, the very last thing to do before it thermometer. I've got a heavy duty one here, of the thigh, and that's the only way I can Now the turkey is going to go back into the more hours, until the temperature reads 165. And while it cooks, I'm going to baste it the juices to make sure it's golden brown