- Hey, what is going on, guys? So today, I wanna talk about a topic I get asked about all the time and specifically, what is share an exercise that and that I believe is one of the best ways to build a universally and self-discipline that you can apply to basically any situation. So here is the exercise and it comes in the form of a challenge that I'm gonna issue you. If you're willing for the next 30 days, take an ice cold shower every single day. Now, I know some of you flinched just at the thought of doing that but like I said, I've done this and in fact, I did it for 60 days and now on a regular basis, even though I do do So the question is why is the best way to build self-discipline? Well, to answer that, first, about what self-discipline is. At its core, self-discipline is the willingness to accept discomfort and that could be in the form or it could be in the that comes from denying in service of making progress In either case, your ability is a skill that must be built It's as Aristotle once said or rather the historian &quot;we are what we repeatedly do. &quot;Excellence then is not And if you take self-discipline which is one of the core and slot it in there in place the quote still holds up and the great thing about this process of building up self-discipline is that no matter how you do much like our focus or our willpower or the muscles in our bodies. It's able to tackle a variety even if it was trained in a different way. So we've laid the foundation but the question still remains. Why the heck is an ice any better than any other method for building that mental toughness? And the answer is twofold. First and most importantly, taking a cold shower is an exercise that is particularly resistant to excuses. So take something else like writing a term paper for example. Say you've got a term paper coming up and it's due in a week. This is an opportunity for your brain to come up with lots of insidious, clever little rationalizations You might tell yourself, hey, I've got plenty of time remaining. No need to rush things now. In fact, I do work better so I'll be more creative if and I'm just gonna play because my schedule seems to be cleared. In any case, you're gonna that seems to make sense instead of telling yourself the truth which is that you're lazy and you just don't wanna do the work. By contrast, taking a cold shower affords you no opportunity little rationalizations because you were already every day anyway so but a simple binary decision. Either you turn that handle to cold and embrace discomfort head on or you avoid that discomfort and regardless of what choice you make, you know that the reason you made it is because of your ability to accept or not accept The second reason this goes back to what I was saying earlier. You were gonna take a shower anyway so you're not taking any extra time out of your day to do this. Instead, you're just you make every single morning and you're choosing and every time you do it, you're building that that you can use in every other situation and it really is universal. Otherwise, people in boot camp wouldn't be forced to because it wouldn't apply but it does and in the same way a cold shower challenge is or that side project you've been doing after you get home from you've been trying to because all of these things draw from that same and mental toughness that you build every single time you So that's it. I've said my piece and I is going to like this challenge and hey, I get it, this is ice cold water coming down on your face That's not a whole lot of fun but like I said, I've done in fact, for double the amount of time and I really did see results. Now, the creative people among you might realize that there are that you already do every day where you could just choose rather than the comfortable option. So if you have additional ideas for self-discipline exercises, I would love to hear from you Anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed this video and if you did, you can give it a like to support this channel. Also, if you haven't subscribed yet, you wanna get new videos on productivity, on self-discipline, on being you can subscribe right there and on the learning and you wanna get a book on whether you're in high school you can get a free copy by clicking right there. You can listen to our latest and if you click right over there, you'll find a video that I but hey, you'll probably like it.