- Unlike the &quot;Why should I where you can and should include selfish elements in your your response to &quot;Why should mainly focus on selfless reasons and highlight what you bring to the table. In this video, I'm going to share practical strategies that address three implicit things interviewers are looking for When faced with, &quot;Why And other variations of &quot;why are you interested in this position? &quot;And why do you want this job?&quot; It's important to know, that the interviewer is the following three things, number one, do you have a growth mindset? Number two, just how much research have you done on the position and company. And number three, how enthusiastic are you about the role? Now, let's dive into the strategies that address each one of these questions. Starting with number one. Do you have a growth mindset? Growth mindset is a phrase that has been thrown around a lot in the past few years. But in a nutshell, it's the idea that if you do you always look for ways So, we put in the extra time and effort, and that leads to higher achievement. Scientifically it has been proven that those with a growth mindset tend to outperform those and companies obviously know this. So, the interview question, Helps the interviewers tease out whether you have a On a more practical level, this means if you're interviewing for a role in the same industry as you wanna convey the not because of higher pay, but because of how the new role that'll push you to grow Let's say you're in sales currently taking care of smaller clients and you're interviewing for a role where you recover large key accounts. You can say how this move of your professional growth. You've already learned how to through scales strategies, and now you want the challenge I've taking on bigger clients. Another example is if you're interviewing with a smaller firm, for a role with more responsibility, you can say how you wanna of an established corporation, and apply those learnings to that currently lacks a Or let's say you're pivoting where you have little to no experience in, a situation many fresh graduates find themselves in, in that case, you wanna to ramp up in the new role with minimal guidance from your manager. AKA, are you gonna make that easy or hard? To do this, give examples to successfully find a you were facing and how you you took to find the solution. For example, when I was interviewing for my first full time position in management consulting, I knew that making was very important for first And so, I mentioned how in my Apple Keynote to stand out since the visuals are very different from that of Microsoft PowerPoint. The high manager in that interview might then draw the conclusion with cranking out PowerPoint And so that my work will nearly as much, making his or her life So, as you can see all how to communicate you as opposed to a fixed one. By the way, if you like this first tip, I have a Facebook group where So, consider joining I'll link it down below. Moving on to the second implicit question. Just how much research have you done? Yes, you should know the You should be reading You should be following them to learn about their but that type of research for this specific question. The reason is simple. All that information is too high level. To illustrate this, is &quot;To organize the world's information, &quot;and make it universally Amazing mission by the love it. But if you're interviewing for Google's account and you start off by saying, you wanna organize the you might come off as a and not down to earth. So, you answered this question and less on the company. And the best way to is straight from the horse's mouth. By talking to someone I've already made several videos on how to effectively connect with others, either through your or through some little So, I just save you time and Something I will highlight right now, is the one meaningful question you should always ask the person after you do connect with them. And that question is when it comes performance review time? In other words, what's your key This is a very meaningful question to ask for several reasons. Number one, it helps you learn the exact if you were to get the role, and knowing this level of detail will definitely impress Two, it prompts the other person to share specific examples that you can again, bring And finally it allows you and that's how the person And believe me when I tell you having this natural flow is much better than you rapid firing from a list beforehand. Pro tip, if for whatever reason, you can't connect with that you're applying for, find someone on LinkedIn working at a comparable company. Quick question to all How do you usually do research I'm actually pretty curious. Let me know down the comments below. Last but not least How enthusiastic you about the role? Research has shown that all else equal, companies will put enthusiasm for a role over a particular skillset, because skills can always be trained, but instilling energy is usually a bit more difficult. Additionally, and I'm pretty surprised this hasn't been shared more widely, the more enthusiastic you the more the interviewer takes comfort that they made the right choice in joining and staying This consciously or between you and the interviewer. Increasing your chances Think about it from the and this happens to literally everyone. The employee might take for the perks, the benefits, since he or she has been working But believe me, when I say your energy level will rub Be it through the form body language, or good old high energy dialogue. Recently, a colleague of who has been with Google told me she just interviewed an intern for the BDC hardware team who left a very strong impression on her. Other than the fact that the candidate clearly and had done her research the thing that struck was how the candidate's eyes lit up, whenever our hardware She clearly had a passion for technology referencing videos from MKBHD, Mr. Mobile, Dave2D, and they ended up having even after the interview officially ended. The tried and true method I can share here to increase your energy levels is a simply practice in front of a mirror or to record yourself. Smile, eyebrows up and not or asking a question. I know this doesn't sound but I sincerely believe anyone can come off as more enthusiastic. Side note and you might not believe me, I'm actually a very introverted person. If you're just watching my videos, though, I might come off as someone talking to a large group of people. Lastly, you wanna stay away location, commute in your answer to &quot;Why do you wanna work here?&quot; Because this will suck the All of these factors are but they all revolve around what the company can provide for you. And again, your answer should focus on the value you bring to the table. All right, those are the three strategies that address the implicit questions from &quot;Why do you wanna work here?&quot; Please give this video a and lemme know down in the comments below, if you have any questions. Subscribe, if you haven't already see you on the next video in (soft music)