Hey guys, Toby Mathis here with the And I have on a special guest Clint He's my partner and we do these tax and asset We always dive into things. But what I wanted to do today is bring him that are affecting asset protection And specifically, I want to go over What do we need to be aware of in 2023? So first off, welcome, Clint. Hey, thanks for having me. And this should be fun. Clint and I have been practicing together for, what, 25 years now But Clint is an expert on the asset I tend to spend most of my time on the tax But today we really want to zero in the Corporate Transparency Act, Is this something And what do people need to know about this transparency Act? Yeah, I mean, it is really important, protection, as you stated. And before I get there, you know what If they want to learn more about this in detail, We're going to have about 20 minutes here. Check out the show notes if they want to join us on our tax We got a link there as to what I'm talking about right now, to do with the Corporate Transparency Act. And if you're not aware of it, this is something you better because this is going to affect And even though it's gone into effect any business entities this year, And what it basically means is this and limited partnership, and how you might hold it, that interest you have to report the fact that you own it, copy of your driver's license who is involved with business entities and about money laundering that they say structures of which they don't know So so it is going to impact us all in this industry now. So it's basically reporting, is it FinCEN that you're reporting it to You reported defense in? And here's the the common misconception. I see a lot of people that I've been creating here saying, Now that the government has this information, everyone's And that's not true because Grant, but they're going to hold this information And the only way you can gain access to And so they're going to limit it this information they think is engaged in any type of money So it would be available but it's not available As you brought up FinCEN, where all you got to do is log in and say, And then I'll bring up all your entities So all the strategies some of them that we're using, So the Corporate Transparency Act is like an LLC or whatnot. Anybody else get hit by this thing like, and I'm setting these up or if I'm one of those corporate services do I have reporting requirements to Oh. Yeah, we're all going to feel the pinch. If you set up a business entity, that is, if you filed the business entity, If you're at a law firm that employs people, that set up business the person who does the filing, If you lend money to someone to step in and convert control over that company, And so there's lots of individuals to get wrapped up into this. And so we've been telling people, our tax and asset protection Check it out. The show link notes below for that link. You're going to want to be ahead of it having conversations with this last that people aren't thinking about So if you set your entity up this year, you got a report. And more importantly, what you need to be you have, because I think it's good It's one of the things that, you know, and we're doing right now We're incorporating the language in there so that we ensure that when we have we have the requisite language in there that the beneficial interest holders And I think that's an area where So if I'm hearing you right, plaintiffs lawyers aren't going to be able to use this This isn't like they have a tenant and they're mad at me to a to a lawyer who's going to be to go pull up and see anything Like, that's not what this is. This is just going straight How is this different than like the Bank provisions where there was disclosures For example, Well, the financial institution They already collect the information. The IRS has a lot of this information file tax returns. And so if somebody wants to commit fraud, they're going to commit fraud But our government assumption that if we pass a law, If that was the case, any robberies, no murders, So the fact of the matter is, It's a way for the government off of people, to wait for them Because if you fail to do it, as well as potential criminal remedies So it's something we're Just like what you brought up with the Patriot Act and the Secrecy Act, back in the day when we first started, I mean, that all changed. And over time, you know, and they're going to push back against it. But you're eventually going to bend to the The good old days of being able to walk or that he could set up a bank account Hey, you mentioned government. And let's shift gears There's there's a lot of things that that hit them and specifically things like you have franchise taxes, The states are going to be looking kind of in a recession. And the economy is a little bit sputtering What are ways that people can avoid Because, like we know some of the big states, that you can do structurally Well, I mean, the thing is, is that that's planning and understanding assesses taxes So one of the things that we do here about all the time on our tax and asset A lot of investors are not aware are not subject if there are any filing fees And so you sell to pay income taxes but you're not paying anything So it's significantly decreases protection structure and where you can use that you and I both firmly believe in, You can set them up with anonymity. So if you hold real estate, and somebody looks at title associated with it because of the way You can hold personal property in trusts. You can run a business There's many different forms owner can use if they're looking for anonymity to keep their costs down, So let me do this. So there's a lot of listeners there are probably the worst offenders. California, can you avoid that 800 bucks? Yeah, yeah. Just move it out there. So the question is, can you avoid it? Yes. Can you avoid it legally? Yes, you can, you know, they'll do it But the way we like to do it here We like to use statutory If you're a California resident, in a limited liability company because if you did, it by the fact you're a member. We can solve that issue for you with the right type of trust If you own real estate in California and you want to set up a limited liability company, which is Think about that. How about if we could get you the same but without the tax, And I think so. And that's why, you know, at our event, amount of time for California investors showing them how to structure not only in the state to keep those taxes low. What are some other states that have like tax, crazy high transfer taxes, just where Yeah. So Tennessee is a big one Massachusetts is going to be another one. Pennsylvania really trip you up So those are just a few that come to the top of my mind that will come to us, sit down and will analyze their taxes And we'll spot that. We'll say, Hey, do you know that you could save $24,000 a year And they're so shocked wasn't up on this, they didn't know it. And it's not a knock on them the people that we work with are out of So their their local professional Like Florida, for example, If you transfer real estate into an LLC, you don't have one here So a good friend of mine is an attorney. He actually did that for his client, your Florida property Then he called me up and he said, Hey, in doc stamps. What happened? And I said, You didn't talk to me. What happened before you did it? So those are some of the issues and that's why you shouldn't And it's you have to actually do pretty intelligent there who in their doing the very best they can so like like here in in Clark County you can put property in an LLC But if you take So how do you get around it? You use or use a land trust. Anybody who's done it and got hit by But most attorneys have never done it. So like they maybe a client has done it They have no idea what ends up being hundreds, All right. Let's talk about some of them and some of the things that they like we start seeing a little uptick You see more breach of contract, You see people in hot water. What can you do or what to do as an investor How do you keep from getting hit? And if you do get hit, Well, the fact of the matter is, And so if you can set yourself up in a way not appear then they're less likely The example I always like uses the, you know, the street bomb you know, whatever the drug, it's If you're walking by and they get up Are you going to run right away and say, hey, listen, I think it was on First Avenue. Sometimes he's up on third. Because I saw that he had a grocery cart. He had a sleeping bag It's not going anywhere. Well, that would give you That means if they looked at you, when there's someone sitting there saying, and then the attorney runs an asset search you know, we can bring this claim, And if we go forwards, normally fee basis, but there's too much risk here. So I'm going to need a $15,000 retainer out of that balloon, who is thought, They're just going to roll over. So we want to do or give you that appearances keeping your name off a business entity but then you want to take one step deep So we go deeper. We want to separate out all your assets so that if they're able to get up into something So hey, So he takes it regardless whether or not But then what you run into is their recovery to just that one asset And so now all of your other assets the way they did, Maybe it's that maybe your spouse quit working, you're sending your kids to school, Why your do or the whys, that's going to stay protected and you've And so when we're looking at at an individual, isolating all of their assets, building So if anyone goes down, you haven't What do you say to the guy that says, you know, Yeah. Well, you know, that's a a lot of people have because it's born You know, Our portfolio extends over 300 properties And in what we've learned over the years although you need it, oftentimes that you're going to run into or a real estate investor. And there's the disconnect. People always think of it in It's a personal injury on the property. But there's so many other claims by attorneys to hold landlords I mean, the civil one is always going That somebody came out and the reason you didn't rent it to them against their sex orientation, And the real reason is they didn't have any money where you have to evict them a couple So you went with the stronger candidate. That's the problem that people run into Well, insurance is going to protect me. Persons are going to protect you for a lot of the claims that will typically So it's up to you to protect yourself. Yes. So you're just saying it. You're not going to say don't have insurance, it's probably not going to protect you You want to make sure you have something from getting any further and going in You have government entities. This a better form of insurance. That's why you're putting them together. Have you ever seen because they followed the advice or another attorney, or maybe they did You know, the funny thing is that teaching events for over 23 years to investors and small business owners, every event, without a doubt, probably close to a thousand events People would always come up to me at break and say, I used to write, And then you fill in the rest. And it would typically said, I'm And so there's always that in between and in many instances it's that you and I teach on our tax and asset So they didn't know what the risk were who adopted that principle hey, just load up on insurance And then they then you find out that the claim that's brought against you And so you're out on your own. It's the client of mine I mean, they had a nasty situation severely injured and then they found out that their insurer because the valet company my client as an additional insured And their insurer pulled it up and said, Company, font says, And they said, well, And so things like that happened it could have been reversed the knowledge ahead of time and known And even if you don't take them, Yeah, here's one of the things even if you have some insurance, don't carry insurance, I'm saying It's really, you know, lost, It's actually it pays for your lawyer. Generally speaking, it's a it's not necessarily, hey, it's going to keep everything away, So in the I'm just going to ask you, but in the in the case you just mentioned, if I'm not mistaken, and some had been structured Yeah, there were. And it these individuals, these clients, I told them, hey, do this. And they said, Well, I did that. I said, No, because the insurance is the carrot that we're going to dangle If it ever comes up. And now when you say that to someone, they don't understand Well, when this harm all came about I just shared with you that they weren't going to cover him. This is one of those instances right thing and they chose to cover them with the reservation And so it changed the whole that were suing them couldn't So they assumed they didn't have much. The second thing that they Listen, we have a policy. It's worth Now, if you take our policy limits today, And I know you want 15 million, but we have no assets Or you want to play this dance. We're happy to do this, they like to eat beluga caviar. And so they got a bill to keep that habit in play for them So they're going to be billed now and they're going to burn that policy up going to get done with this dance So do you want $1,000,000 today They took the million bucks. Now, another party in this situation wasn't so fortunate He did not adopt the principles and we tell our clients to implement. And as a result of that, In fact, he had to pay beyond the policy And it's really sad that this occurred we could have done to his assets, How many years of litigation did he get Until he died? Actually, They settled. And there's just a lot of things And he ended up finally dying and Yeah, folks, just if there's one thing I could say, it really well, is to kind of avoid lawsuits. They're drained financially, emotionally. You know, I'm not saying that that's what killed the gentleman, there's a good chance that it helped Just the stress of it, like four I can't even imagine seven years. That's just that's just crazy. And then, of course, they're not done. They're going to go after the estate Lawyers are going to make the money. At the end of the day, I'd be surprised occurred received a, you know, I think the lawyers always win So, Clint, you laid out that and you gave us good information and how to avoid some of the state's But you did mention repeatedly something What is the cost to attend that For the investment to attend This is one of those things that, you is giving information to individuals because we believe so So we don't run into people at our events that they started out doing well And so to sign up for the event, All you got to do is you go to in the show You click on it. It's a one day event. We start off in the morning, Sure. trust things that I was discussing, and the afternoon Toby is going to come on with the amount of tax savings or realize when you're actually doing I mean, it's available to everyone. These tax strategies that Toby covers and the best strategies and it's sad that more people Yeah, I agree. There's lots of incentives that will incentivize certain behavior. One of the behaviors that they really want And so, yeah, that's you hear about these politicians screaming It's been it's dollars to donuts investing in real estate to help provide housing, Like if you want to, you know, We're about 5 million units behind in this country and the builders So it's only going to get worse. The demand is going to continue increase. You can be part of the solution So the solution is let's build let's be investors there's enough housing available So awesome free. I get to go to the tax and asset I know that we also touched on planning, which is always great, and I think that you nailed that people need to be aware of in 2023, Anything else you want to add? Hey guys, if you haven't been to our event yet, I highly encourage you to do that. Not only are you going to hear us talking and teaching the event, we're and tax professionals there that will And that's what makes the events but they're highly specific to you we want to make sure that not only you why we're teaching the event, to your individual situation. And that's what our attorneys when you join us. Well said. Thanks for joining