- [Irene] So, I ask you, was I cuter or was my brother cuter? - [Mdm Tan] Both of you were cute! Ah, this was after you came out... - Was I bathing by myself? Why am I naked? You can't film this! [laughter] - [Irene] You see, last time I was so decent. Then this is the time -- I plucked my hair until there was a hole. Stressed until... You know, in primary school. - [Irene] Wow, Madam Tan! What good food are you cooking? - Cooking pork porridge! Your favourite pork porridge. - Let me test it. Haven't tried it in 40 years! I need to see if her standard has dropped! - Right. It's improved. It can't drop. - Because you're old already, so you can't taste. - Good? - Mm! It's good to add these shallots. I love shallots. Very fragrant! - [Irene] Hey, your hair is always so pretty! - You see? - [Mdm Tan] When I was young, I was a hairdresser. - You look like me. But I'm a bit prettier than you. Okay, continue. - Ah, you need to ask others to see who's prettier. - So why did you want to marry (your ex-husband)? Why did you love him? Did he have money? - He didn't have money, but it's hard to explain love. Your brother is so cute in this, see! - After growing up, not cute already. [laughter] - She said it! - Looking at these photos makes me so sad. You're all so big now. - Okay, so, that time when we were in the kampung -- it was still a happy time, right? - Happy! Very happy! - [Irene] I have very bad memories of my mum. I have no memories of enjoying any time with her. We grew up in an environment of violence and vulgarity, uh, and... and broken bottles and plates, and... and a lot of... anger. - [Irene] Papa had girlfriends (during the marriage), right? Did you have any boyfriends? - [Mdm Tan] No! - I remember, when I was young, you caught him before. - I would catch one (girl) and he would let her go. Then after a short while, another girl would come. He would keep getting girls and I would chase them away until I got tired. Really tired. - This was before you took drugs, right? - Not yet, not yet! - [Mdm Tan] At that point in time, my marriage was in shambles and I was introduced (to drugs). After taking a few puffs, I felt a giddy rush of euphoria. So that's how I got into drugs. - I remember, once you took me to a place where you took drugs. There were candles and this kind of paper. Then you would put the powder in it. And there was a straw. And then I did homework there. And then the next day, because I had my uniform in my bag I went to school. Once, I came back from an exam -- I think I passed, but didn't score very well. I think you were high. But you took a vegetable knife and chased me. You chased me from the ninth floor to the eighth floor to the seventh floor, and to the neighbouring unit. Our neighbours still remember this. But you don't remember anything. - I only have memories from when I was sober. So for those photos and memories Irene asked me about I wasn't sober during those times. - So when I see those photos of my pre-kindergarten days uh, all the black-and-white photos it looks like I was happy but I cannot remember at all what we did. What I remember was all the hurt that I went through all the fear and all the trauma that I went through. And that's why it's very hard to reconcile, you see? In the very rare occasions when she was awake (sober) and she felt like she wanted to be a mother again or I told her that I wanted to eat her porridge or whatever then, if she was in the right mood, she would cook. Right? - [Irene] The prawns look good, right? - The prawns look good, right? Ah... - You don't want to eat the heads, right? I love eating the heads. - The head has a lot of cholesterol. - [Mdm Tan] When I was taking drugs I realised I couldn't take care of my kids. When I stood at the window and watched them waiting for the school bus I felt very sad. Everyone had their parents bring them to wait for the school bus but I didn't do that. I regret that when they were young they should have had parents who would bring them out maybe to play or to go shopping or to eat a meal. I was never involved in those. - [Irene] I think Ahma gave me money to buy this outfit. Both Dad and you weren't around. And usually, to pay my school fees I would teach tuition or swimming, or work at OG. I loved swimming back then. Do you know why I liked to participate in school competitions? Because if you participated every year you would receive two free Arena swimming costumes. I didn't study! I just swam all day. - [Producer] Your mother doesn't know all this? - She doesn't know. - Mm, I didn't know. It's true. - Then there's... - This was at Tanglin Halt! - When I had grown up. - [Mdm Tan] Irene was a very smart child. When I wasn't around, at the drug rehabilitation centre she was very independent. When she was growing up, I wasn't by her side. She must have been very sad. Let's not continue. I'll cry again. - If my mum came home, was I supposed to be happy or sad? I was happy because she was home but I was sad because I'd have more things to do. Then somehow, like, in a short while, she would be high again. I'd have to be the one to go and buy food have to be the one to, after (my parents') fights I'd have to go and pick up after them. So, it was just a lot of... confusion. - [Irene] Why was my mother sick all the time? She was so pitiful. Now I know it was because of drugs. Whenever my mother and father were together both of you would fight. When fighting, you both could throw cups and bowls. Even sofas! So I feel... Why... is my family like this? Why, even after I've grown up I still have to bring this family back together? And yet, there is still no one who appreciates what I've been doing. Have you ever considered that the two of you have done me wrong? Even until now, the two of you (parents) have never apologised to me! It's just, "Ah, sorry!" I really feel like you both don't understand what I've been through at all. What I've been through is something no child should have to go through. Why is it that other households have fathers and mothers and if people go home sick, there's food to eat and there's parental love -- Why don't I have that? - The one thing I cannot do is cry. Yeah, since young, maybe I've hardened so much that, even when my grandma passed away I was so, so sad, but I couldn't cry. And then suddenly, when (my mother) had recovered from this... when she was out of drugs I couldn't get along with her, because... my whole life, I wanted her to play mother. She didn't, and then now when I am an adult already she was playing a mother as if I were still a child so she was treating me like a kid. So, after I stayed with her for a couple of years I just moved out of the house. - [Mdm Tan] When I was in the drug rehabilitation centre I thought of you all. I would think "Ah, why am I here today? If I weren't here... it would've been so nice." I really thought of my kids back then. - The first time (you went in)? - The first time. I thought "If I hadn't smoked 'white powder' now I would be by my kids' side." Back then, I really thought about my two kids a lot. - I think forgiving (my parents) is... is something that I struggle with even till today. because I don't feel the remorse there. I've never been asked for forgiveness. Putting all these aside I choose to forgive them although it's very hard to forget because forgiving them does more good for me. It's not about them anymore it's more about, you know, I want to move on. I want to be happy. I want to build my own life. I want to love. I want to be loved! - [Mdm Tan] I've never apologised to them directly but I've tried to become a good mother to them. As long as they ask, I'll do whatever they want. Whether they've forgiven me, I don't know. I hope they've forgiven me. - [Mdm Tan] I'm washing the dishes now! Later, if you have time you can wipe them. - [Irene] The one thing you've done that touched me was during the pandemic, you took the initiative to ask me how my business was, and you were concerned for me. I felt like at least you were doing your duty as a mother. - [Irene] Since young, my brother and I made a pact that we would never touch drugs. If anything happens, I can take responsibility. I don't want to be out of control ever. - So I hope that those who know me will know that I've changed and that you can leave drugs behind. It's not impossible. You can leave it behind. How many lives do you have? I'm fortunate to have left drugs when I was 38, until now. What's important is, after you get out that you have people to support you and take care of you. This is very important. - [Irene] I'm happy that we have successfully defied what was given to us. We have defied the family that we were born into and we have created our own family that we want to have. Not perfect, still but at least it's close to what I would like to have in a family unit.