This is one of the spiniest slopes Life, death. No matter the risks. Without it, life would be much worse. I don't like taking the bus on this road. However, it's still better than walking. It's a boy. I am very happy. We are going home to celebrate Everyone holds their breath The stops allow Go to the back, there's room. Close the door. Come on, let's go. This man is not just here to sell tickets. Without him, the driver and his bus, would soon be in trouble. His job requires deep breaths. As the road is very narrow when we're going through One blow indicates that he should stop. Two blows means he needs to move forward. With this one, he reverses. If it's the same sound, There is nothing enjoyable Who could enjoy that? I have no choice. Today, it's fine, but when it rains, There are falling rocks Like its ravines, Having become it is rapidly growing Equipped with modern infrastructures and their business districts. However, far from the city, a thousand other faces This is the India A country that's sweating of the Brahmaputra River. The raft is very fragile. If we hit anything, we will sink. The India that takes all risks You risk your life here. The dangers of the road are nothing The drought is hitting hard. However, in the Himalayas, men are not short of ideas In India, From the plains, through the Himalayas there is always a god For centuries, these rock walls An advantage and a curse. Even today, is no easy task. Fortunately, for farmers like Tenzin, modernity has not stopped Hello, how are you? All right, how about you? Has the rain stopped? Yes. What was the market price yesterday? It sold at various prices Is there a demand for peas in your house? Peas are too expensive, who can eat them? We'll see then, thank you. This satellite phone is essential for me. In the village, We have no network. In case of an emergency, thanks to my satellite phone, Perched at an altitude of 3000 meters, Further back. To get supplies Tenzin and the locals Although, the destination The road was going to come However, as it meant the road work has been suspended. There's nothing you can do here Do you realize that, With all the means all we have is mules. During the pea harvest, Tenzin and his mules A 24 kilometer roundtrip at a fast pace. I can't afford to be late. Downstairs, I still have to sort the bags If I get there late, Three hours later, The truck drivers have no time to waste. We drive at night otherwise they get damaged. Then you have to get to the wholesaler to sell at a good price. These trips are long and difficult. However, That's why we keep asking the government to finish the road as quickly as possible. However, Tenzin's frustration Only a dozen men are working on the track, with limited means in the middle of toxic fumes. There, I mix tar with gravel. I come from Rajasthan. It's very far away, This year, our goal Next year, In winter, we can't work, it's too cold. The track is far from being finished. However, the carriers don't hesitate A track of 110 kilometers as well as a narrow path Ram Singh tries to forget the fear delivering his shipment of peas Even when we know it well, but I know that I can count on my driver. He's used to it. I love and hate However, I like adventure, so I'm having fun driving here. It's important to remember the road was only suitable for mules. When there was no road, We only had mules. We could only make two trips a year to bring wheat and rice to the village. Even so, our ancestors Now, during the pea season, I hardly have time to drink and eat. The less time I waste on trips, the more time However, as the journey continues, Ashu, the driver, Given the ravines I'm trying to find a solution When I arrive, Otherwise, I really risk damaging the car. The priority If they get stuck Ram Singh will have to give up That's not an option. On this July morning, the silence suggests a great day awaits them. [Pnar spoken audio] These men pray and drink and to prepare themselves In honor of their god, they will have to carry this tree trunk, for five kilometers, without ever dropping it Failure is not an option, as it would result Mother Earth Every year, it will be like this. The Jaintia tribe This ethnic minority worships After sowing the seeds, to attract the monsoon rains. However, reaching the sacred square with a tree on the shoulder, It's heavy. It's very heavy. I feel good! The tree is not the only heavy gift To ensure that they attract good fortune, A tower measuring about 20 meters which again, must be carried. Being one of the strong men is an honor for Ikol. I am 30 years old. I have been celebrating this festival It's not a habit. That's why. We are strong believers, We worship the gods. The water, the fire, the rain and the sun. To prevent the rath ropes are hung all around. They are held by a dozen men. The tower isn't the most stable. The porters and the rope workers Because once on the sacred square, Now, on top of carrying it, Not just anywhere. The sacred square is a pool of mud. Our god says that we should dance on Earth. The mud pool represents Mother Earth. The Jaintia show her gratitude They hope that these offerings and prayers When there's this much commitment a miracle has to come. The gods are dancing up there. God is here! There is still one last act The crowd is fighting hard For those who make it, and the hope of having good harvests. Indians often say that the monsoon Every year, look forward to it given the monsoon's temperamental nature. Despite being very fruitful, and making it possible it can also be destructive The crops and much more. The island of Majuli, considered the largest will have disappeared by 2030. These sandbags arranged along the banks nor will the prayers. The monsoon rains, combined with the accelerated melting increase the flow The currents are eating away Majuli island Kothai lives on the neighboring island He no longer knows I see my island Every year, I have less and less space I feel helpless For good reason. In his childhood, the island compared to the four left today. While taking refuge inland, some inhabitants, like Kothai, are trying to delay The complete evacuation of the island. I've always lived by the river. My father, grandfather We are the Mising, the river people, The Mising's navigation talents in traveling Bamboo grows and reproduces quickly. That's what makes the most profit. Each bamboo sells for 2,60 Euros. Go around it a few times, it has to hold. We must not put them next to each other That's why we make knots. Oh Goddess Durga, protect us. Help us to reach Make sure everyone arrives safe and sound. Kothai and his crew Two days traveling down the river Tossed by the currents The raft is very fragile. We must not hit anything or we will sink. Also, the river is unpredictable. The currents change all the time Here comes trouble. There are sandbanks over there! Let's keep pushing! However, it's too late. Leading 500 kilo rafts even with experience, is a real struggle. We hit it, we're stuck! Bamboos Come on, let's push together! Stronger! That's it, it's moving! No stop, it's blocked. I can't believe it, it's stuck again. The current we're not going to make it. I don't understand, There's a tree trunk It's still stuck in the sand here. We're never going to get out of this. They have been trying for three hours. Three hours Kothai and his crew It's too risky to sail at night, The currents could take us anywhere. The Brahmaputra However, what about the track in the Himalayas? The pea carriers are still stuck. Ashu and Ram Singh but the driver's message is clear. We're going to have to be careful. Let's go! The slightest false turn would cause its repair to break again. At night, of course, the risk I am focused on the road The brakes, anything can cause an accident. We are so high up that in winter, the road is completely covered by ice. The most dangerous time is when the snow starts to melt. I have to keep one eye on the ditch to avoid rockfalls. They drive without ever stopping. Not even for a second. Anyway, there is no place to take a break. In the early morning, and he better be. They still have about 60 kilometers to go On this road, There is no visibility. You're playing with your life here. We call this place the demons' playground. According to legend, the last kilometers at an altitude of 4,500 meters, Demons who whisper in the drivers' ears As seen on this video, A rock hit a bus and left several victims. If there are demons, there have got to be gods like Durga. A small temple has been built for her This temple Each time I have to take that road Thanks to her, I avoid accidents Ram Singh's prayers and that of his business. He's worried about the weather and the glaciers disappearing Before, snow would fall abundantly However, it's getting hotter Maybe it's due to pollution, The whole valley is concerned. The lack of snow, and therefore water, We've been facing this problem for years. Under the effect of global warming, the immense water tower However, man's genius has no limits. To avoid having to build giant cisterns, an engineer had the completely crazy idea with the help of nature. It took us 15 days to install the pipes. Now, we hope that our glacier To build its glacier, the village must be at least 3,200 meters and the temperature at -20 degrees. Some of its artificial ice mountains and freeze more than 9,000,000 liters, enough to water the fields in spring. Even though, the clock is ticking. The mountains are drying up In India, agriculture The groundwater is drying up Several regions are affected. All have had to put in place A little while ago, Nazir was a farmer. However, various unfortunate events forced Everything is changing so fast. Nothing is the same as before. Before, our region was full of water. There were wells everywhere The summers are much hotter You should see how much In his village, it's been a long time Those who can afford it Shall I install the pipe? Bring it to the very bottom. There are 14,000 liters in the tank. It allows a family Half of the Indian population, are faced with a lack of water every year. India is developing at great speed, meaning its natural equilibrium However, some regions When man and nature sometimes, amazing things happen. As is the case in the state of Meghalaya. Here, no one is dying of thirst It's worth mentioning that Meghalaya is one An average of 12 meters of rain This abundance is partly due The Khasi tribe To build bridges over the ravines that separate them the Khasi do not use or even braided vines. No, they have teamed up with a tree. The roots of the Ficus elastica, are as strong as any modern material. We are 15 meters above the ground. It's a little stressful Bansuk and Led Some are several centuries old. The two men are also growing new ones. To guide the roots, This makes it possible It takes at least ten years of a man. The work on the roots They are flexible, malleable In the dry season, Over time, the roots will grow bigger, One day, they will be strong enough and form the bridge on their own. This root bridge is not fully formed. When you step on it, you have to be careful The bridge can be very slippery, This forest is everything to us. It is thanks to bamboo and these trees and make the objects We are very careful Every time we come to collect something, so our descendants can continue The wisdom of the Khasi saves the forest. However, for how long? Come on, push it aside! Not on the other side! On the Brahmaputra River, Kothai and his men are still struggling The current's sent them They have been trapped for four hours. They have only advanced six kilometers I can't believe it got stuck like that. Kothai no longer has a choice, Fortunately, the river is like a highway. You just have to raise your arm The helping hand will not be free. However, everyone would rather cut down We're not going to make it. I'm going to pay for this boat However, nothing goes according to plan. The rafts weigh 500 kilos each Take the rope and pull over there. The boat is not moving. We are against the current and the engine We need to use the poles. The current is so strong It is also very dangerous. With so much current and whirlpools, Too dangerous, and changes his approach, Is it okay? Come on, let's get to work. We must undo the rafts. The current digs the sand under the rafts. We have to hurry I have no choice anymore. I have to load them Now, let's see if the boat, will be able to travel The game is not over yet. Kothai is fed up. Anyway, my bamboo trees The small engine manages However, this victory is too late. They will not have enough time Therefore, Kothai makes the decision He will not sell his bamboo this time. However, there is no shortage of work. He works hard so he can leave his island, It's time for me to sow the rice. I'm trying to save a little money. I would like to buy to offer my children a future. If the Brahmaputra continues to rise, according to experts, within ten years, In the Himalayas, Ashu and Ram Singh from the vegetable wholesaler, If we waste more time, the peas will get damaged I can lose up to 20 cents per kilogram. Accelerating is impossible. For now, the temporary fix but it could snap taken slightly too fast. After 12 hours of travel, The risks and fatigue Only the condition of the peas counts. It seems to be fine. They have survived the journey. We went a long way, but it was worth it. The wholesaler I am very happy. Ashu and Ram Singh until the arrival of snow. India is modernizing its infrastructure by building new roads in order to reduce in the face of its Chinese rival. There are still many inequalities but half of the population India has plenty of time