Warning. This video will contain spoilers for both Steven Universe: The Movie, If you haven't watched these yet, If you're comfortable being There will also be mentions of triggering topics such as trauma So if this becomes too much for you, please don't hesitate Thank you in advance for watching. I also want to add When I originally started planning out there were a lot of popular My old script I spent a lot of the time and going through the reasons why I felt I couldn't make this video without of the show and without them Well, that was almost And since then, there have been multiple video essays on Steven Universe I highly recommend watching any of these and if you want to understand There are a lot of topics that Steven Universe touches on that this personally believe are valuable Steven Universe Future was a hard-hitting series that really delved into the topics mechanisms and how different people Looking back at the original series, how the pieces line up I think it's important to say that this is just my interpretation of somebody who has so I'm more likely to see myself in media But I think Steven Universe may be the one tell a story of with PTSD Before jumping into the show, and C-PTSD to keep When we talk about C-PTSD, PTSD because of the way that C-PTSD It just also has its own. Ptsd in the ICD-11 is defined by symptoms responses that describe These symptoms can include re-experiencing the traumatic event in the present, event, and persistent perceptions Cptsi is organized into two overarching groups of symptoms, related to the disturbance of The DSO domain describes three clusters regulation, negative self-concept, Exposure to childhood traumatic life events, in particular, is associated with I truly believe that you can see the buildup of Steven's trauma slowly to tell the story about Unlock, activate, go, please. Everyone's counting on you. You can't just be useless. I know you can help. What do you know about my mom? I didn't even get to know my mom. I don't know how to feel about you, I wish I could have met you. Then this place could make me sad, I wonder what my mom would have made me. Maybe actual space cookies. I just wish I knew A huge piece of the main show is He puts his own emotions in his own words aside, as long as it means This isn't uncommon when it comes to see PTSD, and is an actual trauma The fawn response is a coping mechanism in which individuals develop conflict, pacify their abusers, We can see this happen multiple times that's been highly criticized But I personally believe that these were It's not just the robinoids. According to Lappis, Who knows what she's going to have? We won't stand a chance against But if we can just knock them out. It's not about the Robinoids part. I mean, it was thousands of years ago. It's not like I was there. The gym should be telling you all I mean, they don't want you There are some people who feel like we characters' developments because we only the plot became stagnant And for that, I want to quote this clip. I mean, what's your secret? How'd you get so talented? Don't focus so much on talent, Steven. Making art is all about communication. A piece of art is a conversation. Every choice you make is a statement. Don't worry about labels are Just be true to yourself Thanks for the advice. The thing about all of our filler episodes is that they begin to paint They show how Steven is a people pleaser and how he's constantly No matter how minuscule the task is, he's He's always trying to help The more we see of Steven on screen, the more it solidifies to me that they are Not just this, but they're actively choosing to show lapis Chad, you might think she's a criminal, but her friendship I thought I'd stay a while. I tried to learn to smile. So many colors I had never even known. Then I see the colors fading. Gentleness of light Have I seen this all before? I know She was never meant to be because Lappus 2 is a presentation In this video, we'll be touching on the trauma and I hope that this will begin to paint To start off with Steven, I want to say that I do find it a bit powers and doesn't develop her During his peak people-pleasing times, correlates to fixing damage that, He goes through a whole character arc where he has to learn to address his before he's able to truly His powers are also Your age is fluctuating. I think your gem is reacting By now, Steven has realized his Just like I knew it would happen, things to land safely behind us, With him believing that his powers no You lied to me. Now I can't do it anymore. The gems needed me to fix the broken rock, It's because of you. You messed with my head. No, I didn't mean for... I just wanted to live with my son again. I really thought I was getting better. I finally felt like a crystal gem. Now what if I can't do anything? Look what I can do. All right. It's a steep party. What is the meaning of this? My healing spit is back. I fixed a rip on MCAP Bear Bear. Here, I'll show you. This is something that can be seen There are these things called core beliefs that form during our childhoods, Core beliefs are strong long term beliefs a person has that help them understand These beliefs begin forming an early personality, decision making, These beliefs act as rules for managing People use them to set expectations However, they are not These core beliefs help you base your reaction for the future, When we apply this to Steven, we can see that his core beliefs are I want to quote Harley Therapy here to better explain how this It is easy to convince ourselves that we and yet many of us don't actually take the If we do, we might discover The intro really helps set the tone No matter what he does, At the start of the season, and trying to navigate how to be Garnet, Amatist, and Pearl think I shouldn't go on magic adventures because That seems reasonable. But there are other ways I can help. What? I'm a gem. Open door. I never work when I need it. This is all my fault. I broke it. No, Steven. The spire was falling My life is over. I can't go on magic adventures. He's not sure if he can even really call He continuously tries to prove himself to those around him as he can Whenever Steven has a genuine problem, He wasn't taught how to control his powers Everything Steven learned about himself was through his own volition Even when the gems do know something, they tend to leave Steven in the dark Wait, I can do that, too? Steven, it's okay. Pearl's going to be just fine. What are you What do you mean? Sometimes, if our bodies are badly damaged, we release our physical forms The gems were trying to tell me something about Mom's room, They're always leaving me behind, and That's not so bad. Everyone needs some Even his father leaves him in the dark because he doesn't really Dad, like what? Like aliens, Steven. Aliens who invaded Earth. All they do is try to make up for it, Do you understand? Did mom ever talk to you about There were some things your I never pressed her for details. Steven, from a very young age, is subconsciously being caught to put There's only one other gem who's really been up front with him, Steven, wait. I'm just using you I'll do all the actual fighting. Do I still get to wear the costume? I don't care. Okay. Amathis has always been She also struggles with trauma, but also from her time before I'm not going to let you stand there and remind me of everything I never asked for it to be this way. I never asked to be made. She doesn't know where she fits into her society, but she also knows she She's younger than the rest Despite the fact that you're defective. Well, sure. So? And everyone's always acting You can be anything you want to be. No, I can't. I can't even be the one thing She's there to help Steven tell his story while also introducing But your kindergarten What? What? Well, sure. Amathis, you're from the prime She's from the beta Have you seen that place? No. Oh, well, maybe you should. Amathis somewhat gets what It's not the same, but it's an eternal struggle about It's the reason they're able to bond more later in the Seasons, but we'll Something none of them were They all have their own maladaptive coping mechanisms they use, and you can Amathis tries to bury her emotions and compartmentalize them In the ring, nobody And if they try, I hit them Everyone here gets that. You don't know what it's like having Pearl Insecure. to do anything to change her I knew how you felt about Rose, That wasn't the problem. Then what was? She fell in love with you. Obsessed. Garner completely suppresses Oh, Keystone Caverns. Calm down. I don't feel like forgiving Pearl. Don't understand, you must. If you're not going to listen, Greg gets to run from his problems. Nothing's going to fix this. Greg. Dad. Steven's go-to is people-pleasing. Pearl, you have to tell You have to tell me what's going on. You have to tell me what's going on. You have to tell me what's going on. Stop it. I can't deal with one more We see a mix of every single one of these in Steven, and it brings me back I'm sorry I mistreated you. I know you didn't mean to hurt anyone. You're just learning from the only I should have given you more of the love So who wants a hug? Children, by nature, You can shape and mold them into whatever you'd like them to be, give or take Steven was guided not just by his father, but by the Crystal Gems in one of the most These are his core beliefs, This is what set Steven up for his breakdown later With all that being said, let's talk You actually talk to me. You helped me. It's Steven, right? I'm Lappus. Lappus lazily. Are you really a crystal gem? But you set me free. You three knew I was in there, Did you even wonder who I used to be? Don't trust them, Steven. Goodbye. Very quickly, this is where Stephen For one of the first times in his life, and not to take everything This is something that sicks with Steven for the rest of his life as we know Steven, don't go. You have to trust me. I don't understand, Garnet. At least you're usually honest with me. Just stay here. For me. I won't. I know. Aside from the show, something that's The protagonist isn't always right. The protagonist isn't always good. The protagonist isn't always The narrator isn't always right. The narrator isn't always good. The narrator isn't The narrator isn't always the author. The protagonist's moral compass, the narrator's moral compass, entirely different things Pay attention to what characters Pay special attention when what the characters do is A lot of the time, If they aren't, Now, Now, obviously, this is a children's show, And I truly believe that death of the author happens with children's even if this means expanding it Back on topic, though, I want to talk There's a common A lot of this was about the safety and well-being A lot of this happened due to the fact that that's what Steven However, she began to take notice of her strange colony and the life Curiosity turned Appreciation turned to funness, They were doing something awful to the planet, and your mother She told me that's why she She gave up everything just to stop what they started here and So she saved the world. That's good. No such thing as a good war, kiddo. Gems were destroyed. People, too. This is where the narrator is Rose, or in this case, Pink Diamond, She shown to have a very I cannot believe I can't believe you. Making a scene like that. White is very unhappy with you. If this keeps up, she's going I know. Maybe Pink thought you guys were right to But I know what it's like to have a loving family, and we don't do stuff And you guys poofed them That isn't normal. That's enough. This isn't normal. How many times did you lock her in here? How many times did you make her cry? I I'm doing it again, aren't I? Once, Pink got tired of asking yellow and blue for her own colony, Of course, white told her she wasn't fit I forgot to add this part into the script, children to act out as a way to vent Adolescents who have experienced abuse might suffer from depression, In addition, tend to run away to what they This for pink would be Earth. Signs that abused or neglected children may present that relate to pink are show tantrums, clinging to adult strangers, behavior, manipulative behavior to get And as multiple emotional outbursts is meant to be the youngest and it's also very relevant to mention times in her life, seeing as this Obviously, trauma won't In fact, we know trauma We see that each gemstone has what could The Jaspers are confident, the amethysts are brazen, With this, we almost have a baseline to work off of how trauma We can see that Pink Diamond was struggling with who she was meant to be We also know that trauma actively affects the way you perceive yourself and the way Trauma can disrupt one's sense the way one perceives The trauma, however, can become The fact that you have to face trauma and how you deal with that trauma Their trauma can be viewed as a turning point in life or as a reference point These were Pink's core We can actively see that this is how She doesn't want to conquer it. She was always pushed to the side similarly to how Steven was Pink self-identity is actively shown feeling more comfortable Rose was touted as this glorious rebel for planet Earth because It would be rather hard for Pink Diamond the Earth and its creatures had It never started as her I'm commanding the drop ships I want to command a drop ship. Well, when you have your own colony, I want a colony. It was self-serving on her end. In reality, we know that Pink was originally trying to prove a point to her only to find that the Earth was being That's when it became But Steven never saw the side of Rose until far, far later in the series, and opinions about The show has always touched It started talking about Pearl and Rose, with Homeworld, and it continued When Steven was younger, he was the odd one out by not All the humans around him were able to Steven shows a perfect middle ground. It reminds me a bit of cognitive empathy. Cognitive empathy, also known as empathy accuracy, involves having more complete of another person's mind, Steven grasps that he's gone through a traumatic situation, people around him, There were a lot of smaller hints throughout the series implying trauma and They were just comments from insecure Seriously, Steven, you've Don't you think you deserve So everything is going to be okay? No. Look, Steven, it's not It's politics. It is? Of course it is. Let me tell you something. When you work for the government, in the world, but you can That's the real weight I carry. Making the good people of Beach City What? What's my other option? Let the people panic and riot? It never really stuck out in her brains as important until you reach the end I'm pleased to announce that Steven is finally ready to take his rightful How's it going, everybody? It is important. In the first episode with Lappus, by the idea that the gems Lappas clearly states that the Crystal Gems knew she was It starts out as something we didn't because just like Steven, we too weren't Not only is it something that's addressed but it's something that starts She was caught in a war and trapped in a mirror, forced to be They'd ask me, show us your base. Where is your leader? I didn't know. And I couldn't say, I'm not one of them. It soon became clear that there was All of the Homewell gens fled. In all the panic of escaping Earth, And there I stayed. Freedom in my sight, Until I was found. Strip this down to the barebone components and you have a massive Feeling trapped, isolated, and alone. Feeling like you're in the middle of a war or even quite literally in a war if you forced to bend to the whim This could fit in domestic situations of familial or romantic situations, The rest of her storyline plays out very obviously showing the negative You don't have to be with Jasper. That's not it. I miss her. What? We refused for so long. But she's terrible. I'm terrible. I did horrible things. I broke your dad's leg. I stole Earth's ocean. Go on. Tell me I'm wrong. People criticize it heavily for this and even go as far as to call But this is an actual reaction Many trauma survivors, at a very young age, never learn They tend to become stuck in their ways They may be impulsive, Aggressive behaviors also include being late or doing a poor job on purpose, Many people with PTSD use They are not able to use other We see this is very apparent with Lappus Maybe you should switch with pumpkin. Let's make pumpkin the garnet. You should be the Pearl. I'm nothing like Pearl. She's so uptight and sensitive. I'm leaving. You should be Amathis. You should be a Claude. Oh, so now I'm a Claude? Wow. Not only this, but she has to self-blame. It's my fault. I'm the one to blame. And doing a poor job on purpose. We know lap is to act impulsively, and this isn't where her After trauma, a person with PTSD may think or believe that threat is all around them, He or she may not be fully aware If you have PTSD, you may not be aware of how your thoughts For instance, since the trauma, you may feel a greater need This may lead you to act Your actions then provoke others Their hostile behavior then feeds into you Some common thoughts of people If I got out of control, it would be horrible, life-threatening, After all I've been through, Others are out to get me, This is one of Lapsus' main When she got Jasper locked away under of guilt and worries of things Lapis, can you see? I can't stop. Not for a second. Don't look for me. I don't want your help. I don't want your help. Things are bad enough as it is. I've already made too much trouble. Once we get back to Homeworld, they're I don't have time for this. Wait, Steven. Whatever you're doing, just stop. If we do everything they say, She actively tells Jasper What we had wasn't healthy. I never want to feel like I felt with you. Never again. So just go. She fears the Crystal Gems won't be I am not getting I'm still terrified of the diamonds coming to Earth, but I got just outside What if the diamonds show up? What if something bad happens? What does that mean? I don't know. What if they are? What if they're close? Why else would you see them? I don't know what I was thinking. I'm not like you and your friend, Steven. I can't just let go I can't go through that again. Would you rather be alone? I'm sorry. All of her actions are dictated by her trauma, and in my opinion, Not only this, but most people stating that self-defense against Steven Universe has clearly said out that their powers, are used as a form of defense, taking away Lapsus's On top of this, we're very explicitly shown Jasper having to coerce If Pearl fusing with Garnet without do we not see it relevant to hold Both in the real world, in a set in canon in Steven Universe's romantic, or in any other And to wrap that with the bow, Jasper is trying to kill Lapsus was actively friends But that may be my only point, because I don't see many That's actually crazy. She is an abuse victim. What do you mean? But this is another situation of how there The ideal victim or perfect victim, is the one generating the most In some cultures, the ideal victim would at midday after caring for her sick who grab her purse and use But because Lampus isn't perfect, because she's aggressive and defends They see her as the aggressor, Like, this reflects on real It's not just a show I'm adding this in during editing, but Lappis and Jasper were I don't understand why people have this which, oh my God, abuse victims already is just But besides that, she is literally, With trauma-bonding, You're pointing that shield the wrong way. She's the one you should be afraid of. You can't lie to me. I've seen what you're capable of. I thought I was a brute, but you-Inflicing trauma, It'll be better this time. I've changed. You've changed me. For the other person, array of complicated emotions I'm the only one who can As a result, a person might start They start to build an emotional attachment because they've That's not it. I miss her. What? We refused for so long. This is quite their entire relationship. What do you mean? I could go insane ranting about it. Holy crap. After this, Lappus does act This is because she views Peridot I don't care about paint cans. That's not the problem. What's wrong, Lappus? It's her. She's the problem. I can't stand the thought She's the one who dragged Hey, it wasn't my idea. I was headed to Earth It should have been a simple mission. Things didn't exactly You used me like everyone else did. But it's not like that anymore. It's different now. I'm different. Seeing as Homeworld is a big piece of her trauma and reliving your trauma is a big that she could have easily have In this case, Lapsus's trauma It's also very common for trauma victims experience depressive episodes, Everybody experiences trauma differently, not the only character who represents But on that topic, She, too, has her own presentation And we can see how she ruminates on thoughts relating You don't understand. I'm protecting a planet I I used to follow every order, every rule. Now I'm a traitor, a rebel. A crystal gem. We won't let them get you. Haven't I caused you enough trouble? Don't worry, Peridot. It's our sworn duty to protect anything that causes planet home, That's my word. She fears the diamonds, and she no longer She has no choice. Everything she once knew was taken from her, and we can even see her A Peridot is still depressed Yeah. While it's clear that Peridot is a huge allegory for autism, represents the subsect It affects you, of course, but it's not debilitating as other Peridot is able to eventually process what as a guiding force for lapis The two share a borderline codependent relationship together, apart without having each other, But since I brought it up, Codependency is the dysfunctional relationship where one person assumes sacrificing their own needs and well-being The bond in question It can occur just as easily between parent, friends, children, According to this way of thinking, creating emotional distance and beneficial for the It is a way to expose them to the negative In being reliable, caring, nurturing, exhibiting any number of weaknesses of his from low self-esteem and an excessive need boundaries that make him or her feel Honestly, in hindsight, codependent, seeing as they constantly And with Lappus, specifically, that give-and-take relationship, that she and Peridot and that she there would be a slight codependency there You know what I mean? It represents the struggles The tape is the ribbon that binds It has no functional purpose. It just makes me feel bad. You should be a clod. Oh, so now I'm a clod? Wow. Will you two can it? Did I do something? I think it might be more Why don't you stay here Lapsus. Lapsus. Just one second. I want to check and What starts out as a codependent relationship eventually grows The two relied on each other to, The two were trying to process their own traumas, respectively, paired out They both, at first, had a tendency Slow, they were able to connect as friends, but it wasn't until they were on their own that the two In a proper healthy manner. Going down this line of thinking, however, of somebody who went down the people She also shows multiple examples of aggressive outbursts towards people Spinnell basically starts out as a happy, care-free child before she's She's ignored, isolated, until she finds out that the person she A new plaything, a new child. She's feeling like she's been told she doesn't matter anymore, for her entire existence You're not the only one she hurt. Yeah, you must know all Rub it in, why don't you? No, it's not like that. You deserve a better friend. It's a crushing reality, and sometimes the only thing you can Though and not a person, All I'm trying to say is both Spanel and It happens in real life, and it doesn't It means they're complex beings It's a kid's show, to kids during their Remember how I mentioned that before? Kids' shows talking about these topics are that they don't have to resort to anger Listen to me, Spanel. I understand. After everything you've been through No, no. You don't understand. You can't change the way I feel. That's right. Only you can. It also shows that even if some people do, there may be a bigger problem lying You should be just not good enough. Just not good enough for pink, but now, now, I'm not good at all. That's funny, right? At least you found me entertaining. You actually liked me, didn't you? What am I doing? Why do I want to hurt you so bad? I'm supposed to be your friend. I just want to be your friend. So now. Kind of like the cluster. It doesn't mean they're It just means that they're people, like you or me, and that they deserve decency to feel as though they're Next, I'd like to touch on the next three to five Crystal Gems before I can And by the way, when I say every character very literally, every single Dad? When did you get so tall? Like nine years ago? Sorry, I've been going so long, but you It is too a viable career. Eighty % of Germans Why can't you just accept that I First, lose your youth to your boring job. Then, lose the only person And then, lose your mind I bet you get pretty You were You were probably really bored, too. This was your last chance to have Onion felt really sad about his summer friends leaving, but then he He remembered all the great times he had with his friends and all And until next summer, he had his pal Oh, buddy. You and your crew kept going. You got separated, Then, new orders from your Everyone's running, but from what? You don't know. Where's your crew? Where's your ship? You stopped. You heard something from the sky. A song? If you want to comment below and ask But it's mainly linked to the plot of the death of Pink Diamond and how it and the trauma that they But each gem has their own I just wanted to point that out. To start off, there's Ruby and Sapphire. Both of their stories are very similar, We really did stay garnet because It's my first time It's my first time Back when I emerged, the first thing I did was get crammed together Then I was with Sapphire all the time. I was always checking in with someone. Blue Diamond's voice The rebels have fled. Sapphire, this is not This is not what I saw. I don't know what happened. No, it was me. Clearly, said Blue Diamond, how dare Sapphire had known every moment of her But because of Ruby's impulsive gesture, and everything from that And knew she couldn't see, She was frozen. Two gems were forced to obey in a society They hadn't even considered there being any other choice before Ruby's job was to protect people, keep them safe, and quite literally, Hey, can't wait for those Ha ha, yeah. When I see those rebels, I'm going What are you saying? I'm going to punch them all over What if I just punch you? Sapphire, on the other hand, is the cool, to be able to predict the future and had That's when their fates collided one day a new gem who was originally burned She has a lot of questions, I feel lost and scared and happy. Why am I so sure that I'd rather be this and that I'd rather do this than (laughter) Welcome to Earth. Can you tell me, how was Why was Sapphire willing What am I? No more questions. Don't ever question this. You already are the answer. In the future as Garnet, we see further what I mean when I The future that you created was so improbable that I didn't And now I can't understand We're on the outskirts of the possible, Everyone's looking to me for answers. I can't stand it. It's so hard for me to just I want to I love being alive. I want to love that there are But I'm the one with this ability, I thought if I could use my future vision I could get out ahead of the next But I don't know what I'm doing here. I can't tell what's probable anymore. Anything could happen. Anything could happen to these cats. Even as the stoic leader, Her future vision has many paths, headed down each Earth There are so many possibilities Everything she used to know has changed, and she can't have any faith And even that trust gets broken. We see that when she does have problems, she avoids them and pretends What are we going to do? We did it. We got the message. She's bound to be somewhere, right? Any new ideas? I'm sorry. This is called denial, and it's linked to The flight response is a trauma response pushing you to isolate yourself When triggered, it can be heard to sit still, stay in a room, There is no one moment where we really got trauma, but we got to see her These go hand in hand, but it's good to note that this is because mental health that can change But since they are fused together, We see this from Garnet multiple We see this from Pearl as well. To begin to touch on Pearl's She also acts as a perfect There's the avoidant behaviors, the reliving of the trauma, and also the fact We see her constantly reliving And it's not until much later in the series that we see This is called trauma denial. For some people, the first step towards that recovery may be Confronting the traumatic event and what it means to you may bring up difficult This is why denial is often Trauma denial may serve as a shield you from a traumatic event, but it Ongoing trauma denial causes more Although trauma survivors may learn how to suppress this unpleasant experience continue to carry it We see while exploring Pearl's mind that We see an actual linear timeline for trauma and abuse, and we can Show me the status Yes, my diamond. You look just like a course. You changed your shape for a day. Down here. We're not creating life from nothing. We're taking life and Forgive me, my diamond. I shouldn't have brought The Rose also found herself with allies, other gems that were All inspired by Rose to live She was our leader, And those who fought to save it Your status, my purpose. None of it will matter anymore. This will change everything. So for my last order to you as a diamond, No one can know. Rose feared that soon she Rose courts through her rebel blade Saving the Earth for all time What? I'm going to stay and You don't have to do this with me. But I want to. I know you do. Please, please understand, And if we win, we can never go home. Why would I ever We're the only ones left. Homeworld. They were all leaving. We thought we'd won. There was a bright light, Why did I do it? It's Rose. What was she thinking? She can't have a baby. Well, this is awkward. What am I going to do when she disappears? I'm going to lose her. No, we're just here Right. She's right there. She just can't reform because she She wanted this so much. I just don't understand why. Everything should grow And isn't it so great how it Well, it's not natural for us.