This episode of Real Engineering is brought that teaches you to think like an engineer. In the late 19th and early 20th century the fueled by a feudal born military economy and of islands north and south of it's home for control over Manchuria and annexing Korea The outbreak of World War 1 gave Japan the against Germany and taking control of German Making Japan the dominant power in the east from the Asian mainland to the mid Pacific. To maintain this influence Japan had undergone technologically primitive feudal country, world, with only the United States and the With US territory in the Philippines and Hawaii, and British Borneo, conflict was inevitable On September 27th 1940 Japan entered an alliance the Americans. Enter the war in Europe, and you will face This warning did not come unchallenged and from California to Pearl Harbour in Hawaii. From here many of us are familiar with the Japan capitalized on this ill advised show attempting to wipe out the US Navy in the A decisive victory that announced Japan to with. At the height of their power in WW2 Japan and Southeast Asia. But the war machine was doomed to failure, Nothing illustrates the turning fate of the plane the Mitsubishi A6M Zero. A plane that entered world war 2 as feared pacific theatre, but slowly and surely lost regulated to a dispensable resource, fitted at enemy ships in a last ditch effort to protect The Zero was a thoughtfully designed plane. Its designer Jiro Horikoshi, built upon the the world's first carrier based monoplane.The and Nakajima to both design and build successors The plane was to have a top speed of 500 km/h, two 20 mm cannons, incredibly heavy armaments On top of all this, it was to have an operating Be capable of flying 2 hours at max speed, tanks attached. These were fuel tanks that could be jettisoned to increase maneuverability. These specifications alone were ambitious based, which limited it's wingspan to 12 The specifications were so ambitious that but Jiro Horikoshi persevered.[1] His design [2] was ingenious. Incorporating many of the most advanced techniques Thin elliptical wings minimised drag, along New heat treatment knowledge obtained from all metal structure. It's frame entirely made from this new age frame where possible to reduce weight. All to achieve that ambitious range requirement forced Jiro to make some sacrifices to the Favouring speed, maneuverability and range armoring. It's skin was only 1.2 millimeters thick edge of the wing, and forward fuselage to the aft sections of the plane. While enemy outer skin thicknesses were not to be a smooth aerodynamic surface not protective Typically these planes would contain thicker engine, fuel tank and cockpit. The zero did not. On top of this the zero did not employ self-sealing that would swell and expand when soaked in Weight savings even came down to the cockpit designs, designed to fit the on average, shorter The zero was designed on a doctrine of training What use was armor if you didn't get hit, range to patrol your territory. The lightweight skin made it difficult to the designers incorporated footholds and handles, could be released with a button when needed. This mechanism seen from the inside of the With these rounded domes protecting an internal controlled valve which redirected air from of an crash landing into the sea the plane The designers of this plane clearly never Yet that is exactly what happened. The Japanese Air Force met little airborne planes picked the archaic chinese bi-planes It would meet a far more formidable enemy Pearl Harbor. The surprise attack aimed to cripple the US Navy in the Pacific.[3] A show of force to with the Empire's domination of Asia. An ill advised attack that had the opposite America entered WW2 the same day, with it The P-40 Warhawk, and the F4F Wildcat. Neither were as nimble as the A6M,and in early despite both planes having a higher top speed. Much of this was down to the superb training of the war, were among the best in the world. The Japanese focused on quality over quantity. This slowly changed over the course of the Skilled pilots we dying quicker than Japan it's training process into overdrive. Sending hundreds of green pilots to war. The final blow to the legendary plane would and began probing it for weaknesses. [4] They soon discovered three fatal flaws that The Americans knew of the Zero's tendency and lack of self sealing fuel tanks. It only took a few shots to disable the plane, get those shots in. With American test flights of the Zero they The Zero suffered from the exact same problem planes like the Spitfire and Hurricane, It utilized a float carburetor, which as we zero-g maneuvers impossible as it caused the Flooding the engine and shutting it off. Unlike the Merlin engines of the Spitfire and received little upgrades throughout the The last nail in the coffin for the Zero came high speeds, becoming much less maneuverable of the ailerons. Where high airspeeds made it difficult for their simple manual lever control system with With these characteristics in mind American Zero. The primary rule being for Allied pilots to a Zero at low speeds. With its tactical advantage gone, and no improvements pilots The Zero was given the role of Kamikaze of the Japanese Air Force. For an island nation at war, running short last attempt at protecting the motherland. The common story retold was that these young to their emperor. The living god of Japan. All too often, detail is lost by only listening The stories told directly by Japanese pilots Letters from young pilots [6], like Captain sacrificing their lives for their loved ones. Perhaps the most telling of all stories comes most famous aces "Saburo Sakai" . This his death in 2000. "A lot of Westerners looked at the kamikaze putting a kid in a plane and telling him to But even if you don't tell him to crash into hours flight time into a plane and telling Corsairs is just as much a suicidal tactic We figured that if they're going to die anyway, damage to the enemy for the same price in you read about &quot;dying for the emperor ... Banzai!&quot; It should be noted that in the same interview happened, which is essentially on par with any information from this primary source with These young men were often barely trained mechanics, and many of them crashed into the because they never learned to deal with the useless at high speeds, like in a dive. Many of them died desperately pulling on their of air pushing the surface back down. I think it's fair to say, these young men emperor, but for their family, their friends, Emboldened by a culture where the group takes was viewed as a reasonable and honorable choice, This wasn't terrorism, as many western writers The most devastating Kamikaze attack on May United States firebombed Tokyo, killing over the industrial output of the city in half. This bombing raid was more destructive than With industrial output declining, raw materials their homeland under attack. This culture of self sacrifice for the country to invade. Made worse by President Roosevelt's policy unconditional resistance, and so two young each piloting Zeros with 250 kg bombs attached Emerging from low cloud cover the two rookie carrier the USS Bunker Hill, releasing their straight into the flight deck. Both bombs penetrate d the flight deck and the lives of over 390 sailors and airmen. A devastating attack, that disabled the aircraft was a rare occurrence and the vast majority Either missing the target completely, or being fighters. Ultimately the Japanese were being pushed that dropped the nuclear bombs in Nagasaki Japanese land, as the Japanese Air Force had this. Their airforce had risen and fallen alongside I'm not going to do any smooth segue for but videos like this would not be possible My goal for this project has always been to Brilliant is the perfect partner for this to educate you from knowing nothing to having brush up on my maths skills, as I haven't university. So I took this course on differential equations, learn. All that information that has slowly withered If you want to start at a more basic level courses and work your way up. Giving you the tools to analyse the world These may initially sound complicated and that are broken into digestible sections with the way. If I have inspired you and you want to educate and sign up for free.And the first 73 people annual Premium subscription. As always thanks for watching and thank you If you would like to see more from me the and discord server are below.