The Matrix, a science fiction film created most influential movies ever made. The story starts when computer programmer the alias "Neo," discovers the truth about aware of the existence of something known After looking for a man named Morpheus who another hacker named Trinity. After a failed attempt (which led to Agent takes Neo to Morpheus. Morpheus vaguely describes the Matrix as this has been pulled over Neo's eyes, blinding He also admits that no one can be told what he states. So, Neo gets offered a choice in the form If he chooses the blue pill, he remains in wants to believe. But if he chooses the red pill, he'll set Matrix truly is. "All I'm offering is the truth," says And so, Neo takes the red pill and tumbles The Matrix is considered a philosophical film and religious themes, like prophecy, love, in a simulation. But there seems to be a particular close connection of the Cave. In this allegory, presented in Plato's Republic, to a wall within a cave their whole lives. The only reality they know of is the mere them, and they believe these are real entities. Then, one of the prisoners is freed. He leaves the cave and gets to experience But when he returns to the cave to enlighten resistance. This video analyzes The Matrix film through while exploring the following question: do Please note: this video contains spoilers The prisoners of the cave are chained so that They can only sit and watch the wall in front each other nor the wall they're chained Behind the prisoners burns a fire. There are people in between the fire and the These people hold sticks with several forms wall. So, all they've ever seen are mere projections a world that's alien to them. When one of the prisoners is freed and ascends sunlight for the first time in his life. He is confused and needs time to adapt, as But when his eyes have adjusted, he encounters in the cave. But they're different this time. Instead of mere silhouettes, he sees the actual detail. He then realizes what he thought was real, Similarly, Neo has been imprisoned without When he wakes up from the simulated reality, He notices that his body is full of plugs humans connected to (what seems) a giant machine. After a supervising drone notices that Neo discharged into a sewer. After Morpheus' ship, the Nebuchadnezzar, to the real world, just like the escapee from A fundamental difference in experience between reality they face. In Plato's allegory, the liberated man ascends level within the cave to a higher level outside. This ascension serves as a metaphor for gaining thus, obtaining a clear world vision. Plato's reality presents itself as generally Also, the freedom of movement in the outside Overall, the real world seems way more pleasurable, it for a life in the cave. But the Matrix is different. Morpheus told Neo that if he chooses the red hole goes, referring to the children's novel Tumbling down a rabbit hole resembles a descent This idea comes to fruition when Neo falls a hellish wasteland devoid of sunlight run As opposed to Plato's reality, the reality It's terrible. Those plugged into the Matrix live in a vast, haze) resembling the late nineties. They also have access to an endless variety But in the real world, there's only one subhuman conditions stuck in the outskirts, by machines. So, one could argue that (in the case of The pleasurable than living freely in the outside Shortly after his liberation, Neo initially "No, I don't believe it. It's impossible," he says after Morpheus He showed a typical reaction of someone confronted As the architect of the Matrix states in the of all human responses." We can see this when, for example, we discover parent. Or the person we consider our greatest enemy In such cases, the truth carries such a magnitude to its very foundations. Such a massive shift in perception generally Neo asks Morpheus: "I can't go back, can To which Morpheus answers: "But if you could, Flat-out disregard of the truth is common. Many people prefer living in a safe bubble Living in a cozy, false reality can be pretty to remain ignorant of everything that could So instead, you go along with the deceptive mass media and entertainment. But we also see the opposite happening, like a false truth like the idea that Earth is So truth, by and large, can be easily fabricated. Merriam Webster provides a definition of truth or idea that is true or accepted as true." Morpheus' goal is to liberate the people But he also realizes that as long as these enemy: first of all, because so-called 'agents' These agents function a bit like a security out. And every human projection is potentially Second of all, most of them aren't ready Similarly, when Plato's enlightened man go outside, he meets resistance and ridicule. Plato described such endeavor as "inserting It's a waste of time trying to convince to it. Morpheus also states that many are so hopelessly to protect it; similarly, Socrates asks if them the truth about their existence. Nevertheless, Plato points to the philosopher's unenlightened ones, even if they're hostile: liberated humans do. In Plato's allegory, we see that liberation freed. Also, Neo eventually accepts the truth and But what if someone knows the truth, but hates Here's where a character named Cypher comes Cypher admits he regrets taking the red pill, same: "I know what you're thinking, 'cause Actually, I've been thinking it ever since BLUE pill?" End quote. But Neo's body language clearly shows that Even though he's stranded in the same dark Neo finds meaning in it and sort of takes as he takes responsibility to help the people Moreover, he had always felt that something He felt that he didn't belong there. He wasn't happy. Through his liberation, he found what he was for having to face the bleakness of reality. Especially because people regard him as "The meaningful. Cypher, on the other hand, doesn't enjoy He also shows little faith in Morpheus' Eventually, he plugs himself into the Matrix Although his argument probably falls on deaf "You know, I know this steak doesn't exist. I know that when I put it in my mouth, the and delicious. After nine years, you know what I realize? Ignorance is bliss." End quote. Cypher is well aware that he cannot unsee truth. For him, being ignorant was great until Morpheus party. When the veil of ignorance has been lifted, The truth lies naked in front of us. We cannot unsee that the person we thought We cannot unsee the betrayal of a partner person. A relationship between people changes when and reality is not as beautiful as it seemed. The relationship was more enjoyable before Sure, it was based on an illusion. But in exchange for not knowing, we felt a (ironically) trust. Truth destroyed all that. Cypher realizes that he's fundamentally So, he asks agent Smith to plug him back into "like an actor," as he stated. But most importantly: he wants all of his In return, he gives him Morpheus. Cypher essentially made a hedonistic decision ignorance. Interestingly enough, he reveals his idea his decisions reasonable in his eyes. During Cypher's attempt to deport Morpheus, free. But Cypher disagrees and says that all he them. And if he has to choose between that and the Trinity then argues that the Matrix isn't But, again, Cypher disagrees, saying: "I think that the Matrix can be more real than this world." The people liberated from the Matrix have into the system and be part of the simulated (RSI). They can upload programs directly into their and load various items into the Matrix, like Lots of guns. So, they were exposed to an illusion first. Now, they have become illusionists themselves. When Neo goes back into the Matrix for the the city he lived in, he sees it in a different He realizes that none of his memories ever He recognizes places where he used to eat, that they're just simulacra. The same must have happened to Plato's enlightened time after his ascension regarding the shadows It probably leaves one disillusioned, perhaps appearances once had. Finding out how a magic trick works makes Truth, therefore, often goes at the expense An example of this is a legendary character Claus, which originates from the early Christian For most children, Santa Claus is a truly man traveling from the North Pole in a sleigh According to the legend, Santa's elves make and Santa brings them to the children on Christmas With all the stories, songs, fairy tales, is almost a religious experience to the infant But when children are around the age of 6, Santa Claus. Many kids react emotionally and in disbelief. A once so much enjoyed illusion is crushed Hence, it's not uncommon to experience nostalgia of the truth and when a "surrogate truth" Cypher experiences such nostalgia as well. However, interestingly enough, people still An example of this we see in the Matrix is The Oracle appears as an elderly woman but of the founding forces of the third "current' But when she finished her purpose, she went Even though, as a computer program, she is nature, she seems to enjoy it. She clearly shows delight in the smell of the sunset. We see the same happening with the Merovingian, who is passionate about the French language dessert with a happy ending. He also seems to enjoy the taste of olives, Of course, as these characters are both "software," Nevertheless, they show the human capacity There's a philosophical term for this phenomenon, "Suspension of disbelief" is the intentional and logic when facing something unreal. For ages, humans have eagerly consumed illusions performances to the puppet shows of the past. Likewise, Plato's character can still choose real entities, temporarily suspending his a good time with his old, unenlightened friends. When it comes to the Matrix, the possibilities Unlike the illusionists in Plato's cave, consider better than reality. We can see this with today's technology How people can immerse themselves in a video life: an existence mostly more pleasant and But the objects that appear on the screen To enjoy them as if they were real, one needs Likewise, characters like Neo and Trinity a romantic dinner and an evening walk along Anyhow, humans seem to be able to temporarily Do we actually want the truth? If asked, most people will probably answer But when exploring Plato's Allegory and with truth is not that simple. In some cases, we welcome the truth. In other cases, we hide from it, temporarily the truth if we had that option. One of the most striking examples is the character Both Plato's work and The Matrix show people's We tend to attach to the familiar, the comfortable, to defend it with our lives. When it comes to the latter, we just have their religions and political ideologies. So, again, do we want the truth? The answer seems to be: "It depends." We tend to handle the facts selectively, as with different magnitudes. Truth can uplift us; it can leave us indifferent For example, in Plato's allegory, learning The only downside is the hostility by those But aside from that, it's pretty evident and would uplift almost anyone. But in the Matrix, the truth is less enjoyable. However, the effect that truth has on us doesn't also depends on the person receiving it. In the case of Neo and Morpheus, the state legitimized the battle they were fighting an incredible goal to have in life. On the other hand, Cypher pokes fun at that meaning he found in his existence. People tend to adopt surrogate truths to cover By contrast, others love painful realities, already dark worldview. People from both camps also tend to ignore world. In many if not most cases, they share their Sharing a certain truth, regardless of whether Again, look at religious groups, political Being part of such groups can provide people In The Matrix, for example, we can see how people together. The downside is that adopting opposing views lead to other members ostracizing you. And here's where the dark side of suspension Some, if not many, are willing to turn a blind but also out of convenience. For example, someone keeps subscribing to just to belong or out of fear of being ostracized. All in all, people seem pretty opportunistic We want 'a' truth, not necessarily 'the' We want 'a' reality, not necessarily 'the' But the truth and the lie often have something So, could it be that we fundamentally don't in, identify with, share with others, dwell us with a sense of meaning and belonging? Thank you for watching.