After painting our guest bathroom a bold green colour, we knew we wanted a bold colour in our primary bathroom too. So we're going to the opposite end of the colour wheel and testing out reds and pinks! When painting a room like this with almost no natural lighting, it's crucial to test out paint samples. In my head these colours all worked, but it was far from reality! I'm stubbornly refusing to give up finding the perfect shade of rose..! Oh dear ...now I like them both. When in doubt, see what compliments your favourite towels Pat acted as tiebreaker! And the winner is... Now that the walls are painted, we have a starting point and it's time to design the rest of the space. Like I do for the rest of my home, I'm planning out the space in Milanote, which is a tool for organising your creative projects. which is a tool for organising your creative projects. I've never really shown you this step, but often times the very first thing I like to do is bring in the floorplan of the space and just brainstorm about what could go in here. When you walk into our bathroom now, the first thing that catches your eye is the mismatched side patterns of the washer and dryer. This is actually a huge request from Pat, to hide the ugly sides of the washer tower. Using the Milanote Web Clipper, I'm adding in some inspiration pictures of what the design of this wall divider could be. Our bathroom is quite small and there isn't actually any more room to bring in a whole piece of furniture, except for a bigger sink vanity. The wall cabinet that we hung recently is a scandinavian design with very clean lines. If we did do something similar for the bathroom vanity, it'll look really matchy-matchy and modern, which although, could be beautiful, is not our home design style. So instead, I'm bringing in a vintage element and this is my main inspiration picture. Obviously, we want to make it vanity height so within Milanote, I can crop the images and piece them together to visualize better what I want. Here, I've created a DIY taskboard, which is what you usually see in my other makeovers. I've listed the measurements of the space, popped in some digital sketches that I've made, my material list, building steps to keep in mind and some reference videos. Honestly, being able to keep track of everything in one place while I DIY has prevented me from just about a thousand meltdowns . Milanote is absolutely free to use with no time limit. It's the perfect place for brainstorming, task listing, and visualizing your ideas. The mission to thrift + flip a vintage dresser was a bust so it's time to put on my DIY hat again. To build drawers easily, I use pocket holes to join the drawer sides. Drawer frame, complete! Attach a thin sheet of MDF to the bottom using wood glue and nails. Stir well before use since the pigments can separate. The drawers in the guest bathroom vanity remain unstained. I sigh out of procrastination every time I open them... This time, I've learned from my lesson and I'm staining the drawers first. It's much easier to stain them before adding the hardware. To make the drawers feel I'm adding pretty wallpaper to the bottoms. Slice off the excess with a sharp knife. To seal, add 2 to 3 coats of modpodge on top, waiting for about 1 hour for each layer to dry. We're off to buy a countertop for the vanity~ At Ikea's kitchen section...? Actually, I almost chose this dark countertop for our kitchen. I still love it, so I'm using it as a bathroom vanity counter. It's an affordable, renter-friendly alternative to a real stone top. Pat has disappeared. Fortunately my measurements of the car was right To get a clean cut, cut from the underside of the countertop. Clamp a straight edge to use as a guide and run the circular saw across. I switched to the jigsaw to cut out a hole for the sink. I'm using duct tape to cover up the raw edges inside. I'll also caulk under the sink, this is just extra precaution. The lampshade from my moodboard has arrived! I was excited to receive it, but confused that I had to construct it myself..? 10 minutes later, still struggling 20 minutes later, Pat joined in the frustration. Eventually, we somehow managed to fix the lampshade... and my excitement returned... ...but it looked ridiculous when turned on *Having an internal crisis* (Changing the subject) Let's pick a towel holder! And the winner is... "The Wavy!" or maybe it's "The Scalloped" Mark drilling points and midpoint with a piece of tape. Transfer to wall according to laser level. POV: You're Juno watching her I thrifted an old white Ikea frame and spray painted it gold. Personally, I don't like the look of "perfectly" painted frames, so I'm distressing it with some light sanding and adding some dark wax. Apply wax with an old brush and gently rub into the crevices with a paper towel. The gold paint is less yellow &amp; I got a vintage print from Etsy. (Juno) Where are the border collies and australian shepherds?! It's back to finishing the vanity build By now, I'm a pocket-hole-making machine Similar to how I made the vanity for our guest bath, I'm building the sides out of square dowels and poplar plywood. Glue and clamp square dowels to sides of plywood, then secure with screws. I joined the 2 side pieces to the back support, then flipped the frame upside down to attach the top support. This would be best to do on a flat, level surface. When your longest clamp is too short, you make a makeshift clamp with 2 heavy crates. To attach the top support, I'm adding L-brackets. I accidentally put one L-bracket too high, so I'm adding some washers. "Nobody's gonna know" I'm using roller slides as they're really affordable options. I'll link some tutorials below, explaining clearly how to install drawer slides. We picked up some decorative trim from the hardware store. Just like my inspo pic, I want to add decorative trim between each drawer. First, I added a piece of trim to the front of the top support. Then again onto the front of the middle support. For the bottom of the drawer, I got a fancier piece of trim and attached it to the bottom support using a 3cm spacer. To protect it from any water on the bathroom floor, I'm adding some 5mm thick plastic feet to the legs of the vanity. Sand with 180-grit to get a smooth stain finish. Use a thin paintbrush to get into the crevices of trim pieces. I would say that the biggest lesson I've learned from doing all these DIYs is the flexibility and courage to pivot from my original vision. Things almost never work out like what I've envisioned in my head. From the paint swatches, to the funny lampshade, and now the vanity DIY. I was having such a hard time picking a handle for the vanity because everything just looked wrong. I tried 20 different handles, and hated all of them. The surface of the drawer front was so large that it just looked disproportionate to the size of the handles. Both Pat and I don't love the look of big handles, we tend to prefer something more delicate looking, so ordering larger handles wasn't an option. Instead, I decided to add more pieces of moulding to break up the large surface of the drawer front. And this meant that I had to go to the hardware store again, I had to open up my can of stain again, and I had to delay until the next morning to be able to seal everything with a coat of hardwax oil. But you know what? This subtle detail that added hours to my DIY ended up being the key to me loving the end result. So maybe sometimes we should listen to Ross, and pivot Stir hardwax oil thoroughly until a milky colour. Apply a thin layer while wearing gloves and a face mask. Remove excess with a paper towel and wait at least 24h to dry. Hillary has gone ultrasonic. I'm sorry~ I'm alright~ I'm just really happy~ (Pat) Love the top~ Time to screw in the top~ I've been undecided on the design for the washer divider ... until today. I found this picture of an outdoor fence in an Australian magazine. I love the look of the thin wood slats within the painted frame. It's a game of "But will it fit in the car?!" again. It fits like a glove~ What is more romantic than gluing wood slats together at midnight? We used 2mm spacers in between each 29mm wood slat. Rather than cutting 22 pieces of wood individually on the mitre saw, I cut them all at once with the circular saw after gluing. Sand with 180-grit to get a smooth stain finish. I stained the wood slats the same shade as the sink vanity. Hey, I thought you were keeping me company! I have to make a frame for the tambour panel to "sit" in. I told you, I'm a pocket-hole-making machine........? Oops, even machines make mistakes right? Has the machine redeemed herself? I used 43x13mm pieces to make this frame that the tambour panel will be glued onto. I also later nailed on an outer frame using 29x19mm pieces. First, a layer of primer, then the same rose colour as the walls. The tambour panel is attached to the frame with wood glue. The divider is attached to the wall with large L-brackets. (Pat) I'm so proud of you (Our food delivery came 20 minutes ago ) I'm glad the other light didn't work out because I'm over the moon about this one :-) Do you recall the windowless bathroom in our old apartment? Now we have a bathroom with a window that hardly gets any natural light since it's in the basement, hehe. But we've leaned into the moody "cave-ness" of this room to create something warm and cozy for everyday life.