Some people may say that there is no such thing as probability. After all, either an even will occur, in which case its probability is 100%, or the event will not occur, in which case the probability is 0%. But, there is a way we can assign an objective definition to the word "probability" in a way that conveys more than just our own personal ignorance of whether or not the event will occur. Suppose we repeat the same experiment (such as flipping a coin) an infinite number of times. The percentage of times that an event (such as the coin landing heads) occurs, is what we will refer to as the probability of the event. If the coin lands heads 50 percent of the time, then we say that landing heads has a 50% probability. But, with this definition, an event can still occur even if it has 0% probability, and an event is not necessarily guaranteed to occur even if it has 100% probability. For example, suppose we randomly pick any real number between zero and ten, with every possible value having an equal probability. What is the probability that the number we pick ends up being p? Well, since there are an infinite number of possibilities, the probability of picking this exact number has a probability of zero. There is also therefore a 100% probability that we will pick some number other than p. Yet, the event of picking exactly p can still occur. There are many cases like this, both in classical physics and in quantum mechanics, where there are an infinite number of possible outcomes for a measurement. In these cases, rather than talking about probability, it makes more sense about talking about a probability density. For example, in this case, we would say that there is a 10% probability of picking a number between zero and one, a 10% probability of picking a number between one and two, a 10% probability of picking a number between two and three, and so on. In this particular case, the probability density is represented by a rectangle, due to the fact that every possible outcome has an equal probability of being selected. If, on the other hand, some possible outcomes are more likely than others, the probability density will no longer be a rectangle. In this example, the closer a number is to the number 10, the more likely it is to be selected. In this other example, the closer a number is to the number 5, the more likely it is to be selected. The probability of the number being between any two particular values is always represented by the area under the probability curve between these two numbers. A probability curve with this particular bell shape is extremely important both in classical probability, and in quantum probability. To see why this is the case, suppose we take a coin, and we flip it two times. One possibility is that the coin will come up heads both times. A second possibility is that the coin will come up heads the first time, and come up tails the second time. A third possibility is that the coin will come up tails the first time, and come up heads the second time. A fourth possibility is that the coin will come up tails both times. Each of these four possibilities is equally likely. In one of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads twice. In two of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads only once. And in one of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads zero times. In one of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads twice. In two of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads only once. And in one of the four outcomes, the coin lands heads zero times. We therefore have a 25 percent probability that heads will come up twice. We have a 50 percent probability that heads will come up exactly once. And we have a 25 percent probability that heads will come up zero times. Let us create a graph that represents this result. Now, let's suppose that instead of flipping the coin twice, we flip it three times. Now we have eight possible outcomes. In one of the outcomes, the coin lands heads all three times. In three of the outcomes, the coin lands heads twice. In three of the outcomes, the coin lands heads once. And in one of the outcomes, the coin never lands heads. As before, let us create a graph that represents this result. Let's have the Y axis represent the probability, and let's have the X axis represent the percentage of times that the coin landed heads. Now let's repeat this experiment, but instead of flipping the coin three times, we flip if four times. Now, the graph looks like this. Now, let's flip the coin five times. Six times. Seven times. Eight times. Nine times. Ten times. Now, let's flip the coin one hundred times. Now, let's flip the coin one thousand times. Now, let's flip the coin, ten thousand times. There are two very important results to be learned from this. The first result is that the more times we flip the coin, the more likely it is that the percentage of times that the coin will come up heads will be very close to 50 percent. (Correction to Video) The second important result to be learned from this is that if we flip the coin a large number of times, the graph we generate will look like the bell shape that we saw earlier. Let us return to the case of the rectangular probability density, where every number between 0 and 10 had an equal probability of being selected. Suppose we plan on picking one thousand numbers using this probability distribution. Suppose that we then plan on taking the average of these one thousand numbers. Suppose we need to predict what this average will be. This is similar to flipping a coin one thousand times, and needing to predict the percentage of times the coin will come up heads. Just as we created this probability distribution for flipping the coin one thousand times, we can similarly create a probability density for the average of the one thousand random numbers. Although the probability distribution for flipping just a single coin is a simple rectangle, The probability distribution for the average of one thousand coin flips is a bell curve. In exactly the same way, although the probability density of picking just a single number is described by a simple rectangle, the probability density for the average of one thousand of these numbers is a bell curve. This curve shows that there is a very small probability of the average being close to ten, or being close to zero. It is far more likely that the amount of numbers we pick that are close to ten will be roughly equal to the amount of numbers we pick that are close to zero, and hence their average will be close to five. This is why this curve shows that having an average of 5 is the most likely outcome. Just as in the case of flipping a coin a large number of times, we ended up with this bell curve. Now suppose that instead of picking one thousand numbers, we pick ten thousand numbers. As before, we need to predict what the average of these ten thousand numbers will be. Just as we created a probability distribution for flipping the coin ten thousand times, we can similarly create this probability density for the average of the ten thousand random numbers. As with the case of flipping a coin a large number of times, the more numbers that we select, the higher the probability that the result will be at the center of the curve. This is due to the fact that the more numbers we select, the more unlikely it is that they are all simultaneously close to zero, or all simultaneously close to ten. Let use suppose that instead of starting out with the rectangle probability density, we instead start out with the triangular probability density. Suppose we again plan on picking one thousand numbers, but this time using this triangular probability distribution. As before, we plan on taking the average of these one thousand numbers, and we need to predict what the average will be. As it turns out, the probability density for the average of these one thousand numbers will again have a bell shape. But this time, the center of the bell curve will be shifted from where it was in the previous example. This due to the fact that with the triangular probability density, numbers closer to ten are more likely to be selected, and the average of all these numbers is therefore most likely also going to be closer to ten. Now suppose that instead of using the triangular probability density to pick one thousand numbers, we use it to pick ten thousand numbers. The probability density for the average of all the numbers will then change to look like this. As it turns out, the two results that we saw in the coin toss are actually universal rules that apply to everything. Regardless of what probability density we start out with, we will always end up with a bell curve when we take the average of a very large number of samples. This is why the bell curve is so critical in probability and statistics. Also, in all cases, the probability that the average of all the numbers will be exactly at the center of the bell curve approaches 100% as the number of samples gets bigger and bigger. In other words, the more random samples we have, the more unlikely it becomes that their average will vary even slightly from the value that we expect it to be. Even if we start out with an inherently random process, the average result always becomes more and more deterministic as the number of samples increases. What we are typically able to observe in the Universe around us is the average of the behavior of a very large number of subatomic particles. Although each of these subatomic particles is governed by the probabilistic laws of quantum mechanics, their average behavior becomes more and more predictable as the number of particles increases, just as in the examples we saw here. This is why much of universe that we are able to observe can be predicted through the deterministic laws of classical physics, even though the underlying physics of the subatomic particles is described by the probabilistic laws of quantum mechanics. Much more information is available in the other videos on this channel, and please subscribe for notifications when new videos are ready.