Planes, trains and automobiles. Sure, these marvels of modern technology can get you somewhere fast. But are they worth No. You deserve better. You deserve an airship. And not just any airship. I'm offering you a ride in Google co-founder made by the good people at Lighter Than Air. That's right, friends. Airships are back again and they're better than ever. They're less slow. They're less noisy. They have windows that open. That's crazy. And now they're less So come on down to my hometown and hitch your ride About five years ago, that Sergey Brin was funding the construction at NASA Ames in Mountain View. I saw some pictures of this early Got kind of obsessed with it. Sergey didn't want to talk But over the last couple of years, with the guy who's bringing And today I'm going to take you guys in being made. I'm Alan Weston, and I'm the CEO of LTA, and I'm the first person We've got this beauty Give us, give us the basics. This is Pathfinder one. This is 122 meters long, has about 28 It's designed to cruise at maximum speed of 60 knots. It could probably go over 2,000 nautical miles in one leg. Our mission is to expand and complement using lighter and at the same time of aviation. Al here might look like but I assure you he's not. Among other claims to fame, he was a member where he would do stuff like this and this. He even performed one of the first modern bungee People had sort of used vines but you guys were to get just a cord Right. And so, yes. And they let somebody like for the Air Force after that. Oh, actually, the Air Force Much like Al, airships have a fascinating backstory. Some of the first ones lived right here in this hangar. Almost 100 years ago, the Navy began so they could be flown The Navy saw these craft as key to gathering intelligence It was the glory days You've shown me just here in Silicon Valley. There were times like, filled with airships amazing things. I mean, there's one that was This was actually in 1932 There was a hook on and biplanes were carried And they were refueled. Then of course, airships had some very bad PR. And planes came along, and people lost interest in these majestic beasts. Large airships So like everything people might think of, And the difference being, just has no rigid structure. Right. This is a rigid airship And so the skeleton defines And Al thinks he can bring these sexy, hard-bodied this time filled with nice, non-flammable helium. So you've got this and you're, like, Right, right. Back to the future. Yeah. We're restarting, we're awakening is what I like to say. Can we do the horn? Sure. I don't think anyone I've ever This is Carl Taussig. He's a mechanical engineer who really gets around I asked him to give me It's a lot of scaffolding. Yeah, it's incredible. At first glance, it appears almost nothing has But really, this thing and the super new. So this is one of 12 of the electric motors Okay. And it's you can see it's motors mounted on a pylon So think of this airship All these are thrust vectored. They can be pointed straight up or move laterally. And then here, it's kind of leveraged This is how it's laced on, and this is a kind of the way airships were built There's Each one is laced by hand. Jeez. The Pathfinder One's skeleton is lighter and stronger than past The ship will run on diesel but LTA hopes to switch or some form of hydrogen power Overall, the airship will be but at least the passengers about their carbon footprint. I've never been in a gondola. Designed to seat about ten people. It's used commercially by the Zeppelin company And so if you're doing like a two or three day journey from London you're hanging out in here Admittedly, this is an underwhelming But this ship is the first of its kind, And the company than just I think you guys are most interested I mean, that's the heart of Right. When you arrive at a disaster you often show up And so You then have to get your supplies And typically, you know, Helicopters are really They have limited range and limited capacity So that's where an airship can And it's the cargo, right? I mean, they can carry Right. We've studied airships to 200 tons of cargo. Our approach is scalable that can carry even more. All right, we've gone So this giant thing is like a custom Exactly. This is what we call our Okay. It's one of the major advantages All you need to land is You know, we really we hope to be flying Yeah. Al promised my two kids one of the first, first rides. It'll be a great ride. Your kids, the flight test engineers. Just keep them safe. And as much as I want my kids waving to me from the gondola very first flight... I can't help horribly, It is unfortunate that airships are synonymous But ever since that fateful day in 1937, one small town in Germany, the home of the Hindenburg, has led a PR campaign the airship's image. The dream of the zeppelin is alive in Friedrichshafen. The town is embedded And they start 'em young. This is your gaseous god. There's a parallel world And I'll admit I'm jealous. As far as weird stories go, this one is wonderfully weird. Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin was a great airship pioneer in the late and the man He convinced all of Germany in an early version and his company even managed letting Germany after World War One. The count died in 1917. Shame. But he donated all his zeppelin to the city Wunderbar! And bizarrely, his inventions were picked up and automotive industries of a multi-billion-dollar Friedrichshafen gets a big chunk of this money get free vacations and free Well done, count. This museum is partly financed by the Zeppelin Foundation, but so is the university, for example. We also have kindergartens, swimming pools, etc. So there is quite a bit of prosperity here that can be to Graf Zeppelin and his entrepreneurial spirit. So he was really an innovative spirit, and he actually founded the first Silicon Valley in Friedrichshafen. Where does people's with zeppelins come from? You know, what, like, why are these things I think that has a lot to do with the Hindenburg, of course, and with the accident of the Hindenburg. Tragedy strikes. A terrific explosion in the tail and passengers and crew the ship and to the ground. Maybe if there wasn't video reporting about this event, maybe airships wouldn't as much as they did Right, exactly. And it was also, of course, during the time of National Socialism. And if you look at feature films today, for example, or look at video games where the Zeppelin also appears as an instrument of war or as a substitute for an airplane, it's often Nazis who are in these airships. Despite their reputation as both fiery and Nazi tools of war... I still want to ride one. Thar she blows. My airship awaits. Everyone tells you how awesome the experience is going to be. Now they've talked me into it. This is crazy. You can like, but so gently. Holy **** man, this is crazy. I genuinely feel like a wizard. It's so hard to explain. Like surfing in the sky. Of course, the real wizards Meet Katharine Board, It's got to be a relatively small club Maybe this is the smallest? Or... No- notice, whenever you mention a pilot's It's a very small club. There are more astronauts Okay. All right. And so that means what, Uh, maybe Okay. The great thing about flying an airship not by numbers. The big airplanes, it's Yeah. Okay yeah, there is a little bit when they finally actually do touch the controls, But it's different every day. And we go on the road We fly out of big airports, There's something like, if magical is the right word. It's almost like an to see this big thing gracefully, unlike any other aircraft It is a ship. Just looking at and the center of buoyancy, center of lift, all these things because we do float. We float in the air just like a boat on the water. you can't see the waves. I got to poke my head Yeah do that, yeah. That's crazy. I feel like a dog. You know, I don't love heights, the window, it's at all. So cool. Now there are these startups Is this like an exciting The idea that that maybe and this technology It's a great idea and of course it would be great I'm curious to see if that can be achieved. To find out if I headed back to America. Did I take a zeppelin? Only in my dreams. If Lighter Than Air then the future of the airship not in Germany or Silicon But here, in Akron, in the first place. The Navy airships USS Akron and USS Macon were built Goodyear kept going with this work its blimping empire. Now Lighter Than Air known as the airdock. It's where Sergei's even bigger Thank you for joining us Behind me, you can see the beginning that we're building It will be the largest airship since the Macon This is our very first test section, and this is where Pathfinder 3, and a hundred feet in diameter with a total lift of nearly Why did you come Just for the history just, and its size offers Yes. Here we are building the airship factory We can build year round, than you can build So that's why we're here. If you want to, we can probably organize to the top of the airdock. What is it? An elevator? Or do I have to climb? No no, there's a funicular that takes you to the top. Yeah. Okay. To take us up the funicular, we grabbed Harry, and Ohio local. This is the part that it hasn't been certified Hundred year old equipment... no. Okay, so everybody good? Braced, ready? I'm braced. Up goes the 90-year-old Have I mentioned I'm And one more. Okay! Okay. You know, when you look up, But then whenever and you see, like, trucks Holy crap. It looks like ants. The truck looks like nothing. Yeah, like a toy. Wow, that is crazy. This is making me feel When you work with people here everybody's got a story whether you had or somebody or you have a lot of family Like I had grandparents But seeing the blimp overhead, it didn't really mean It was a beautiful thing such a cool thing to see it. But then you realize, well, for, for us, right? Because, you know, you go a lot of places, And so you just have this kind of emotional attachment to it It almost feels like this place has been waiting for airship building And that's a lovely notion. to think Sergey, in fact, has invested He backed a company called that flew people on joy rides But it folded Long range trips? Hauling hundreds of tons of cargo? Even dicier. So what do you make of LTA and Sergey? You've got this guy to do whatever he wants going after tourism, he says, disaster I mean, is it trying to build It must be for you to have somebody How honest do you Very honest. Okay. I don't want to piss off and kudos to them for But to this day, to imagine the cargo. Yeah. Disaster relief. I find that difficult. I think that's going to take I'm not saying but it's going to take out the issues Al Weston, though, remains a true believer. I'm curious I know when you give your history of airships, Al Weston, I'm here to darken the skies, that you want to make Is that the plan a limited number of vehicles type efforts? What are you picturing? From the beginning of this I've been really intrigued about the question, can these airships be made quickly and affordably enough to be Is, does it make sense to make 100 or a thousand? Studies have suggested that there is a market, I think that we're standing but at the same time, new technologies, that the people in the past I believe that but we have to complete Right. There are plenty of reasons They're slow, they're complicated, they're expensive. They can only fly in specific The list goes on. But there's a feeling these massive sky whales It's a feeling of wonder And I think it's that feeling of airships aloft.