You probably already know about Finland's their great double-decker sleeper cars, complete you any of that today, as we are instead blue sleeper cars from 1978. So join me on this par with Finland's other excellent trains, as we Our journey starts at Helsinki's Main heart of the Finnish capital. The current with its iconic lantern-bearer But it's not only on the outside the and let me show you why this is also one I mean, just look at these chandeliers. I mean, that must be one of the Anyway, continuing straight ahead We're catching Pikajuna or which will be departing from By the departure boards, the station features also find a ticket office. These are, however, and its ticket machines doing most of the work find these modern luggage storage facilities. checking out from the hotel in the morning so you night train. Not hidden away in a basement are Helsinki has an extensive commuter rail network which you will most likely use if you arrive in link, and of course, also the great double-decker country. But we are, of course, not here to catch the platform roughly 15 minutes before departure with sleeper cabins, a dining car, and what we blue carriage sleeper cars. Tonight's train will built by SLM/ABB and is capable of speeds of up Unlike VR's double-decker carriages, there so if you have large luggage, yourself in one of the double-deckers. and you just go and head there yourself. Remember to grab the key card, which And as I was traveling alone, I folded up and with an on-time departure, we're now The first few minutes are spent navigating the Station, running past the famous Linnanmaki an important shoulder station where the line west And interestingly, our train is actually going VR also offers the ability to and in Helsinki, the loading station and here we see the car carrier wagons So while the carriages are being added to a bit. With the train now fully assembled, we're main line. And I think it's about time I'll We are on board Pikajuna 269, which leaves Tikkurila, Riihimaki, Hameenlinna, Oulu, Kemi before arriving into Tornio. few more stops further north to Kolari. The hours and 52 minutes to cover 811 km, giving As the light is quickly fading, it's time to the night. The cabin comes with coat hooks the top bunks. Luggage storage can be the cabin can be made up with up to three bunks, as a storage pocket. Over here, you will Next to the washbasin, you will also find you leave the cabin. This is the only power The cabin also comes with water as well up here. So honestly, despite their age, as it's getting dark, let's find out Good morning from Oulu. I've had a great night and the beds are comfortable. I can struggle a but on this one, I was able If you're a bit of a train geek like me, you'll want to get off the train here in Oulu, [Train Noise] And is swapped for diesel traction as the line lines still left in Finland. These are DR16 capable of speeds of up to 140 km per hour. service in Finland not to run exclusively with The train is scheduled to sit in Oulu for to take place, which meant a freight also looked like a lot of people opted to great to see. But as it's cold outside, Well, it's now time for the all-important toilet sink is working, there's a soap dispenser It's one of the more old-school toilets, The main drawback of these carriages unlike in the double-decker ones. But one a restaurant car. It's open for most of the the middle of the night. It comes equipped but there's also plenty of things on offer you Further down in the train, you will also which is also where you will find some during the night hours. Or if you really overnight journey in them as well. However, when I think you'll agree spending a little more A great feature in Finnish long-distance could put your backpack in here Finland is so safe it probably wouldn't even And here's what one of the double-decker us to continue for the final stretch up to Tornio. What a beautiful morning for some train which is our penultimate stop for important railway junction as we just north [Train Noise] Just after the river crossing, we leave the where most of the Finnish sleeper trains line towards Kolari, which sometimes And as we are now approaching Tornio, it's time in this cabin, which I think is amazing value for accommodation, especially in a Nordic country it's regularly possible to find tickets in a you book far in advance. Tickets can easily and shown on your phone. Prices vary based VR does not charge extra to book a lower double-decker cars, which also grants you access if still available. But if not, I would not Right, I hope you have enjoyed my review trains that still, despite their age, are an found on the Kolari Night Train but can also Helsinki to Rovaniemi route, especially Right, welcome to Tornio. Make sure to subscribe this. I try to post a new one every Sunday. You from my travels. It's a great place to get a sneak I'm now going to walk over to the Arctic high-speed train down to Lulea. so just press the card right Thank you so much for watching this video.