A cemetery on Long Island There is a grave here, with nothing unusual or distinctive, yet it holds the key to one of the Second World War's In capital letters, the gravestone bears a name Stuart Houston. Rest in peace, Brigid Elisabeth and William Patrick. The family name Brigid Hitler, the wife of Alois Hitler, an unwanted legacy passed down to her son. In his later years, he attempted to escape because of his uncle Adolf Hitler, and whose memory continues to haunt William Patrick managed but could never avoid the reality Is William Patrick Houston In order to find out, I shall have to delve into the past The story of William Patrick Hitler where he was born on March 12th, 1911, the son of Brigid and Alois Hitler, The history of the British branch resides in this birth certificate and in a few lines written It's testimony The Hitlers were a complex family Alois and his sister Angela half brother They all shared the same father, but did not have the same mother. Alois and Angela's mother was Franziska. Adolf and Paula were born to Klara, They were brought up together Alois Senior was a customs official. He was authoritarian He died in 1903, and Klara died in 1907. After moving to the UK and marrying an Irish woman, Alois settled in Liverpool, then one of England's with the world's largest port and a haven for immigrants Alois built up contacts and the future William Patrick's father by running a small restaurant a boarding house in Parliament Street, all of which failed. He was too eccentric Alois Hitler and his wife a working-class suburb of Liverpool. They lived here In 1913, Alois set up another project creating a safety razor company and commercializing its products He explained At the end of 1913, A few months later, in the summer of 1914, Alois disappeared Florian Beierl is a historian For years, relating to the family history. We don't know what he did We do know but there is no strict record of what Alois Hitler was doing Apparently, notably his brother Adolf, When the war was declared, in this crowd photo He was a simple army private, he was promoted to corporal At the end of the war in 1918, in the political chaos Embittered by the country's failure, In 1920, he helped transform the party into the National Socialist and became its leader in 1921. Hitler himself chose the swastika and created a paramilitary group, Meanwhile, back in Liverpool, alone and with no news of her husband, She joined a dance troupe. William Patrick was growing up. He attended primary school in Toxteth, In 1919, Brigid finally received news Alois had died during the war. In reality, Alois Hitler met another woman and they were married in 1916. Alois and Hedwig had a child in 1923, Alois was a father for the second time. His English son, William Patrick, Alois' ruse was discovered and as a bigamist, he risked prison. British historian Mike Unger has closely studied the relations He did ask Brigid. He wrote to Brigid, She said no. He wrote to her again and asked if she would give him saying that if she didn't, She felt sorry for him so she wrote this letter. As Alois faced judicial problems his brother Adolf launched a coup d'etat There were 16 casualties. Hitler was wounded by the police The party was banned, His trial was held and he was sentenced Adolf Hitler was incarcerated but stayed there for barely nine months. It was here that he dictated the first draft of Mein Kampf. In just a few months, Brigid and William Patrick renting a small house in Highgate, She soon found work William Patrick began in a company in central London. It was here that the first public photo The only known photo from the period. In Germany, Nazi Party meetings attracted Hitler chose Nuremberg and it wasn't by chance. The medieval city was the perfect setting and embody the project Frank McDonough is a historian Hitler stages where he appears People who were at these rallies They say it looked as though The second Nazi Party Congress was the scene of the first Hitler reunion since the family separated Alois and his family to take part Alois invited his son, He was 18 years old, and it was the first time I found a letter recounting his experience in Nuremberg. &quot;I'd heard a great deal about Nuremberg,&quot; &quot;and I was looking forward &quot;almost as much as Uncle Adolf.&quot; &quot;In fact, all I saw were flags.&quot; &quot;They were everywhere, &quot;I heard Uncle Adolf make a speech.&quot; &quot;There must have been &quot;Father went to talk to Adolf,&quot; &quot;and I hoped to get the chance &quot;When he returned, &quot;as Uncle Adolf didn't want I think when William Patrick Hitler he's turned not just from this uncle, he's turned into who's mesmerizing when he speaks. He's charismatic, and he's got hundreds Therefore, William Patrick Hitler He now knows he's part of a family Anyone would be amazed I think he's amazed too. He wants to go and join in It seems as though it's very exciting, Adolf Hitler was now totally invested On January 30th, 1933, at around midday, he finally achieved his aim The same evening, his militia paraded triumphantly This dramatic ascension In London, William Patrick was sacked as his surname was an embarrassment. Encouraged by his mother, I think you can interpret as opportunism, but remember, This is his uncle. Everybody has an uncle. Why shouldn't he want to get closer to him It's easy to dismiss as he's been dismissed by many historians, trying to latch onto a celebrity but this might not be true. It might be that he did genuinely want to get closer to his uncle, and maybe also to see his father, Alois, In Berlin, and the promise of a job for the Berlin department store, DeFaKa. Otto Schlepper worked for the same store. The Nazi Party appointed him He is the only living witness to William Patrick's life He recalls one episode in particular during that period. I saw him at a DeFaKa company party. William Patrick had been invited. The company organized fabulous receptions. This one took place in a grand hall at the Land Volker Casino He danced with a number of women. The problem was when he said Clearly, his knowledge of German The story spread quickly For the next dance, An attractive department head, asked him to dance. She explained to him that the words William Patrick Hitler understood that it was improper which means both to kiss and to screw. He then asked the woman what to say, gave him another word The result was that William Patrick with all the women at the party. After that, I lost touch with him. He didn't last long in the company. The Nazis had him sacked for his behavior. William Patrick He took advantage and believed he could do as he liked, which greatly displeased his uncle In 1933, Adolf Hitler's entire family His sisters were in Bavaria. Alois opened a wine bar William Patrick soon found a job where he was employed as an accountant. In Germany, Optimism returned. Berlin was once again and a scene of festivities, but they served as a smokescreen. The economy was reborn through rearmament, All of German society was submitted The first measures who were designated In this context came the violence For several months, the SA, had been a thorn in his side. During the night of June 29th to 30th, brutally assassinated dozens including their leader. On the evening of June 29th, William Patrick was sitting when an SS patrol appeared. They controlled every customer, When William Patrick showed his ID papers, &quot;The Fuhrer's name &quot;I suppose you are pretending William Patrick replied He was arrested and taken to Lichterfelde, Here, he asked to confirm his identity. Finally, the British Embassy William Patrick wrote: &quot;I'm sure I was on a list.&quot; &quot;Otherwise, &quot;especially not in a cafe However, his problems were far from over. On several occasions, William Patrick attempted who required his assistance. In October 1934, He wrote: &quot;My uncle was in an ugly mood.&quot; &quot;He said my mother &quot;and that I could send &quot;to her or anybody else.&quot; &quot;Then, with a curt Heil,&quot; &quot;he turned on his heel After these refusals, William Patrick decided It was discovered among correspondence by historian Florian Beierl. Dated November 29th, 1934, it was addressed to Julius Schaub, One extract says: &quot;I intend to make a declaration &quot;so that my situation &quot;I have to accept the idea&quot; &quot;that there is a conflict The very next day, William Patrick was summoned and presented to his uncle. When he returned he discovered and that he'd received What else was in the letter to his uncle Adolf Hitler, That is where it gets a little murky, because he is suggesting some kind of revelations which would be a bombshell. The man who really hates the Jews, the man who's built his reputation and was introducing turns out to be Jewish. Obviously, there was a little bit and he doesn't like that. Did William Patrick really possess perhaps pertaining Adolf Hitler feared any revelations which he kept in the background. He knew his nephew into the subject in Austria Hitler commissions Hans Frank, who is a key legal lawyer to go and investigate this whole issue. Did Hitler have some Jewish ancestry? This was a highly secret report. Frank found nothing compromising yet Hitler remained wary and preferred If you decided to blackmail Adolf Hitler, your chances of survival In the case of William Patrick Hitler, that Hitler refrained that would have been typical William Patrick was a nuisance and his father, Alois, Alois opened a restaurant only a few minutes' walk He'd bought the restaurant for a pittance Unable to join his uncle's inner circle William Patrick had to work. Between 1935 and 1937, he worked for Opel, first in a factory in Russelheim where he was employed Eduard Winter. He was once again harassed The Gestapo blocked his work permit Opel was obliged to fire him. The police accused him He found work in a Berlin restaurant The next day, he left Germany. It would appear World War II had not yet broken out, but Germany had been with the annexation Historians have several theories and pressure applied to William Patrick. By 1939, that prompted William Patrick Hitler Maybe he knew something Maybe he was threatened by members He must have been advised that what he was doing The version he gives to the blackmail of his uncle Adolf. If he wanted to stay in Germany, become German, He chose the latter option. William Patrick had just signed a contract with an American agent He and his mother where they set sail William Patrick and his mother on the period's finest ocean liner, a six-day first-class cruise He arrived in New York and was enchanted. At the time, the USA was isolationist, but the Americans were curious widely covered in the nation's press. In the days following his arrival, numerous articles were devoted to him William Patrick and his mother in a very rare document but it reveals something I hope that the American people will not be kidded by my moustache because, after all, not to mention. He became a curiosity His joke about his mustache He and his mother of the prestigious William Morris Agency and installed in the Buckingham Hotel Hitler's nephew signed a contract lasting several months around the USA, William Patrick was relying to find a lasting place In Europe, since Hitler invaded Poland. This only increased the appeal on American soil. For three years, He spoke of Adolf Hitler, and the other dignitaries he had met His name became his stock in trade. Some of his lectures became famous, where his presence caused a riot. Over the months, the interest dwindled. After speaking in prestigious halls, he had to make do with colleges At the end of 1941, and a request aroused the attention of the FBI. The FBI archives contain a file They were declassified and made available They reveal that J. Edgar Hoover, closely followed the movements With addresses, profiles, the files are succinct but very precise. Apparently, in mid-November 1941, there was no reason Since Great Britain entered the war William Patrick and his mother Brigid Hitler joined William Patrick talked The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor changed the course of the war The American fleet The day after the attack, On the 11th, Germany and Italy The war was now worldwide. William Patrick and his mother decided On March 14th, 1942, from President Roosevelt's cabinet It contained astonishing news. William Patrick Hitler expressing his desire In a letter, he explained to Roosevelt that he wanted to fight but that it was impossible Due to his name, neither Canada nor Great Britain in their armed forces. He, therefore, pleaded with the president The letter immediately triggered mobilizing several agents The inquiry took a certain amount of time. In March 1942, William Patrick as this document shows. He then took part carried out in 1942 the director of the OSS, This investigation, aimed to establish Marc Sageman, a former CIA profiler, His knowledge of his uncle I think Walter Langer volunteered At the time, People believed it was a science They thought it was worthwhile Walter Langer went around who knew Hitler. Also, he had a team of researchers newspapers, and articles about Hitler. One of the people interviewed After two interminable years of waiting, William Patrick Hitler finally got The American authorities He could join the US Navy. On March 6th, 1944, he was called at 85 Vanderbilt Avenue for enlistment. Exceptionally, cinema newsreels as if William Patrick were a star. He swore allegiance I'm the only living descendant and I expect shortly As a member of the armed forces, I hope to take an active part who has unleashed It was a declaration of war Adolf Hitler's reaction is unknown, but such images for high treason against his family. William Patrick was posted On April 30th, 1945, Uncle Adolf committed suicide Germany capitulated William Patrick's father, Alois, Japan signed its surrender The Second World War was over, and the world discovered the horrors the millions of dead and the final solution decreed This photo, taken in 1946 is the last image Now an American citizen, he disappeared. The name Hitler was a thing of the past. After the war, Adolf Hitler's name death, war, and destruction. You name what's negative, Nobody would like Where did William Patrick Hitler go? Did he stay in the USA Did he return to Great Britain A series of articles supplied details of his father's life. Arrested in Hamburg in August 1945 Alois Hitler was released the same day After the war, The Hitlers became the Hillers. For the British, after an investigation in 1946 His second son, Heinz, Alois spent his latter days in Hamburg He is buried in the vast Ohlsdorf Cemetery in a grave still identified However, there is no tomb The concession exists in his name A film found in German archives a film in which Alois' grave appears. Buried here are Alois and two other unknowns, Erna and Hans. Research reveals Hans was a cousin of Alois and Adolf. Erna, his wife, Erna had a daughter called Margot, Margot had a son called Michael, He's a cousin of William Patrick Hitler. The discovery of his home address Michael, Erna's grandson, He lives with his family in Jerusalem. A Hitler living in Israel is surreal. He and his mother both knew Alois, and above all, He must certainly know and perhaps have information A few other children of Nazi dignitaries and Nazis have followed The Jewish state was born and for some, going to live there Michael converted to Judaism Over the years, he has become at the University of Tel Aviv. This is the marriage contract When did it take place? That was in 1942. The Reichsgesundheitsfuhrer was there, The interesting thing in the second part is that it gives you You see here that Hans Hitler who must be an uncle of Alois. He claims his grandfather Hans which would make him a cousin he never met. Michael grew up in post-war Germany Living here in this country What can I do for a drunken grandmother Even if he has put the past behind him, he offers some precious details after the war. He was not killed who had been killed by the Russians He stayed safe after the war. I wasn't interested how he came to be. I knew that my grandmother Let that be. They changed the name officially but everybody knew that Hiller was Hitler. Michael has heard but knows nothing Back in Germany, about Alois' elder son. She claims to be and to have spent Packages arrived from America, and they came from William Patrick, There were lots of sweets I remember some red shoes. I also remember there being but especially candy. Apparently, in the United States, They were very good. Papy never talked about his American son. William Patrick stayed In New York, his mother Brigid Hitler The book was deposited An archivist there supplies us Hello. Here is your book by Brigid Hitler. My brother-in-law, Adolf. It came as part of the collection who was a literary agent His papers came to the library in 1959. It was only later that this manuscript He acquired it from Brigid Hitler. I'm not sure if he actually wrote it. Does that make sense? He was a literary agent, so he was trying to get this book The unfinished book contains about William Patrick with documents and photos too, nothing that could help locate them. Did they stay on the East Coast, or did they head west However, what is certain as if their disappearance American Social Security records show On her card, there is an address. It's a small suburb, Long Island is something Wooden houses in neat rows and lines, At the address indicated, It was here that Brigid Hitler, lived until she died. The new owners wish to remain anonymous, In the house next door, The second surprise This house also has a new owner, and the new inhabitants No one knows what became of the family, although they believe they stayed close Further discussion reveals that the family They changed their name to Stuart Houston, a name chosen It's an odd name, and one that proves After the war, choosing &quot;Stuart Houston,&quot; which clearly refers who was a renowned anti-Semite. He'd regarded Hitler Chamberlain wrote Germany would be saved. Choosing this name or pseudonym and that within him, there was an element of allegiance and, in part, to anti-Semitic ideology. I can't understand where not everyone knew no one would notice that he was making The Hitler line was therefore continued and even extended However, checking through there are no traces That means, ex-directory, If the children grew up they must have gone to school. Municipal libraries are often They notably keep school yearbooks, published every year by colleges The highlights in the students' lives along with photos. The yearbooks surprisingly reveal that William Patrick Hitler Alexander, Louis, Brian, and Howard. The one with the most photos is Howard, Notes show that he was a member One of the easiest of his friends to find but he is the bearer of bad news. Howard died at the age of 32 in a terrible car accident. He had just gotten married to Marie, Joseph and Howard met Joseph has videos of his friend, The video was shot Howard is the young man dancing in the foreground. He's wearing a white hat. At the end of the game, we can see him laughing He was the life and soul of the group as this other footage reveals What's with you and this camera? It's a mirror. Howard also told him this apparently ordinary, At the time I knew Willy, because that was a well-guarded secret, No outsiders knew about that, nobody. That's the way it had to be. Howard, his son, said: &quot;I have a little something We were outside, I couldn't believe it. It was just too fantastic to believe that the man I'd known was a relative of Adolf Hitler. The more it settled in, as to why they were I thought that's the way the family was. They minded their own business. Thanks to Joseph, it is finally possible After the war, William Patrick married They had four children, Alexander, Howard, Louis, and Brian. They are the last in the Hitler line, the last to bear a name During our interview, Joseph also provided valuable information He was great with his kids. He was an older father. He treated me like one of his sons, He was very heavily into the zodiac, into astrology, knowing your sign, and telling you what your fortune may be He was accurate too, He always reminded me He had the same voice. William Patrick led two lives, one in the spotlight, and the other in secret. William Patrick worked at home. Phyllis was a telephonist. They lived a life the main idea being How'd they live with such a secret? Was it not too big a burden for them, especially for the children The Hitler's secret weighed heavy Of the three surviving brothers, Brian and Louis chose to live together staying with their mother The two brothers created Brian and Louis lived I'm sure a paranoia does exist for at least two because they still live together, They have a business together, They do their business, and they go home. Brian and Louis building a wooden fence around their house a barrier against any curious visitors. There have been no photos taken since they left high school, but during our preparatory work, we managed to get some unique shots In this photo, we can see Brian, This is Louis, 63, The third and eldest brother He has chosen to live alone. Alexander also has William Patrick and Phyllis' eldest child a name with an ambiguous, His parents baptized him Adolf. Alexander Stuart Houston yet, of the last three Hitlers, if still discreet. Alex was more like Howard. He found humor in everything, He was a social worker, for Pete's sake. You can't work with other people In my opinion, I believe he took or the Hitler thing, &quot;All right, that's part of my life. &quot;I didn't do it. That's how he lived his life. Whether or not he had other things It'd appear cut all ties with his uncle but appearances can be deceptive. Certain indications The first clue is this book, now available The second, is in homage The third indication Why so much mystery? Did he want us to find traces Did he perhaps hope his own story Wherever you start penetrating you always see some hidden hints, which makes it easier to look at the whole matter, but it doesn't make it easier for us because William Patrick Hitler who was continuously drawn back and forth into different ways of thinking the country he decided to go to, Germany, and the country he ended up living in, We will never get an answer. William Patrick died His will has remained secret, The only clause we can guess at on Long Island, next to his mother. Did William Patrick die Apparently, there was a great dilemma because they felt very awkward and uncomfortable burying him It wasn't his real name. There was a strong feeling that perhaps this was the time I think at the end of the day, they decided to keep their lives private. I think that had he successfully then he would have been but he didn't really. The fact that we're still talking I think he kind of failed, if you like. His children are still living His wife lived with it Thinking about it, I think he was buried Unbelievably, the four brothers, are believed to have taken an oath a pact to put an end A close family friend has confirmed this, a reliable source In order to verify this, we would have to meet but it is impossible to talk to They don't want to talk. That leaves Alexander Adolf. By chance, heavy snows the day before meant William Patrick's eldest son in front of his house on Long Island. With a hidden camera in my glasses, I approached Alexander Hello? Are you Alexander Stuart Houston? Yes, who are you? My name is Emmanuel. I'm a French film director. Oh, I don't want to talk to you. I won't talk to you. I know what you're here for, I just wanted to let you know Nobody knows anything about my father, It's nice, I'm glad. Do you know what? My brothers and I had a talk, and we said Okay. It's not important to us, Okay. I haven't said anything to anybody yet, I read the book Why? Nothing, he wrote a book about it, Do you mean what he wrote isn't true? No. We're not going to say We'll not change the story. His book is one of the only sources... I would say at least 50% of it is wrong. -Really, is it that bad? That's what writers do. They recoup, rewrite, Do you want to know something? Not you directly, Yes, I know, unfortunately. It's not a good part either. To have the story told once and for all... Do you want to know something? If I wanted to tell it, To avoid people coming I can't stop people from coming, I don't want to talk. Did you make a pact with your brothers My brothers and I have a policy of not talking Okay. That's what you want, No, that's okay. Why did your father call you Adolf? You do your story, That's it, the end of the story. Okay, all right. I'll see you. To this day, Alexander, Lewis, and that situation They're getting older. We may never know Perhaps one day they will say, Secrecy is part of their lives, yet there is a certain paradox. Their father grew up as a Hitler and founded a family Why do the other Hitlers to live like ordinary people? Is it a form of punishment? Are they the victims It's difficult to imagine deciding to put an end to the lineage. It wasn't William Patrick Hitler's choice. He felt quite legitimately and continue the lineage, The idea that the next generation to refrain from having children is possible to imagine. It's a hypothesis that makes you think since it means they believed in their family's blood. It means that within themselves, they were convinced which goes to show