I think the magic of the deadline is that it forces you to focus. Look, I only have this much time. If I have this goal, And then everything which is not related to that, it just drops away completely. It's so beneficial to have some kind of meaningful deadline. It could be about customers. We need to ship this by a certain date. We need to actually get it done by then. That's why I was kind of able to achieve the things. Hi, I'm John Whaley, I'm the founder of Inception Studio and also founder of three cybersecurity companies. MOKA5, UNIFYID and Redcoat AI. I graduated from MIT with my master's and bachelor's in computer science, with my PhD in computer science. I'm also on the Stanford faculty Inception Studio is a very unique model. Unlike most accelerators, we're actually which means we don't take any equity in the companies. That's because we're focused on quality. We want to get the very best quality founders anywhere. We focus on the very earliest stages. We run these 72 hour retreat events, about what you might want to do, form a team, and then you actually go So it's super intense, which is intentional. You're looking for co-founders. You want to know We've had quite a few success stories Andy Chou, who's he was previously founder He came to one of our inception events, the first one, in fact, at the end of that event, he had a team. He had a refined idea, he had a demo, and he had a set of investors who were all They ended up raising by Andreessen Horowitz. It's a very interesting area. This idea like happened at the inception event. I got started with computers very young, like at five years old, my family had bought a computer. We didn't really have many games for the there used to be these magazines, listings for games you could type in, So that's how I got started. Back when I was five, and I would just like sit there and type in all the code. And then of course, as you're typing this, And then because I was like not satisfied I wanted to be able to make modifications And so like, I would have to basically to get it to do what I wanted. That's that's how I got started. I've been doing computer science like ever I was not a good student. I had all of my teachers They were like, they said, oh, and you're going to struggle you're going to fail classes like that. My first sense that I was I'm actually good at this stuff is like there was a qualification round I had taken the AP Computer Science as And then my teacher there, she learned She's like, why don't you try this? And so other problems I had in the computer science class were like, pretty easy. Those problems they had on the And there's one problem in particular and I was just like, I just gotta figure this out. And then later on, I actually found out had had solved that one. I think there were six problems. And there was like one like nobody else had solved except for me. So that was my first indication. That would be like, And then I kind of did It was like, you have the format there and you have to like basically program the solution In preparation for that, and this was actually the algorithms book And so that was the main reason There's so many amazing algorithms I love just reading about them That was kind of like what opened my eyes I was very fortunate to get accepted but I think because I had I think based on that, then I got accepted to MIT. I don't think it's I had any kind than kind of other people. I think I just like was much more dedicated to it because I had that deadline. I think the magic of the deadline It's like I'm never able to finish But like as soon as like I get that pressure, then it just clarifies everything. It's like, well, look, I only have here's what I need to do to achieve it. And then everything which is like not related to that. It just drops away completely. So I think it's for me personally, of just allowing me to like really focus. That's why I was kind of able to achieve the things. Myself and like some of the other members in the computer science department at Stanford, we met with Vinod Khosla, who is founder of Sun, and we talked with him, we received like a term sheet from him. Effectively what he said was like, here's I was actually planning to be a professor. I had interviewed at a bunch like faculty jobs that I didn't get So I was at that kind of life stage what to do next, I was like, oh, we can found this company. And like that was it's like, yeah, So that was my first company. Basically a MOKA5, what we're trying to build was we call it And like we envisioned the world maintaining software and maintaining your and antivirus and things like that. This is like back in the early 2000. It's like, oh, It used to be like, you would go to the store and you would like, buy a CD and you'd install the software on your computer. And we envisioned the world like use providing your computing service. Say, hey, I want Photoshop. And they would like turn on a switch, and would be a new icon in your desktop. And like we naively believed of like cable company, your DSL, they're going to get lock in there. They're going to have It's providing a great service. And like everyone's going It was like, no, okay. That's not. (We) ignored The place where we actually started to get an opportunity on the business side where to provide computing environments, but And the big breakthrough for us It was like the sexy new computer But these companies were like, we're a Microsoft shop. All the business phone was BlackBerry, all the enterprise features. And then iPhone came along and they wanted to bring these into I was like, well, it doesn't support MDM Well, we don't care And so then there's an opportunity there. So we rode that opportunity your own device like all of that. And so that was like when we started to do That was the opportunity that existed in the market. And then we started to get some early traction there. And our first really big customer was Goldman Sachs. We had to do some like crazy I was like not very much money for an They can use us in perpetuity. That's the type of deal that you have because as soon as you got Goldman Sachs, all interested because like Goldman Sachs And like all of that, it's like, oh, we're now interested in you. But we've made a lot of missteps along the way. There's a time period where we ended of a consumer type, not really enterprise. We end up burning a bunch of money that kind of later on just ended up kind of compounding over time. And so it gets harder and harder. As you hit a series C and series D, We kind of went through multiple CEOs enterprise deals. It's like elephant hunting. It's either you're going to like kill big huge like multi-million dollar deal. And it's just like, hey, or that Po doesn't come in in time. And we also like hiring a bunch of really And it's a difficult game, especially big enterprise deals as a small company. Some of the big lessons Number one, just because somebody doesn't mean it's a good idea In this case, it was like Vinod came and I was like, oh, for no, it's famous. This must be a great idea. Actually, there was not exactly true Another big lesson is like, really about who you have as investors. Investor may be nice to you, but when they there's a lot of expectations there. Push comes to shove, what the interests of the founders are. So again, being kind of careful about your first 20, like your founders they determine like, what is the DNA for Those first 20 employees should be Like what are the skills like for the ones that are going to stick around there? They're going to have a huge impact So like, and what kind of company Is it like customer focused? Is it like technology? Those are all determined And that's determined Through my experience through at I was doing things that was kind of not authentic. I wasn't particularly passionate about that problem, and I was doing a lot of things where it's like, oh, In retrospect, it was like it put everything in perspective for me about what was actually important in life. The company was kind of like less and we ended up at a point where it's like, And then things really just crumbled And they ended up like fire I started my second company called UNIFYID In UNIFYID, we saw this problem How do you identify yourself in the age of computers? This is often a password. I come up with some secret And then that's how you know that it's me. By the way, I'm not very good at coming because, like, I'm going to reuse them all over the place. What if we say that we're not going to They just be themselves. Is there is it possible to, like, And the answer is actually yes, because like the way that you walk and the way you type, you combine them all together, And it's like, this is almost certainly So that was a world where I envisioned. At UNIFYID we told a really big story, winning at a bunch Like we were runner up We ended up winning at RSA. Based on that, we ended up raising and it's like, okay, now we have the money. Now let's go in and pursue that goal. And then it took us a long time where it's like the technology reached to the point the things that we wanted to achieve. In retrospect, like we would have been better off biting off a much smaller chunk and like that specter of like, hey, We have like 18 months because it And UNIFYID we kind of ended up having You know, we didn't achieve our full potential there. There's all these like very interesting intermediate points where we could have spent two months and built something that would have gotten us revenue right away and solved customer problems right away. All that changed when I did UNIFYID. Honestly, I just became much more open Curious thing happened when that happened. Whereas like, people started to react And then it was like, oh, it turns and like when you're honest about things And then like, naturally, people It was like, this is a company we want to build. This is the way we want to do things. But it was like very honest And then a lot of things that were I'd easier just in terms of like things inspiring people and that sort of thing. We eventually got acquired back in 2021. I was kind of at a point in my life where I'm very much a startup person. I like the kind of early stage I knew in the large language model and generative and machine learning like to do and the other type of stuff we're doing, we're using a lot of sophisticated machine learning algorithms and everything. So from that I was familiar with transformers and like everything that was happening in the LLM space, I knew that there was a huge, very interesting It was began to explore and look around Honestly, it was not making because it was me sitting alone in my bedroom I had no deadlines. I had no pressure. My life was just too comfortable. Time was just passing by GPT 3 had come out. There's kind of murmurings GPT 4, there's going to be coming out soon. I need to make more progress here. I know what I needed, number one, I needed remove myself from all my distractions. And so I needed to go away somewhere just to be able to like, focus. Number two is I needed to be surrounded Most importantly is I needed a deadline. I go to Hackmit pretty much every year I love the kind of hackathon vibe and that you have and like the for the fact So like it's just sort to kind And so we went on Vrbo, like the vacation which is like middle of nowhere. And I just started calling we have this place in the countryside. Do you want to, like, go out there and just try to build a startup? And the topic area was large language And so this was in November 2022. The event happened about ten days So like the timing was was perfect. And then out of that first event, which is really exciting. The reason the event was so good of the people there was really high. We want to run some more of these events, what kind of structure should this have? Like, and I've seen things like and just a bunch of others like these type They all had a common failure mode there, and then they would try to scale and they then they would not get as good founders. The quality dropped. And so like there was like an adverse the best people would choose not to go. And it started just like eventual downward And so it's like, well, why don't Why don't we make it a nonprofit? We just want to run these events When you're a nonprofit, about like, well, who owns the IP? Our goal is not to make a profit That's very short sighted view. The genesis of the next billion or $100 billion company is like at that event. That is the actual value. You know, maybe you get a chance or otherwise develop those relationships. That's where their actual value is. That's where you're going to get, you That was the genesis of Inception Studio. AI space is moving really quickly. The fundamentals don't really change about I'm building a company. I'm starting a company about like What is the need that like you're How do you reach that customer? How were you ten times better If your solution is, hey, we take and then we just kind of wrap it up in a That is not really But if you're solving a real customer and it could be differentiation in terms of access It could be unique insights that you have like how you bring the thing to market, I know, like all of the people who are in this space and I've sold to them before and they all trust me, and so I can bring this to market That can be your differentiation there. And like, you can still be successful. And don't be fooled by the fact that have raised a whole bunch of money. That's all they are fundamentally. Those are not what you want to be spending your time on. Yeah, sometimes people get lucky But even major ones like with Sora that OpenAI is releasing. These are like some well funded with Pika Labs once that like, you know, It's like, oh, that's a real question there. They're gonna have to keep because it just becomes really, And I think there's I mean, there's I'll call it like the big boys game. You're building huge foundational models how many GPUs can I have and what kind That is a game that is unless you are very well funded. This is why you need to like raise Anthropic and Mistral and those ones, with the Googles and the OpenAI's That's a hard game to play, is like determined by your access to data And like, you're how deep your pockets are and then but there's a whole kind there's great viable businesses there. Like we can have like a lot of differentiation where you're kind of being AI native, like you're actually fully and there's a huge, massive appetite for this. If you look at AI budgets maybe 3 or 4 years ago and like just globally like IT spend, how much of it I think it like doesn't It's like less than 1% now. It's huge. A huge proportion of the money because there's so much promise. It's really unlocked with ChatGPT about what the capabilities And like this generative AI It's not only like there's hype around it, behind it as well. And companies are spending like to basically develop AI solutions that and you can position yourselves there's a massive opportunities there. We're in the midst There's like layoffs happening Economy is not great, It's a challenging environment. If you look back to kind of 2008, are formed like during that time. Same thing is going to happen here. Some will be like the kind of opening eyes like like huge foundational model things. Other ones are going to be around like using generative AI for finance or generative AI It's going to end up touching all and there's going to be some clear winners there.