Thanks to Curiosity Stream for supporting The Earth never shook beneath their feet. We've never found their remains in the rocks. And by some standards, they're not even They're just bits of protein and genetic Or worse. But they're also proof that even the very on the history of life. I'm talking, of course, about those tiny about: viruses. There's no fossil record of viruses in the They're just too small and fragile to be But there are fossils of viruses, of sorts, infected. Including you. And, yeah, I mean, me too. To some extent I guess. But this molecular fossil trail can help us they evolved with the rest of us. And it can even help us tackle the biggest Are viruses alive? The key to the viruses' success is their In general, they consist of a bit of genetic in a capsule of protein. Many are small, of course, on the order big. But they all rely on infecting some sort of We think that viruses have been around as infect all forms of life: bacteria, archaea, And because they're so simple, some scientists the earliest cells. But without real fossils, how can we know Enter the science of paleovirology. This is a young field within paleontology, genomics. In order to look for traces of ancient viruses, hosts. It makes sense when you think about how viruses Viruses have to infect a host cell to access DNA, and then hijack that machinery in order Which is, like, when I say it out loud such a scumbag move The host cell is forced to manufacture new hosts to infect. Except...the virus and the host don't always Sometimes, the genome of the virus can become And as long as it doesn't cause a mutation information may stay there indefinitely. And, if this happens in a cell that forms be inherited, passed on to the host's offspring So in this way, the viral genome becomes a And those ancient bits of viral information That's because, ordinarily, viruses change That's why you have to get a new flu shot A virus mutates so fast that, after only a genome may be left. However! If that DNA is integrated into its host, then And since hosts reproduce more slowly than All this means that the viral gene will be way longer than a virus that's just floating Now, scientists can use this to help figure And they do it the same way they study the sequences from different organisms, and comparing If a sequence of viral DNA is found in two got it from a common ancestor. And that means the virus has to be at least So, for example, circoviruses are a group problems in dogs. And scientists once thought that circoviruses But traces of these viruses have been found even pandas. So the viruses must date back to before those might be as much as 68 million years ago, So, what's the oldest evidence of viruses? Well, one study in 2011 looked at the history wasps. And it found evidence to suggest that the old the insects themselves, dating back to ago. But other research has brought the history Research in 2009 dated a gene found in mammals, evolution, between 125 and 180 million years And that gene is thought to have originally a type of RNA virus called a retrovirus. And guess what. You're a mammal. So. some retrovirus infected a sperm or egg cell years ago, and now a gene derived from it And again, yeah probably me too Scientists don't think this gene has much one of many examples of how viruses have left In fact, it's been estimated that 8 percent originally came from viruses. So paleovirology has helped us date the evolution But that doesn't bring us much closer to of years ago. Now, there are a few different models for hotly debated by scientists. So, just be prepared if you pick a side, One model is known as the virus-first model, simpler than cellular life, they must have This would mean that viruses are older than They'd be relics of a time when all life probably made of RNA, which preyed on more complex But there's also what's known as the escape This model suggests that viruses evolved after See, our genomes contain pieces that can actually our DNA to another. So, some experts think that if one of those of protein, it could easily escape the cell The third model hinges on the discovery of The first one, discovered in 2003, was named And these things are huge by virus standards, That's bigger than some bacteria. Now fortunately, they only infect amoebas, so At least yet. Now, Mimiviruses have way more genes than can be used to make protein -- which viruses But Mimiviruses still depend on their hosts doing in there? Some scientists think those genes are leftovers bigger, more complex, and more like cellular This model suggests that viruses were once relationship with another organism. And then over time that relationship became Which sometimes happens The more dependent they became on their hosts lost. Or at least, so the thinking goes. But recent research has cast doubt on this where Mimivirus is concerned. Some scientists argue that the extra genes it picked up from its hosts over the eons. Now, these different models all put different Now I said at the beginning that paleovirology And it can. But the answer depends a lot on who you Many scientists are content to just put viruses But others are determined to figure out whether And if so, where. To answer the question of whether viruses of life. It's generally agreed that life can reproduce, environment within its cells, and can evolve, Viruses can reproduce, but not on their own. And we've already talked about how viruses But they have no way to produce energy. And they can't control their internal environment. And that's why they occupy such a gray area: others no. It has been suggested that, while viruses of life, they might be thought of as vines Which is an elegant image. If also maybe a little creepy one But either way, viruses are here. They're in our DNA. They make us sick, sometimes very badly. So there's no denying that they have a place is like. For good or for ill. Thanks for joining me today, and you're viral or whatever. And thanks also to Curiosity Stream for continuing With CuriosityStream you can stream documentary and history, including Curiosity Stream originals! One show you might like? Rapidly Evolving Human, which explores how we are today, and why we continue to evolve. You can learn more at curiositystream.com/eons, and when you sign up, use the code EONS. Now, what do you want to learn about? And you know we read these comments, because that's So leave a comment below, and if you haven't