How does the internet work? The video you are watching now traveled thousands of miles from a Google Data Center to reach Let's learn how the internet works by getting to understand the details of The data center which can be thousands of miles away from you has your video stored inside it. how does this data reach your mobile phone or a laptop? An easy way to achieve this goal would be with use of satellites. From the data center, a signal could be and then from the satellite a signal via another antenna near to you. However, this way of transmitting signals is not a good idea. Let's see why. The satellite is parked nearly 22,000 miles above the earth's equator, so in order for the data transmission to be successful, the data would have to travel a total distance of 44,000 miles. Such a long distance of travel causes a More specifically it causes huge for most internet applications so if this video does not reach you via a satellite then how does it actually get to you? Well it is done with the help of a complicated network of optical fiber cables, which connect between the data center and your device. Your phone could be connected to the but ultimately at some point your to this network of optical fiber cables We saw at the beginning that the video is stored inside a data center. To be more specific, it is stored in a This SSD acts as the internal memory of a server. The server is simply a powerful computer other stored content when you request it. Now the challenge is how to transfer the data stored in the data center specifically to your device via the complex network of optical fiber cables. Let's see how this is done. Before proceeding further we should first which is the concept of an IP address. Every device that is connected to the Internet whether it is a server a computer or a string of numbers known as an IP address. You can consider the IP address similar to your home address that is the address, Any letter sent to you reaches you precisely because of your home address. Similarly in the internet world an IP through which all information reaches Your internet service provider will decide the IP address of your device and you are able to see what IP address your ISP has given to your The server in the data center also has The server stores a website so you can server's IP address. However, it is many IP addresses. So to solve this problem domain names like youtube.com, facebook.com etc are used which correspond to IP addresses which are easier for us to remember than the long sequence of numbers Another thing to notice here is that a server has the capability of storing several websites and if the server consists of multiple accessed with the server's IP address. In such cases additional pieces of information, host headers are used to However, for the giant web sites like Facebook.com or YouTube.com the entire data center infrastructure will be dedicated To access the internet we always use From where does the internet get IP addresses corresponding to our domain name requests. Well, for this purpose the internet uses a huge phone book known as DNS. If you know a person's name, but don't know their telephone number you can simply look it The DNS server provides the same service to the internet. Your internet service provider or other organizations can manage the DNS server. Let's have a recap of the whole operation. You enter the domain name, the browser sends a request to the DNS After getting the IP address, your browser simply forwards the request to the data center, more specifically to the respective Once the server gets a request to access The data is transferred in digital format via optical fiber cables, more specifically in the form of light These light pulses sometimes have to travel thousands of miles via the During their journey they often have to go through tough terrains such as hilly areas or under the sea. There are a few global companies who lay and maintain these optical cable These visuals show how the laying of optical fiber cables is done with the help of a ship. A plow is dropped deep into the sea from and this plow creates a trench on the In fact, this complex optical cable network is the backbone of the Internet. These optical fiber cables carrying the light are stretched across the seabed to The router converts these light signals to electrical signals. An Ethernet cable is then used to transmit the electrical signals to your However if you are accessing the Internet using cellular data, from the optical cable the signal has to be sent to a cell tower and from the cell tower the signal reaches your cell phone in the form of Since the Internet is a global network organization to manage things like IP this is all managed by One amazing thing about the transmitting data when compared with This video you are watching you in the form of a huge collection of What makes the data transfer in the internet efficient is the way in which these zeros and ones are chopped up into small chunks known Let's assume these streams of zeros and ones are divided into different packets by the server where each packet consists of six Along with the bits of the video each number and the IP addresses of the With this information the packets are routed towards your phone. It's not necessary that all packets are routed through the same path and each packet independently takes the best route available at that Upon reaching your phone the packets are reassembled according to their sequence number. If it is the case that any packets fail to reach your phone and acknowledgement is sent from your phone to resend the lost packets. Now compare this with a postal network with a good infrastructure, but the regarding the destination addresses. In this scenario letters won't be able to reach the correct destination. Similarly in the internet we use management of this complex flow of data The protocols set the rules for data packet conversion, attachment of the source and destination addresses to each packet and the rules for routers etc for used are different. We hope this video has given you a good understanding about how the internet more specifically about the amazing journey of data packets from the data center to your mobile phone. Please don't forget to support us at