Hey, it's me, Destin. We are here at Lookout Mountain, I made a video years ago called The Mystery of the Prince Rupert's Drop about this peculiar little piece of glass Really tough. But if you even nick the tail, So what I'd like to do today is I want to get back to the basics, When I first tried. To understand this thing, I would like to recreate an experiment First scientists that ever put time He actually suspended it in epoxy, let And then you can see the spatial fragment glass fragmentation, So I'm so excited. So we're going to do is GOGGLE UP! Let's go in here, meet my buddy Cal, some more Prince Rupert's Drops. So we could take it back to my shop Learn more about how this thing works. Let's go get Smarter Every Day (Smarter Every Day Guitar Sting) What are YOU going to do? We've got a guard dog. All right, here we go. How's it going, man? Cal: Good to see you too! Hey, Eric here's a fist bump. Hey nice to meet you! All right, so Cal is going to make. Some Prince Rupert's Drops for us. (Sounds of furnace and glass tinkling in background) &lt;LOUD SIZZLE SOUND&gt; &lt;Metallic Clank and BANG! &gt; Destin: That one broke &lt;Long Sustained Sizzle as it hits&gt; Here at Orbix hot glass. using the properties of glass. When glass heats up, it expands. And when it cools down, it contracts. And it was here that I first learned about We made Prince Rupert's drops by dripping And when the glass hit the water, It hardened up. And then it started to contract The inside, however, was still molten. So as it started to cool, it pulled in on that outside shell, This is a Prince Rupert's Drop the outside is in an extremely high But the inside is in extremely high The mystery, the Prince Rupert's If you hit the outside with a hammer, But if you even nick the tail, It will actually explode. That's why these things are so interesting. They're even tougher than I first several other experiments at Prince Rupert's drops And it's not until the tail wiggles Today, We want to see if we can characterize distribution of the glass as it flies away (Destin's Voice Echoing in cardboard box) I was successful in my attempts. To transport the Prince Rupert's drops here to the house. Trent's with me today because we have two High Speed cameras to run. We're going to run this one right here, It runs very fast. that'll do 25,000 frames per second So here's what we're going to do I got to readin' the paper, I was a little bit wrong. He didn't actually. He actually used this stuff. It's called ICTY- UH -Cola, I believe, but it's a really fancy That's interesting. And the way he did it, Prince Rupert's drop. And then wrapped it in leather retain its shape when it exploded That's not what I want to do, though. We've got these plexiglass boxes here. I want to fill it with an epoxy. This is a two-part epoxy. Used for furniture stuff. It's one to one mixture. So we're going to mix this in here. We're going to use (laughs) we're going to mix that stuff in one of these cups And the purpose of doing And then I'm going And what I'd like to do is Hardness of the resin to be where when we crack the Prince Rupert's the explodey-ness of the You'll notice that we have this angle propagation of the fracture wave as it goes down the. So the one high speed Camera But the other one I would like to get it nose on like this in this radial direction. So I think we prepare the epoxy, we know how long the epoxy is hardening, We'll get aligned and then I'll pop it and then we'll get the high speed You cool with that? OK, cool. So that's step one duration of time. That represents a certain hardness factor. And then we'll interpolate between there and see if we can get the Oh man, this feels like a thing... &lt; Music Starts &gt; I need gloves don't I? This makes me so happy, dude. Oh, I got a lot of air Startin' the clock! Analog for the win. &lt;Drill motor winds up&gt; Oh! A BUG went in there! This is how Jurassic Park happens. Oh, man, it's not what we want. Get out of there, bug! All right, that pen's done. It's warm already. We're going to pull the uh.... pull the bubbles out of that. Let's get a camera over here &lt;Vacuum Pump rattling&gt; There she goes!! Getting all the air out of it That's a lot of air. I don't think I Mix-A-Tronic'd 6000 &lt;Fast Forward Vacuum Pump Sounds&gt; All right. I think when we let pressure back All right. Reapplying atmospheric pressure oh, the bubbles are getting small. It's getting clear.... It's got streaks You can't really see.... it's kind of cloudy It's not crazy warm. Trent: You might need to mix it some more. D: Mix it some more? This is the manual Mix-a-tronic 2000 it's getting clear. I want to put more vacuum on that... Turning it off.... OK. Yeah, that's crazy. If I mix it by hand, it gets cleaner OK. And we did end up with Jurassic Park style. Oh, it's smokin'!!!! (Clearly excited and perplexed) You see this!? Trent: &lt;Laughing&gt; Oh, I do see... It's su...moking! Exothermic to the max! All right, here we go. I'm kind of scared of the Prince Rupert's drop. Your goggles are all my goggles are on. I'm going to position Oh, it's getting hard. Trent: Oh, man. What happened? I got, like, a hard layer oh, it's getting hard. FAST. T: Close your mouth. D: Oh, yeah! Good point! D: Ready? &lt;Quick Count&gt; Three, two, one. &lt;CRACK!&gt; OK, trigger... Whoa! &lt;Spitting noises&gt; My mouth was open a little bit. OK.... Fragmentation did not move a lot so that actually solidified too hard. It was at 23 minutes since the moment Let's see what we have here. Yeah. Didn't get a lot of movement at all. You can see that solidified in kind of a weird way. NOT what I was going for. I actually thought that &lt;Disappointed&gt; Less than ideal results... Um, let's go see &lt;Slowmo Explodey Thunder Sounds&gt; that's fast. All right, so playing through out of focus that's cool. So you can see it run. The racetrack, right? OK, so look. At the fragment. Distribution up top. Out, but the down below, we kind. Of overexposed. A little bit. But the the epoxy is impeding We have to science harder. You can always get what you want... but if you try, sometimes (giggles) Look at that. When I was putting it I couldn't go below that. So we're not solidifying So I think we need to insert Yes. And what this also means is An asymmetric fragmentation. Distribution because the viscosity ....homogeneous. Trent: Whatcha doing there? &lt;Giggles&gt; Oh, you know... just trying to mix the vertical strata I remember my baseball coach taught me that mixing eggs &lt;Vacuum Pump Flips on and rattles&gt; &lt;Pump flips off&gt; We're pretty goopy this time. Smoking's happened. OK, I'm going to try in three.... two... one Trying..... Don't trigger yet. Here we go. And..... &lt;BANG!&gt; Ouch! Oh, it's hot. Oh, man. It got on my finger and it sunk. Trent: You alright? Destin: Yeah, I'm good. It's the epoxy was hotter. Than I expected. OK, I'm going to wash that off for a quick With the epoxy on my watch, uh... That was like, 18, 19 minutes, man. OK, this is hard &lt;Slowmo crashes&gt; &lt;You can hear the shards above the water differently than what's in the container&gt; &lt;The high speed camera doesn't record sound&gt; &lt;we add that back in with sound design&gt; The fluid is too liquid. We might not be able to do this because it and then it fell down, So there's definitely a shockwave. This shockwave propagates right into the bulb, right Like there's Oh, we learn something. OK, so there's a shockwave that just goes along the axis of the bulb boom. And then afterwards, the. Fragmentation. OK, so a pressure wave hits the glass that's cavitation, I assume, on the glass. Trent: So right there is when it gets the biggest Destin:It sure does. T: Hydrostatic pressure of the fluid, right? D: I would think so. How can we make that shot better? You're asking the right questions. So we need to get a shot and the first shot to viscosity. So it's like right Well, we know. Yeah. It's like it's It starts smoking. &lt;We're like, all right, &lt;Pumps, valves, liquids... the sounds of general awesomeness&gt; Trent: I see smoke. You see magic smoke? T: I see magic smoke, D: Magic, smoke tiiiiiime! &lt;Silly voioce&gt; We need to wait 2 minutes for magic smoke. Time to take effect. It's gelatinous. OK, ready? Yep. Three, two, one. &lt;Destin talking to himself&gt; T: Keep it centered! &lt;Not keeping it centered&gt; Can't even see it anymore. T: &lt;More stern&gt; Keep it centered... D: &lt;grunts&gt; Trying... &lt;THUMP!&gt; &lt;Surprised&gt; oh, it turned! Gah! it turned on me. It twisted. I have failed OK, it still fell. The whole thing was gelatinous. Look at that. Holy cow. T: Already? So magic smoke time, IS IT. I mean, that's it, man. We did get it to expand hey! As far as accomplishing. What we were trying to accomplish, OK, so goes. We were able to capture that, the spatial fragment distribution So that's not homogeneous in terms of viscosity or hardness. It's not. It doesn't look like I wanted, which was like the galaxy. Frag pattern, but we're gonna So mix... magic smoke.... let the top get hard... T: And then wait OK, on day two we're making two changes here. First of all, we're not going shear the Prince Rupert's drop. Which ends up torquing it. We're going to use these bolt cutters Hopefully that won't spin And also we've made smaller boxes. The hope here is that we can see through OK, we're going to mix up And we're going to let it get &lt;General Sciencing Noises&gt; Whoops! Ha Ha ha! Had a blowout! Oh, it's got little air bubbles -Hah, yeah OK, here we go. Ready? I'm ready. Mouth closed? &lt;Crisp Crack, Feels more controlled&gt; Awesome. Heh, Hah! Hu Ha Oh, it's beautiful, dude. -Got it. Airs coming in all the way there's air coming in and it's I don't know, man, but that's -Yes, it is. I'm going to set this right here while So here's that footage sped up, like bubble emanating And the more I look at this the less I'm sure I understand Is it the internal stresses in the epoxy? Is it some type of air coming down all the way I don't really know. But what I DO know is the slow motion is awesome. It's pushing a that's a shockwave. It's pushing a shockwave in the &lt;Nerdgasm&gt; OH ITS A REFLECTED SHOCK WAVE! -HAHA! Should we try to do that Yeah, it's set up right now. I also want to get the curlicue Oh, man, I love this so much. So we. Didn't end up freezing Drop medic explosion But we did end up in my favorite place things I've never done before and the artistic beauty To me, there's something about just around me and uncover more truth I absolutely love this, &lt;Pretty Music &quot;Manta&quot; by A Shell In The Pit&gt; And OK, I want to go update you But before I do that, This video is sponsored by Brilliant. And Brilliant is a really good. Tool that you can use to learn scientific concepts STEM science. Technology, engineering, math. All the different things. Brilliant has tons of different courses scientific thinking, computer science, It's a really good interactive way to learn these concepts because personally I learned the best So just like we did in this experiment Can grab handles, turn knobs, things of that nature. Brilliant is designed. In a really cool Instead of just like memorizing facts, So if you don't check this out, You can sign up for Free and get 20% off your annual Premium membership. OK, laminar flow. I love the Red Trains and here it is. This is what I wanted to show you. The laminar flow fountain is off. Look at this. I can learn about how water flows And if I worked here, Alright I'm just being silly, And I do appreciate everybody that supports You know how this works. Everybody that supports the sponsor and I'm grateful. So, again, In learning more about cool STEM that will help you own the content, Brilliant.org/SmarterEveryDay, Annual premium membership. I hope you enjoyed this episode of Smarter I'm going to coat this thing right here on the end in it for a little desk ornament, but I hope you enjoyed learning some stuff about Prince Rupert's drops. Like uh Like Robert Hooke did back in the 1600s. If he would have had the tools he could have done some amazing things, to tools like this. Thank you to the Patrons You enable us to do things like rent, high speed cameras and all this kind of stuff, so I'm grateful. Feel free to subscribe if you want to. I'm Destin you're getting Smarter Every Day. Have a good one. Bye. OK, so this. Is the Prince Rupert's Drop I expect it to shatter Who knows? Three, two, one. Or go &lt;Glass to the face&gt; Didn't coat it enough haha! Where did it go? I guess it exploded like everything else.