The computer BIOS you may know it is just boots into the operating system. Of course, there is a little bit more to it. And you may also know that you can actually computer manufacturer will have the update potentially big risks involved in updating We're going to go over is it really necessary Is it worth it considering these risks and happen if things could potentially go wrong. I literally bought a cheap old laptop off So first of all, what exactly is the BIOS? Well it stands for basic input-output system, But essentially it's a very low-level software on, more specifically it's not just an interface The BIOS activates all your hardware and also the bootloader being essentially a small piece to read and tells it how to start up the operating starts up it takes over and the BIOS doesn't You can access the BIOS settings usually by depending on the motherboard or computer manufacturer. But if you just let the computer start up will typically just do a check that all the called the power-on self-test or POST. And then if you see this it means it's all record and let's be OS take it from there. So really again the BIOS only handles stuff Now that being said these days BIOS is not It's been replaced by the newer generation, that stands for unified extensible firmware just refer to the UEFI as the BIOS anyway, if you go and search for the download files less confusion most people know it as the UEFI you can mostly just think of it as like it does kind of work a lot differently, but stuff like it supports larger hard drives it as much fancier interface can look like all sorts of stuff that BIOS couldn't. So basically any time in this video I say BIOS is a lot easier to say. Now you might be wondering where the BIOS drive or anything it has it's own physical located and you can actually see it on this found it on here. This is what it looks like on this computer Now the settings for the BIOS though are usually chip and actually is CMOS chip needs to be So usually you're going to have what's called cell battery on the motherboard as well. And if you take out the CMOS battery it essentially BIOS but the BIOS itself stays on there, but battery. Though strangely for some reason this HP laptop I see the place where is and I found the documentation other models, but for some reason this one So I guess in this case it stored somewhere have CMOS battery in every single computer. Now one more thing is even though I said, modern UEFI has its own dedicated partition it's called the EFI partition usually around stuff like bootloaders for the different operating error logs. Basically just some stuff that might need This stuff is not a hundred percent necessary to successfully boot the operating system. So that partition is important. So now that we know some of the basics of You can update the BIOS / UEFI again, usually website. And what is will do is actually rewrite that a new firmware and the updated version of Though as you can imagine, this does have and the BIOS is corrupted to the point of can't just boot into an operating system, the BIOS is the thing that does the booting create rescue CD and boot from a backup CD Like if windows were corrupted you could just CD, no the BIOS is what does all that. So if the BIOS is corrupted you're kind of So for the rest of the video we can talk about it to happen, And also what recourse you might BIOS because there are potentially a few things So let me go over with the physical update Basically, The BIOS again is going to be stored - serial peripheral interface. At least that's for my understanding. There might be other types as well, especially chips don't hold much usually around 16 megabytes and they don't need to be big though because to be around a few megabytes. For example on my Asus motherboard for my It's around 8 megabytes and I also found the and it says that it's 8192 KB. From what I've read, typically the writing somewhere like 100 kilobytes per second. I don't know how accurate that is, but it considering how big the average BIOS firmware going to be, that usually means the actual on average. And that's important know because you can likely to crash or maybe lose power with in the power in your neighborhood is really unreliable Then that 5 minutes might be a pretty long cuz there's a good chance it could happen So the next thing to talk about is is updating think for most people the answer is no. Like I said the BIOS really only handles things some basic boot up stuff, but most people care to change the settings in there. So it's not like updating the BIOS is going while using the computer in the operating who maybe has changed the settings in the all that same feature is going to be available BIOS updates are usually pretty small and stability updates or bug fixes or occasionally And in that case unless you really have a Maybe your computer is very unstable and there's issue. Or maybe if you do have a new piece of Hardware is required to support that piece of Hardware. Then you might actually do need to do an update. But otherwise if there's no need to do an One example, is you can see for my motherboard support for NVMe drives and 5th generation Now, I actually do have NVMe drives in there so I had updated since then so that was okay. But if I didn't have that BIOS version I would to use those drives. Occasionally though BIOS updates may also For example in that major CPU vulnerability to update like a micro code for the CPU to where all right for security you might have going to add any features or anyting. But again, really the only reason to update to do so and you know what that is, but don't make any difference if there's nothing wrong You're not going to notice any benefit. So as for the risks of updating the BIOS, go wrong like the BIOS gets corrupted while it could potentially be catastrophic. And like I said because the BIOS is what really if it gets corrupted and doesn't work anymore. Then there's literally nothing you can do we talk at you in a second. As for what could cause the BIOS to become There's probably two main categories first writing to the chip, so this could typically for whatever reason while the update is being Or if you're running the update using an update program will kick in and be overzealous and writing to the BIOS, or maybe some other program itself will crash while that update is going. Now the other main thing that is probably the wrong BIOS, you install the wrong version Maybe it's for other hardware and obviously specific Hardware could definitely cause issues Now I do too much because the next main thing there are some methods you can use to recover But it's going to depend on your computer One example is some motherboards have what's or maybe one chip split into two, and it literally that you can switch between by pressing a For example on my computer's an Asus motherboard, and by pressing it, it can switch to a sort one gets corrupted. Alternatively or maybe in addition to the Your computer may also have a recovery tool So this may be for example, I'm assuming some the BIOS is not booting correctly and then can install the BIOS and rewrite it using on a hard drive or something or a USB you And you will see an example of this later. The important thing to know though, is before look up what recovery methods for the BIOS If it's a custom-built computer, then you're motherboard model or if it's a pre-built computer for that specific model. And if you find out that your computer doesn't for BIOS recovery, then you really have to do I really need to do this for a specific latest BIOS update, might not be worth it any way to recover the BIOS if it goes wrong. And like I said, it's really going to depend But what I'll do is let's go over some of as being the recovery options across most And then what I'll do is I'll do specific I'm gonna purposely corrupt the BIOS and then First of all, we have HP, it seems like they computers and usually this involves pressing is booting up and then that opens up a automatic And if there is a previous version of BIOS that and rewrite the BIOS or you might be Next we have Lenovo, which from what I've models a not-so-well-documented method for the BIOS files off their website and formatting a key combination on start up. Again, this isn't really advertise anywhere. I basically just read about it on random forums Ao basically the best thing you're going to model then BIOS Recovery to see if any people not well documented. So just something to be aware of. Next up we have Dell, which in my opinion the availability of BIOS recovery tool on all Dell computers released after December specifically lists the models supporting it So what I like about this is it's very easy virus recovery option and how to access it And as describe hered, usually it's going on boot up and the recovery tool may already load it onto a USB and I can boot from there. But most Dell computers appear to have some Next up for Asus or Asus, I always forget some or maybe even most of their computers mode. However, you're going to have to specifically to find out if it's does for that or not. Like I mentioned it might have a dual BIOS my motherboard is pretty olds from 2014 at But also it's some other boards may have a in the USB with the files on it into a dedicated if it needs to it can recover by reading right you press on the back to initiate the transfer What I've also read is apparently you can Hardware into Asus and they will physically chip for you. Although that probably does have some costs All that being said though, what do you do actual tool to use for recovering it? Well you do actually have a few options, though First you might be able to send the device reflash it using special tools by literally, Chip And rewriting it that way, or they might Next you could try to replace the BIOS chip If you can manage to get your hands on one. From what I seen on eBay, apparently there this, you search the name of the motherboard chip&quot; and there's some sellers that claimed you just have to be able to desolder the old you have to be comfortable doing that. Or third, you could try to manually reflash going to be a little bit complicated. It's going to require like third-party software I think it's called SPI cable that you literally and then the third-party software can rewrite For example, the software I came across was a super Advanced users and not very user-friendly. Not exactly plug-and-play. Finally, I've also seen some so-called BIOS off Amazon and this apparently involves physically desoldering it putting it into this programmer that chip and then of course you do need some So again, none of this for do-it-yourself So unless you're a super Advanced user your tool in might be offered for you computer worry about it. Alright so now we can get to the part you've you a real life demo of what might happen So what I have here is an HP stream 14-inch It's apparently from 2017. So not exactly super older anyting and the downloaded from HP's website and then can One can be using a Windows version of the So it'll update the BIOS right from within outside of windows by you going into the BIOS And I usually do prefer to install BIOS updates pre-boot because it means there's not going programs interfering with it, no antivirus Of course there are still some risks of doing an issue possibly, or if it somehow writes goes wrong. I don't know, but it's just less so I think Windows. So I looked up the different key combos to separate from BIOS settings, for using 'startup So I went to that and then I navigated to the USB drive, and then let it go. And as you can see it really started off slow, But eventually it did kind of speed up. So I would have estimated this probably would if I let it go completely. But after it was going I tried to interrupt and maybe exit the program. I tried pressing the power button, but I'm to prevent you from doing that and interrupting So finally I was able to just unplug laptop. I guess the battery was so degraded or not after unplugging it, so perfectly right in And now when I tried booting up the laptop, There was no post, it didn't boot anything However like I said HP, devices including tool so let's try it. Now this is kind of funny because this was showed you, how if you have a BIOS Recovery as much because you can just use that to fix go as planned. I used the BIOS tool from HP's website, which USB, and the idea is you do this on another computer and hold down certain key combo while whatever recovery tool they have, which I'm BIOS so I can boot even without the BIOS, And then it uses the backup copy of the BIOS with it. Except in this case, it didn't. I was able to get the BIOS Recovery tool to It booted up, it was on the screen and everything to a black screen and dies again, it wasn't And I literally tried doing a bunch of different I found it when no USB drive was inserted, It does like a countdown while saying that in this case if no USB is inserted instead So I figured all right, you know I can try hard drive, plugging it into another computer, partition where the recovery files are located, to find those files, and use that to recover But when I opened it up, I found that the you can take out. It's just a flash chip actually soldered onto So that sort of even more scary because if had important files on it, and I corrupt the gotten those files off because I couldn't It's actually soldered on to the drive. I don't even know what I would have done. Maybe you could potentially send it to a data chip on to their own motherboard. Who knows. So in the end of this sort of ended up being I was not able to figure out how to recover It's just a dead computer now, and if I needed any way for me to get it easily. I have no idea why the BIOS Recovery did not Maybe if I had run it within Windows it actually EFI partition that it could have used, but the recovery program it just with crashing So it might not even worked in that case. I guess if this wasn't just a demo my only in the computer to HP to have him try and try to do it myself but not exactly the ideal And this just goes to show why you do need Before you do it be very sure you look up if you do need to do some kind of recovery This may be, again, a backup dual BIOS or be if your motherboard has both a dual BIOS But hopefully in any case, you'll now be much time you find you may have to. Let me know down the comments if you might Maybe you had one that got corrupted and went you've never actually had any issues when that I demo'd. Also if you like this video be sure to subscribe be worth it. If you guys wanna keep watching, the next about OLED displays, and specifically what mean. I wanted some super detailed science should If you've ever wondered about screen displays So definitely check that out with the link Thanks so much for watching guys. I'll see you in the next video.