Let's say that me and you are where you say something and I have to then If you were to say 'Metal Gear Rising', then I'd immediately say 'Music'. to assume that quite a few other people Soundtracks almost always enhance but enhance feels like too weak a word when soundtrack doesn't just enhance the experience, It's lightning fast and full of dynamic happening on screen as Raiden reduces But something that I feel gets a bit left behind match and accompany the exhilarating gameplay. some of tracks do some really interesting It's a lot smarter than you might otherwise think, In the vast majority of stories, there's a main the audience follow throughout the story, and when guy' who we play as and who we hope succeeds. antagonist-their job in the story is These two things can be implemented in so many basic level you've got the good guy vs the I'm a big believer that to make this type the characterisation of the antagonist. After all, the protagonist is the one and is the one they spend the most time with. This and interesting character than their antagonists. as nothing more than an obstacle for the conflict between the two of them far less To get around this, a piece of media has and usually this means making the In Avenger's Infinity War, the main villain Thanos sound like a lot, but he's actually the character cast, with the runner up only This extra time gave the audience way more motivations, and gain a view into the philosophy generally considered to be the best antagonist Similarly, in a song of ice and fire the the antagonists for the Stark family early in perspectives of Tyrion, Jamie and Cersie to resulting in an incredibly compelling story. stories spending time with their There's plenty of great villains in video because of the way the medium works, spend significant time with the antagonists. from the perspective of one character who If you're not in some sort of cutscene the logical thing for you to do when encountering can't be allowed to do this unless it's at for obvious story, narrative and gameplay reasons. character development is done through Most people enjoy playing games for the compared to other mediums, so to fill a game using techniques from film and (And yes I'm aware of the irony of making The other antagonist-building technique of story from their perspective is pretty hard to as the protagonist, and come to root for them, desire to help the antagonist progress with their In Metal Gear rising the main antagonists private military company Desperado, who Some of these antagonists pop up several times, them before you have to fight and defeat them. suffer from some of the difficulties in developing But this is where the music comes in-or for each of the main villain's tracks. for videogames are largely instrumental. The experience and get the player to have a specific already happening on screen, a vocal layer Take the recent DOOM soundtracks as an example are setting out to evoke feelings of power and why bother adding a vocal element to them? The few gibberish-it's there to make you feel like there's path, thus making you feel even more badass. the instrumentals set out to achieve a And they achieve it: the tracks are heavy, gameplay and resulting in you the player But that's just the thing: the instrumental A vocal layer could add to the feeling just be a cherry on the top. But instead of could a vocal performance add to the experience? In the case of the antagonists fought as boss Because each boss has their own unique for the lyrics to focus solely on each you often get an insight into their history sense and in the present moment of the fight. Raiden encounters him in a cutscene just before and back-and-forth quips between the two, and time to set him up as a character, and he runs the we talked about earlier-a temporary roadblock who His track is of course snappy and These tell us so much about bladewolf's character: desperado, knowing nothing but violence under it as we might assume, he hates this life he chains and go about life on his own terms, as his It's so much more information than we and makes bladewolf so much more than check if the player has learned to parry yet. antagonists in that later in the story he extra opportunities for development this gave, the strongest moment of characterisation for him. too-Mistral, Monsoon, and Armstrong supplemented by the lyrics on their vocal tracks. and the one I think is the smartest And to understand why, we first have In my version on page 252, there's this line that He never showed it, though. He usually put it aside, and continued . . . just however, he couldn't easily dismiss the feeling'. because it's so completely different from the Especially in the first three, Master no-nonsense tank of a guy. makes him far more human and relatable-I'd But in the games themselves, chief's primary has fun. And the way bungie set out to do that was And the truth is that it's hard to balance especially given the limited perspective that away with it by putting the vulnerable side of hear his thoughts. If he was to say something like disconnect between what the player's hearing from once that disconnect happens it's a lot harder to win back that feeling of connection. let's talk about Jetstream Sam. truest form of the word. We encounter him right thrashes us and leaves Raiden one limb lighter. game, popping up to cause trouble several times Sam embodies swagger and bravado. The first points a heavy machine gun straight at him, to cheesy, shit-eating grin. light and jovial-he chats about matters and to him there's no situation too dark for a his theme conveys when we hear it the first time. in a battle the player is destined to lose. trying to achieve that first goal we talked about And it achieves it-it sounds really heavy and seen of Sam so far. This is right at the start to grasp how all the controls work, adding to the After Raiden loses, we don't hear the track later in the game, and it's only now that we overcome the other generals of Desperado, and Sam stopping their plan to cause worldwide chaos. swaggering, confident, badass that we the These lyrics are the antithesis to everything everything we thought we knew about him. They identity is being held together by threads Sam's purpose in the game was to be Raiden and the really work hard to defeat. To fill that role powerful, and showing him brimming with confidence But to make him more than a two-dimensional and this inner conflict regarding perfect way of making him more interesting. is he feeling this way? Was it something Raiden, to get him to act on these feelings and switch this means the character and narrative succeeded hearing possible answers, which like we mentioned managed to do that with an antagonist. contradict those of his primary purpose of the same characterisation issue that the And that's why it was such a smart idea to of his theme. One of the big strengths of can do by having the reader directly hear instead of relying solely on what they say and translate that storytelling technique into a But it doesn't stop there-during the fight, Sam During these moments, the lyrics again when he picks his sword back up. The first is that the sword is a symbol for all serving desperado. The inner conflict described so them disappearing when he drops the or at least stops fighting for desperado, his The second interpretation is that he has to concentrate more on the fight itself, moment that his inner thoughts are quieted. You the only way he knows how to quiet these thoughts has led to him needing to fight stronger and You don't have to agree with either of these-the this way at all. And it did it just by the when certain gameplay conditions are met. in part thanks to how they're able to draw so the big three being writing, visual or art first two get the most attention when it comes the music can then 'enhance' or improve upon. with their music. There are so many opportunities not just elevate or enhance the experience, that otherwise wouldn't be possible. And I love the soundtrack of metal gear rising, and