[Music] [Music] [Music] Good morning everyone , but before moving on to the video, let me tell you, please like the video and if you have not yet joined this family, then do so by clicking the subscribe button below. Part of this family and yes, follow me on Instagram for live updates because I will keep giving my live updates on Instagram, where am I right now, in which part of Assam, I am going to tell you everything, so yes, there too. So let's go inside, we have shown what is being carried inside, then see what a beautiful gate they have made, it is even better than that, look here, they have made it all with their own hands using flowers, let's go inside, see this. Look at your country brother Bharat Gaurav Akshay Paaji also had a deluxe train but he also used to pass by the house today this notice what is its full name [music] inside you have shown your train what is the price of the ticket and what not everything Will tell you brother are you ready for 15 days long jhadna [music] Those who have made their booking, they have to tell their name as they enter from here, here you will get the complete itinerary etc. like what. What kind of plane is this and this is our deluxe tourist train in front [Music] [Music] [Music] After going inside, we will also show you the interior of the coach, outside there is a lot of fun, dancing etc. is going on, many people are enjoying, all the passengers [Music] Come on, the signal has been given, our train is now about to leave from Delhi Safdarjung station. This train is getting full media coverage etc. and by the way, if I tell you the time then you can see the exact time at 3:30 from the train station. I have taken it out a little late, I am showing it to you because I had gone in another coach, we have taken it out in this long 15 day journey, I am trying to speak pure Hindi, now I am going inside, show you my first CC coach also. Come on, I have just shown you how my cuffs are from inside. Here we have kept my luggage here and see this, so this is different from the normal train, bed, seat, blanket etc. everything is already ready. Everything like pillow, lock etc. is installed and for the coming 15th, see, this is my house , I have to live in this and if you book your ticket in this, how much will you have to pay, I will also tell you, see the curtain, you will see a little. You will get a different type of curtain, look at it, this is a little different, here is a mirror here and the best one is look here, you get a locker and I think this locker is normal, whatever happens in our train, it should also be there in it. So Godrej's locker is available, what else do you need, I also get a big dustbin in front, anyway, it is not my own, so look at the overall, this is our first one, well done, I was lying down for a little fear, it is a new tyre. This is absolutely correct, right now my plan is to take a bath and yours is already done, you will have to pay for the restaurant, I have called Akshay also, come along with me, the tallest brother is also traveling for 15 days, brother, take this from me. How was it and see here, everywhere you will get such happiness for clean and now I am going to show you the sights, see this is his restaurant brother, see this is the interior of his restaurant, to me he is a Maharaja. I am reminded of Express but this Maharaja Express is a little different and is even more luxurious and on the table you can find catchers like butter etc., toothpicks, rest of the snacks, there are sandwiches, kachoris, samosas, cakes and now When he asked for tea and coffee, I said, brother , give me masala tea, yellow water, another bottle of water and the best brother, look at the interior once, brother, the atmosphere inside is completely different, this and this brother, I keep thinking . I was like brother, when will this happen in a moving train, I am having some food while sitting in a restaurant and finally I am watching the team, I have eaten in the restaurant also and I will kill this while sitting in a real train, make it right here. This is what happened , remember the face, this is all we are going to get, this is what we are going to serve, we are perfect companions, come on, I have just come here, you can also dine in the restaurant of your train, and brother, watch it in the moving train. Brother, the train is going smoothly, it will be running at a speed of at least 100 Kph, what service do you think inside, I will show you everything and while sitting inside, you are having medicine as if you are in a good restaurant. Meaning, I am sitting in some good category place in Rajasthan and he has forcefully brought Akshay with me because he is already ready, because I was asleep, so he is also with me, we have one sandwich each, the rest is tea as well. Now, there is no separate review for this but yes, those who have done Sandwich Tree are saying that it is very good, then what is the program after that, brother, this is the program, so take rest and by the way, Ghaziabad is the next station, Aligarh is the next stop after that. It will stop because people will not leave comments from now on. Lucknow is about to touch West Bengal. It has been a long time since I left the house. Yes, I just came here after completing my snacks etc. and now I am thinking that I should take a little bath and by the way. Look, the fresh star has gone with all its might, just like they give in all the hotels, so right now I have gone and taken a bath, this is the specialty of the train, you are absolutely cool, there is no problem with bathing, eating, drinking, Sony. If not, then let's go and take a bath. You can see their shower room, you can see the washroom, you can see everything, I have just come to their shower area. I don't know what they call it. We all call it pain. Many people say what about 'pittu'? What do you say, you can take bath while sitting comfortably and it is liquid. Yes, it is liquid, it has become automatic and the best thing is that you also get the voice Jai inside, so I found this thing very good for hanging clothes etc. Here it is and there is also a bucket. If it is not comfortable then you can't even take a shower directly. And here there is a big mirror. Ok brother, it means you will get less. What else do you need in this, brother, this is such a wonderful bath arrangement. By the way, there is one more thing in a moving train, I am going to take a bath for the first time in a train. Yes, I have never taken a bath like this in a train. I have done face wash etc. I have never taken a bath. If I don't come for the first time today, then this will also be an experience. I will sing my praises, I am feeling sad in the water, I will tell you later also, whether we go first or not, yes yes, I just took a bath and brother, I am getting relief now, right now, because of so much fear, this is what I was thinking. I'm going to take a bath. I'm going to take a bath. I just came from the bath. I'm feeling really good. Now, just have a cup of tea. It's going to be fun. I have some energy right now for blogging. Otherwise, you must have seen how I was blogging. Right now there is a good special energy and now let's go and roam around a bit, there is a lot to show in the surrounding but we will show you everything one by one, it is difficult to do everything in one day, right now the first one tells the route and you How can you book the package and for how much can you book, I will tell you everything, stay connected to this series, now the back to back series is coming, this one from North East, stay connected to the series, I will give you a lot of information, I will give you the information anyway. Every corner of the train is like this, I can show you a lot in this. First of all, see this , if you are wearing shoes, then polish your shoes and this is my coach H4 and you will find it like this everywhere. Beautiful paintings will be visible to everyone and look at the rest, this is their western style washroom, I have already shown you the shower area, look at this, their shower area is something like this and this is their western style toilet. Do you know the most special thing in this toilet? This is a soft dispensary, you get automatic, you also get a hand dryer and this is the least of all and apart from this, there is a separate one made for this, I will not give it in any trade, I found it very good, otherwise if There is a basin and here is the mirror washroom, it is very nice, the rest goes, you all are welcome as Akshay Paaji, see, you have already done the journey even before everything started, so everything will be there for you, here you are. OK has been given for the route, now it is called NFR Northern Frontier Railway, which means it becomes most beautiful in monsoon, so this thing will go to India with the Gaurav train and Gaurav's Malvan, the rest is still there, after a little fear, shirt. The train will be taken on the loop and I will take out three runs from the line and show you which joins. Come on, I will also show you today in the same pretext. Alright, I have just reached the gate because Aligarh is about to arrive [Music] ] Also, there may be many people boarding from Rajdhani, and I have no idea how scary the stop is. [Applause] [Music] Rajdhani Howrah, I have come many times sitting in Rajdhani, but while going from outside, I have come many times. see less Let's get it right now, okay brother, our train has left from Aligarh and here madam, watch the video. Come on, no one, edit the video easily. I, brother, go upstairs and rest for a while because if there is anything like this left to show. So I will definitely show and now I have come to the gate because I am coming to Bhubaneswar Rajdhani [Music] [Applause] Anyway, look at the time, it is 7 o'clock now, I have come and sat on my seat and now I will tell you. Many of you will have this question in your mind that brother, tell me how much is this ticket, then look brother, I have the complete ITR, everything is written in it right from the rate. Take our information about where we are from, where we are going, where we are staying in the hotel, where we are going to visit, you will get all this only when you vote in the train, first of all I will tell you this. Our package is 49 days, 14 nights and in 15 days we are going to complete North East which you will see in the upcoming series and if I talk about this train, you will get a total of 120 seats in this train in which these In its first class scope you will get 24 seats, in a first class cabin you will get 48 seats and in second class also you will get 48 seats. By the way, this is our tour, it is named North East Discovery Beyond Guwahati, I am very excited. Now I am going to cover the entire North East and the most important thing is that brother, how much did you buy this package? Look, first of all, the price of these two seats in the cup is Rs 3 lakh. Yes , absolutely you are right . Are you listening, this is Rs 3 lakh for two seats and in this Rs 3 lakh, our package for 49 and 15 days includes everything, food, drink, hotel, vehicle, tourist place, etc. and everything. You do not have to pay anything, even a story. If you want to take something different, that is a different matter, but everything will be from their side, you will see what is there in my blog, that is why I am planning to make a separate series, so if you guys want to watch the entire series, then this is it. I am going to take you on a tour of the entire North East sitting at home by Bharat Gaurav Tourist Train, so you can also see what is included in it, what kind of food I get, what mistakes are made in hotels, I am going to tell you everything in the blog. I am going to show you, so yes, stay tuned in the video, this entire series is going to be very interesting, do not miss even a single series, whatever happens, I will keep giving you small titles and I will tell you everything that is mine, right now it is only mine. That we have to reach Guwahati and they will also reach Guwahati. We will be staying in the train the day after tomorrow. For now, this is the updated information. Then I will tell you what all our flights are from Guwahati . But before that I will keep updating on my Instagram also, so please follow me sir there too. Come on, we just came to the restaurant. Before going to the restaurant, I washed my hands. I was in the room right now. I came and said that Come on, Mohit Bhai, the invitation for dinner has come, so you are going to hear these words many times in this train: Mohit Bhai, the invitation for dinner has come. Mohit Bhai, the invitation for breakfast has come. Also, look here, Paji, and your Dolej Bhai has also eaten food. I have given you a round drink in water, whatever you see, I eat curd, only paneer comes, you people are changing the taste, now by changing the taste, what is ours, so let's drink this tomato soup directly, I have just got my flat. I am done for dinner, understand the meaning, now everything is coming one by one for the course, I will show you everything, what is there in curd, brother, give me one mango also, brother, this thing is correct, normal, you get curd also. And on the other hand, you will get the option of both raspberry and mango. Look at the other plates. I am impressed after seeing the plates. They are a complete restaurant food. We will show this in the upcoming video. And the rest will be available on your table itself, a water bottle. Look, butter ok [music] Paratha, potato cabbage vegetable, dal rice, I will have rice later and this pea and paneer vegetable, let's try Inkaratha first, which is looking very good to me, it is a small size. It is also small and has a very hot gram. The most important thing is that it is at home and as I told you earlier in the video that whatever food I am eating is being prepared in their factory and nothing is coming from outside, so it is Cheese is the best, rest starts first, I try it with potato and cabbage vegetable. [Music] Train curry with Matar Paneer. There are different styles of Paneer in different routes. This Paneer is really very different. It is going well, it is fun, dinner is going on here. Brother, food is not a number, I am telling you, this is paneer, it is their restaurant style paneer, they have made such good paneer, I never eat dal in the train, this dal is so good, everything will be fine, one more thing, now I am having dinner. I am doing it and look here, fruits have also come, brother, what are the options in this train, I liked it very much, although I will not take anything right now, but you also have the option of foods, the rest of the food is amazing. It means I am enjoying. Literally I am telling you that I have never missed dal in the train, but I don't know why this dal felt so good. Brother, after eating food, I got my Gulab Jamun. You haven't eaten it. I am late for one. It will be fun to get it . Will go, yes yes, our dinner is complete, now we are enjoying this Mango Mango Yogurt, this is from Bhai Kamal and as soon as I saw this, I saw that there is a station in you, is this tower like this? Yes, this tower station is different from the rest. I thought this fruit would be great. Anyway, look at the time. It is 854 and our train has stopped at Etawah station. After having dinner, we have returned to the gate. Look, Etawah is about to skip at Etawah station. Which train is the people of Sampoorna Kranti go on, its journey is also there, I have a child in Kanpur , so I reached Kanpur and look at the temperature here once, it is 18 degrees brother [music] 1052 is happening [music] Well in Kanpur too They have a boarding point. Yes, our train has just reached Kanpur Central. If I talk about Kanpur Central, it is the third largest railway station in India after Howrah, New Delhi and I hope you all will like my today's blog. I liked it and I am thinking that this video should be done by painting it because already watch it now, it is 10-57 at night, it is almost 11 o'clock at night, whatever happens after this, you will see in the next part. This is what I paint in this video and although it is a commercial train , it does not have many stops, it will run non-stop, after leaving Kanpur, there is a wedding in Lucknow, it stops once and till now, my experience has been quite good and the rest. Whatever will happen next, you will know, that's why I am saying follow the whole series, this was the first part of this video, wait for the second part, I am going to show you many more in the second part, let's do one less. If you want to watch this video till now, please like the video and if you have not yet joined this family, click on the subscribe button below and become a part of this family. Let's meet in the next blog. Till then bye [ Music] Sara Yes To Sab Tera [Music]