In your hands, my fellow citizens... ...more than mine... ...will rest the final success John Fitzgerald Kennedy of the United States. He was the young, handsome leader, The torch has been passed born in this century. A modern politician Ask not what ask what you can do for your country. It's the president's car. Another car directly secret servicemen However the life of JFK The president His assassination came to be seen as A shift from an age of innocence JFK himself was transformed This young, handsome, intelligent, terrifically photogenic, was a breath of fresh air I can't think of any other leader who developed such a fantastic image. For a college boy to invent a new way of being a politician this was revolutionary. This reading the fascinating Jack Kennedy He was clearly gifted, but he really He was the walking text book of illnesses. It's astonishing he survived childhood. People sometimes assumed that JFK happened a few days before the declaration of war, that he'd been to Palestine, but it's clear from the diaries he kept, that was what excited him about the study of politics. There's this quality that he projected and something about his personality that continues JFK was recognized by millions, This program Born in Massachusetts John Fitzgerald Kennedy, was the second son of multi-millionaire Jack Kennedy It was a middle-class family without The father working in banking, and a mother who actually came from Her father had been the Mayor of Boston. Rose Kennedy's father, was a real force He was elected to Congress three times. He was elected Mayor of Boston, and Edward Kennedy would say one of the reasons the Kennedys were was because of Honey Fitzgerald, They had a grand home They had a home in Palm Beach, Florida. It was a life of prep schools, although really living Very, very far removed It was kind of like being which is essentially what he was. Having attended Jack Kennedy's secondary education but it soon became apparent It was decided that he switch and follow a private prep school in Connecticut. Although the school is thought for the famous &quot;Ask not what Jack was no happier here One thing Choate did have though, but where his brother His older brother and he's kind of the golden boy. He's doing fantastically well, he's a very diligent student. Jack Kennedy isn't really He's a little bit badly behaved. He was clearly and not only lazy, He was bright, he was charming. He had some interest in history but he was a rather indolent student, and at his prep school he ended up so that's about midway, If you look at his academic record, than say Richard Nixon's. He chafes at the discipline and he organizes a club among sort of essentially designed He was in fact expelled he should be kept at school, with a psychologist, &quot;Jack, you seem to do but you don't try very hard. And he came up with a brilliant answer, &quot;Well, my brother does very well, He does it all for me.&quot; Jack's childhood but he was plagued by illness. Long stretches of bed rest of heavy medication began in childhood. This would set the blueprint As a young child, he'd had There was a huge outbreak His father had to pull strings to get him He was continually ill either And worse still was the fact that what was wrong with him. It meant There was not only the scarlet fever, there was the asthma. He had major spinal problems. He was born with one leg and this created and it never leaves him that problem, I think what's remarkable the health that others had. He developed a jokey sort of heroism, that he was coping would be considered but just wouldn't take them seriously. It's interesting of his very severe health problems and I think what it left him with I think there was part of Kennedy thought, so I may as well enjoy myself There were underappreciated which many overlooked. He used his frequent bouts developing his mind and imagination through the works of Robert Louis Although academically his self-education was invaluable. As both Jack and his brother matured, their father would instill a rivalry which the businessman, Joe Senior, The Kennedys had to excel at everything. They had to excel at sport, at academe, This family, in other words, groomed for success. The father and he put them under so much pressure, but also there was a certain degree Both of the two older boys they brought home lots of girlfriends, and the father openly but propositioned them. He wasn't just he was also completely open about it. His sons knew about it, and the advice &quot;You need to get laid Also with his affairs, and so that's something including John Kennedy. The good side took an acute interest In that sense, he was a good father, among the elite, fathers would They'd maroon them in boarding schools, they'd take no interest in them, whereas Joe Kennedy took an aggressive Jack would complete and although his grades he still managed But it would be that summer where Coinciding with his father's appointment Jack would begin a number of trips The political tensions and shifting He would witness some of the 20th These visits would inform his future The first trip to Europe He and a school friend, taking Jack's sports car with them, The following year in 1938, was appointed US ambassador by President Roosevelt. Jack again made a trip to Europe, but this time He traveled to England to work where he would get his first taste This showed him of global high politics, It was an extraordinary kind of education, because his father but his father had a unique position of British Prime Minister So we're not just talking Joe Kennedy was at the vortex and he was a major actor on that scene. It was while Jack was there by the rearmament and the growing rise It gave him extraordinary the nature of charisma. It was an extraordinary into the power of propaganda, that this whole regime the whole thing was driven by the most brilliant levels of The year after, he would This time, however, He traveled to the Middle East, to research for this final-year thesis. He then went What he witnessed He left Berlin on September 1st, 1939, I think this trip in the sense that he was someone He was very interested that's what he wanted to study, He realized Europe He wanted to educate himself This was the best Kennedy has a faith and his own perception, traveling around, Here was an opportunity where simply with his passport as the United States ambassador Jack returned home Thanks to his father, it would be a work which would live beyond the realms The idea was to recognize the threat of Germany. His professors were because, after all, it was unusual such firsthand information. It was shown to a friend of Jack's father, who worked at The New York Times, and he said: &quot;You know, This would make a book.&quot; In the summer of 1940, Why England Slept is published. By the spring of '41, it sold something although there is the rumor and stored them For the United States, but looking this seemed almost like a wake-up call. It establishes which is that he is a man of letters, and this is someone who publishes books. It's also important, of his foreign-policy ideology. You want to understand what John Kennedy if you want to understand you can still learn a lot about it For Jack, the book seemed Up until now, he had lived in the shadow The attack on Pearl Harbor and like many families, the Kennedys The political life of Joe Senior As ambassador, he began as the peacemaker of Europe, that he could do a deal, and the Fuhrer together around a table and that somehow he would When it turned out when it was obvious that Britain ...Joseph Kennedy lost faith in Britain. He had very much He really didn't understand He thought you could do deals, That becomes and unpopular with the British people, This is why, although Joseph Kennedy he's often not out there in public, The US president wasn't because he didn't think and he didn't think the prime minister of The President believed had the makings of the one person and that left Joseph Kennedy Despite his ongoing ill health, Jack was eager to sign up Securing a doctor's certificate, just before the Pearl Harbor attack. Jack was thirsty for action, but his health meant he was stationed working in Naval Intelligence. It was during this time the greatest love of his life, Inga Arvad. He met this beautiful Danish woman, who was seven years older This is one of the few times in his life I think it's partly physical attraction. She was a journalist and pretty much everybody including Jack Kennedy, He'd been to Europe, so he had He was fascinated by politics, and the fact that before she left Europe, The trouble is The Fuhrer had said that she was She was really seen in Washington Her ties to Hitler and the Nazi Private conversations and liaisons No one, it seemed, approved of the affair. His family, she's not exactly she's not Catholic, twice divorced. But also his superiors are concerned about caught up in a passionate relationship who we're not sure if she may be is a spy. He was crazily in love with this woman, told his father he was going to marry her. And finally the father &quot;Listen you are never going to marry This cannot be. That put an end to the relationship. He admitted to somebody I interviewed that she was the love of his life, Although his father was Joe Senior did end up Jack became These boats It's unclear if the guilt of ending caused Joe Senior to change his mind, was always out of hostile waters. However, an unexpected show around the Solomon Islands meant Jack The war would have bittersweet Although tragedy would strike in Europe, On the night of August 1st, 1943, while performing routine patrols Jack spotted an enemy ship. Before he could react and attack, and sliced in two It's the middle of the night, they don't have And ultimately, his boat Some of his crew members but some of them survive and Jack Kennedy He performs heroically. Using a belt in his mouth, three and a half miles to an island. This is a man has extreme back problems. He swims for five hours Nine of the men survived. They managed to swim to stay there until Jack Kennedy to get out a coconut with a message, saying they were still alive, His older brother There was a competitive dynamic and Joe Junior maybe feels He's already gone above and beyond, and then maybe because of the heroics maybe out of his own sense of he actually volunteers to bomb a German airbase in Belgium. No one where the probability Essentially, he became They were wiring up bombers, to attack the V-rocket emplacements The mission failed. before it reached its target. Joe Kennedy Junior For the whole Kennedy family, Whilst Jack was still coming word was beginning to spread A writer for Life Magazine approaches Kennedy and says: &quot;I'd like for the New Yorker magazine.&quot; gets it republished with Reader's Digest. A large number of people in 1944 of John Kennedy's bravery in World War II. So, 1940 was Why England Slept, a man of letters, of cultural With the service in World War II, a second element in his image which is that he's a war hero. So what you have is the idea People have speculated of the older brother That is nonsense. The fact is, from the FBI records, and even going as far as the presidency way back at the time of Pearl Harbor, To the extent that the brother but the fact for JFK to accept and the father was willing to fund it. After the PT boat incident, and he was His brother was dead, He found employment as a journalist, but the question about It was then decided Again, Joe Senior would be He will run for Congress, by inducing a local Democratic congressman and run for Mayor of Boston instead. It's not a shoo-in He doesn't necessarily So they have to start Behind the scenes, Joseph Senior The typical amount of money would have been something like $25,000. Estimates are that Joe Kennedy at least a quarter of million, What JFK understood would transform the business. His father was an expert in that field, were able to change the course Joseph Kennedy to promote Kennedy's campaign. So these advertising agencies they would polish his speeches. He even hired a billboard specialist, who put up 90 billboards and so it's an incredibly slick campaign. The fact did make him aware that could cover that up. He had a certain shyness, which allowed him on camera to come across as youthful, handsome, thoughtful, compassionate. And all those things were genuine. The campaigning paid off, John F Kennedy won the seat But he soon realized that the life might not be all that he'd expected. Now, the truth was He was quite lazy, he used and he often wasn't there, but he didn't when he was Actually, he found it very boring to pursue the interests To defend their rights but ultimately, it was It was It was the macro struggle because he saw things not just the little workings Jack served six years before turning his sights on the Senate. His intent, I think, always, but, of course, he was very young. In a state like Massachusetts, and many people said: &quot;Don't try.&quot; They decide that this is and he'll be running That campaign was run and what's also important to note Kennedy's views on foreign policy, were probably more hardline than Lodge's, and probably a good many people, voted for Kennedy in '52, because on the Cold War than Henry Cabot Lodge. The family recognized and that actually people and shake hands. It was very effective. Like the '46 campaign, highlighted Kennedy's appeal There's a lot of talk and also his appeal The 1952 Senate campaign held by his mother It's estimated something like 70,000 women attended those teas, which coincidentally He defeated Lodge by 70,000 votes, and this might seem but I think it's defensible, in American history, because he's seen John F Kennedy's image that had been worked on and honed. He was the academic, the war hero, and thanks to the tea parties, and younger women wanted to marry him. Before his Senate victory, though, was becoming problematic. His father agreed When John F Kennedy He's obviously had a lot of relationships but he's never gotten married, and he enters the US Senate in 1953 There's an article &quot;The Senate's Gay Young Bachelor&quot; and there's Now, at that time, he'd actually They'd been introduced at a dinner party There was There was an article in Life Magazine with the headline and a picture of him And it's a very glamorous image, but it also affects JFK's image. Jackie Kennedy had unique gifts. She was a remarkable woman, A very, very good foil to him. Similarly, they'd both come Her father had been a chronic alcoholic, so there was a kind of It's unclear if he really saw himself Certainly, he appreciated but it's his father that basically &quot;Being the Senate's gay young bachelor and if you want to be president, and you have to have a wife And Jackie Bouvier for being a political wife, and a political wife He had always built up Remember in those days, To be unmarried at 35 Were you a serial philanderer? In this case, true. So it kind of, if you like, They were anything but bourgeois, but this turned it into something much more acceptable. You can't have a king without a queen, you can't have a prince Jack and Jackie at St. Mary's Church, The young senator From the outset, both parties conducting illicit affairs, but the thing they both worked towards Projecting the notion of She was pretty perfect and the prospective but as to their actual relationship, I think the honest truth who were very close to them An interesting thing is that she was aware of his womanizing. It was known and increasingly known more widely. What really happened is They didn't want to know. In terms of the marital drama, and there is no doubt that Jackie There's stories that and said that and it's Joe that patches that over &quot;Do what you need to do. Spend &quot;to make you happy because the symbolism brought to her public life and he knows that without her Prior to his marriage, an exciting attribute of his bachelorhood. After his marriage, it's seen to this glamorous, beautiful woman. There are a lot of magazines that have them on the cover, So she adds to his sexual appeal. The Kennedy brand was set that threw it into I give you the next Democratic nominee, Adlai E Stevenson. Jack's televised speech that he nearly found himself Had he won, his future presidential hopes The Democrats lost and Kennedy would continue The convention proved one thing, however, Who he was, his image, who eagerly consumed what was On January 2nd, 1960, for the Democratic nomination. That November, he would face for the White House to be one of but Kennedy's religion remained for the American electorate. In a way, the biggest issue is the religious issue No Catholic had ever Some Americans felt a Catholic president to the Pope and to the Catholic faith, and the American constitution. This is a major issue and I think initially By the time they get to the West Virginia he decides to tackle it head on. He gives a speech before the Ministerial Association This is an organization He gives a speech to say: 'I'm not I am the Democratic candidate So he essentially challenges that Catholics have dual loyalties and it's the watershed moment in American political campaigns. It adds another element to this and that is the idea The whole debate is based on the idea that Still no one in the Kennedy were enough to defeat Nixon. The decisive moment with a series of televised debates They have and John F Kennedy, behind the scenes, is not the healthiest projects health and vigor and vitality. The candidates need no introduction. The Republic candidate, and the Democratic Candidate, He's tanned, His father's work in Hollywood means and so they've all done everything for the television age, and Nixon's not been very well, He looks sort of older and crumpled, So, you know, just the images and that association of Kennedy stays with him, and Nixon Because they felt that I want us to recapture that image. That first television debate The overwhelming majority of people on their television sets thought People who listened on the radio which says everything Before that first debate narrowly, but he was behind. After the first television debate Kennedy moved ahead in the polls Jubilant parades JFK won the race to the White House. But for the man they were cheering, For many, he was the perfect leader yet his policies and political dogma were taken His political maneuvering seemed astute for such a young man, but behind him was a father What made this sickly prep-school boy stand out, however, was his image. He was everything to everyone for a new form of politics. All these factors were carefully in the making of a truly modern president.