- Would you guys like a pizza shop generates with four locations and pizzas that sell out You're in for a shock. - I'm gonna share with you and under $60,000 created a (upbeat music) - All right Lee, so we're standing outside one of your locations here in Seattle and why don't you tell us about this place and why it's important. - This is the West Seattle Moto, the original first location. It is important because of our story where we had to because of Covid and this was our pivot. So I needed to keep it small, and I found this beautiful little house, and this is where the story begins. - That's a house? That's hilarious. You were able to get it - Yes, it was a residential and then because of these two places were actually bidding to get it, they're a holdout, that's why everybody calls it the up house and that's - That's hilarious. All right Lee, so tell us a and why you decided to - I have a very strong My wife and I owned a and of course, as with many And my quick pivot was because I made it as a kind of hobby thing and I was like, that's what I wanna do, it was my retirement plan. - [Caleb] Yeah. - And then when we opened this, much to our surprise, it blew up. So with the- - Increase in demand, I had to be close to it because 12, 14, 15 hours a day, - [Caleb] Just right next door? - [Lee] Yeah. - [Caleb] Oh my gosh, that's hilarious. - Yeah, super easy, super efficient. It just made the business more efficient and that's what I'm all - Yeah, so why pizza? Are you just super into it? Or did you see a business - I'm super into it, but also like I'm about community and there is no better ideas, around food. - [Caleb] Yeah. I love pizza so much, I wanted to create something around that, but I wanted something really unique. And so when you bring like you go to a special place to eat, you talk about that, right? And it becomes something - [Caleb] Yeah. to be really unique and very and people do talk about it and it becomes this thing - So is this normal for three months in advance in the industry or even a week in advance? (Lee laughs) - I've never heard of it and I didn't know this - Okay, hey guys, have being sold out three months in advance? Well, neither have I. Stick around and find out. Lee is gonna share some tips on how you can create the same for any product you choose. What was the total cost and where did that initial - So I didn't have any money. So I used my credit card - Risky. It was risky, but I wanted to take a swing at it because I didn't wanna get a job, I wanna stay an entrepreneur and that's been the dream, right? So when I got that 60,000, that included getting this place, putting a down payment on it, doing the paperwork with working with the architect The electrical had to be done by permit, but everything else I built. This is pegboard that I bought from the Home Improvement Center. All of these are like on sale or cheap. So really basic what I did for that 60,000 to get the business up. So it all went into equipment, it went into the first orders of product and small things like this. So this is what I began my business with. I bought this from a this is what's called a dough trough. This is how they made - Really? I wanted to do it craft style, right? Again, you can use a bowl, but I wanted to do it in but my own twist on it. The beginning of a Moto pizza. - And why is this, this shape? Why isn't it the bigger ones? - This is developed with the which is a kind of a crazy while I was in the car, and on my phone at the same time. And I had sloppy food, had my phone and I was like, oh, wait a minute, this phone is so tidy and so neat. It was kind of inspired by my phone and the food I was holding and I was like, how do we make this neat? - [Caleb] Yeah. And so. - [Caleb] Rectangle pizza. - Yes and then I started thinking, how am I gonna sell this? And then I started thinking events and then it led to music and then stadiums. I'm like, how do I get So I called my friend who and said, &quot;Hey, how can She goes, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And then on a Friday I meet two guys and they're from New &quot;Man, we love your pizza.&quot; I'm like, &quot;What are you doing here?&quot; And they're like, &quot;We And I said, &quot;How do I get my pizza? Who do I have to talk to to And he goes, &quot;Me.&quot; And that process went, to get all the meetings put together and everything like that and here we are. - [Caleb] Oh my gosh, that's crazy. - Yeah, chance. But it's from talking to Once again, this came from the secret of what I was talking about later. - Okay, all right so - We are at T-Mobile Stadium, where we just are opening Let's go check it out. So tell us a little bit How many employees do you have? - We have almost 40 employees. - Over four locations? - Is that gonna need to - Yes. - Yes. do you think you're gonna - I think by the end of this year, I think we'll be maybe close to 100 because we're already starting to work, we're working deals right now for our location, five, six, and seven. - [Caleb] Oh. pretty fast. - And talk to us about pay. How much are people starting pay and how much does it go up to? - Okay, so we pay $24 an hour plus tips and I think that puts them - Wow. - And then we pay health insurance also. You know, you keep people longer, your costs are down on all of those aspects of labor costs. In the long run, I think it's worth it. - Any other important things - I think the idea of us and saying we're all in it together, that's one thing to say it, but to practice it is another thing. We're not gonna be perfect, but we can support each - Yeah, any other tips for business owners on like practically carrying that out? The support feeling within the employees? - Shut up and listen. Like, I'm not telling you to shut up, but I'm saying like, listen, like really hear what they have to say. It's really easy as a boss or a manager or any place in authority to just say, &quot;Hey, it's my way or the highway.&quot; But if you just are quiet and listen, they'll give you enough to where and you'll be able to - That's good. (funky music) Okay Lee, tell us where we're at. - We're at our Belltown at the number three Moto. - If you were to start all over again, what would you do and for somebody who maybe doesn't - I think the simplest way of would be do something out of your home. That's a really simple way to start that I think you could - Okay, get your foot in the door. - Get your foot in the door. - All right. - You know, start using social media. That's a really popular thing right now with these so-called home pop-ups. - Yeah. - And so I think that's the - That's really smart. Okay, what's the next level? - The next level would be Get like a small oven that you can buy maybe for five or $600 that or even wood fired if they let you. And so, you could probably - So what's the next step up - The ghost kitchen, where a business has put and you can rent that one kitchen and a lot of ghost kitchens So you can do a test run and see what that is before So you can probably get for maybe $3,000, get put all your ads out or So I think you can maybe get away with a $5,000, $6,000 - Not bad, okay. - And anything else after that? Just start a new restaurant. - Get a restaurant and rent it. - And that's big money. - Yes. What do you think makes than other pizza parlors and how does that give you - That's a great question. What makes us different I use my Filipino background, but I also make the pie differently. My pizza experience of making Roman, that I really love Roman the Midwest style, which is deep dish and East coast style, what I call gritty, like a New York pizza and I And then I started making that people aren't used to. Like my banana ketchup, you So this is what differentiates me. The thing that also gives is the highest quality Like when I lift that quality up, it really elevates what we do as pizza and of course our Everybody comments how - Yeah. just kind of list us beyond and above. - Yeah. - Yeah, is that uniqueness kind of creates this viral sense about your business with the crazy flavors that you have? - Absolutely and I think something that a lot of people don't touch I like to think that when versus creatively, when you're thinking about what When you think creatively, you think about what you're doing and you put the energy in that. And so I don't think what am I doing right here? How can I do it the best? And as I focus on that and I create a product that's outstanding and it's a full expression of who I am. - Yeah. - Find a way to express yourself fully. Don't worry about what Because when you find that that's gonna really resonate out there, in what you're doing No matter what genre you're in, whether it's art, food, - So this the a third location - Yes. - Well, technically fourth which include the stadium. - Yeah. - Okay, great. So your revenues are at this point? - They're looking pretty good. - Yeah okay, what's - Well, when we did our our valuation became $3.6 million. - 3.6 on the first seed it's just gonna go up from there. - It's gonna go up from there. - Wow, so what are you actually netting off of that $3.6 million then? - I will tell you that - Oh okay, I gotta stick So what was in the thinking of converting this from Is there just no other good - There are plenty of but one of the secrets that was you always hear - Yeah. make an adventure, have make it a destination place. So this is off the main street, it's in a neighborhood that's But I wanted something So I chose it because It between two giant buildings, you rarely see something like this. So it had a lot of visual appeal to me and what I wanted to do and so that way I can kind in a creative way and really - That's cool. So it really gives off the when people come here and see the setup. - Absolutely, if you come or Saturday night, Wednesday, the vibe here is very unique and special. I love that because of that reason. You heard the story of the I've been inspired by what I do here by the night markets of Asia I love how these, in these night markets, there's small tents and they put out a ton Like two people will put out hundreds of plates in one night. So the reason I chose this house is I wanted, it's only 500 square feet. So I wanted to be a small footprint so we could be really fast, efficient. The movement of the product and that we can put something out really, really fast in volume - I want to thank today's Factor will change your approach 'Cause let's be honest, it's easier to just order Factor creates meals that and made from fresh, That's right, never frozen. All you have to do is from a selection of 34 dietician approved, weekly options. It's easy to add more or even skip a week when necessary. Their professionally prepared meals arrive pre-packaged and in just two minutes. Oh my gosh, that smells so good. And it tastes so good, wow. So if you're ready to take go to factor75.com or click the link in the description box below and don't forget to use the code UpFlip50 to get 50% off your first factor box. That's right, Factor is So use the code UpFlip50, click the link in the description below, and enjoy delicious nutritious meals sent straight to your doorstep. So this was your very Any mistakes that you that helped you when you were expanding out to the other locations? (Lee laughs) - A lot of mistakes Caleb. - Yeah, big story coming. - So what I did not And I think in planning something, you should plan for success, right? So the stairs, the physical and customers carrying I would've definitely went flat because now I'm ordering and so it takes a lot of labor so there's that. The second thing is power. This was a residential This little single phase oven puts out a really good product, but it's not my dream product. A higher heat oven makes - Yeah. - Yeah. So there are, these are the biggest things that I had to learn. The space too, walls are in my way, so less walls in my production will help, but it does fit the whole kind of flow of what I talk about with efficiency. You're gonna hear me say that a lot. So one of my things I love Meaning like make all your and then as you scale up, those mistakes that you make So right now a mistake for me might be a couple thousand dollars. - Yeah. in 20 locations, it could - Yes, yep. - So fail to scale. So I'm learning this So make all your mistakes early, right? - Get 'em outta the way. - Yeah, get 'em outta the way as you grow the business. All right, it's blitz time. - Blitz time! - You got 10 seconds to Can you do it? - Oh, I'll do it faster than ten. - Oh, all right. Aaron asks, &quot;How are you competing with the other big brands like - I don't think competitively, No, I'm just kidding. I like to think, how can we do it better? How can we do it faster and how can we do it with Those three things are my - Love it, Matthew asks, &quot;What is the hardest part - I don't think it's hard at all. I'm actually having fun doing it. - Just build a good La Porta asks, &quot;Why did and why did you choose the menu you did?&quot; - I had no choice to start in the pandemic because I didn't wanna and choosing the menu that I wanted to. There's seafood in it, and I love all three of those. They're northwest items and I wanted to feature the northwest, which includes like our - Last question, CulinaryCentury asked, &quot;How much money would you typically need to start a pizza restaurant?&quot; - I have no idea. I like to, for like a I don't know, I would think 300,000 to actually do a full on - All right good job you did it. - All right, man, that was good. - Boom! So I'm a new customer. I'm seeing you on Instagram, TikTok, you guys are going viral. I come in to get a pizza and I'm ready to try this delicious beast. What are you gonna tell me If you guys are booked out three months? - Yeah and you don't - Yeah. First thing I do is like, What's your name?&quot; - Caleb. - Caleb, I'm Lee, nice to meet you. - Nice to meet you. - Thanks for making the trip out here. - Yeah, super excited to try your pizza. - I would be super excited However, we are sold out until August. The only way to get our pizza is online. Follow me on Instagram and I promise you, you'll get yourself a pizza here. In the meantime, I have a awesome Some of our ice cream. Have some of our ice cream for the road, thanks for coming out. - Thank you. - Really sorry that we - Hey, well can't you just Like, just slip one in. - Sorry, we have no - Okay, so three months out 'til I can literally eat your pizza. - Yes. What's the best way for a pizza shop to attract new customers to the location? - Like I said earlier, I think just talking about what you do and sharing it with everybody, I think is the key thing that And I think that's what And then also the idea when they come, engaging them I think building our business was probably our number one Because when we took they were telling their friends. I had a lot of people that he told me I gotta come - Yeah. our ratings and stuff, we're so nice and we're so enthusiastic and all of these things. I think that was the number in building the business. - Okay, what do you think like Facebook, Instagram, Google Ads? - I don't know, I have never used it. - Really? I haven't spent a dime on ads at all. - Whoa okay. No advertising costs. - Zero advertising costs. - That's impressive, good. So earlier we mentioned to get a pizza. So what are some tips on how - Wow, that's a, hype But I'll tell you how I did it. Whatever you're doing with your product, talk to everybody about it. I mean, everybody, many of the connections that I made either led me to somebody in knowing and doing a story or they spread the word I think the second thing is, I think people don't realize Like I am not a social media guy, but when I started doing this, I really fell in love with it. And as I started kind of studying it, I understand the power of it. You gotta get people to interact with you. You gotta get people involved, - Yeah, so some people like to keep their personal life and their they don't like to put but that just is not gonna is that what you're saying? - Yes, I think so because and that's what creates the hype. Also collaborations like, &quot;Hey, can I collaborate with you?&quot; Like other people? There's so many ways of doing it. Just be creative in thinking of how can I get my product out there and it's not gonna cost - Yeah, okay so how do you go about building a distinctive - I think when you use I think it just says, how do you do something different, right? So I think that begins You know, round pizzas We do a square pizza. - Yeah. are what's the norm when you go to a high end restaurant or a fast food restaurant, There's not anything that's really bright. So look at these boxes and the logo, you know, these beautiful - Bright colors - Yeah. is distinctive, you know, utilizing these characters and positive, you know, Like, I think that's the beginning - Yeah. is what kind of sets us in what we do. - Yep, absolutely. - Keep folding. - All right, I got stuck in here. I'm folding two at once, there we go. So I know you're big So tell us what platforms you're using and how you go about - I am a huge fan of So I would say my favorite because that's the first and it's really user-friendly and simple. So I would suggest anybody doing that, they wanna keep it simple and I love Instagram for that reason. However, like TikTok is one of I think that has a lot of capability, especially for a business. So I'm starting to engage on TikTok and I watch what that and I start to develop or - Yeah, is there one piece that completely changed your business? - It's from a fruit They got rid of all the middle management and I love that idea. And what it is, the idea is, this is the crew, there's no manager. And when I'm not here and what I love about these guys is they manage themselves through and being responsible for each other and looking out for each other. - Yeah. We don't need a manager here, So I think that's something really key that could change the - Yeah. if we can keep building on this culture and what this business could - Yeah and do you have to hire - It's both. I think it's in the hiring, making sure that they whether it's short term or long term, that alignment is really important. Hire slow, fire fast. - Okay and what do you look for when you're hiring new employees? - I look for, you know, like kindness, good looking - That helps. - He's over there like flashing, but like, I think kindness How they communicate I don't look at all the resume - Okay. I look at the conversation - Cool. - Let's go check it out. And one of my favorite things The lighting, the string lighting is supposed to kind of like that I love so much. All equipment, these that are gonna be filled up with dough and we are walking into This is actually gonna have, are gonna be in here And this is gonna be our walk-in and then we're gonna have This is all gonna be dough preparation and then in here is the robot room. - What? What is this beast? - So this is Otis, our robot. We partnered with picnic robotics. This will do 150 pizzas an hour and it works simply like this. We run our pizza right through here. It stops and a laser reads it. - Yeah. this door right here, comes It will fill it with cheese, it will slice the pepperoni and then come through here. And each one of these So your onions, your will drop in there exactly, - To the weight and the And then this right here, this is how you can, we but our POS system ties So if you do an order, you're gonna be able to order your pizza and it's gonna go straight and go down the line. - Oh my gosh, okay. - And then you'll get you'll get a text that your pizza's ready. So once it goes all through here, it comes through on the conveyor belt, goes through this giant beast of a oven and then we pull it out like we showed at the earlier location and then out it goes. - Wow. this mad fan of technology, And I think if you're not chasing that, you're gonna fall behind really fast. We are going to make a pepperoni pizza. We're not fully set up for the stadium, so this is our running gun mode. Now we're gonna cheese it, so go ahead and grab some brother. Spread it around. - No edges yet? work that edge. Get it around the edge. - First in the middle, now on the edge. - All right, load up the pep. And I'm never shy with pepperoni. Pepperoni lovers love pepperoni. So load it up. - Let's use this whole thing. - You're doing good, bro. You are a good pepperoni - All right. So we're gonna actually go right here. - Okay. We're gonna come through, this is a little window that So this is set for five and she's gonna come outta here. (relaxing music) You're gonna do the same kind about an inch across from each other. - All right. and they're diagonal, okay? So try it on that. - All right. Oh, wait, slow, slow, slow. - Slow, there you go. - Oh my gosh! - There yeah, that's all You're actually doing fantastic, dude! - Yo, the pizza's in the house. All right, let's go over it, net profits. So break us down some of the net profits and how much each location is raking in. - Okay, so let's go with So right now, each location is roughly averaging Okay, so we're at about an annual of about 1,080,000 - Top line. Our food costs are about 22% roughly. - Wow, that's pretty low. - Yeah and this is from being able to know what we're ordering now, we know exactly what we need. - Yeah. to keep that really tight, right? - Yeah. is probably about 15%. Okay. So that puts us, you know, about 150-ish? But I think something that is right now we're actually kind of throttling our production right now because we're growing so fast. So we're being really We haven't even added delivery yet, we haven't added our alcohols yet, even though we have our alcohol permit. So there's a lot of verticals The potential of what we're - Whoa. you know, and our mozzarella - Yeah. of things that we haven't touched on yet. So I'm anticipating - Yeah. this is a super conservative number and I always tell you I like to work with those conservative numbers and so that's kind of - Okay, so in summary, - So we're about per between 150 and 180. But then there's the stadium and that is gonna be high volume. So we're just pushing them through. We're anticipating up to So we're in the middle So we only have a partial when we're starting and we're walking out of there And then I think next year we're so that stadium's gonna be a unique deal. - All right, have you ever or the business and how - I think everybody, or not lose faith, I think The one thing I say to myself is, put one foot in front of the other. You know, like I said earlier, if you can't run, walk, just put one thing in, it So it's always the mentality of just take that one - Yeah, what are some that you almost had? Like were there any terrible - Yes, when I first started I accidentally erased - Accidentally erased? - Like all the information - Everything and everybody's So I had to go online and say, &quot;Hey, if you're out there I am so sorry, it is not my it was me, I accidentally - Oh my gosh. But we worked through it, you We talked to our customers. The ones who were mad we're like, &quot;Hey, what's it gonna And we fixed that. And then the customers, &quot;That was funny, we get it. Whatever you need, we'll do it.&quot; So it was just a big of hundreds and hundreds - Yeah. all of those things. - But you made it happen. - We made it happen. - Cool, so how many hours a Being the business manager? - The same that I, when I'm up at 5AM and then we close at nine and I'm either here closing or I'm at one of the other shops and then wrapping things up, I'm usually done about 11. - PM? - Wait, 5AM to 11PM. - So you're like living, - Oh yeah, but you know what's you know, as I build this business up, you know, it's kind of how how like sometimes, you know, people separate their My business is my personal or I'll go meet somebody, because I love it so much. So that's the other thing, find what you love and enjoy. The hours, I don't feel like I'm working. - Yeah, so what does You're like, is that 16 hours - Yeah, I'll do between 10 and 16 easy. - Okay. - How long did you work on your own before you brought other - So I had no plan on bringing other people into the picture. - You were gonna do this all yourself? - Oh yeah,. I did it the one just me here at the table - Really? just got greater and greater and greater. And you know, I was doing So starting out I was just like, okay, I'm gonna learn what I need to do to become more efficient. - Yeah. of the second year, I put out an ad that said I'm looking for magical people. And I got one guy and he's the only person that answered the ad. - When you got into this, did you have this vision Or has this just been happening? You've been rolling with it? - Oh yeah, I started making and here we are today, making up to 300. And so I did roll with it because in business you So we'll just keep feeding (Caleb laughs) - And that's a wrap. I hope If you wanna learn more make sure to check out episode 117 where we interview Aybla where he goes into all the details about how he started a business in the food industry. See you on the next episode. (upbeat music)