Transcriber: Reiko Bovee So, I'll start with this. A couple of years ago, because I was going and she called and said: &quot;I'm really struggling with how to write I thought, &quot;Well, what's the struggle?&quot; and she said: &quot;Well, I saw you speak, and I am going to call you but I'm afraid if I call you because they'll think you're And I was like &quot;OK.&quot; She said: &quot;But the thing is that you're a storyteller. So I think what I'll do And of course the academic, &quot;You're going to call me a what?&quot; And she said: &quot;I'm going And I was like, &quot;Oh, why not I was like: &quot;Let me think And so, I tried to call deep on my courage and I thought, &quot;You know, I am a storyteller. I collect stories; that's what I do. Maybe stories are just data with a soul, So I said: &quot;You know what? Why don't you just say And she went, &quot;Ha ha! (Laughter) So I'm a researcher storyteller, - we're talking about and so I want to talk to you about a piece of my research and really actually changed the way And this is where my story starts. When I was a young researcher, my first year I had a research professor who, on one of his first days &quot;Here's the thing. If you cannot And I thought he was I was like, &quot;Really?&quot; And so you have to understand a Master's in Social Work, so my entire academic career who kind of believed in the And I'm more of the &quot;Life's messy, organize it, and put it into a bento box.&quot; (Laughter) And so to think I had found my way, really one of the big sayings is &quot;Lean into the discomfort of the work,&quot; and I'm like, knock and move it over and get all As. That was my mantra. So I was very excited about this. And so I thought, because I am interested but I want to be able I want to understand them. I want to hack into these things and lay the code out for everyone to see. So where I started was with connection. Because by the time what you realize is It's what gives purpose This is what it's all about. It doesn't matter whether you talk and mental health and abuse and neglect. What we know is that connection, is neurobiologically It's why we are here. So I thought, &quot;You know what. Well, you know that situation where you get an evaluation And she tells you 37 things and one thing that you kind of you know, (Laughter) And all you can think about Well, apparently this is the way Because when you ask people about love When you ask them about belonging, they'll tell you about their of being excluded. And when you ask people about connection, the stories they told me So very quickly about six weeks I ran into this unnamed thing In a way that I didn't understand And so I pulled back &quot;I need to figure out what this is.&quot; And it turned out to be shame. And &quot;shame&quot; is really easily understood as the fear of disconnection. Is there's something about me that I won't be worthy of connection? The things I can tell you about it is: The only people who don't experience shame have no capacity for human empathy No one wants to talk about it, and the less you talk about it What underpinned this shame, this &quot;I'm not good enough,&quot; that &quot;I'm not blank enough, beautiful enough, The thing that underpinned us This idea of &quot;In order we have to allow ourselves And you know how I feel And so I thought, this is my chance I'm going in; I am going to spend a year; I'm going to understand I'm going to outsmart it. So I was ready and I was really excited! As you know (Laughter) You know this. I could tell you a lot about shame, but I'd have to borrow But here's what I can tell you This may be one of the most in the decade of doing this research. My one year turned into six years. Thousands of stories, hundreds At one point, people were sending me their stories, And I kind of got a handle on it, I kind of understood I wrote a book, I published a theory And what it was, is that if I roughly took and divided them into people - that is what this comes down, they have a strong sense And the folks who struggle for it, the folks who are always wondering There was only one variable who had a strong sense of love That was the people who have believe that they are worthy That's it. They believe they're worthy. And to me, the hard part of the one thing is our fear that we're not was something I feel like I needed to understand better. So what I did is I took where I saw worthiness, where I saw people living that way, What did these people have in common? I have a slight office supply (Laughter) So I had a manila folder and a sharpie, I was like, &quot;What am I going And the first words that came These are kind of wholehearted people I wrote at the top of the manila folder, In fact, I did it first in a four-day where I went back pulled the stories &quot;What's the theme? What's the pattern?&quot; My husband left town with the kids because I was kind of going into Where I'm just writing And so here's what I found. What they had in common And I want to separate courage Courage, the original when it first came - it's from the Latin word, the original definition with your whole heart. And so these folks, very simply, They had the compassion and then to others, and as it turns out we can't practice compassion if we can't treat ourselves kindly. And the last was they had connection - and this was the hard part - as a result of authenticity, they were willing to let go in order to be who they were, which you have to absolutely The other thing They fully embraced vulnerability. They believed that what made them They didn't talk about vulnerability nor did they talk about it as I had heard earlier They just talked about it being necessary. They talked about the willingness The willingness to do something The willingness to breathe through waiting for the doctor to call They're willing to invest that may or may not work out. They thought this was fundamental. I personally thought it was betrayal. I could not believe I had pledged the definition of research to study phenomena for the explicit reason And now my mission to control that the way to live And to stop controlling and predicting. This led to a little breakdown. (Laughter) which actually looked more like this : (Laughter) And it did. And it led to what I called a breakdown, and my therapist called (Laughter) Spiritual awakening sounds better, I had to put my data away And let me tell you something, when you call you friends and say, Do you have any recommendations?&quot; Because about five &quot;Woooh, I wouldn't want I was like, &quot;What does that mean?&quot; And they're like, Don't bring your measuring stick!&quot; (Laughter) I was like, &quot;Okay&quot;. And so I found a therapist. And in my first meeting with her, Diana, I brought in my list And she sat down and said, &quot;How are you?&quot; And I said, &quot;I'm great. I'm okay.&quot; And she said, &quot;Well what's going on?&quot; And this is a therapist because we have to go to those (Laughter) And so I said, &quot;Here's the thing, And she said, &quot;What's the struggle?&quot; And I said, And I know that vulnerability and our struggle for worthiness the birthplace of joy, and I think I have a problem, I said, &quot;Here's the thing, I just need some strategies.&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. So she goes like this. (Laughter) Then, I said, &quot;It's bad right?&quot; And she said, &quot;It's neither good nor bad. (Laughter) It just is what it is.&quot; And I said, &quot;Oh my God, (Laughter) And it did and it didn't. And it took about a year. And you know how there are people that, when they realize that vulnerability that they kind of surrender A) That's not me. B) I don't even hang out (Laughter) For me it was a yearlong street fight. It was a slugfest. I lost the fight Then I went back into the research really trying to understand and what choices they were making Why do we struggle with it so much? Am I alone in struggling No. So this is what I learned. We numb vulnerability. When we're waiting for the call - It's funny, I guess, on Wednesday &quot;How would you define vulnerability and within an hour and a half I wanted to know what's out there. &quot;Having to ask my husband for help &quot;Initiating sex with my husband.&quot; &quot;Initiating sex with my wife.&quot; &quot;Being turned down.&quot; &quot;Waiting for the doctor to call back.&quot; &quot;Getting laid off.&quot; &quot;Laying off people.&quot; This is the world we live in. We live in a vulnerable world. And one of the ways we deal with it And I think there's evidence, this evidence exists We are the most in debt, obese, addicted, and medicated adult cohort The problem is - is that you cannot You can't say, Here's vulnerability, here's fear, here's disappointment. I am going to have a couple of beers (Laughter) I don't want to feel these! And I know that's knowing laughter, I hack into your lives for a living. (Laughter) You can't numb those hard feelings without numbing You cannot selectively numb. So when you numb those, we numb joy; we numb gratitude; And then, we are miserable, and then we feel vulnerable, and so we have a couple of beers And it becomes this dangerous cycle. One of the things that I think we need and it doesn't just have to be addiction. The other thing we do is make Religion has gone from a belief &quot;I'm right, you're wrong. Shut up.&quot; That's it. Just certain. The more afraid we are, the more afraid we are. This is what politics looks like today, There's no discourse any more; There's just blame. You know how blame &quot;A way to discharge pain and discomfort.&quot; We perfect. Now let me tell you, if there's anyone who wants it would be me. But it doesn't work. Because we take fat from our butts (Laughter) Which doesn't work! I hope in a hundred years (Laughter) And we perfect, Let me tell you very quickly They're hardwired for struggle When you hold those perfect little babies &quot;Look at them, look at her, My job is just to keep her perfect, and make sure she makes and Yale by 7th grade.&quot; That's not our job, &quot;You're imperfect but you are worthy That's our job. Show me and we'll end the problems We pretend that what we do We do that in our personal lives, whether it's a bail out We pretend like, what we're doing doesn't have I would say to companies, We just need you to be authentic &quot;We're sorry; we'll fix it.&quot; But there's another way, This is what I've found: to let ourselves be seen, To love with our whole hearts And that's really hard, I can tell you as a parent, To practice gratitude and joy in those moments of terror &quot;Can I love you this much? Can I be this fierce about this?&quot; Just to be able to stop and instead of catastrophizing to say, &quot;I'm just so grateful. Because to feel this vulnerable And the last, which I think is to believe that we're enough. Because when we work from a place then we stop screaming, We're kinder and gentler and we're kinder and gentler to ourselves. That's all I have. Thank you. (Applause)