&gt;&gt; President Donald Trump: In Springfield, The people that came in, They're eating the pets of And this is what's happening in [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: It's Wednesday, And welcome back to GoodFellows, a Hoover economic, political, and I'm Bill Whalen, I'll be your moderator today, two of our GoodFellows. John Cochrane is not with us, Hoover today. But in his absence, were more than Niall Ferguson, and former presidential geostrategist, Lieutenant who is in the crosshairs of the show Niall and HR, great to see you. It's been too long, my friends. &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Hey, And thanks again for the opportunity to talk about the book And, Niall, thanks so At the outset of it, when I was name because I didn't want you to be But thank you so much to both of you for &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, in Nixonian terms, that makes Niall Ferguson an undetected &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] into the title of the book It is number two, HR, on the bestseller Congratulations, that is a coup, I'm curious about one thing, HR. I am a recovering Washingtonian, I've spent my life in politics. So, I've spent way too much time reading Washington. There are usually two defining features One is that the people who writes they use it to get even. They wanna exact their vengeance on threw them under the bus did them wrong. Secondly, HR, which is that I was the only Everybody was too stupid Now, as I'm reading At War with Ourselves, throw somebody under the bus or when you everybody else was wrong, but Now, was this a conscious decision on your many ways, not a Washington book? &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: [LAUGH] Well, I really wanted to strike the right tone. I mean, I really did. I wasn't writing it to settle any scores. I wasn't writing it to say, hey, What I wanted to do is bring into the Trump White House. What was it like? What is it like to be What does an effective national security What are the obstacles that one like that into place? What role do personalities and relationships play in trying to And, of course, What is the importance of And to consider President Trump years that preceded it and So I hope I make good on that the opportunity to have been in the job. And what I really hope is Young people who wanna lead, I can see what the rewards are of service. &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: HR, congratulations So was the previous book where you but this one fills in a lot of whirlwind time when you were I wanna talk a bit about how you because, in a way, your book is the national security strategy of overhauled in the first Trump That was an enormously I remember reading that document when the document it replaced, which was the Obama administration, Talk a bit about how the book given that you were doing it with, a somewhat erratic commander &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, thanks, Niall. I mean, what I saw it as my job to do is foreign policy, And to do that by fulfilling my duty as the only person really in foreign policy establishment who has By giving the president best analysis, And, of course, But if he's nothing else, he's disruptive. And, I wanted to help him disrupt And, Niall, in terms of the process and security, which is reflected in a specific policy and What I wanted to do was to help the challenge we're facing. And then, to consider what our objectives ought to And the way to do that with Donald Trump, is to answer the so what question upfront. Why does America care about this Because then you can view that complex interests and craft an overarching And in my initial engagements I didn't really go much further than do you agree with this Do you agree that this is And do you agree these are our goals and And then we initiated a framing process that questioned the assumptions on This is something that Cuz he would often talk about the stupid And in some case, I mean, he was correct that these But our assumptions were overly optimistic therefore not challenged. And so based on some flawed the post-Cold War period, we had critical arenas of competition. And we were getting our ass kicked, Niall, Russia and China and their allies and And so we questioned those assumptions, I think, to make the shift you described his willingness to question And the way we crafted our engagements significant challenges we were facing. I think that allowed us to put into &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: One thing that strikes that it's hard to keep Trump on towards China because he There's the moment where make sure you don't fall into cuz when they say win-win, And yet, in fact, his inclination to look for some kinda deal Talk a bit about the challenge of keeping security strategy set out when his &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, he understood understanding on the challenge from China its status mercantilist So he was consistent on that, everybody knows this, right? This is not a revelation, to make big deals, and big deals he thought were in And so in the case of China, the Chinese Communist Party leadership the American complacency is the Chinese So China will string us liberalization of their economic model or new areas of cooperation on, Its all nonsense because what China us from reentering those arenas of And so as we prep the president for we would show him the previous failed the working groups that have many times, and how they would And of course, President Trump, though, So what I would try to do is let him be in these prep sessions, President, this is what And by the way, this is how national security advisor stepped I think that prepped him well, And then, of course, it wasn't just me, very capable people in that administration cabinet officials, secretary of state and He's fantastic, a fantastically person and somebody who President Trump has So as a team and Matt Pottinger, gosh, much deep knowledge, and the president the history and Matt did a great job So I think that we were able to keep of course, though, he was attracted to the possibility Remember, Bob Lighthizer had the Chinese Communist Party leadership was of a really big deal that would be That would address President Trump's imbalance in goods is what he really And I know that's problematic that's what prevented him from maybe countering Chinese economic aggression, Article 301 of the trade law, 232 in But then a whole range of other subsidies for Chinese products. So that's good, if Trump is reelected, I think he learned from that being strung Xi Jinping from a trade and &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: You know HR reading a Chinese dinner and that I was I was hungry for Niall Ferguson's next Because I believe, not mistaken that's when Henry Kissinger &gt;&gt; President Richard Nixon: Doctor all people who are interested one of the major scholars in America and &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: You`ll correct me here, I years, which makes him the longest serving holding both National Security Council and And I think in your book, H.R, him joking about it's the only the secretary of state got along, Let's approach this job a little bit from here and what Kissinger has But having served in the army, HR, an understanding of power, officers who take commands and go forward. I always look at White Houses Trump did something very curious, He obviously had a defense secretary, then he had this little rump caucus, this little rump group in the White House, And I saw that and someone in your position, because why always the smartest guy in the room and Jared's obviously the son in law for of a built in system that could am I reading that correctly, &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, no, President Trump is predisposed. I read about this, to kind of people to the deal to the apprentice the reality So it was a recipe for a lot of friction bring people into the National policy making process. Mr. Bannon really didn't wanna do that, manipulating decisions consistent that made him like a less than And especially when he began to employ was nothing, who was not helping But what I found with good in the Trump White House I mean, Jared Kushner was given some what in the wake of President Trump's, or serial insults aimed at Mexico about He gave that Mexico portfolio to Jared a number of others. So I think that he I would like to think that we were And I said, hey Jared, you can do this on it's not gonna work bring we'll run a process that's transparent You can still drive the President's agenda you`re gonna have the departments and agencies who understand what you want to And remember, I mean, remember, its a fools errand to try to normalize Israel and he did it with a great And with the support of departments and those guys drove it but you know what, I used the other example of the move of and we used the NSC process for our ambassador to Israel was Jared was reluctant, this is the only way this is gonna I think we demonstrated our role as we developed a great plan to do it and I think that you're right, Bill, I mean, And I write about that in the book and I was kind of familiar with previous comfort because you realize you're &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Right. that's important because I think who wanted to represent the White House And characterized by a factional it's more of a feature than The Nixon administration was the personality of Richard Nixon a president that Donald Trump admires, But they really couldn't be more introverted, spent a lot of time with strategy in ways that when you you'll feel pangs of envy at the way But what I try and show in the second is that there was all kinds of Machinations, palace intrigue, Henry of state, William Rogers, was out of The kind of politics of secrecy, that ultimately led to the destruction all began early on in And so I think one of the things from the work I'm doing on is that this is actually how Their separation of powers, in fact, means a kind of struggle between You don't talk an enormous it's another thing that is at odds with And so my sense is that for to see how the sausage gets made and to inside every administration, And this is not something peculiar, wasn't really a particular It's actually kind of normal that that We don't hear quite as much the Biden-Harris White House because But in the end, we'll find out, and were all kinds of palace intrigues of course, Joe Biden's departure from the So I think this is one of the most We get to see the realities of in the sometimes quite toxic But I'm kinda here to reassure you, This kinda happens in most I mean, that's something that I'm learning from When you look at you realize that that was no shining &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: No, quite the opposite. I was talking to Admiral Poindexter. So one of the aspects of actually all of, it was a mixture of But I enjoyed writing the part in former national security advisors. I talked to every living former on the phone within weeks And the title of the book I took from who served later in Reagan administration. But he was talking about the first He said, hey, And so And it is a comfort to know And Dr. Kissinger, who is a friend of and I loved his sense of He recounted his perspective on it. And when I started to write the book, Kissinger just to get his advice What are the top themes you think would And he said, don't do what I He said, He said, just focus on several themes, And I was reminiscing about our many security advisor. I said Henry, as I look back on this, I faced a fundamental choice, to engage in the intrigue or And I think knowing that I'm a much infighter than he was, he said, They would have eaten you alive. [LAUGH] tease you, H.R, That's a line from Kanye West [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: He has a song called We at war with terrorism, racism, but So I'm gonna call you Yeezy though, or. &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: [LAUGH] Well, I think, is the theme to those lyrics. And it's one of the themes of with ourselves is not only bad for but it's actually a severe I think if you begin everything that you're immediately in opposition to Then actually you foreclose a meaningful discussion about how we can So one of the themes in the book is, Let's begin conversations with what we significant challenges and opportunities, a national security perspective. And we can get a lot done together. And a lot of the book is about my and to transcend this friction difficulties and As you guys have mentioned already, that Dr. Schadlow, our colleague collaborative process while remaining And I tell the story in the book of the national security strategy. And he tells Dr. Schadlow, he goes, I love Well, it's because we And then also, as we had been crafting across the previous eight months, we could run them by him and And the speech that he gave in or at APEC, or ASEAN in Vietnam and Or this first trip that he to Tel Aviv, to Rome and to Brussels. So he was already on record with, important ideas that he's actually reciprocity, and trade, right? I write about his erratic nature, but darn consistent on and Now, sometimes, [LAUGH] as I but sometimes he can be so disruptive sadly, becomes the antagonist &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: My final question, the National Security Council, I think the first NSA comes in about 1953, 1947 and it was the vestige The question to you two gentlemen, we're does America need to revisit its And if so, how would you two redesign it? &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Niall, What are your thoughts on this? &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: The most striking the NSC of 50 years ago is how much And I think the question I put to H.R is, It's striking to me that it was Kissinger with a relatively to execute a very complex Which was to try to exploit the of the United States as it extricated of the Middle East. It was a very complex multi-year strategy, to do with the kind of much larger Very keen to get your thoughts on that HR. You praise the people that you worked because you had lasting achievements, were ultimately fired by Trump and What you had done not only endured much of it has endured cuz they didn't change the China So it lasted, but did it last because of this much more &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Yeah, I think, first of all, you have to Smaller is typically better But you do need people on the NSC staff problem set, say, biomedical security, Niall, the subject that you wrote about in understand pandemics or who understand And what effective techniques might those weapons, or have the expertise Lisa Curtis on Afghanistan and Pakistan. And so I could just go on, right? Juan Cruz on the western hemisphere. So you need people with the right understand the tools that government You need those two critical competencies, you want people who are respected and That it's not their role to make policy, integrate efforts across So the number of people is not as the right expertise. When people talk about numbers, the Susan I think, in large measure decision-making authority about tactical putting into place longer term strategies. So the size of the organization is and how you craft the National And how they go about their business more of a tactical organization? But when you hear the numbers bandied the growth associated with which are relatively new. The National Economic Council, which has which is really important. I think John Bolton got rid of it and it was super important to integrate national security policy, And then also the Homeland Security example, space is a competitive domain. So these new demands create new need for But again, it's the right people. But also, when you hear the numbers of the are in the situation room, the There are various admin people do reception for new members of the staff. All of that gets lumped in a lot of times. The relevant number are the policy And again, what's most important, if you have the right expertise and are respected across the departments and I mean, when I first came in, I put that our team, on coordinating and integrating agencies to give the president options. And then to assist with the integration policies and decisions, not to do it And then we had a vision statement for that we wanted to be valued and trusted be a strategic organization rather But you're right, especially if you're One of the first things I did, is I inventoried all of the authorities concentrated in the White House And prepared memoranda for President Trump's signature to decision-making authorities back down So, hey, China doesn't own the ocean. So why is the Department of Defense the South China Sea? [LAUGH] Or, hey, why do you have to have more than three helicopters in Syria? So these were ridiculous constraints, and I think we got out of that &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, H.R, The title of the book, again, my year in the Trump White House. It's available where good books are sold. Congratulations again, Number two best seller of the New Niall, he's making it hard for the rest &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: I raise my hat it's a well deserved success. When you were trying to I can remember pitching you the Hoover place to come and And I think I was right about that. &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, you're right, and I mean, when you have you and to get to know, you have to up your game. I'll never be as good of but you maybe aspire to at least &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: These are two terrific very illuminating on the problems both internal and external. So congratulations, and they richly deserve to be So, well done. &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, thanks to support through the whole process, &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: All right, And all the brotherly love that we're now gonna do 180 degree detour from. Because we're gonna talk about last H.R McMaster's hometown of Philadelphia, I am spoiled here at the Hoover when I need to figure out what's going Niall Ferguson to tell me. And here's what Niall has It is the Barbenheimer election. And Niall, the master of pop culture, in which he said, it's the Barbenheimer The candidate's the Barbie, kind of good-natured cheer. The other one's running the Oppenheimer You can figure out who that is. Niall, you watched the debate last night are you thinking in &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: Well, in that Kamala Harris being pinned down on policy specifics. And to project likable presidential, middle class, wholesome cheerleading, intellectual, political Barbie Persona. And Donald Trump became more and more angry as he fell into that had been prepared by And the angrier he got, So that in the course of the evening, inflation in its history, illegal immigrants devouring So, yeah, it pretty much was Barbenheimer, But Kamala Harris, who avoided word rehearsed attacking lines, and got Trump the issues that his team must have So you have to hand it to the Harris she delivered the goods. I was also struck by how very If you remember, it was Hillary Clinton's &gt;&gt; Hillary Clinton: It's just awfully of Donald Trump is not in charge &gt;&gt; President Donald Trump: Because &gt;&gt; Hillary Clinton: Secretary Clinton. &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: But last night, I found just change his tone, maybe just once, &gt;&gt; President Donald Trump: And crime is down all over the world, except &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: [CROSSTALK] I realized that Kamala Harris's voice And she is very carefully working I think will be going over pretty don't want to be in a permanent So that was pretty much as such, I think a box office success. Remember, Barbie did Trounce Oppenheimer year by something like two to On the other hand, Barbie only won one Oscar, And if the Electoral College is kinda even after a disastrous debate this election narrowly and And this is really one for you HR. Here's my question, and I don't know the answer to this cuz I How did this play in those swing places like Northampton, Trump in 2016, narrowly, went for Seems like the kinda place How did it all go over there, Are people in those swing by barbies, vibes, and Or are they really responding to Trump's control, illegal immigration is a crisis, there was a huge inflation mistake made What do you think, you know this part &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, I wish I knew it to go to West Point, and My family's there, my cousins are there. And I think it just depends how they regard not only the debate but I think that Vice President Harris seemed some of her previous positions which is quite relevant in Pennsylvania, I mean, the president really she didn't really talk about it, right? She talked about prosecuting members So, I just found the whole thing so I think a lot of my fellow Pennsylvanians a sense of missed opportunity to I mean, there were a couple of issues a predisposition in a certain national security, energy security and I mean, there could have been so much more because as you alluded to Niall, And, Bill, you're the politics expert I think what is clearly I'm not a good judge of this kinda stuff. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Look, you wanna do Niall was right, Trump was offense this, this is not the Trump of eight years She was far better in performance, Yeah, she got a lot of help from ABC, It's important to note we're doing this 24 hours after the debate and Let's see what the polls move. I would caution one thing, I'm not being about a month. And then you might have noticed Niall and her and the race got back to where it had he not dropped out of the race. So let's see, in a couple of But Niall, getting back to the Pennsylvanian who jumped in the race [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Let's talk And here, my friend, I want you to choose million followers on X, Niall, So be careful of talking about Tay Tay, Is anything like that possibly I'm just reading too much into &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: Well, I think it's being the most gender-polarized election The gap between male and female voters, was very striking, And of course, I presume, Especially in just the same way that of abortion were calculated by the Harris So if this election is differentiated 2016, I think it's this. That there's gonna be a big, big divide especially amongst younger voters, And not only in the United States, we can see it in Europe, Young men are trending right and young women are trending left in a way So that's the significance And it was a well-timed endorsement the quintessential angry old man. And Kamala Harris had played very confident woman. So, yeah, I think this is She has to foreground what they I'm gonna call abortion. Cuz that's an issue that is very difficult Where Donald Trump is not in sync with especially in Bible Belt states. For Trump, the issues that matter the economy more generally. And I think his signal failure last night make her as an integral part of the problems of the last three and By failing to do that, I think he But you're right, Bill, age has a news cycle life of what? Two weeks? Even a near assassination of story [LAUGH] to me and astonishingly in a short time we'll Probably by the next GoodFellas episode. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, which I wanna quickly point out to you. And I want your thoughts on which Niall, there was no mention The concept that great powers, when they end up spending more on debt So no mention of that. H.R, no pushback when Quote, as of today, there is not one is in active duty in a combat zone Niall, no mention about what's going anti Semitism. H.R, no conversation, having briefed a president every day for No discussion about what didn't know about So, H.R, which of those four &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, I'll say that there women in harm's way around the world or Well, it's been really not ISIS has become much, US Central command, where my friend a fantastic officer and He's an absolute animal This is a guy who was shot in chased down the terrorists with a knife. I mean, he is one hard man, He just reported that there have been twice as many ISIS related And ISIS is trying to regain become an even greater threat. And so those soldiers are in harm's way. Iran, through their proxies, is attacking And the Biden administration still know what the return address is. So maybe that's why she doesn't Because we haven't recognized that Iraq, now also directly, now are engaging And then think about what's with the multiple attacks on shipping and Every one of those intercepts of a shorter I mean, I could go on about this, about how aggressive China is the seven acts of aggression And guess what? We do have troops out there. So I just think that it depiction of the state of the world. And that was maybe what disappointed &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: What about you, Niall? &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: Well, be dealing with one hell of a fiscal mess. I'm sorry, John Cochrane's not the growth of the debt over the last And the problem is because servicing that debt starts to consume an My jokey Ferguson's law is no joke. Actually the US government is now the federal debt than And the Biden-Harris policy implies a time when we really need to be Otherwise we will not have deterrence the increasingly aligned authoritarian So I think to have two presidential about those fiscal problems And it would have been nice if How are you gonna clean up the mess whatever it now is at a time How will you cope when the economy slows But that wasn't the kind of interested in asking last night. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, we have about It's a mousetrap question, Niall and H.R. I have one solution for you. Let the journalists allow the candidates as we get a warped view from There was the obligatory I wanted to throw a brick through my religiously. Climate change just does not the border foreign policy, but yet they But Niall and H.R, if you could change one the US if any, what would you change? &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: It's a great question, we have to try to get to more substance. Something about when I debated in high you had the affirmative and negative team. Maybe even provide some of knowing that the candidates will take And make it an argument for or then afford a short rebuttal time for More in lines of the rules I just think we've gotta do something to try to force the candidates What would their policies be? What would they really do? &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: My view is And the reason that they're so frustrating is that we don't really have a Even student debating has been So that it's impossible, in fact, I had when we were young. So we need to revive Perhaps it's part of the educational if we want to see presidential My one reform, let's have an audience. Having these dead, a political argument to be made. Democracy is about the people. And having the people sat watching this represented in the auditorium, So I'd like to bring the audience back. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Not exactly &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: No, Bring back the audience. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Yeah, We need at least one more debate here into 90 minutes. I'm the only single guy in the show, It's 90 minutes. It was just very shallow conversations and nothing substantive but And Okay, gentlemen, We're recording the show on the 23rd very quickly, where were you to that day? &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: I was in Germany, We had a short respite in between a continuation of that exercise. And, I resolved at that moment, obviously, to continue to train our unit and I did not command that squadron it did go into combat several years later. And, of course, it was a huge change for our armed forces as we pursued the enemies and then had the subsequent So, yeah, I was in Germany and &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Niall. &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: I was in Oxford, dodgy dial up Internet connection, the Twin Towers of the World Trade And I realized that moment that I had to shortly afterwards said to New York University and to Harvard that I was interested in moving from Oxford. And NYU faxed back an offer almost the next day, and I accepted it. I had been due to give a lecture at NYU on September 12, and, of course, never flew. So for me, it was a decisive moment. It was one of the critical reasons why I moved to the United States, because one had to rally round at that point. And NYU is the university closest to ground zero. So I taught there for two years, and two very happy years they were. But there were years that I spent in the city that had been deeply, deeply scarred by the events that unfolded 23 years ago. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, gentlemen, next question. A would-be historian goes on Tucker Carlson's show, and he says that Winston Churchill was, quote, the Chief villain of World War II. Our friend and colleague, the Lord Andrew Roberts, calls it a display of, quote, staggering ignorance. Our genius historian Niall Ferguson calls it the return of anti history. You're both historians, tell me what's going on here, Niall. &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: Well, he's not a historian, and for Tucker Carlson to present him as an historian was a kind of deception in itself. Darryl Cooper's never published a history book, and his various contributions on podcasts and on social media amount, at this point, to nothing much more than resurrecting Nazi propaganda. And that's all he did in his interview with Tucker Carlson, to basically reheat the arguments that the national socialist regime made in the 1930s and 1940s particularly that Churchill was the warmonger, that he had Jewish financial backers, that Hitler, in fact, only wanted peace. I found it astonishing that these old Nazi tropes straight out of the Goebbels playbook should have been given any prominence at all on a podcast of any kind. And the fact that it attracted so much public interest deeply depressed me because it taught me that a great many people are unable to discern Nazi propaganda when they hear it. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: HR, it gets worse, our friend Barry Weiss points out that Darryl Cooper also suggested Adolf Hitler is in heaven. He's also suggested the Romans were sent by God to eradicate the Jews. He's also said the Holocaust wasn't so much a planned genocide as it was the fact that the Nazis took so many damn prisoners, they had to kill a few million people. Why does Tucker do this, HR? &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Well, gosh, I mean, I don't know, I mean, he's a charlatan. He's a grifter, he's a demagogue. I mean, you'd have to ask him, what is his motivation? I mean, I would like to think he's a pretty intelligent guy. He's got to know better. So I think what he's willing to do for his own kind of fealty of his base of supporters is to engage in this kind of demagoguery. I really don't have much to add beyond the two excellent essays by my colleagues. And one of the reasons I'm so proud to be here at Hoover are the essays that appeared in the free press by Niall and by Victor Davis Hansen, which took this all apart. So I think that it's really important for all of us to stand up to this kind of demagoguery and to call this individual out for who he is, as well as anybody who gives him airtime, like Tucker Carlson. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: All right, gentlemen, final question. It is close to voting time in America right now. We mentioned that Taylor Swift has come out in favor of Kamala Harris. You know who else came out with Kamala Harris? Dick Cheney, yes, the Dick Cheney, as well as his daughter, Liz Cheney. Question for you, gentlemen. Is it okay for conservatives to endorse a Democrat over a Republican? In other words, in this election you have a choice of conscience, but you also have a choice of what's gonna happen the next four years depending on who wins. So Niall, how do we process, in terms of conservatives and how they vote? &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: This is an old American playbook. Nixon spent a good deal of time trying to find people on the other side that would come over to him, like John Connolly, the great Texan. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: He brought out Franklin Roosevelt's son in 1960, I believe, to support. &gt;&gt; Niall Ferguson: So I think this is traditional politics as we know and love it and America, don't ever change. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: Okay, HR, I'll give you the last word. &gt;&gt; H.R. McMaster: Hey, well, this is not my scene typically, but you do have, I think, this effort to recruit people from the other side. And actually I think it's, it's healthy to do it. I think our founders warned against faction, and I think that so many Americans also know the danger of that. I mean, look at how many Americans now identify or have identified themselves or register as independents. I mean, I think it's because they're unhappy with the shrinking tense of each political party and the pandering of those political parties to their most loyal base, especially through the primary process, which then delivers candidates with whom the vast majority of Americans are unhappy. So I think maybe this is a breakdown, a little bit of this obsession with faction. &gt;&gt; Bill Whalen: I think you're right. Well, you guys know who has very strong feelings about this. Victor Davis Hanson, who is going to be our next guest on Goodfellows at the end of the month. The bad news, the international man of history is not going to be with us. I think Niall is going to have a scheduling conflict. We're going to have to deal without him. But John Cochrane will be back and I think we're going to talk about this and various other things with Victor. You know how you make sure you will not miss Goodfellows? Subscribe to our show. Rate us, review us, say some kind things about us, pass the word about us. Also sign up for the Hoover Daily Report, which means that anytime that Niall and HR are on the news, you will find out about it. And you find that by going to the Hoover Institution website, which is hoover.org. On behalf of two thirds of our GoodFellows today, Niall Ferguson and HR McMaster, the missing John Cochrane, we hope today's show is great to have the boys back in camp with us today. Look forward to the next show. Until then, guys, take care, everybody out there, thanks for watching. So long. &gt;&gt; President Donald Trump: My dog was taken and used for food, so maybe he said that and maybe that's a good thing to say for a city manager. &gt;&gt; Speaker 5: I'm not taking this from television. Again, the Springfield city manager &gt;&gt;President Donald Trump: was eaten by the people that went there. &gt;&gt; Speaker 5: Again, the Springfield city manager says there's no evidence of that. Vice President Harris, I'll let you respond to the rest of what you've heard. &gt;&gt;Vice President Harris: Talk about extreme. &gt;&gt; Host: If you enjoyed this show and are interested in watching more content featuring HR McMaster, watch Battlegrounds also available @hoover.org.