On April 1st, 2017 a game was released for free Zombielator. Within 6 months, it had completely behind Totally Accurate Battle Simulator have a for april fools, and the second year into this zombie survival horror genre. Later entries, most actually be turned into fully fleshed out games, It has been over 6 years since it originally forgotten. However... I still have the game. It originally, you can play it. And so, what used to be a map It is a video game world fated to die, to be abandoned However, I want to explore it one last time and try my best to document the game a surprising amount with my friends around In the moments I feel lost, those will be my And, lastly, before we enter... have fun. We find ourselves on a road next to an inside, the road took me along into the The world of TABZ, while relatively is given a great deal of importance through the things in the game are locations, and one's finding as many as you can. And it was not first and most familiar sight in the entire City is a collection of house assets stacked on it's a microcosm of the game itself, and is one The design of City is closer to a spider web level of structure and reliability is but they are used and connected in You are regularly expected to climb to jump around the wooden nubs sticking out from pile of buildings seems single mindedly created City is marked in the distance by its spire, the else in this pile of buildings is doing its best while climbing it. While the bottom levels you eventually hit this point, like the end of becomes clear. While there was a hundred ways this small being wrapping itself around the in jumping around the corners, the inside of awkward and nimble, some conflict of the location At the top of the tower, following that a pile of weapons, and an all consuming fog. rewards for finding what many players couldn't. special places, but in them, you can find weapons in the game more or less has a weapon you special loot spots. At the peak of City is a time and similarly cartoonish damage, able Though less rare, I also found a Hunting Sniper, When a game has such a short development time, prioritizes first, what things come to mind made with financial incentive built in, so whoever scope in engine versus a UI element popping strikes me in a charming way, the individuality normally be a collectivist work. One neat benefit the scope, letting you look far into the distance. Out of the two things on top of the spire, and it's not just gravity you need to worry about. is not just expected, but an active selling anything I'm holding collides I might get launched halfway across the While you don't respawn at the same place and most put you somewhere near City. Speaking of I'd played the game, the first thing I wanted One thing that always catches my eye in games is Visual clarity is a big part of smoothing the know makes use of it. You don't need a mini-map it tends to uh... make itself obvious- Even of contrast in the GUI, elements that need to solutions slaved over to make sure the player is In TABZ, visuals are less a means of clarity little UI in the game and most certainly not any traverse this world is through landmarks. I could see is the most important landmark in the mountain to double check, and knowing the roughly be a rounded square, the mountain seems, This is very important, because while cardinal where I am by distance to the mountain and by I can mentally draw lines to determine that I'm you keep aiming in over and over. You can, in On the way around the mountain, I caught a attached and moving outward. If I we now have one defined direction to judge things and everything else will be in After another death trying to get down on the really remember, we respawn with City again in our Yeah, there are more than As the sun begins to set on the world of TABZ, change alongside it. The ambience in this game a different shade of grey, you are engulfed the fog of the daytime feels freeing around you. I'm not kidding, it got to I had to just stand there and wait until morning. much change between night and day cycles, they While the fog and render distance made it hard, I and a winding path connecting to the two, giving lighthouse and City as well as the two This is another common spawn location, a place the concrete cylinders you pass through, this more important locations, and lets you get some guns are not quite the savior that you might highly difficult and punishing zombie games any gun in this game not only alerts the zombies but also seems to spawn more just to make Often times, if you have nothing but a pistol gun that takes a long time to reload, you are It's made worse with longer guns, because the to suddenly glitch out and get thrown somewhere at the same spot every time in this game. You but it can be aiming anywhere! This so you need to check with each gun to see where If you start getting attacked by a zombie, the aiming does is reset the positioning of your gun physics of the game. It's also really common for If you shoot any gun, there's a good chance that to get worse the more frequently you shoot, mute button for the game. Regardless, though, from of the map from City, which makes it good for This game is not easy. Regardless, another bridge further down the build on. The second bridge is riiight around this area. Respawning back near City, I wanted to get back towards the pillars again With each and every death, I was able to know and around where they are in the map. If with the Lighthouse being on the same half of the and that means that the smaller mountain is a sensible map and using my weak memories of the 5 more to see just about everything the game has City 2 is like the little cousin of City. It's The layout is far more condensed, with the of boards and having you move through one of Similar to City, you can get a but there is not much more to write home a trifecta of By this point, I started to get to know the map but they do complete that trifecta, and further. There's one more place in specific and in an act of relative desperation, I began to At the very bottom of the map and the end of the a whole new angle to explore from. This is my single favorite area in TABZ. I simply call it The Cliff, what appears to be the tallest terrain building up and up and up until The structure, just from view alone, seems like is a series of increasingly steeper houses, the disconnect between the logic of our world feels that way. Exiting the steepest house, you're a purely empty void at the edge of a game areas like this, a point that wasn't an void. In the case of that game though, it When it was a necessary limitation, it was In TABZ, this area bares it out directly to you. and in the process, makes for one of the The reason most come here, though, I've alre ady gotten several very powerful However, on the way out, I really wanted to grab The annoyer, as I was unable to demonstrate, anything it makes contact with for a while. This secret guns with special effects that not the only one that can spawn at The Cliff; With options limited and the mind wandering, believe to be the final bridge to cross the map's Knowing that The Cliff is close by, I found myself This time, I cleared the jumps easily and found the second that can spawn here, the Knockback Gun. Finding the wheat field impenetrable I decided to finally go for the mountain secret; Locations like the field and this mountain are players most of the time. They involve swaths and often getting knocked over one run if someone isn't there to protect you. clear the mountain or the field myself... which However, when that attempt failed immediately this all is alone, I had to throw in the for a few hours, attempt to recreate the bug but didn't find any luck. For the sake everything I couldn't show myself or just titles will be shown on screen for everyone, and The mountain, just past the jump that I missed, as named, pulls enemies towards there's a pedestal holding the Cursed AK-47, the an entire ring of those glowing eyed zombies making a solo retrieval of this gun next to actually never knew existed is two cubes on the powerful fire shotgun. The cubes themselves are a There is also a maybe hoax maybe not that has and gun in the game: the Gravity Zombie, a you get too close, and the bouncer, a gun that There is a video by Maugly that are videos showing the bouncer in action, which stomps. The giant that appeared briefly in the Overgevaret, a multi-grenade launcher. This As for enemy types, it's actually kinda hard to tenfold with the enemies, will all wikis made hoaxes. Speaking of removed content, in the 1.21 containing a military sniper and spawning that I can confirm is the King Zombie, a smaller, be killed. Filling out the map, we reach something what this game has to offer; however, if I could, One of my greatest fascinations is how the how the cause ends up creating the always led towards the eccentric and odd, common structure of video games. Games not in any real sense. Developers know that for but it's their job to make something so good The open world multiplayer zombie survival game but they are worlds designed to exist in. The but has provided you the exact things you so. It's a balanced apocalypse, a curated end in the world of bigger name companies, tens to hundreds to thousands of developers fools tradition breaks from that. It's a value to the full video game canon, games that The world we have here was constructed in a sparse, nondescript, oppressive, confusing, any idea of having a long-term game out the that any game that can't take the plunge is and every artistic decision in the game by emptiness, and one of the most Landfall managed to create a world that is truly Thank you, and have a nice day.