I'm just gonna come right out and say it: It should've been me as Troy Bolton in High School We both dance, act, and sing...except one who performed as kids, we were born less than the long hairstyles. And look at that steely gaze! We are EXACTLY the same! We are MOSTLY the same! Hello internet, welcome to Film Theory, the getcha, getcha head in the game, if the game If you're not onto it by now, you probably bro, because today's episode is all about That's right, here on Film Theory, we only that haven't had an installment in nearly Adventure, which I obviously do). When I was still acting in theater, I was Musical as Troy's understudy, and that gave Inbetween bouts of icing our vocal chords. I mean this kind of thing was my life when choir. You name it, if there was a chance to perform people, well boy howdy was I involved. And after spending so much time studying the HSM. Well, a few bones to pick because there's scouts to a random public high school in Albuquerque Anyway, the movies bend over backwards trying spoiled, rich, theater diva is the villain In fact, when you stop and actually look at qualities. You hear that Vanessa Hudgens and Zac Efron! Your empire of fame is built on LIES! Lies I say! Think it's just a chip on my shoulder? Well let's look at the evidence and "Bop-bop-bop, Now in case you need a cram session before it is in a nutshell. In the original High School Musical, our heroes together at a New Year's Eve party, conveniently is transferring to Troy's school. She's a science nerd who wants to find a he's a star basketball player who wants pants. On a whim, they decide to audition for the Even though they're rejected for being too a callback for the lead roles. This doesn't sit well with Sharpay and her of the drama club...which, now that I'm is supposedly a THEATER KID, you should already Oh no! They're going to shame me with their BOX Don't you do that in my direction! Oh they're pulling out the viewpoints! She's commenting on my stance! Sorry the theater kid is coming rushing back to me! Anyway, Sharpay and Ryan convince the drama day as Troy's basketball championship and Troy and Gabriella's other friends think they've already committed to or this musical, a made-for-TV Disney movie, so they don't the leads in the musical, the decathalon, Wow, growing up is so difficult when you're young and beautiful. High School Musical 2 is pretty much the same club talent show instead of a musical, and thing as HSM 1 but now they're seniors and focused Got it? Good. So what makes Sharpay the villain? Well, ask anyone who knows these movies, and 1) She's a diva who won't share the spotlight; Gabriella; and 3) She's a spoiled rich girl That's what these movies want you to believe, at her actions across these cinematic masterpieces, the truth. Complaint #1: Sharpay is a diva who won't Very early in the first High School Musical, Just look at this conversation: "Oh, were you My brother and I have starred in all the school's There are a lot of supporting roles in the I'm sure we can find something for you." Okay, there's definitely a tone issue, but saying. She isn't discouraging the pretty new girl that they WELCOME new people into the club, so she'd be likely to get in even if Gabriella's let's not forget, SHE ABSOLUTELY IS. This girl is so inexperienced she freezes do it, Troy. Not with all these people staring at me." Oh you can't do it can ya? Well, it's not like people are going character in a musical or anything? Sharpay is definitely full of herself to assume else signs up to audition FOR the lead. We see the sign up sheet. And even if they did, look at the other talent East High... Not quite the strongest arts program. And yes, at first, it might seem underhanded teacher to change the callbacks to the same just testing Gabriella and Troy's resolve the show. Because let's face it, Gabriella and Troy each other; what else does Sharpay have besides Now, the idea of testing their commitment In High School Musical 3, Troy actively ditches he can drive to visit Gabriella when she's Troy Bolton just sent me a text. 'Been driving all night. I'll try and get there for the second act. Break a leg' Break a leg? What does that mean? Dude, I think it's showbiz for 'you're "Yeah guys, sorry for completely trashing had to go make out with my girlfriend. Don't worry, I'll be there to grace the But let's not forget, a true diva would of playing second fiddle to someone else. Well in NONE of the High School Musical movies around in all three! After Gabriella gets the lead in High School but still congratulates her and tells her &quot;Well congratulations... I guess I'm going to be the understudy in case you can't make one of the shows, so break a leg.&quot; And we find out in the beginning of HSM 2 that helped her in the role. &quot;Sharpay we got off to a rough start, but you really came through. I mean you helped me with the winter musical. Those vocal exercises...&quot; That's...surprisingly gracious for someone Now look at the end of that movie: Sharpay country club's talent show. Her brother Ryan and his stupid, STUPID hat betrays with Gabriella so that Sharpay can't participate summer. So what did she do? Instead of making a scene or wrecking the part of the group, wins the Star Dazzle Award award to the brother who just stabbed her "And this year's Star Dazzle goes to...of And at the end of High School Musical 3, when to Juilliard--even though her brother is and his stupid hat is--we learn that she's going to help run the high school's drama department the following Sharpay is just committed to making her school's She always wants to be the star, but are we the best? A true diva wouldn't let anyone near her for the ride even if she isn't getting all Complaint #2: Sharpay is trying to steal Troy So perhaps a bigger sin of Sharpay's is happily in a relationship with Gabriella. So what nefarious deed does she do to win Does she kiss him? Push Gabriella off a cliff? Drug him and shave off that mop of hair so crystal eyes? NO! Sharpay's evil plan is to get Troy a job so he'll be paid better, and then also introduce him basketball team so that he'll have a better year. "What a shame that Troy is only washing dishes all summer given that he is a potential star for Alma Mater daddy.&quot; &quot;The Red Hawks would be very interested in him.&quot; &quot;Troys very concerned about college.&quot; How DARE she? And what insane favor does she ask of him in return? That he perform with her in a talent show... &quot;She's basically offered you a college education just to sing with her in the talent show.&quot; which, it probably should be mentioned when push comes to shove, he doesn't do. Meanwhile, let's look at what some of the 1: In order to get Troy and Gabriella's trick Troy into saying he doesn't care about then they force her to WATCH IT! Who's the bigger villain: the person trying nice to him, or the people using hidden cameras when it doesn't serve their needs? But oh, it's okay for them. But Sharpay's actions are unforgiveable? Yeah... I don't think so. And complaint #3: Sharpay is a spoiled rich her. Now, the rich part is right: Throughout the Sharpay's family owns a resort and uses But expecting everything to be handed to her? Nothing could be further from the truth. In the straight-to-DVD classic, Sharpay's City to try to make it as an actress, and make a career for herself or else she'll Does Sharpay kick and scream about it? No, she actually goes and tries to make the best of it, and tries to network with a director who voiced interest in casting her. &quot;I'm going to meet with that casting director, get the part, be a star, and have a palace.&quot; And when she finds out that director was actually sure it sucks, but she seizes the opportunity the star of the show, who then makes her run Does Sharpay refuse and resolve to destroy No, once again she recognizes that getting an in with a shot in show business, so she does all the career. The point is, across all four installments time and time and time again...losing the lead college she wants, getting passed over for to her, she never stops believing in herself, &quot;What about your dream of being a star.&quot; &quot;It's just a little bit more of a dream than a reality.&quot; and she's even gracious enough to help others out like Gabriella and this weird snooty kid with a performing King Charles Spaniel in Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure. By the end of the series, she gets the satisfaction doing it entirely on her own. And that my friends the most noble, hero-esque arc we Zeke had it right all along: "If you actually And the heroes of these movies don't even mind to a fellow classmate...well done Wildcats. Well done. &quot;That's all well and good MatPat&quot; you're probably saying right now. But HSM needs a villain... So who then IS the villain? Well, you're in luck, because the series who doesn't deserve the things they have the opportunities that come their way. It's none other than the six-packed, autotuned I mean, it starts all the way back in the and Gabriella to audition, they chicken out, too late. "We take these shows very seriously I called for the pairs audition and you didn't Free period is now over.", but apparently them singing and gives them a callback anyway. &quot;Bolton, Montez, you have a call back.&quot; And if you want to talk about someone who than Troy Bolton in High School Musical 2, when Troy is invited to play pick-up basketball with the players on the University of Albuquerque's team, thanks to Sharpay. His friends on his high school team ask to he refuses. &quot;Hey hey, Bolton, come on!&quot; &quot;Show em' some game.&quot; &quot;But we can play two on two after work...?&quot; Just flat-out ditches them. Speaking of being a bad friend, he breaks in HSM 2, then uses Sharpay's affection can help him out &quot;An entire table of university boosters are coming to see you... THANKS to me!&quot; &quot;So I'll be their waiter, they'll be thrilled.&quot; &quot;I'm more interested in what my friends think of me.&quot; All in return for singing a song in a talent show the entire time and ultimately doesn't deliver on. &quot;You'll sing some other time though... With me. Promise?&quot; Well sorry, Mr. Swoopy Bangs, didn't mean college you say you can't afford. &quot;Troy's very concerned about college.&quot; &quot;Oh, fantastic!&quot; &quot;Next time I see country club princess I'm gonna launch her and her pink car straight into the lake.&quot; &quot;Build the ramp buddy.&quot; Speaking of that job, Troy spends most of most of his time at the job getting others to completely &quot;I'm sorry I'm late Mr. Fulton.&quot; Or just slacking off with his friends: &quot;I generously overlooked your previous break violation, but then came the golf course incident.&quot; &quot;And now... this. Two strikes.&quot; It's a JOB! You gotta do your job to EARN the money. You're going to have to earn your way into that college, Troy! Or maybe you don't...because life hands At the end of High School Musical 3, it's because he chooses "basketball...but I've also choosen theater". Yeah, Troy? Are they letting you play basketball at Berkeley? Who did you Coach father have to pay off to Because THAT'S a big time, Division I sports talk sports translates to, these guys are In the 2017-2018 college basketball season, than 6 foot 3. Zac Efron is 5 foot 8. He is shorter than me! Which begs the question: How is Troy Bolton, to manage that? Could it be because things just get handed His spot on the basketball team, his job at he never even formally auditioned for the If you're looking for somebody to hate, girl and look more at the popular kid who it or not. I guess good things come to those with abs....I'm But hey, that's just a theory. A Film Theory! Annnnnd... You know, as hard as I tried I couldn't was in the same universe as Breaking Bad (even been moving every year and might be being or something; hey, if you can make an air-tight High School Musical is the prequel to Breaking Bad? In the meantime, hit the subscribe button to ensure you get more theories sent to your door that will ruin your childhood. You can bet on it, bet on it, bet on it...bet And if you want MORE Disney ruined for you, related...along with her pig. That's the box to the left! Now if you'll excuse me, I do really need to do those crunches.