For this scan, just based on... Is it on you? It indicates she had something and ripped because that was stuffed in here Sometimes it's difficult If they buy a small amount like this, Mix it with both heroin and fentanyl, If you were to go to Baltimore City today you're looking Yes, yes, I got you. For such a booking and possession Appreciate it. Ensure you're safe, we've got one minute, We're going out here, all right? He's moving, get to cover now! Twenty years, I was just devastated I couldn't believe it. Hey, guys. My thoughts are like the Gladiator. You take the other guy Just keep it down They break you down Sometimes they'll hide knives If you take the book Inmate accused at the state prison in Jessup. They decided to use plexiglass because plexiglass The sheriffs think they are in control, but they have no idea Even me. Everybody going to the jail is scanned There you go. -How are you doing? Good to see you. Hey, guys, how are you all doing? No street arrests? We have about 325 inmates It means how many per day? Each day it varies. On average like you said, On any given day, There's a key at the top. The individuals Green is working in the kitchen. Yellow is in the laundry. You can compare this that shows the incoming This is the same thing for inmates. It tells their status, where they'll go, where they'll be, whether or not they're in their cell, If you see it just refreshed there What is the yellow up there, Mike? -The yellow is laundry. This is at work... I don't think so, at Frederick County IIT. It's very good, yes. Nobody during my tenure as sheriff, no. I think it was 1992 or four. I'm pretty sure it's '92. Is this what you want to do? That's how we do it. Hey, guys, do me a favor, Do you have your ID? I'll check for each inmate's ID. As I do that, I'll check off The server then provides the inmate With the ID and roster, we can verify if there are altercations, We're observing too You've got it, guys. Sometimes these inmates end up when they're only allowed three. They have a certain number They are allowed up to seven pairs. We've got to try to keep it out of sight. If they see it, then they can take it We don't have real pens, You can't do any damage with it. If you try to hurt someone, We don't have real toothbrushes. We have little miniature ones, We can't fashion it Here, I can never go in another block. If I go on another block here, If they break you down on a mental aspect, they have you. In a lot of cases that's true. As long as they're like: For a lot of us, music was our life, and things like that. Here, you can't listen to music. It's not allowed, it's not acceptable. We write to them, we ask them for it, Fuck them, I hate them. I hate this jail, I hate the sheriff's. They hate us, I think they are racist. It's different out here. For a person and some drugs out here, If you're white, Hey, C.J. This picture is Russell Crowe I love that movie because my thoughts You take the other guy into the arena That's how I win elections, and I come out victorious. I like a hard fight. I like the movie Gladiator, it's like me. It's stoic and tough. This picture has a little bit That's me at the age of two years old. Our current sheriff, Chuck Jenkins, To me, being the sheriff was probably the most honorable thing They don't believe in what we believe but together, we have done Corners are now shored up and I suppose, myself and Officer Marty, Coming your way. You could find a glove that may have drugs in it. You could find weapons out here, outside the window, or there in the cell, and they may retrieve something that way Empty. Excuse me, nine Bravo! Something happening within the facility, so the officers They will shut down the yard and gym Hey, get it on camera, ass hole! West side, baby! We already got you! Let's go! I'm going to do it. Now, news this morning, Police are investigating at the maximum security facility Be safe and watch each other's back. Remember, if something happens, and then when you call, Make sure you're spread out so that you're not bunched in a corner. All right, let's get them out of here. Female on a par! Female on a tear! Melody! Sometimes they'll hide knives Damn, if you take the book MCIJ, there's violence everywhere. At the same time, I feel and believe will have control where they feel safe, if I'm willing to come where they're not This is a piece of metal that was fashioned into a weapon All of these are inmate-made weapons. These came from the light fixtures If he was selling it to a gang member he could probably make $50 because this weapon would kill somebody. They got smart because plexiglass Some of them are found on the inmate in their pants, in their coat, and in their rectum. Thank you. Have you seen Shamira? I cannot find Shamira anywhere. Come on, ladies, move it up! I'm sorry, Broady, Shamira. Shamira. Nobody wants to be in a room with You have to check everybody out. You never know what everybody's here for. I've been waiting for you for hours, because I missed you. Hey. You didn't think I was coming. You would have been here normally. I'm so used to you picking me up now Thank you. Hi. Go down to the bottom. In November of 2007, several teens attacked 44-year-old Lord, thank you for this food Bless the hands that prepared it, Amen. She thinks we're going home, without letting her know. It's good Beau. I look out for my daughter because I know They come here with no one and they end up She doesn't have an opportunity I'll be on her back. I'm a stalker. It's still dangerous because some people just don't care. You have some people who just don't care. Like I said the other day, the ladies were fighting because one stabbed the other. The other hit the other with a lock It's not even regular They are trying to hurt you. This situation is bad but it's comforting so I don't go through it by myself. I'm stealing this for her, They search I already got this. Smile. If you look at another cell, This stuff, we made. I made this to give it a little design. My friend painted that picture for me, In a prison, it's hard trying to be comfortable. Like when you decorate and make things in your cell, at least. -Do you feel better? I have this. When I put it on, or I have this. Even in the new chapter, they're letting them know Well, I had those for four years. Four years ago, they cut the makeup off, and that's when everybody was like: because when it's gone, it's gone. You want to feel like a woman, You want to do your hair, you try to do your hair and your lips, I saw this in a magazine. I've been here so long. When I was home, I lost a lot of my stuff. I'm trying to make a new book That's her when she was a baby, She looks like me now, right? Make it into a photo album. She's going to make me sad. It makes me sad that she doesn't have these things, I just wanted her to have We lost so much. This is an ugly picture of her, but I love it. Oh, no, this is why you don't wear makeup at times like this. If they need the money I give it to them. I got 25 years for the assault but they gave me 28 However, to give her 20 years, I was devastated. I was like: Oh, my God. I couldn't believe it. They're tough. They're very tough. They need to be more specific. I know some people deserve tough on crime, but you can't judge everyone I grew up in a place but they fight with their hands. They get into fights, they get smart, If you beat up my sister, If you touch my younger brother, Stuff like that. I'm fat. Get ready to go. I think it's to show the public To show them that we have the equipment I think it shows and we do everything we can That's what it's all about. Don't you think it's a little too much? No, not in today's world. No. The reason I say that is if you look a couple of years ago in Florida, and if you look at the terrorist attack it was this type of vehicle They said: We don't come to Frederick because we know in Frederick County That message is out there. By news, this was paid but the proceeds from illegal drugs and some of the money In every county in the United States, because people They commit crimes and their immigrant communities. It's a problem for us locally, I decided to be a part of the solution. Pictures here, we can have some inmates People misunderstand Listen, I love this country. I love America, I love this county, and I don't want to see it go away Hey, Sarge, how are you doing? How's everybody? What else? Thank you, guys, for doing the job You guys are asked to do a lot You're asked to be everywhere. Every sporting event. The schools want you, the community events want you, Everybody wants that body armor but they don't want to pay for it, right? Do you have anything in the car, No, sir. They think I'm a dangerous individual. I think it's just because I'm smart The sheriffs think but they have no idea Why do you say that? Just like any other jail, it's corrupt. COs, the correctional officers, some of them work for us. Some of them don't. It's all about money. Being patient is hard, right? I always say, when I'm asked... A gang leader continued his testimony I have to start over and I have to transfer everything I keep track of paychecks, where I work. There can't be any sketches in them. -That's purely the paper. -Would you like for me... My sneakers... Now, would you care for me Yes, I did meet him Believe it or not, this is the first time That's because normally, I would have never dated There's something about Joseph. He's different from any guy She accepts it and she understands. More than that, she's a helping hand -Good morning, good morning, good morning. -I love you too, welcome back. -How is he behaving for now? He's doing well. He just got back. I'm hoping that he gets something that allows him Employment. I think he's trying to get married. Get his life back so he doesn't go back -It's time to get started. -Yes. I can come here and know that I know that I'm not being recorded, because it's illegal. What's up, bro? Not much. What did he say about that situation when the blood nigger shot at him You already know I don't let niggers think If he starts doing stupid shit, I'll cut his ass loose but I told him if he is chill If he's chilling. I don't know what the fuck You ensure he knows -Not him, you run that shit. Do you think No, I don't think I think they'll have to kill me this time, Good morning I'll have to do inventory. -Texas! -How many hats do you need, one? -Did you damage the other one? I'm going to, When you work here, You can't have a certain type of charge dangerous tools in here. When you work here, people recognize but you're trying to better yourself. I work harder to save money in the next three weeks when she goes home who are going to be like, here, She works hard and I work hard. We both work hard to prepare her I'm ready to go see Shamira. Shamira! -Who made this? On this site, All right, C-H-E-Q-U-E. [Spanish spoken audio] I've taken this class before. I've taken Spanish, She's really smart now, She's going to have to help me. I think it'll be tough on her for one Two, because she has to work It's hard for women to get jobs now, Still, after all this time. Now, it's going to be even harder She's not coming back to prison. She's not. You've got to be careful. We're prepared for that. -Hello, sir. I'm doing well. -I listen to you on the radio a lot. -Yes. -I agree. How are you doing? -Meet my wife Kathleen. What are you doing, buddy? Good evening, everybody. Welcome to all the early birds tonight. Let's give away some money You can take that out, hunt anywhere out west, The one that's the most valuable It's probably the most expensive It's probably about $900. I'm thinking about that barcode. I know it, I know it. I am, only because a group of guys bet me that I would never shoot a deer I wanted to prove them wrong so I got my license It's very peaceful and very relaxing. My son wants a camouflage gun. If I win the holder, For a gun or $350 store credit, 2,600 is the winner. It's 1,513. He protects families. He protects the country, the county. Yes, he does a very superb job. He's for people like us that obey the law, Especially coming up here Sheriff Jenkins is a great guy, If you're not here legally, I think the wall would be a great thing. I'm not going to say that on camera, -You can... It's rewarding to be able to go out It's a fun job to have to help and try to make a difference. The blue ticket winning holder is 100. One hundred is the winner. Somebody just asked, there is an ATM Machine in the far... -I just won. Thank you, -You won! -Near the red band. Thank you for your service to the country, All the veterans, stand up, a big hand.