Hello there! Lovely to meet you. I've been guys it is so cool. We all kind of have a goes on forever and ever and ever. If you can think of you can always add one more. but when you try to make it rigorous where things get tricky. It turns out german guy named Georg Cantor found that and some are bigger than others. To of background information but the too. We'll start with Set Theory. A set is set of four dogs. This is a set of four in a set is called its cardinality, so four. Now when two sets have the same size. The size is defined in a bit of a think about it would be to say that both therefore they're the same size. This but when we start dealing with infinite So same size is defined as the ability paired up with each other. You'll see why at a set with infinite cardinality: the or sometimes zero depending on what text forever and ever and ever. the way, we're not breaking any rules. Now set of squares of the natural numbers. of squares, can be paired to a number in So then according to our definition this feels wrong. There are so many more than the set of squares. Is one set infinite... infinity is infinity, right? came along to save the day. He thought a has it that he thought about them so spending his last 20 years in and out of him for his amazing work on numbers. He enumerable set. This just means a set the natural numbers. The word typically that's what pairing things off with the confusing because you can't really count three billion. So some prefer to call it declared that infinitely enumerable natural numbers is obviously enumerable, natural numbers. The set of squares is it's the same size as the set of natural that can't be listed? Are there different there were. In particular he wondered of natural numbers and the set of real from set theory to talk about number fascinating. To understand Cantor's work different types of numbers and their talked about the natural numbers, whole there are the integers. These are the negatives. They increase all the way to infinity. Then there are the rational be represented by a ratio of two fractions. All rational numbers can also either being a finite number of decimal are the irrational numbers, which can't Root two is a common example and here's interested. I think it's pretty clever. decimal the digits keep going on forever They're also sometimes called surds because the ancient Greeks really didn't According to legend Pythagoras' figured out that root 2 is irrational Greeks threw him into the Mediterranean irrationals. Then there are the numbers which are solutions to algebraic have one variable, usually x, and a series Negative 3 is a solution to this so it's an algebraic number. All integers numbers, a lot of irrationals are too. So are any equation like this? Well yes there numbers, pi and Euler's number e can't be of numbers have the coolest name of all: they transcend the algebraic. All of the real numbers. Here's a diagram to clarify numbers but they're not important here. reals and all of the numbers they're Cantor wanted to know whether the set could every real number be paired off of squares. Well let's take small steps way... Can the set of integers be paired off usual way one would write out the pattern we'll eventually write them all infinitely enumerable. How about the set too are enumerable. If we write them out see that with the first element, the The next two elements have to 3. The next three elements 4. A list that continues like this numbers. We can just include the negative we did with the integers. So then the set Cantor even proved that all the then what about the Reals, which transcendental? In the same paper he enumerable, they are in fact a different non-enumerable. Cantor was a huge fan of inkling that the Reals were non- proof with the assumption that they are. represented by an omega term, this they're enumerable we can pair them off showed that this list will always be larger number, beta, and mark them out on of real numbers marked out on a line. Now that is bigger than alpha and the first we'll call them alpha prime and beta the thing is you'll always be able to two numbers. Suppose you get stuck, where marks, but a finite number. Now no matter enumerated real numbers you can't find smaller than beta v, so then are there no alpha v + beta V on 2, the average? Your what about all the numbers between alpha average? This could go on forever, infinity of numbers between alpha and is called the infinity of the continuum natural numbers the way we could with two types of infinities, the enumerable non enumerable infinity of the continuum. it conveys the intuition really well but another proof I want to show you too, you diagonalization, or the diagonalization diagonals. Cantor again begins by real numbers on a list. In fact he restricts it to just real numbers between 0 and 1. We can't really do this in a point followed by an infinite amount would take an infinite amount of paper randomly. These numbers are pretty good. It's infinite but is it complete? Nope, down the list in a diagonal fashion example the first digit of the first number, the third digit of the third to create a new number. Then he added 1 the original list? Well let's do a because the first digit of the first second number is 2. All right then is it second digit of the second number is 5 is 6. It's not any of the numbers. We've original list, so let's add it on. Now is repeat the process and find another By coming up with new digits in this another number that isn't on the never be complete. There are always impossible to list all the real numbers Cantor also showed that not only are infinitely bigger than others. enumerable set is smaller than the lot smaller. But the only difference enumerable and the Reals which aren't does that mean? It means that much all possible numbers! Now I want to most of my information from. &quot;As humans we interested only in numbers that have we have invented the natural numbers, rational numbers, and from higher algebraic numbers. We have plucked all ignoring the vast depth in which they ocean. Virtually every number is that's pretty cool. I must say this was I found the topic so fascinating, but it lot of subtleties which took a while to thing but if you really want to ground through practical problems like the ones I was researching this video. Brilliant math, physics and computer science. theory which extremely conveniently had of concepts that were included in this like cardinality and the different kinds showing infinite series through geometry, was actually so cool to see a visual will get you access to all of these is offering a 20% discount to their who sign up using this link. Just go to on screen and in the description. Thanks video was pretty long but I physically fascinating. It was actually a requested Robert! I hope you enjoyed watching the big thank you to all my patrons for your