In this video we're going to learn some how to heat and texture milk to form a and how to pour it to make drinks look pretty. it is important to learn some basic As far as we're concerned as baristas, milk consists of three main components: Let's discuss each one and the role it plays in both preparation and taste. Let's start with sugars. The main sugar in milk is lactose and is actually very sweet. This explains by well heated and don't need extra sugar to taste sweet. our beverages because we want to taste Imagine a fresh piping hot piece of pizza. If you put it in your mouth immediately, all you taste is heat and pain. If you let that same pizza cool a little, though you can taste everything that's delicious and wonderful about melted cheese and saucy bread. By the lattes to be too hot to taste all that Proteins begin as coiled balls in cold uncoil to expose a hydrophilic (or When we pull air into the milk with the steam wand the hydrophobic ends of the proteins will the air bubble causing the hydrophilic keeping its shape. This is known as a The surfactant qualities of proteins are create milk foam and will keep its shape at which point the proteins will fall bubbles the proteins are holding to pop another reason we don't want to steam component is fat. Fats affect the longevity of the foam. The more fat liquid and the longer the foam will last. stacked on top of one another. In between space that will let liquid fall through thicker that liquid will be and the and the bubbles, creating a stiff The other effect fats have on the hydrophobic parts of proteins another present in milk, the more the proteins larger amounts of foam. Now that we've in milk, let's discuss four key component. Our first temperature is 40degF (4degC) or right out of the fridge. At this point the sugars are too cold to and the fats are in solid globules. Next up is a 100degF (37degC) or about just starting to get yummy, the proteins into oils. Because the fats are going proteins another option of something to It's for this reason that we want to 100degF (37degC), when it's just starting the sugars are in full effect, fats have turned to oil. This is our steaming process once the milk is 140degF (60degC) or too hot to touch. At 160degF (71degC), the sugars are too hot the fats... well I guess they're doing just not sweet and the foam starting to fail, bitter and eggy--a poor complement to understanding of the rules behind milk The first step is steaming perfectly is to determine the right amount of cold sized pitcher for that drink. The final steaming should equal the volume of the about an ounce (30mL) of espresso already taking up room in the cup, that should leave you with an ounce of milk (30mL) left For lattes we want 25% Therefore the amount of cold milk you should be such that after aeration you're about to pour. Now let's go smallest to largest and talk about how pitcher for that drink. In most steaming pitchers the bottom of the spout indicates the halfway point for the total volume of the pitcher. Therefore for this six ounce (178 mL) drink, pour in 3 ounces (88 mL) of cold milk spout. After aeration the foam should six ounces (178 mL) of aerated milk at 50%, just to go, pour in four ounces (118 mL) of of the spout. After aeration the milk totaling eight ounces (178 mL) of aerated milk at of cold milk into a 12 ounce (355 mL) the spout. After aeration, the milk should of total steamed milk aerated at 25%. cold milk into a 20 ounce (590 mL) steaming of the spout. After aeration the milk spout, totaling 12 ounces (355 mL) of steamed milk a 20 ounce (590 mL) steaming pitcher and pour in above the bottom of the spout. After the way up the spout for 16 ounces (473 mL) of Because steaming pitchers taper up from have more foam in this size than others. use a 36 ounce (~1L) steaming pitcher and pour below the bottom of the spout. .25 of the way up the spout, aerated at 25%. Now that we know and cappuccinos and which pitchers to the mechanics of using the espresso textured milk. We'll do these ounce (355 mL) latte. We'll begin by using a 20 with 9 ounces (266 mL) of cold milk to reach At the machine begin by opening the steam any condensation from inside the steam with water next position the steam wand from the machine steam wand tip at a downward angle, instead of skipping it across the into the milk just to the point where wand itself. This will allow you to open immediately pulling in air. Tilt the other allowing the angle of the steam motion around the pitcher. This allows the pitcher and inject air only when you valve all the way and lower the pitcher start to pull air into the milk. The proper amount of aeration should sounds like an intermittent chirp it should lower the pitcher more. If it much air and should raise the pitcher air until the side of the pitcher feels appropriate amount of aeration, whichever To stop aerating, raise the pitcher just of the steam wand. Hold this position swirl the milk in the pitcher until it Once the milk is hot enough turn off the pitcher to the counter, purge out any wand, and thoroughly clean the outside of Now let's see the entire process live from Even if everything goes perfectly there surface of the milk when you're through. pop any visible bubbles and swirl the it's glossy and shiny like wet paint or happens when things go well so now let's and too much air. If you don't add enough there won't be enough foam of aeration causing it to screech in The end result is aerated milk with a won't pop out when you tap the pitcher. that the milk won't expand. This means the pitcher to fill the customers cup. If you're creating will buffer the sound of process whisper-quiet. The result is thick pillowy foam that pour. So far we've talked about some govern the way we treat milk when we techniques to steam appropriate amounts base for lattes and cappuccinos. So now, the reason you've skipped ahead to this to think about latte art is like plating craft a delicious shot of espresso, and talked about so far to create a taste great with it. Latte art is your and communicate to them that this drink variable we'll talk about is height or from the surface of the liquid in the white ball we're dropping into a colored liquid it will be stained that color whereas if the ball remains on the Dropping the ball from higher-up hits the liquid, whereas dropping it from The goal of any latte art design is a crisp To accomplish this contrast we want to be can control while pouring. The first is liquid in the cup. This will cause the the espresso keeping the surface of the The second important height is about one This will cause some of the foam to submerge undesirable hazy beige color. The way to to keep the spout of the pitcher within when pouring the design. Just like in the the pitcher this close to the liquid in submerging below the espresso and allows order to get as close as possible as thirty to forty-five degree angle and lip of the cup the entire time you're when the cup is kept flat and the First nothing appears then beige then approaches the spout of the pitcher process begin by tilting the cup about height of above three inches (7.6 cm) to fill the the surface. As soon as the liquid to avoid the beige area entirely and Quickly resume pouring with the pitcher design be sure to slowly untilt the A good rule of thumb here is that if any the spout of the pitcher was not within meaning that our that the cup was not the liquid or the pitcher was not variable we had the tackle is changing that corresponds to building surface foam into the cup surface tension begins tension when the cup is empty and high As a result the sooner you begin design the The later you begin design the smaller large designs that fill the cup entirely pitcher down to the rim of the cup as Because you've begun the design when the will allow it to flow across the cup enough to compress it. Now that we've surface tension, let's discuss the flow building as we fill the cup, it's rate of pour from the pitcher to keep relatively low flow rate and continue to keep the design flowing across the cup spout of the pitcher. Here is an example as soon as possible after the fill on the surface making it nice and big. Now watch what happens when you fill for pour. The design on the surface looks chance to flow across the cup because we tension was high. In each pour note how steadily as a design progresses. Now that we've talked about height and the final core variable we have to pitcher in the cup. To understand where about how milk flows from the pitcher a balloon the design is going to form in towards the bottom of the cup and then mind to pour a centered design is to place the center, allowing the balloon to fill up in the center of the cup, the balloon top half empty. If the spout of the cup the foam will run towards the bottom long shape instead of a nice circle. If the cup, it will create a current one side larger than the other. First the spout of the pitcher too low in the crosshairs. of the cup leaving the top empty. Next let's see what happens when the Note that the design runs out of energy and is long and weird-looking instead of happens when the pitcher is placed on Note the current that forms in a spiral it and making one side larger than the you're learning, when you find a good the pitcher rests on the rim of the cup. For the purpose of this design and other round designs once the pitcher touches throughout the design. Letting the you untilt will cause a stacked nice and round. So far in these examples cappuccino design referred to as a perfectly fine in its own right, let's into a solid heart shape. To accomplish monk's head by following the steps we've almost full, raise the pitcher back to forming a design and slowly move the drawing the monk's head to a point reach the bottom of the cup abruptly This technique is referred to as the common latte art designs. When performing into the three inch mark or you'll drag be careful to decrease your flow rate the design to prevent from sinking the to the bottom of the cup. At this point clearly recognizable sought-after a piece is strongly advisable that you stop here A good barista should have at least one customers instead of pouring poorly practice. Now that we can consistently pizzazz and learn how to add texture or to a design, maintain a consistent flow slight back-and-forth motion with your to swing in a pendulum motion inside the rocking motion is of the milk inside the actually moving to accomplish this. milk out over a wider area the actual important to keep your flow rate high design. The goal is to have a consistent the pitcher and avoid twitchiness by your motions even. Here we'll use a rate to pour rippled heart. Do everything solid heart, but just add the pendulum Here's what the same design looks like Honestly this isn't the worst heart the consistent even rippled heart we poured disastrous for other designs, as we'll pouring different types of hearts, let's design. This next one's called a tulip flower coming out of the ground. This is gives you the chance to start and stop throughout the pour. Begin by pouring a cup just like we've been doing. This time bottom, stop pouring abruptly when the Next, place the spout of the pitcher just pour a solid heart shape into the is full at this point simply lift the base to finish the design. In this cup so we're going to add another layer spout of the pitcher just above where heart shape at the top of the design, performing a draw through. The tulip can stop and start as many times as you room for. Also if you notice that your correct that to a certain extent by in the cup. this design is that the milk in the cup separate if it sits for any appreciable as little time as possible in between pourable. In latte art there are two main those shapes determines the design. Those Heart shapes are formed by maintaining pushing forward slightly, resulting in far in this video. Leaf shapes on the pitcher backwards as you pour causing around. a design called a rosetta. design to pour because it involves a lot time to assess and adjust mid pour. Don't while to get down and remember not to solid heart always looks better than a rosetta just like we started the rippled spouts of the pitcher just above the rocking the pitcher side-to-side gently Just like in the tulip we're to begin to form before we make a change. pour abruptly we're going to slowly move the cup while keeping our flow rate Make sure not to lessen your flow rate pitcher at this point as that will When the spout of the pitcher reaches until the cup is full to form a solid Once the cup is full, gently perform a pouring through the center to finish the techniques and shapes to pour great everything we've covered so far, feel designs and techniques in different ways. Remember though that with great latte you pour something gorgeous for a done all the work up until that point to just as good as it looks.