Greetings with the last video of the year. I am sincerely grateful to everyone who has loved my videos throughout the year. Today, we have compiled videos of organizing spaces in the house that received a lot of love. I hope this helps you organize your home for the new year. The two-tier dish organizer keeps dishes separate and easy to take out. In the remaining space, I used a plate holder that can stand up and organize. I use the wooden bowl organizer well to organize various plates upright. I only left the dishes that I am attached to and that I use frequently, so I think it is easier to manage them. I divided the sealed containers by size and organized them in one compartment, so I think it's easy to take them out and use them when you need them. I used a hanging iron basket to utilize the space above the shelf. It is good to store an elongated container or tumbler lying down. In the uppermost compartment of the cabinet, I organized kitchen utensils that I don't use often. I'm going to store a frying pan in the bottom compartment of the tall cabinet next to the refrigerator. I arranged the frying pans side by side, but I think it is neat and a little more stable. I organize frying pans and lids on an adjustable organizer rack. It can be used by adjusting the width, so it is good to organize it according to the size. It is good for space utilization if you store pots using a shelf with adjustable length. Turn the lid upside down for storage at the bottom of the shelf. I'm going to make a small storage box by recycling milk cartons. You can easily make a storage box that can be adjusted in length with two milk cartons. I like that I can adjust the length and store it depending on the amount of snacks. I cut milk jugs and use them often as storage boxes. I purposely buy milk in a plastic container only when I make a storage box. It's strong and the color is transparent, so it looks neat wherever you put it. If the snacks and tea types are categorized in this way, it is neat and easy to take out. I organized the basket and tray separately. The complicated wires were kept in a multi-tab organizer, and it was neatly organized. I keep my family's nutritional supplements in a basket. I put the natural detergent and cleaning tools that I use often close to the sink faucet, so I think it's comfortable to clean. I also keep the dishcloth and natural scrubber here. In the inner space under the kitchen sink, two shelves are placed to secure storage space. In the front, I put a cutting board or mixing bowl that I use frequently. Store the seasoning bottle in a rotating tray for easy take-out when cooking. Putting long bottles in a basket makes it easier to take out what's inside. In the first drawer under the electric stove, I organized frequently used cooking utensils. In the second drawer, I divided small items using milk cartons. If you sort things by type, it's easy to organize and find when you need it. I also washed the wax wrap and paper pack that I made and kept them. I use a towel rack and dish towel rack on the door of the kitchen cabinet. Cooking utensils that I use frequently are placed in a long cutlery container. I'm going to put a small seasoning bottle on a wooden shelf and use it. I think it'll be much more convenient to cook because it's within reach. The kitchen is the place where housewives spend the most time, so I think it would be good to organize it more neatly and make it a cozy space. The laundry room and pantry space in my house are small. I installed a small cabinet and a steel shelf to organize and utilize the space. I couldn't check the condition of the tile when I moved, but the tile was cracked and stained a lot. So I decided to install prefab deck tiles on the floor. Because it is prefabricated, it is easy to install and can be cleaned with a vacuum cleaner or water. I don't have to wear slippers, so it'll be convenient to go in and out of the laundry room. I put the laundry basket and trash bin at the bottom. The prefabricated iron shelf can be made in any size you want and the height can be adjusted freely, so you can store various items in the pantry or laundry room, and I think it is good for space utilization. It's good to recycle paper bags and make a storage box and use it. I keep paper bags and newspapers for recycling here. I store frequently used laundry detergent and natural detergent in a storage box. I put extra items in the kitchen and bathroom in the storage box. I'm going to keep it on the top shelf so I can grab it when I need it. If you hang a plastic garbage bag on a pants hanger, it is convenient to take it out and use it. If you hide things by using a gap, it is convenient to use and looks neat. I usually store room temperature food in the lower cabinets of the pantry. I divided them by type and put them in the storage box, which is neat and easy to use. I keep the ingredients to make the desiccant in the cabinet on the right. Shoe boxes or neat paper boxes are good for use as storage boxes. I put the extra detergent in the box and it looks neat. The laundry room and the pantry are spaces with various items, so if you leave them unattended, things pile up and get dizzy. I've made room for things and organized them, so they're much more neat. This time, here are some tips for organizing your closet neatly using recycled items. Put newspaper inside the padded jumper and gather the clothes in a straight line. Gather the arm part of the clothes inward and fold the hem up. After folding the hat part once, insert it into the space of the folded bottom hem. The short padded jumper folds up the hat and tucks it into the hem space. The thick knit is first folded inward to the size of the storage box. Fold the hem about 1/3 and tuck the top into the hem space. For a long knit dress, fold the hem up 1/4, then fold the top twice to tuck in. For T-shirts that will be stored upright in a drawer, fold both sides in half and then fold them facing each other again. For long pants, fold the leg hems up and then fold them against each other. Folds twice vertically to store in a drawer. Long dresses don't look neat when they hit the closet floor. I'm going to make a long dress short and hang it on the hanger. Thread the hem of the dress through another hanger and hang it together. A sleeveless dress can also be folded up and hung on a single hanger. Hang the bottom of the dress on a hanger, then insert the string into the hanger groove. Hanging the dress short frees up a lot of space at the bottom of the closet. I put extra hangers in paper bags and store them in the empty space in my closet. I put recyclables for reuse on one side of the cabinet behind the dining table. Paper bag straps can also be useful if you collect them separately. I'm going to make a winter padded jumper storage box out of a paper bag. Fold the paper bag to the height of the space to store it. Make a hole with a knife and attach scotch tape. If you attach a string, there is a handle, so it is easy to take out and use. Paper bags are great for storing bulky padded jumpers. If you have a paper bag of similar size, you can cut off the bottom and use it as a cover. It prevents dust from entering and holds the shape of the paper bag. I keep my thick winter knits in a foldable clothes storage box. If you collect paper bags with similar shapes or colors, you will have a sense of unity when organizing them, making them look neater. I'm going to make a little organizer for my chest of drawers. First, cut off the handle of the coffee carrier. For space separation, attach double-sided tape to fix it. The space is separated, so it's great for belts and small items. Divide the socks into three parts, fold them, and tuck them into the ankle area. For socks with long ankles, divide them into 4 equal parts and fold them. Sturdy, elongated boxes are great for organizing socks or underwear. Thin T-shirts that tend to fall over can be secured with bookends. Put two paper bags in the drawer to organize your clothes, which separates the space and also acts as a support to prevent your clothes from tipping over. This time, I'm going to use boxes to make storage boxes for my closet. Turn the boxes upside down and assemble them to create a neat storage box. I cut the cover of the shoe box to make the bag storage box. If you hang clothes on a hanger side by side along their length, space will be created at the bottom. Organizing your bags in a box keeps them neat and prevents them from falling over. Sturdy paper bags are also great for bag storage. A storage box made from cut milk cartons is useful as it is adjustable. Milk cartons are useful for dividing and storing small items. Tension rod shelves are useful for utilizing closet space. This is a box made from the fruit box I showed you in the previous video. This box fits perfectly into a niche in my closet. Leave a little space in the middle of the duvet, fold both sides and fold again. I used a tension rod to create a storage space in the space above the futon. I put the iron table on its side to store it, so it looks neat. I stored the summer duvet and separated the remaining space with a tension rod. If you roll up a small lap blanket or bed cover and store it, you can easily take it out and use it. A variety of recycled items are useful for making storage boxes that fit the space. You can also keep things tidy without having to buy a lot of boxes. The entryway at home gets dirty easily, so I keep a small broom on one side for use. A light broom sweep on a daily basis will keep your entryway tidy. If you wipe the floor with a wet mop every two to three days, stains won't build up. It is convenient to collect old socks and use them as an entryway mop. If you wake up in the morning and tidy up your blankets and pillows, your room will feel organized. I keep a roll cleaner near my bed to easily remove dust. Especially in a humid bathroom, if you hang cleaning tools, you can clean it from time to time, so you can keep the bathroom clean. I always hang a small towel and wipe off the moisture from time to time. The packaging box is sturdy and divided into a cross shape, so I think it would be good to use it as an organization box. I fixed it one more time using a glue gun. I don't throw away my shoe box and use it often as a storage box. A subscriber who watched my video advised me to flip the shoe box and use it. It looks much cleaner when you flip it over and put it back on. You can use it as a storage box with a lid on, or you can cut the lid and use it as a convenient storage box. I organized the medicines that are easy to fall down by type. When storing small items, I use milk cartons to make a simple small storage box. I finally got to organize things in the living room cabinet that I had been procrastinating on. From now on, I think my family will be able to easily find and use the things they need. Leaving free space in one or two places in your home is useful for organization. It's useful for storing items that you can't decide where to put or when you have extra items. I use the sink cabinet behind the dining table as extra space. If you immediately put away the items you used on the table or sofa, things will not pile up and your living room will be neatly organized. If the main colors of furniture and objects in the house are unified into two or three colors, the house seems to feel cleaner and more organized. Have a happy year-end and a happy new year.