The Richest Man In Babylon by George S. Clason. a road leading into the distance. Along that you wish to gratify. To bring your ambitions with money. Use the financial principles made guide you away from the stringencies of a full purse makes possible. Like the law of May they prove for you, as they have proven larger bank balances and gratifying financial ... LO, MONEY IS PLENTIFUL FOR THOSE WHO UNDERSTAND Start thy purse to fattening. 2. Control thy Guard thy treasures from loss. 5. Make of a future income. 7. Increase thy ability to CLASON was born in Louisiana, Missouri, on of Nebraska and served in the United States a long career in publishing, he founded the published the first road atlas of the United In 1926, he issued the first of a famous series using parables set in ancient Babylon to make in large quantities by banks and insurance the most famous being &quot;The Richest Man in volume takes its title. These &quot;Babylonian classic. ... Foreword. Our prosperity as a prosperity of each of us as individuals. This each of us. Success means accomplishments Proper preparation is the key to our success. Our thinking can be no wiser than our understanding. termed a guide to financial understanding. who are ambitious for financial success an to keep money and to make their surpluses we are taken back to Babylon, the cradle in finance now recognized and used the world To new readers the author is happy to extend the same inspiration for growing bank accounts, of difficult personal financial problems so coast to coast. To the business executives quantities to friends, relatives, employees to express his gratitude. No endorsement could its teachings because they, themselves, have the very principles it advocates. Babylon became the wealthiest city of the richest people of their time. They appreciated principles in acquiring money, keeping money provided for themselves what we all desire...incomes Sketch of Babylon. In the pages of history Its very name conjures visions of wealth and were fabulous. One naturally pictures such a wealthy city luxury, surrounded by rich natural resources It was located beside the Euphrates River, no mines--not even stone for building. It The rainfall was insufficient to raise crops. ability to achieve great objectives, using the resources supporting this large city were made. Babylon possessed just two natural resources--a With one of the greatest engineering accomplishments diverted the waters from the river by means out across that arid valley went these canals soil. This ranks among the first engineering as were the reward of this irrigation system during its long existence, Babylon was ruled and plunder were but incidental. While it engaged in many wars, most of these conquerors from other countries who coveted rulers of Babylon live in history because produced no strutting monarchs who sought might pay homage to their egotism. As a city, human forces that built and maintained the it soon became a deserted ruin. The site of east of the Suez Canal, just north of the The latitude is about thirty degrees above of Yuma, Arizona. It possessed a climate similar Today, this valley of the Euphrates, once again a wind-swept arid waste. Scant grass the windblown sands. Gone are the fertile of rich merchandise. Nomadic bands of Arabs, are the only inhabitants. Such it has been era. Dotting this valley are earthen hills. For centuries, they were considered by travelers were finally attracted to them because of down by the occasional rain storms. Expeditions, were sent here to excavate and see what could hills to be ancient cities. City graves, they Over it for something like twenty centuries, originally of brick, all exposed walls had more. Such is Babylon, the wealthy city, today. A heap of dirt, so long abandoned that no was discovered by carefully removing the refuse wreckage of its noble temples and palaces. of Babylon and other cities in this valley record. Positive dates have been proved reaching connection is the means used to determine were descriptions of an eclipse of the sun. Modern astronomers readily computed the time occurred and thus established a known relationship way, we have proved that 8000 years ago, the in walled cities. One can only conjecture had existed. Their inhabitants were not mere They were an educated and enlightened people. the first engineers, the first astronomers, and the first people to have a written language. Mention has already been made of the irrigation into an agricultural paradise. The remains they are mostly filled with accumulated sand. empty of water, a dozen horses could be ridden compare favorably with the largest canals the valley lands, Babylonian engineers completed of an elaborate drainage system they reclaimed of the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers and put Herodotus, the Greek traveler and historian, and has given us the only known description description of the city and some of the unusual fertility of the soil and the bountiful harvest glory of Babylon has faded but its wisdom indebted to their form of records. In that invented. Instead, they laboriously engraved When completed, these were baked and became In size, they were about six by eight inches, as they are commonly called, were used much were engraved legends, poetry, history, transcriptions to property, promissory notes and even letters cities. From these clay tablets we are permitted of the people. For example, one tablet, evidently from the that upon the given date a certain named customer sacks of wheat, three being delivered at the pleasure. Safely buried in the wrecked cities, of these tablets, hundreds of thousands of was the immense walls surrounding the city. The ancients ranked them with the great pyramid of the world. &quot; Queen Semiramis is credited the early history of the city. Modern excavators original walls. Nor is their exact height it is estimated they were about fifty to sixty brick and further protected by a deep moat were started about six hundred years before Upon such a gigantic scale did he plan the finished. This was left to his son, Nebuchadnezzar, The height and length of these later walls authority to have been about one hundred and of a modern fifteen story office building. and eleven miles. So wide was the top that them. Of this tremendous structure, little and the moat. In addition to the ravages of the elements, the brick for building purposes elsewhere. the victorious armies of almost every conqueror kings laid siege to Babylon, but always in to be considered lightly. Historians speak 1200 regiments of foot soldiers with 1000 of preparation would be required to assemble proposed line of march. The city of Babylon was organized much like Peddlers offered their wares through residential temples. Within the city was an inner enclosure were said to have been higher than those about the arts. These included sculpture, painting, of metal weapons and agricultural implements. Many samples have been recovered from the on exhibition in the leading museums of the At a very early period when the rest of the axes, or hunting and fighting with flint-pointed axes, spears and arrows with metal heads. traders. So far as we know, they were the exchange, of promissory notes and written by hostile armies until about 540 years before not captured. The story of the fall of Babylon Cyrus, one of the great conquerors of that to take its impregnable walls. Advisors of him to go forth to meet Cyrus and give him besieged. In the succeeding defeat to the Cyrus, thereupon, entered the open gates and the power and prestige of the city gradually years, it was eventually abandoned, deserted, again to that desert earth from which its Babylon had fallen, never to rise again, but time have crumbled to dust the proud walls endures. ... Money is the medium by which the enjoyment of the best the earth affords. the simple laws which govern its acquisition. controlled it when prosperous men thronged ago. ... ... The Man Who Desired Gold. Bansir, discouraged. From his seat upon the low wall surrounding home and the open workshop in which stood appeared at the open door. Her furtive glances bag was almost empty and he should be at work polishing and painting, stretching taut the for delivery so he could collect from his body sat stolidly upon the wall. His slow for which he could find no answer. The hot, tropical sun, so typical of this mercilessly. Beads of perspiration formed to lose themselves in tie hairy jungle on terraced wall surrounding the king's palace. painted tower of the Temple of Bel. In the and many others far less neat and well cared grandeur and squalor, of dazzling wealth and or system within the protecting walls of the Behind him, had he cared to turn and look, crowded aside the sandaled tradesmen as well forced to turn into the gutters to clear the on the &quot;King's Business,&quot; each bearing a heavy gardens. Bansir was too engrossed in his own of the busy city. It was the unexpected twanging him from his reverie. He turned and looked friend--Kobbi, the musician. &quot;May the Gods bless thee with great liberality, salute. &quot;Yet, it does appear they have already I rejoice with thee in thy good fortune. More, thy purse which must be bulging else thou two humble shekels and lend them to me until wilt not miss them ere they are returned. gloomily, &quot;to no one could I lend them--not would be my fortune--my entire fortune. No one lends his entire fortune, not even with genuine surprise, &quot;Thou hast not one upon a wall! Why not complete that chariot? appetite? Tis not like thee, my friend. Where thee? Have the Gods brought to thee troubles? agreed. &quot;It began with a dream, a senseless From my belt hung a handsome purse, heavy There were shekels which I cast with careless of silver with which I did buy finery for there were pieces of gold which made me feel the silver. A glorious feeling of contentment for thy hardworking friend. Nor wouldst have face and shining with happiness. She was again &quot; &quot;A pleasant dream, indeed,&quot; commented Kobbi, it aroused turn thee into a glum statue upon Because when I awoke and remembered how empty over me. Let us talk it over together, for, boat, we two. As youngsters, we went together we shared each other's pleasures. As grown have been contented subjects of our kind. and spend our earnings freely. We have earned to know the joys that come from wealth, we dumb sheep? We live in the richest city in The travelers do say none equals it in wealth. it we ourselves have naught. After half a hast an empty purse and sayest to me, &quot;May after the noblemen's feast this night? &quot; Then, its contents will I gladly share? ' No, I What is the matter? Why cannot we acquire and robes? &quot;Consider, also, our sons,&quot; Bansir footsteps of their fathers? Need they and their families and their sons in the midst of such treasurers of gold, and goat's milk and porridge? &quot; &quot;Never, in all like this before, Bansir. &quot; Kobbi was puzzled. this before. From early dawn until darkness chariots any man could make, soft- heartedly worthy deeds and bestow upon me great prosperity. this they will never do. Therefore, my heart I wish to be a man of means. I wish to own in my purse. I am willing to work for these all the skill in my hands, with all the cunning rewarded. What is the matter with us? Again of the good things so plentiful for those &quot; &quot;Would I knew an answer! &quot; Kobbi replied. from my lyre are quickly gone. Often must Also, within my breast is a deep longing for the strains of music that do surge through music finer than even the king has heard before. in all Babylon could make it sing more sweetly; king but the Gods themselves would be delighted. of us are as poor as the king's slaves? Listen to the long column of half naked, sweating narrow street from the river. Five abreast they marched, each bent under of a man, he who doth lead them. &quot; Kobbi indicated without a load. &quot;A prominent man in his own good figures in the line,&quot; Bansir agreed, north, laughing black men from the south, All marching together from the river to the after year. Naught of happiness to look forward grain porridge to eat. Pity the poor brutes, Yet, thou dost make me see how little better &quot; That is truth, Kobbi, unpleasant thought after year living slavish lives. Working, we not find out how others acquire gold and there is some secret we might learn if we thoughtfully. "This very day," suggested riding in his golden chariot. This I will many in his station might consider his right. Instead, he did wave his hand that all onlookers smile of friendship upon Kobbi, the musician. all Babylon,&quot; Bansir mused. &quot;So rich the king of the treasury,&quot; Kobbi replied. &quot;So rich,&quot; him in the darkness of the night, I should reproved Kobbi, &quot;a man's wealth is not in empties if there be no golden stream to refill Arkad has an income that constantly keeps spends. &quot; &quot;Income, that is the thing,&quot; ejaculated into my purse whether I sit upon the wall a man can make an income for himself. Dost to a mind as slow as mine? &quot; &quot;Methinks he Kobbi responded. &quot;Did he not go to Nineveh aid from his father, one of the richest men a rare thought. &quot; A new light gleamed in Bansir's &quot;It costs nothing to ask wise advice from mind though our purses be as empty as the detain us. We are weary of being without gold men of means. Come, let us go to Arkad and ourselves. &quot; Thou speakest with true inspiration, Thou makest me to realize the reason why we never sought it. Thou hast labored patiently To that purpose was devoted your best endeavors. I strove to become a skillful lyre player. toward which we exerted our best endeavors us continue thus. Now, at last, we see a light, us to learn more that we may prosper more. ways to accomplish our desires. &quot; &quot;Let us &quot;Also, let us ask other friends of our boyhood to join us that they, too, may share in his of thy friends, Bansir. Therefore hast thou It shall be as thou sayest. We go this day In Babylon. In old Babylon there once lived wide he was famed for his great wealth. Also in his charities. He was generous with his But nevertheless each year his wealth increased certain friends of younger days who came to than we. You have become the richest man in You can wear the finest garments and you can if we can clothe our families in raiment that &quot;Yet, once we were equal. We studied under And in neither the studies nor the games did have been no more an honorable citizen than insofar as we can judge. Why, then, should a fickle fate single you ignore us who are equally deserving? &quot; Thereupon you have not acquired more than a bare existence you either have failed to learn the laws that do not observe them. "Fickle Fate' is a to anyone. On the contrary, she brings ruin unearned gold. She makes wanton spenders, who soon dissipate appetites and desires they have not the ability misers and hoard their wealth, fearing to possess the ability to replace it. They further to lives of emptiness and secret misery. &quot;Others gold and add to it and continue to be happy I know of them but by hearsay. Think you of and see if these things are not so. &quot;His friends admitted that of the men they were true, and they besought him to explain much prosperity, so he continued: &quot;In my youth there were to bring happiness and contentment. of all these. &quot;Wealth is a power. With wealth the home with the richest of furnishings. on the delicacies of far lands. &quot;One may buy polisher. &quot;One may even build mighty temples &quot;One may do all these things and many others gratification for the soul. &quot;And, when I realized claim my share of the good things of life. off, enviously watching others enjoy. I would raiment that looked respectable. I would not the contrary, I would make myself a guest &quot;Being, as you know, the son of a humble merchant, and not being endowed, as you have so frankly that if I was to achieve what I desired, time all men have it in abundance. You, each of made yourselves wealthy. Yet, you admit; you of which you can be justly proud. &quot;As for study, did not our wise teacher teach kind being the things we learned and knew, us how to find out what we did not know? &quot;Therefore wealth, and when I had found out, to make wise that we should enjoy while we dwell in enough shall descend upon us when we depart found employment as a scribe in the hall of upon the clay tablets. Week after week, and month after month, I to show. Food and clothing and penance to remember not what, absorbed all my earnings. one day Algamish, the money lender, came to copy of the Ninth Law, and he said to me, is done by that time, two coppers will I give was long, and when Algamish returned the task his slave, he would have beaten me. But knowing the city master would not permit to him, 'Algamish, you are a very rich man. night I will carve upon the clay, and when smiled at me and replied, 'You are a forward that night I carved, though my back pained until my eyes could hardly see. But when he "Now,' I said, 'tell me what you promised. my son,' he said to me kindly, 'and I am ready I will tell you these things you wish to know tongue loves to wag. And when youth comes years. But too often does youth think that gone, and therefore profits not. But remember that shone when thy father was born, and will shall pass into the darkness. "The thoughts of youth,' he continued, 'are that oft make brilliant the sky, but the wisdom so unchanged that the sailor may depend upon my words, for if you do not you will fail you will think that your night's work has from under his shaggy brows and said in a when I decided that a part of all I earned And so will you. ' &quot;Then he continued to look me but said no more. "Is that all? ' I asked. of a sheep herder into the heart of a money mine to keep, is it not? ' I demanded. "Far garment- maker? Do you not pay the sandal-maker? you live in Babylon without spending? What past mouth? What for the past year? Fool! you labor for others. As well be a slave and and wear. If you did keep for yourself one-tenth of years? ' &quot;My knowledge of the numbers did I earn in one year. ' "You speak but half you save is a slave to work for you. Every earn for you. If you would become wealthy, must earn, that all may help to give to you you for your long night's work,' he continued, if you have the intelligence to grasp the "A part of all you earn is yours to keep. how little you earn. It can be as much more not buy from the clothes-maker and the sandal-maker still have enough for food and charity and grows from a tiny seed. The first copper you shall grow. The sooner you plant that seed faithfully you nourish and water that tree bask in contentment beneath its shade. ' &quot;So &quot;I thought much about what he had said to that I would try it. Each time I was paid and hid it away. And strange as it may seem, noticed little difference as I managed to as my hoard began to grow, to spend it for brought by camels and ships from the land &quot;A twelfth month after Algamish had gone he you paid to yourself not less than one-tenth ' &quot;I answered proudly, 'Yes, master, I have. me, 'and what have you done with it? " &quot;I told me he was traveling over the far seas of the Phoenicians. When he returns we shall " &quot;Every fool must learn," he growled, about jewels? Would you go to the bread maker No, by my tunic, you would go to the astrologer, gone, youth, you have jerked your wealth-tree And next time if you would have advice about know the truth about sheep, go to the herdsman. but watch that you take only what is worth from one who is inexperienced in such matters, falsity of their opinions. " Saying this, For the Phoenicians are scoundrels and sold like gems. But as Algamish had bid me, I again the habit and it was no longer difficult. to the room of the scribes and addressed me. I saw you? " &quot;I have paid myself faithfully,' to Agger the shield maker, to buy bronze, " &quot;That is good. And what do you do with honey and fine wine and spiced cake. Also And some day I shall buy me a young ass upon "You do eat the children of your savings. And how can they have children that will also slaves and then many a rich banquet may you went away. &quot;Nor did I again see him for two face was full of deep lines and his eyes drooped, And he said to me, "Arkad, hast thou yet I answered, "Not yet all that I desire, earnings earn more. " &quot;And do you still brick making they give good advice," I retorted. your lessons well. You first learned to live to seek advice from those who were competent And, lastly, you have learned to make gold how to acquire money, how to keep it, and Therefore, you are competent for a responsible think only of spending and give no thought too much for me to look after. If you will I shall make you my partner and you shall and took charge of his holdings, which were and because I had mastered the three laws to increase greatly the value of his properties. So I prospered much, and when the spirit of I did share in his estate as he had arranged he had finished his tale, one of his friends made of you an heir. &quot; &quot;Fortunate only in first met him. For four years did I not prove of all earned? Would you call a fisherman of the fish that with each changing wind he Opportunity is a haughty goddess who wastes had strong will power to keep on after you in that way,&quot; spoke up another. &quot;Will power! will power gives a man the strength to lift a load the oxen cannot budge? Will power is you set for yourself to fulfillment. If I I shall see it through. How else shall I have Should I say to myself, 'For a hundred days I will pick from the road a pebble and cast the seventh day I passed by without remembering, cast two pebbles which will do as well. ' Instead, Nor on the twentieth day would I say to myself, you to cast a pebble every day? Throw in a not say that nor do it. When I set a task Therefore, I am careful not to start difficult &quot; And then another friend spoke up and said, as you have said, reasonable, then being so be enough wealth to go around. &quot; Wealth grows &quot;If a rich man builds him a new palace, is has part of it and the laborer has part of who labors upon the house has part of it Yet all it cost? And is the ground upon which it stands not ground that adjoins it not worth more because man can prophesy the limit of it. Have not coasts with the wealth that comes from their do you advise us to do that we also may become &quot;The years have passed and we are no longer advise that you take the wisdom of Algamish is mine to keep. ' Say it in the morning when Say it at night. Say it each hour of every out like letters of fire across the sky. &quot;Impress the thought. Then take whatever portion seems lay it by. Arrange your other expenditures first. Soon you will realize what a rich feeling have claim. As it grows it will stimulate efforts will come to you to earn more. For percentage be also yours to keep? &quot;Then learn to make your treasure work for and its children's children work for you. at the aged and forget not that in the days Therefore invest thy treasure with greatest of return are deceitful sirens that sing but and remorse. &quot;Provide also that thy family their realms. For such protection it is always at regular intervals. Therefore the provident man delays not in for such a wise purpose. &quot;Counsel with wise is handling money. Let them save you from my money to the judgment of Azmur, the brickmaker. desirable than risk. &quot;Enjoy life while you too much. If one-tenth of all you earn is to keep this portion. Live otherwise according and afraid to spend. Life is good and life is rich with things thanked him and went away. Some were silent not understand. Some were sarcastic because with old friends not so fortunate. But some that Algamish had come back each time to the a man work his way out of darkness into light. awaited him. No one could fill that place understanding, until he was ready for opportunity. These latter were the ones, who, in the following them gladly. He counseled with them and gave experience are always glad to do. And he assisted would bring in a good interest with safety investments that paid no dividends. The turning day when they realized the truth that had to them. A PART OF ALL YOU EARN IS YOURS TO glory of Babylon endures. Down through the ages its reputation comes as fabulous. Yet it was not always so. The wisdom of its people. They first had to learn Sargon, returned to Babylon after defeating with a serious situation. The Royal Chancellor years of great prosperity brought to our people canals and the mighty temples of the Gods, seem unable to support themselves. &quot;The laborers The merchants have few customers. The farmers have not enough gold to buy food. &quot; &quot;But where great improvements? &quot; demanded the King. &quot;It Chancellor, &quot;into the possession of a few the fingers of most our people as quickly Now that the stream of gold has ceased to their earnings. &quot; The King was thoughtful Then he asked, &quot;Why should so few men be able how,&quot; replied the Chancellor. &quot;One may not how. Neither may one with justice take away to men of less ability. &quot; &quot;But why,&quot; demanded how to accumulate gold and therefore become your excellency. But who can teach them? Certainly of money making. &quot; &quot;Who knows best in all &quot; asked the King. &quot;Thy question answers itself, Who has amassed the greatest wealth, in Babylon? He is richest man in Babylon. Bring him before as the King had decreed, Arkad appeared before score years and ten. &quot;Arkad,&quot; spoke the King, &quot; &quot;So it is reported, your majesty, and no &quot; &quot;By taking advantage of opportunities available hadst nothing to start with? &quot; &quot;Only a great Besides this, nothing. &quot; &quot;Arkad,&quot; continued because a few men know how to acquire wealth of our citizens lack the knowledge of how &quot; It is my desire that Babylon be the wealthiest city of many wealthy men. Therefore, we must Tell me, Arkad, is there any secret to acquiring your majesty. That which one man knows can &quot;Arkad, thou speaketh the words I wish to Wilt thou lend thyself to this great cause? for teachers, each of whom shall teach others truths to every worthy subject in my domain? to command. Whatever knowledge I possess will and the glory of my King. Let your good chancellor arrange for me a to them those seven cures which did fatten in all Babylon. &quot; A fortnight later, in compliance assembled in the great hall of the Temple a semicircle. Arkad sat beside a small taboret a strange and pleasing odor. &quot;Behold the richest his neighbor as Arkad arose. &quot;He is but a subject of our great King,&quot; Arkad began, &quot;I Because once I was a poor youth who did greatly that enabled me to acquire it, he asks that my fortune in the humblest way. I had no advantage in Babylon. &quot; The first storehouse of my treasure I desired it be round and full, clinking with remedy for a lean purse. I found seven. &quot;To explain the seven cures for a lean purse which gold. Each day for seven days will I explain to to the knowledge that I will impart. Debate these lessons thoroughly, that ye may also First must each of you start wisely to build and only then, to teach these truths to others. fatten your purses. This is the first step may climb who cannot plant his feet firmly the first cure. &quot; The First Cure Start thy Arkad addressed a thoughtful man in the second thou? &quot; &quot;I,&quot; replied the man, &quot;am a scribe at such labor did I myself earn my first coppers. to build a fortune. &quot; He spoke to a florid-faced thou to earn thy bread? &quot; &quot;I,&quot; responded this I do buy the goats the farmers raise and kill the hides to the sandal makers. &quot; &quot;Because advantage to succeed that I did possess. &quot; In each man labored to earn his living. When my students, ye can see that there are many Each of the ways of earning is a stream of his labors a portion to his own purse. Therefore of coins large or small according to his ability. Is it not so? &quot; Thereupon they agreed that of you desireth to build for himself a fortune, source of wealth which he already has established? a humble man who had declared himself an egg and put into it each morning ten eggs and will eventually happen? &quot; &quot;It will become day I put in one more egg than I take out. &quot;Does any man here have a lean purse? &quot; First Lastly they waved their purses in jest. &quot;All the first remedy I learned to cure a lean egg merchant. For every ten coins thou placest Thy purse will start to fatten at once and hand and bring satisfaction to thy soul. &quot;Deride Truth is always simple. I told thee I would I, too, carried a lean purse and cursed it my desires. But when I began to take out from my purse fatten. So will thine. &quot;Now I will tell a not. When I ceased to pay out more than nine-tenths as well. I was not shorter than before. Also, than before. Surely it is a law of the Gods a certain part of all his earnings, shall purse is empty does gold avoid. &quot;Which desirest Is it the gratification of thy desires of raiment, more food; things quickly gone and gold, lands, herds, merchandise, income-bringing purse bring the first. The coins thou leavest students, was the first cure I did discover in, to spend but nine. ' Debate this amongst me upon the morrow when we shall meet again. &quot;Some of your members, my students, have asked he earns in his purse when all the coins he &quot; So did Arkad address his students upon the lean purses? &quot; &quot;All of us,&quot; answered the class. earn much more than others. Some have much were equally lean. Now I will tell thee an is this; That what each of us calls our 'necessary unless we protest to the contrary. &quot;Confuse not the necessary expenses with thy families, have more desires than your earnings to gratify these desires insofar as they will desires. &quot;All men are burdened with more desires thinkest thou I may gratify every desire? time. There are limits to my strength. There are limits to what I may eat. There are limits &quot;I say to you that just as weeds grow in a their roots, even so freely do desires grow their being gratified. Thy desires are a multitude few. &quot;Study thoughtfully thy accustomed habits certain accepted expenses that may wisely one hundred percent of appreciated value demanded the clay each thing for which thou desireth and others that are possible through the expenditure Cross out the rest and consider them but a must go unsatisfied and regret them not. &quot;Budget one- tenth that is fattening thy purse. Let Keep working with thy budget, keep adjusting in defending thy fattening purse. &quot; Hereupon and gold, arose and said, &quot;I am a free man. good things of life. Therefore do I rebel just how much I may spend and for what. I feel it would take much pleasure from my to carry a burden. &quot; To him Arkad replied, &quot; &quot;I would make it for myself,&quot; responded to budget his burden would he include therein so. He would include hay and grain and a bag of a budget is to help thy purse to fatten. and, insofar as attainable, thy other desires. desires by defending them from thy casual Like a bright light in a dark cave thy budget thee to stop them and control thy expenditures then, is the second cure for a lean purse. coins to pay for thy necessities, to pay for desires without spending more than nine- tenths thy gold multiply. &quot;Behold thy lean purse to leave therein one-tenth of all thou earneth. thy growing treasure. Next, we will consider means to put thy treasure is gratifying to own and satisfieth a miserly from our earnings is but the start. The earnings spoke Arkad upon the third day to his class. My first investment was unfortunate, for I first profitable investment was a loan I made each year did he buy large shipments of bronze trade. Lacking sufficient capital to pay the merchants, He was an honorable man. His borrowing he as he sold his shields. &quot;Each time I loaned paid to me. Therefore not only did my capital Most gratifying was it to have these sums a man's wealth is not in the coins he carries the golden stream that continually floweth That is what every man desireth. That is what thou, each one of thee desireth; thou work or travel. &quot;Great income I have rich man. My loans to Aggar were my first wisdom from this experience, I extended my From a few sources at first, from many sources of wealth available for such wise uses as I had begotten a hoard of golden slaves, each As they labored for me, so their children until great was the income from their combined reasonable earnings as thou wilt see from was born, took ten pieces of silver to a money for his son until he became twenty years of the rental should be one- fourth of its value this sum he had set aside as belonging to &quot;When the boy had reached the age of twenty lender to inquire about the silver. The money been increased by compound interest, the original and one-half pieces. &quot;The farmer was well coins, he left them with the money lender. father meantime having passed to the other one hundred and sixty-seven pieces of silver. itself at rental almost seventeen times. &quot;This, then, is the third cure for a lean may reproduce its kind even as the flocks a stream of wealth that shall flow constantly thy treasures from loss. &quot;Misfortune loves be guarded with firmness, else it be lost. small amounts and learn to protect them before Arkad upon the fourth day to his class. &quot;Every owner of gold is tempted by opportunities sums by its investment in most plausible projects. such investment and urge him to follow. &quot;The for thy principal. Is it wise to be intrigued be lost? I say not. The penalty of risk is with thy treasure, each assurance that it thine own romantic desires to make wealth &quot;Before thou loan it to any man assure thyself for doing so, that thou mayest not unwittingly treasure. &quot;Before thou entrust it as an investment which may beset it. &quot;My own first investment savings of a year I did entrust to a brick the far seas and in Tyre agreed to buy for we would sell upon his return and divide the sold him bits of glass. My treasure was lost. Today, my training would show to me at once jewels. &quot;Therefore, do I advise thee from of thine own wisdom in entrusting thy treasures by far to consult the wisdom of those experienced is freely given for the asking and may readily considerest investing. In truth, such is its then, is the fourth cure for a lean purse, purse from being emptied once it has become Guard thy treasure from loss by investing may be reclaimed if desirable, and where thou with wise men. Secure the advice of those gold. Let their wisdom protect thy treasure Make of thy dwelling a profitable investment. earnings upon which to live and enjoy life, turn into a profitable investment without will his treasures grow. &quot; So spake Arkad &quot;All too many of our men of Babylon do raise do pay to exacting landlords liberal rentals to raise the blooms that gladden a woman's play their games except in the unclean alleys. they do have a plot of ground wherein children wife may raise not only blossoms but good heart it brings gladness to eat the figs from To own his own domicile and to have it a place in his heart and greater effort behind all every man own the roof that sheltereth him any well intentioned man to own his home. the walls of Babylon that within them much at sums most reasonable? &quot;Also I say to you, consider the desires of men who seek homes Readily may thou borrow to pay the brick maker if thou can show a reasonable portion of the for the purpose. &quot;Then when the house be built, regularity as thou didst pay the landlord. to the money lender, a few years will satisfy thou wilt own in thy own right a valuable taxes. &quot;Also wilt thy good wife go more often to returning she may bring a goatskin of water many blessings to the man who owneth his own of living, making available more of his earnings desires. This, then, is the fifth cure for Cure. Insure a future income. &quot;The life of his old age. This is the path of life and call him prematurely to the world beyond. Therefore do I say that it behooves a man in the days to come, when he is no longer should he be no longer with them to comfort thee in providing a full purse when time has his class upon the sixth day. &quot;The man who, wealth, acquireth a growing surplus, should plan certain investments or provision that be available when the time arrives which he &quot;There are diverse ways by which a man may provide a hiding place and there bury a secret be hidden, it may nevertheless become the not this plan. &quot;A man may buy houses or lands usefulness and value in the future, they are or their sale will provide well for his purpose. and increase it at regular periods. The rental add to its increase. I do know a sandal maker, named Ansan, who for eight years he had deposited with his lender had but recently given him an accounting of his small deposits with their rental at for each four years, had now become a thousand &quot;I did gladly encourage him further by demonstrating in twelve years more, if he would keep his each week, the money lender would then owe competence for the rest of his life. &quot;Surely, doth produce such profitable results, no man old age and the protection of his family, his investments may be. &quot;I would that I might In my mind rests a belief that some day wise-thinking whereby many men pay in but a trifling sum sum for the family of each member who passeth desirable and which I could highly recommend. reach beyond the life of any man or any partnership throne. Some day do I feel that such a plan to many men, because even the first small for the family of a member should he pass &quot;But because we live in our own day and not advantage of those means and ways of accomplishing all men, that they, by wise and well thought in their mature years. For a lean purse to without its head is a sore tragedy. &quot;This, Provide in advance for the needs of thy growing Seventh Cure. Increase thy ability to earn. of one of the most vital remedies for a lean Yet, I will talk not of gold but of yourselves, who do sit before me. I will talk to you of men which do work for or against their success. seventh day. &quot;Not long ago came to me a young the cause of his necessity, he complained his expenses. Thereupon I explained to him, for the money lender, as he possessed no surplus you need, young man,' I told him, 'is to earn What dost thou to increase thy capacity to 'Six times within two moons have I approached but without success. No man can go oftener yet he did possess one of the vital requirements strong desire to earn more, a proper and commendable desire. Thy desires must be strong and definite. a man to wish to be rich is of little purpose. a tangible desire which he can press to fulfillment. After he has backed his desire for five pieces it, next he can find similar ways to obtain a thousand pieces and, behold, he has become small desire, he hath trained himself to secure wealth is accumulated: first in small sums, more capable. &quot;Desires must be simple and they be too many, too confusing, or beyond perfecteth himself in his calling even so In those days when I was a humble scribe carving I observed that other workers did more than that I would be exceeded by none. Nor did for their greater success. More interest in more persistence in my effort, and, behold, than I. With reasonable promptness my increased me to go six times to my master to request the more we may earn. That man who seeks to learn more of his craft he may seek to learn the methods and the tools he laboreth at the law or at healing, he may of his calling. If he be a merchant, he may purchased at lower prices. &quot;Always do the keen-minded men seek greater skill that they they depend. Therefore, I urge all men to stand still, lest they be left behind. &quot;Many things come to make a man's life rich following, a man must do if he respect himself: within his power, not purchasing that for of his family that they may think and speak that, in case the Gods call him, proper and &quot;He must have compassion upon those who are them within reasonable limits. He must do &quot;Thus the seventh and last remedy for a lean and become wiser, to become more skillful, thou acquire confidence in thy self to achieve are the seven cures for a lean purse, which, life, I do urge for all men who desire wealth. than thou dreamest of. There is abundance truths that thou mayest prosper and grow wealthy, &quot;Go thou forth and teach these truths that also share liberally in the ample wealth of Good Luck. &quot;If a man be lucky, there is no fortune. Pitch him into the Euphrates and in his hand. &quot; --Babylonian Proverb. The as strong in the breasts of men four thousand hearts of men today. We all hope to be favored Is there some way we can meet her and attract, generous favors? Is there a way to attract Babylon wished to know. It is exactly what men and keen thinkers. That explains why their city of their time. In that distant past, they had a center of learning and a very practical Babylon was one that ranked in importance and the temples of the Gods. You will find scant mention of it in the history it exerted a powerful influence upon the thought of Learning where the wisdom of the past was subjects of popular interest were discussed as equals. The humblest of slaves could dispute the royal house. Among the many who frequented named Arkad, called the richest man in Babylon. He had his own special hall where almost any very young, but mostly middle-aged, gathered Suppose we listen in to see whether they knew set like a great red ball of fire shining strolled to his accustomed platform. Already reclining on their small rugs spread upon shall we discuss this night? &quot; Arkad inquired. addressed him, arising as was the custom. &quot;I have a subject I would like to hear discussed to you, Arkad, and my good friends here. &quot; Upon by calls from the others, he continued: &quot;This purse in which there are pieces of gold. To that all men share with me this desire, I that we may discover ways it can be enticed been offered, Arkad commented, &quot;one most worthy To some men, good luck bespeaks but a chance one without purpose or reason. Others do believe our most bounteous goddess, Ashtar, ever anxious her. Speak up, my friends, what say you, shall good luck may be enticed to visit each and the growing group of eager listeners. Thereupon Arkad continued, &quot;To start our discussion, have enjoyed experiences similar to that of without effort upon their part, valuable treasures looked about expecting someone to reply but rare indeed must be this kind of good luck. we shall continue our search? &quot; That I will &quot;When a man speaketh of luck is it not natural Is it not there we find many men courting bless them with rich winnings? &quot; As he resumed thy story! Tell us, didst thou find favor she turn the cubes with red side up so thou did she permit the blue sides to come up so of silver? &quot; The young man joined the good-natured admitting she seemed not to know I was even you found her waiting about such places to We are eager to hear as well as to learn. here to consider all sides of each question. an instinct common to most men, the love of in the hope of winning much gold. &quot; &quot;That called out another listener. &quot;If the goddess dost not overlook the races where the gilded more excitement. Tell us honestly, Arkad, upon those grey horses from Nineveh yesterday? I was standing just behind thee and could thy bet upon the greys. Thou knowest as well beat our beloved bays in a fair race. &quot;Didst the greys because at the last turn the inside our bays that the greys would win the race indulgently at the banter. &quot;What reason have much interest in any man's bet upon a horse To me she is a goddess of love and dignity in need and to reward those who are deserving. or the races where men lose more gold than of men are more worthwhile and more worthy trading, in all of man's occupations, there and his transactions. Perhaps not all the his judgment may be faulty and other times Yet, if he persists, he may usually expect This is so because the chances of profit are the games, the situation is reversed for the always in favor of the game keeper. The game keeper. It is his business at which he plans the coins bet by the players. Few players profits and how uncertain are their own chances placed upon the cube. Each time it is cast be the red side the game master pays to us But if any other of the five sides come uppermost, for each cast we have five chances to lose, have four chances to win. In a night's play profit one-fifth of all the coins wagered. against odds so arranged that he should lose do win large sums at times,&quot; volunteered one continued. &quot;Realizing this, the question comes permanent value to those who are thus lucky. Among my acquaintances are many of the successful to name a single one who started his success here tonight know many more of our substantial to learn how many of our successful citizens to success. Suppose each of you tell of those silence, a wag ventured, 'Wouldst thy inquiry of no one else,&quot; Arkad responded. &quot;If not how about yourselves? Are there any consistent winners with us who incomes? &quot; His challenge was answered by a spread amid much laughter. &quot;It would seem as the goddess frequents,&quot; he continued. &quot;Therefore it in picking up lost wallets. Neither have to the races, I must confess to have lost &quot;Now, suppose we consider our trades and businesses. transaction to consider it not good luck but I am inclined to think we may be overlooking does assist us when we do not appreciate her &quot; Thereupon an elderly merchant arose, smoothing most honorable Arkad and my friends, I offer credit to our own industry and ability for successes we almost enjoyed but which escaped profitable. They would have been rare examples Because they were not brought to fulfillment Surely many men here have such experiences approved. &quot;Who among you have had good luck hands were raised, among them that of the &quot;As you suggested this approach, we should relate a tale,&quot; he resumed, &quot;that doth illustrate and how blindly he may permit it to escape, &quot;Many years ago, when I was a young man, just did come one day and urge most strongly that his good friends had taken notice of a barren of our city. It lay high above the canal where friend devised a plan to purchase this land, be operated by oxen and thereby raise the accomplished, he planned to divide into small for herb patches. &quot;The son of my father's friend did not possess Like myself, he was a young man earning a of large family and small means. He, therefore, the enterprise with him. The group was to earner and agree to pay one-tenth of his earnings ready for sale. All would then share justly &quot; 'Thou, my son,' bespoke my father unto me, It is my deep desire that thou begin the building mayest become respected among men. I desire thoughtless mistakes of thy father. " This "Then, this do I advise. Do what I should out one-tenth to put into favorable investments. it will also earn, thou canst, before thou estate. "Thy words are words of wisdom, there are many uses to which my earnings are Therefore, do I hesitate to do as thou dost ' "So I thought at thy age, yet behold, made the beginning. ' "We live in a different ' "Opportunity stands before thee, my son. I beg of thee, do not delay. Go upon the morrow to pay ten percent of thy earnings into this waits for no man. Today it is here; soon it of the advice of my father, I did hesitate. There were beautiful new robes just brought richness and beauty my good wife and I felt pay one-tenth of my earnings into the enterprise, pleasures we dearly desired. I delayed making my subsequent regret. The enterprise did prove This is my tale, showing how I did permit how good luck waits to come to that man who man of the desert. &quot;To the building of an estate there must always pieces of gold or silver which a man diverts I, myself, am the owner of many herds. The mere boy and did purchase with one piece of of my wealth, was of great importance to me. is as good luck as can come to any man. With from men who earn from their own labor to their gold, is important. Some, fortunately, take it when young and who do take it later or those unfortunate never take it. &quot;Had our friend, the merchant, this opportunity came to him, this day he goods. Should the good luck of our friend, step at this time, it will indeed be but the you! I like to speak, also. &quot; A stranger from so well do I speak your tongue. I wish to Maybe you think it not polite, this name. not know your word for it. If I do call it please some good gentlemen, tell me that right things that mighty good for him. &quot; &quot;Procrastinator,&quot; Syrian, waving his hands excitedly, &quot;he accepts He says I have much business right now. Bye not wait for such slow fellow. She thinks quick. Any man not step quick when opportunity comes, merchant. &quot; The merchant arose and bowed good admiration to thee, stranger within our gates, now let us hear another tale of opportunity. Arkad. &quot;I have,&quot; responded a red-robed man camels and horses. Sometimes I do also buy relate will tell truthfully how opportunity Perhaps for this reason I did let it escape. &quot;Returning to the city one evening after a of camels, I was much angered to find the my slaves spread our tent for the night, which I water, I was approached by an elderly farmer outside. "Honored sir,' he addressed me, a buyer. If this be so, much would I like sheep just driven up. Alas, my good wife lies all haste. Buy thou my sheep that I and my slaves may &quot; &quot;So dark it was that I could not see his must be large. Having wasted ten days searching bargain with him. In his anxiety, he did set knowing my slaves could drive the flock through a substantial profit. The bargain concluded, might count the flock which the farmer declared I shall not burden you, my friends, with a to count so many thirsty, restless, milling Therefore, I bluntly informed the farmer I "Please, most honorable sir,' he pleaded, that I may be on my way. I will leave my most make the count in the morning. He is trustworthy I was stubborn and refused to make payment the city gates opened and four buyers rushed They were most eager and willing to pay high siege, and food was not plentiful. Nearly the flock to me did the old farmer receive escape. &quot; &quot;Here is a tale most unusual,&quot; commented wisdom of making a payment immediately when a venerable saddle maker. &quot;If the bargain thy own weaknesses as much as against any I must say more apt to change our minds when Wrong, we are stubborn indeed. Right, we are My first judgment is my best. Yet always have with a good bargain when made. Therefore, I do make a prompt deposit thereon. This doth that should have been mine. &quot; &quot;Thank you! his feet once more. &quot;These tales much alike. Each time she come to procrastinator, bringing right now best time, I do it quick. How can men succeed that way? &quot; &quot;Wise are &quot;Good luck fled from procrastination in both spirit of procrastination is within all men. doth appear before us, that spirit of procrastination acceptance. In listening to it we do become I did not know it by this long word our friend it was my own poor judgment that did cause I did credit it to my stubborn disposition. At last, I did recognize it for what it was--a required, action prompt and decisive. How revealed. With the bitterness of a wild ass this enemy to my success. &quot; &quot;Thank you! I Syrian was speaking. &quot;You wear fine robes, successful man. Tell us, do you listen now &quot; &quot;Like our friend the buyer, I also had to the merchant. &quot;To me, it proved to be an enemy, ever watching The tale I did relate is but one of many similar away my opportunities. Tis not difficult to permits the thief to rob his bins of grain. to drive away his customers and rob him of such acts as these my enemy was committing, every man master his own spirit of procrastination treasures of Babylon. &quot;What sayest, Arkad? Because thou art the richest man in Babylon, Dost agree with me that no man can arrive completely crushed the spirit of procrastination Arkad admitted. &quot;During my long life I have forward along those avenues of trade, science Opportunities came to all these men. Some of their deepest desires, but the majority turned to the cloth weaver. Thou didst suggest Let us hear what thou now thinkest upon the light. I had thought of it as something most effort upon his part. Now, I do realize such attract to himself. From our discussion have it is necessary to take advantage of opportunities. to make the best of such opportunities as truths brought forth in our discussion,&quot; Arkad opportunity but seldom comes otherwise. Our merchant friend would have found great the good goddess did present to him. Our friend luck had he completed the purchase of the &quot;We did pursue this discussion to find a means I feel that we have found the way. Both the opportunity. Herein lies a truth that many not change. The truth is this: Good luck can &quot;Those eager to grasp opportunities for their good goddess. She is ever anxious to aid those &quot;Action will lead thee forward to the successes BY THE GODDESS OF GOOD LUCK ... The Five Laws tablet carved with words of wisdom; if thou &quot; By the flickering light from the fire of listeners gleamed with interest. &quot;The gold, Kalabab smiled knowingly. &quot;Hark,&quot; he resumed, &quot;Hear the wild dogs out there in the night. hunger. Yet feed them, and what do they? Fight giving no thought to the morrow that will of men. Give them a choice of gold and wisdom-- the gold. On the morrow they wail because for those who know its laws and abide by them. his lean legs, for a cool night wind was blowing. &quot;Because thou hast served me faithfully upon for my camels, because thou toiled uncomplainingly thou fought bravely the robbers that sought this night the tale of the five laws of gold, &quot;Hark ye, with deep attention to the words heed them, in the days that come thou shalt Above in a canopy of blue, the stars shone Behind the group loomed their faded tents Beside the tents were neatly stacked bales the camel herd sprawled in the sand, some in hoarse discord. &quot;Thou hast told us many &quot;We look to thy wisdom to guide us upon the at an end. &quot; &quot;I have but told thee of my adventures I shall tell thee of the wisdom of Arkad, him,&quot; acknowledged the chief packer, &quot;for Babylon. &quot; &quot;The richest man he was, and that as no man had ever been before him. This night was told to me by Nomasir, his son, many years master and myself had tarried long into the I had helped my master bring great bundles until his choice of colors was satisfied. us to sit with him and to drink a rare vintage my stomach, which was unaccustomed to such the great wisdom of Arkad, his father, even is the custom, as you know, that the sons in expectation of inheriting the estate. Arkad Therefore, when Nomasir reached man's estate, "My son, it is my desire that thou succeed that thou art capable of wisely handling it. world and show thy ability both to acquire "To start thee well, I will give thee two I started as a poor youth to build up a fortune. thou use it wisely, it will be the basis of this clay tablet upon which is carved the If thou dost but interpret them in thy own security. "Ten years from this day come account of thyself. If thou prove worthy, Otherwise, I will give it to the priests that of the gods. ' &quot;So Nomasir went forth to make tablet carefully wrapped in silken cloth, &quot;The ten years passed, and Nomasir, as he who provided a great feast in his honor, to After the feast was over, the father and mother of the great hall, and Nomasir stood before promised his father. It was evening. The room oil lamps that but dimly lighted it. Slaves humid air rhythmically with long-stemmed palm The wife of Nomasir and his two young sons, sat upon rugs behind him, eager listeners. before thy wisdom. Ten years ago when I stood and become a man among men, instead of remaining of thy gold. Thou gave me liberally of thy a disastrous handling. It fled, indeed, from flees at the first opportunity from the youth "Continue, my son, thy tale interests me to Nineveh, as it was a growing city, believing a caravan and among its members made numerous beautiful white horse as fleet as the wind told me in confidence that in Nineveh was it had never been beaten. Its owner believed speed. Therefore, would he wager any sum however in all Babylonia. Compared to their horse, so my friends said, with ease. "They offered, as a great favor, quite carried away with the plan. "Our horse ' The father laughed. 'Later, I discovered and they constantly journeyed with caravans was their partner and shared with them the my first lesson in looking out for myself. In the caravan was another young man with He was the son of wealthy parents and, like location. Not long after our arrival, he told its rich merchandise and patronage could be would be equal partners but first he must upon me to purchase the stock with my gold, on our venture. "He long delayed the trip an unwise buyer and a foolish spender. I finally put him out, but not before the only unsalable goods and no gold to buy other for a pitiful sum. "Soon there followed, employment and found it not, for I was without earn. I sold my horses. I sold my slave. I and a place to sleep, but each day grim want I remembered thy confidence in me, my father. and this I was determined to accomplish. ' The "At this time, I bethought me of the table the five laws of gold. Thereupon, I read most that had I but sought wisdom first, my gold by heart each law and determined that, when upon me, I would be guided by the wisdom of "For the benefit of you who are seated here as engraved upon the clay tablet which he OF GOLD. I. Gold cometh gladly and in increasing quantity of his earngs to create an estate for his diligently and contentedly for the wise owner even as the flocks of the field. III. Gold owner who invests it under the advice of men from the man who invests it in businesses or which are not approved by those skilled Gold flees the man who would force it to impossible of tricksters and schemers or who trusts it in investment. "These are the five laws them as of greater value than gold itself, ' &quot;He again faced his father. 'I have told which my inexperience brought me. "However, come to an end. Mine came when I secured employment new outer wall of the city. &quot; 'Profiting from my knowledge of the first earnings, adding to it at every opportunity procedure, for one must live. I did spend to earn back before the ten years were over to me. "One day the slave master, with whom art a thrifty youth who spends not wantonly Hast thou gold put by that is not earning? to accumulate gold to replace that which my a worthy ambition, I will grant, and do you work for you and earn much more gold? &quot; "Alas! gold has fled from me, and I am in much fear confidence in me, I will give thee a lesson &quot;Within a year the outer wall will be complete will be built at each entrance to protect there is not enough metal to make these gates Here is my plan: A group of us will pool our and tin, which are distant, and bring to Nineveh 'Make the great gates,' we alone can supply If the king will not buy from us, we will fair price. &quot; "In his offer I recognized invest my savings under the guidance of wise a success, and my small store of gold was due time, I was accepted as a member of this wise in the profitable handling of gold. They care, before entering upon it. They would tying it up in unprofitable investments from Such foolish things as the horse race and my inexperience would have had scant consideration out their weaknesses. "Through my association gold to bring profitable returns. As the years rapidly. I not only made back as much as I my trials and my success, I have tested time my father, and have proven them true in every five laws, gold comes not often, and goeth But to him who abide by the five laws, gold ceased speaking and motioned to a slave in one at a time, three heavy leather bags. One floor before his father addressing him again: gold. Behold in its place, I do return to An equal exchange, as all will agree. "Thou wisdom. Behold, in its stead, I do return two bags the other two bags and, likewise, placed them I do to prove to thee, my father, of how much gold. Yet, who can measure in bags of gold, is quickly lost by those who have it, but who have it not, as these three bags of gold "It does, indeed, give to me the deepest and say that, because of thy wisdom, I have men. ' &quot;The father placed his hand fondly well thy lessons, and I am, indeed, fortunate ' &quot; Kalabab ceased his tale and looked critically this tale of Nomasir? &quot; he continued. &quot;Who father of thy wife and give an account of &quot;What would these venerable men think were much and labored much and earned much, yet wisely, some I spent foolishly and much I but an inconsistency of fate that some men you err. &quot;Men have much gold when they know I learned these five laws in my youth and Not by some strange magic did I accumulate the same way. &quot;Wealth that stayeth to give enjoyment and because it is a child born of knowledge and a slight burden upon the thoughtful man. Bearing accomplishes the final purpose. &quot;The five their observance. &quot;Each of these five laws this in the briefness of my tale, I will now because in my youth, I could see their value word for word. ... The First Law of Gold. Gold cometh gladly and in increasing quantity of his earnings to create an estate for his will put by one-tenth of his earnings consistently valuable estate that will provide an income safety for his family in case the gods call sayeth that gold cometh gladly to such a man. more gold I accumulate, the more readily it The gold which I save earns more, even as this is the working out of the first law. diligently and contentedly for the wise owner even as the flocks of the field. &quot;Gold, indeed, when opportunity presents itself. To every comes for its most profitable use. As the fashion. &quot; ... The Third Law of Gold. Gold owner who invests it under the advice of men &quot;Gold, indeed, clingeth to the cautious owner, who seeks the advice of men wise in handling but to preserve in safety and to enjoy in Fourth Law of Gold. Gold slippeth away from with which he is not familiar or which are To the man who hath gold, yet is not skilled profitable. Too often these are fraught with wise men, show small possibility of profit. Therefore, the inexperienced owner of gold it in business or purposes with which he is imperfect, and pays with his treasure for his treasures under the advice of men skilled Gold. Gold flees the man who would force it alluring advice of tricksters and schemers romantic desires in investment. &quot;Fanciful always come to the new owner of gold. These appear to endow his treasure with magic earnings. Yet heed ye the wise men for verily plan to make great wealth suddenly. &quot;Forget no chance of losing their principal or tying my tale of the five laws of gold. In telling own success. &quot;Yet, they are not secrets but then follow who wishes to step out of the each day for food to eat. &quot;Tomorrow, we enter See the fire that burns eternal above the the golden city. Tomorrow, each of thee shall by thy faithful services. &quot;Ten years from &quot;If there be men among you, who, like Nomasir, for themselves an estate and be thenceforth years from now, 'tis a safe wager, like the among men. &quot;Our wise acts accompany us through surely, our unwise acts follow us to plague Alas, they cannot be forgotten. In the front the memories of the things we should have and we took not. &quot;Rich are the treasures of in pieces of gold. Each year, they grow richer land, they are a reward, a rich reward awaiting their just share. &quot;In the strength of thine with thy knowledge of the five laws of gold &quot; ... The Gold Lender of Babylon. Fifty pieces Never before had Rodan, the spearmaker of wallet. Happily down the king's highway from strode. Cheerfully the gold clinked as the sweetest music he had ever heard. Fifty pieces his good fortune. What power in those clinking a grand house, land, cattle, camels, horses, should he make of it? This evening as he turned into a side street of nothing he would rather possess than those to keep. It was upon an evening some days of Mathon, the lender of gold and dealer in to the right nor the left at the colorful to the living quarters at the rear. Here he partaking of a meal served by a black slave. &quot;I would counsel with thee for I know not hairy breast exposed by the gaping front of face smiled a friendly greeting. &quot;What indiscretions lender of gold? Hast been unlucky at the gaming For many years have I known thee, yet never &quot; &quot;No, no. Not such as that. I seek no gold. Hear! What this man doth say. No one comes must play me false. &quot; &quot;They listen true. &quot; &quot;Can Rodan, the spearmaker, doth display more cunning not for gold, but for advice. Many men come as for advice, they want it not. Yet who is to whom many men come in trouble? &quot;Thou shalt be my guest for the evening. Andol&quot; he commanded friend, Rodan, the spearmaker, who comes for to him much food and get for him my largest may have satisfaction in the drinking. &quot;Now, tell me what troubles thee. &quot; &quot;It is did make thee a gift and it gives thee trouble? pleased with the design I did submit to him guard, he did present me with fifty pieces beseeched each hour the sun doth travel across &quot; &quot;That is natural. More men want gold than easily to divide. But can you not say &quot;No? many I can say no, yet sometimes it would Can one refuse to share with one's sister own sister would not wish to deprive thee sake of Araman, her husband, whom she wishes he has never had a chance and she beseeches a prosperous merchant and repay me from his a worthy subject thou bringest to discuss. and a changed position with his fellow men. tricked away from him. It bringeth a feeling Likewise, it bringeth opportunities whereby difficulties. &quot;Didst ever hear of the farmer of animals? I wot not, for 'tis not the kind forge. I will tell it to thee for thou shouldst more than the passing of gold from the hands who could understand what the animals said each evening just to listen to their words. One evening he did hear the ox bemoaning to pulling the plow from morning until night. my legs, or how the bow doth chafe my neck, of leisure. You are trapped with a colorful master about where he wishes to go. When he grass all the day. ' &quot;Now the ass, in spite and sympathized with the ox. 'My good friend, help ease your lot. Therefore, will I tell In the morning when the slave comes to fetch much that he may say you are sick and cannot ass and the next morning the slave returned and could not pull the plow. "Then,' said the plowing must go on. ' &quot;All that day the found himself compelled to do the ox's task. plow his heart was bitter and his legs were had chafed it. &quot;The farmer lingered in the 'You are my good friend. Because of your wise I,' retorted the ass, 'am like many another and ends up by doing his task for him. Hereafter master tell the slave to send for the butcher you are a lazy fellow. ' Thereafter they spoke friendship. Canst thou tell the moral to this Rodan, &quot;but I see not the moral. &quot; &quot;I thought too. Just this: If you desire to help thy friend, burdens upon thyself. &quot; &quot;I had not thought assume the burdens of my sister's husband. borrowers repay? &quot; Mathon smiled the smile &quot;Could a loan be well made if the borrower and judge carefully whether his gold can perform to him once more; or whether it will be wasted without his treasure, and leave the borrower I will show to thee the tokens in my token stories. &quot; Into the room he brought a chest and ornamented with bronze designs. He placed both hands upon the lid. &quot;From each person token chest, to remain there until the loan if they never repay it will always remind &quot;The safest loans, my token box tells me, value than the one they desire. They own lands, or jewels, or camels, or other Some of the tokens given to me are jewels that if the loan be not repaid as agreed they On loans like those I am assured that my gold for the loan is based on property. &quot;In another They are such as you, who labor or serve and honest and suffer no misfortune, I know that the rental to which I am entitled. Such loans are based on human effort. &quot;Others earning capacity. Life is hard and there will to it. Alas for the loans I make them, even token box may censure me in the years to come of the borrower who know him honorable. &quot; Mathon leaned forward eagerly. At the top of the cloth. Mathon picked up the piece and patted in my token chest because the owner has passed I treasure, it, his token, and I treasure traded together with much success until out but not like our women. A dazzling creature. desires. He came to me in distress when his him I would help him to once more master his Bull that he would. But it was not to be. he dared her to pierce. &quot; &quot;And she? &quot; questioned picked up the scarlet cloth. &quot;In bitter remorse These two loans will never be repaid. The throes of great emotions are not safe risks &quot; He reached for a ring carved of ox bone. of his women. The locusts came and they had came he repaid me. Later he came again and described by a traveler. They had long hair more beautiful than any ever seen in Babylon. did lend him gold to make the journey and Now his herd is begun and next year I shall expensive rugs it has been their good fortune insist on repaying promptly. &quot; &quot;Some borrowers for purposes that bring money back to them, their indiscretions, I warn thee to be cautious hand again. &quot; "Tell me about this," requested with jewels in rare designs. &quot;The women do "I am still much younger than you,&quot; retorted &quot;I grant that, but this time thou doth suspicion is fat and wrinkled and doth talk so much they had much money and were good customers, of whom she would make a merchant. So she become a partner of a caravan owner who travels he buys in another. &quot;This man proved a rascal without money and without friends, pulling Perhaps when this youth has grown to manhood, for the loan--only much talk. But I do admit this lady ask thy advice as to the wisdom to herself this son of hers as a wealthy and was to infuriate her. A fair rebuke I had. but as she offered security I could not refuse of pack rope tied into a knot, &quot;belongs to When he would buy a herd larger than his funds according to his needs. He is a wise trader. can lend him freely. Many other merchants honorable behavior. Their 92tokens come and are an asset to our city and it profits me be prosperous. &quot; Mathon picked out a beetle on the floor. &quot;A bug from Egypt. The lad who back my gold. When I reproach him he replies, 'How can I more. ' What can I do? The token is his father's--a land and herd to back his son's enterprises. was over- zealous to gain great wealth. His &quot;Youth is ambitious. Youth would take short which it stands. To secure wealth quickly having had experience, cannot realize that one may descend quickly and where one may It is a pit of sorrow and regrets where the is made unhappy by restless sleeping. Yet, it. I recommend it if it be for a wise purpose. with borrowed gold. &quot;Yet, what should the despair and accomplishes nothing. He is discouraged. against depriving the father of his land and to hear,&quot; ventured Rodan, &quot;but, I hear no pieces of gold to my sister's husband? They mean much to me. &quot; &quot;Thy sister is a sterling come to me and ask to borrow fifty pieces he would use it. &quot;If he answered that he desired in jewels and rich furnishings. I would say, Do you know where you can buy at lowest cost? &quot; Could he say 'Yes' to these questions? &quot; &quot;No, me much in making spears and he has helped him that his purpose was not wise. Merchants His ambition, though worthy, is not practical he could say: 'Yes, I have helped merchants buy at low cost the rugs the housewives weave. to whom I can sell these at a large profit. and your ambition honorable. I shall be glad can give me security that they will be returned. than that I am an honored man and will pay 'I treasure much each piece of gold. Were the robbers to take it from you as you you as you returned, then you would have no gone. ' &quot;Gold, you see, Rodan, is the merchandise If it is lent unwisely then it is 94difficult risk of the undertaking but the guarantee &quot;to assist those that are in trouble, 'tis a heavy hand. 'Tis well to help those who valuable citizens. But help must be given wisely, lest, like but take upon ourselves the burden that belongs Rodan, but hear my answer: Keep thy fifty and what is given thee for reward is thine thee to part with it unless it do be thy wish. thee more gold, then lend with caution and less I like too much of risk. &quot;How many years hast thou labored as a spearmaker? gift hast saved? &quot; &quot;Three gold pieces. &quot; &quot;Each thyself good things to save from thine earnings mightest save in fifty years of labor fifty of labor it would be. &quot; &quot;Thinkest thou thy of fifty years of labor over the bronze melting a merchant? &quot; &quot;Not if I spoke in your words. have labored each day except fast days, from many things that my heart craved. For each year of labor and self-denial I have sister and I wish that thy husband may engage If he will submit to me a plan that seems will I gladly lend to him my savings of an to prove that he can succeed. ' Do that, I succeed he can prove it. If he fails he will to repay. &quot;I am a gold lender because I own I desire my surplus gold to labor for others I do not wish to take risk of losing my gold much to secure it. Therefore, I will no longer it is safe and will be returned to me. Neither its earnings will be promptly paid to me. secrets of my token chest. From them you may to borrow that which they have no certain often their high hopes of the great earnings but false hopes they have not the ability &quot;Thou, Rodan, now have gold which thou shouldst about to become even as I, a gold lender. it will produce liberal earnings for thee during all thy days. But if thou dost let constant sorrow and regret as long as thy of this gold in thy wallet? &quot; &quot;To keep it &quot;Thy first desire is for safety. Thinkest thou that in the custody of thy sister's loss? &quot; &quot;I fear not, for he is not wise in sentiments of obligation to trust thy treasure or thy friends, find other ways than risking gold slippeth away in unexpected ways from thy treasure in extravagance as let others dost desire of this treasure of thine? &quot; &quot;That with wisdom. It should be made to earn and Gold wisely lent may even double itself with old. If you risk losing it you risk losing be not swayed by the fantastic plans of impractical to make earnings unusually large. Such plans the safe and dependable laws of trade. Be that thou mayest keep and enjoy thy treasure. returns is to invite loss. &quot;Seek to associate thyself with men and enterprises may earn liberally under their skillful use experience. &quot;Thus, mayest thou avoid the misfortunes the gods see fit to entrust gold. &quot; When Rodan not listen, saying, &quot;The king's gift shall fifty pieces of gold thou must be discreet will be spoken to thee. Numerous opportunities The stories from my token box should warn thy pouch to be sure that thou hast a safe advice appeal to thee, return again. It is which I have carved beneath the lid of my and the lender: BETTER A LITTLE CAUTION THAN grim warrior of another day, stood guard at walls of Babylon. Up above, valiant defenders Upon them depended the future existence of of citizens. Over the walls came the roar men, the trampling of thousands of horses, the bronzed gates. In the street behind the the entrance should the gates give way. They of Babylon were with their king, far away the Elamites. No attack upon the city having defending forces were small. Unexpectedly, from the north, bore down the walls must hold or Babylon was doomed. About and terrified, eagerly seeking news of the of wounded and dead being carried or led out of attack. After three days of circling about great strength against this section and this fought off the climbing platforms and the burning oil and, if any reached the top, spears. Against the defenders, thousands of the enemy's Old Banzar had the vantage point for news. hear of each fresh repulse of the frenzied to him, his palsied hands quivering. &quot;Tell in. My sons are with the good king. There they will steal all. My food, they will leave old for slaves. We shall starve. We shall good merchant,&quot; the guard responded. &quot;The Go back to the bazaar and tell your wife that possessions as safely as they protect the the walls, lest the arrows flying over strike old man's place as he withdrew. &quot;Sergeant, I may reassure my poor husband. He lies with upon his armor and his spear to protect me, the vengeful lust of our enemies should they that is, and is again to be, the walls of They are high and strong. Hear ye not the the caldrons of burning oil upon the ladder roar of the battering rams that do hammer him the gates are strong and withstand the but to receive the waiting spear thrust. Watch, stepped aside to clear the passage for heavily shields and heavy tread, they tramped by, me please, soldier, are we safe? &quot; she pleaded. I see the men all bleeding. I am so frightened. little brother and the baby? &quot; The grim old his chin as he beheld the child. &quot;Be not afraid, of Babylon will protect you and mother and safety of such as you that the good Queen ago. Never have they been broken through. Go back and tell your mother and little brother protect them and they need have no fear. &quot; Day watched the reinforcements file up the passageway, they came down once more. Around him, unceasingly eagerly seeking to learn if the walls would dignity of an old soldier, &quot;The walls of Babylon days the attack waged with scarcely ceasing Harder and grimmer set the jaw of Banzar as the many wounded, was churned into mud by and staggering down. Each day the slaughtered Each night they were carried back and buried the fourth week the clamor without diminished. the plains, disclosed great clouds of dust shout went up from the defenders. There was by the waiting troops behind the walls. It It swept over the city with the violence of streets were jammed with a throbbing mob. in the wild chorus of joy. From the top of forth the flames of victory. Skyward floated far and wide. The walls of Babylon had once to loot her rich treasures and to ravish and after century because it was fully protected. of Babylon were an outstanding example of This desire is inherent in the human race. but we have developed broader and better plans behind the impregnable walls of insurance, we can guard ourselves against the unexpected themselves before any fireside. WE CANNOT Camel Trader of Babylon. The hungrier one the more sensitive one becomes to the odors thought so. For two whole days he had tasted no food except of a garden. Not another could he grab before down the street. Her shrill cries were still market place. They helped him to retrain his fruits from the baskets of the market women. was brought to the markets of Babylon and walked across to the inn and paced back and Perhaps here he might meet someone he knew; that would gain him a smile from the unfriendly helping. Without the copper he knew all too he unexpectedly found himself face to face the tall bony figure of Dabasir, the camel whom he had borrowed small sums, Dabasir made his failure to keep his promises to repay sight of him. &quot;Ha! 'Tis Tarkad, just the one I have been seeking which I lent him a moon ago; also the piece We are well met. I can make good use of the &quot; Tarkad stuttered and his face flushed. He to argue with the outspoken Dabasir. &quot;I am this day I have neither the copper nor the it,&quot; Dabasir insisted. &quot;Surely thou canst get hold of a few coppers of an old friend of thy father who aided thee ill fortune does pursue me that I cannot pay. thine own weakness. Ill fortune pursues every Come with me, boy, while I eat. I am hungry from the brutal frankness of Dabasir, but coveted doorway of the eating house. Dabasir they seated themselves upon small rugs. When Kauskor, the proprietor, appeared smiling, &quot;Fat lizard of the desert, bring to me a leg and all of the vegetables for I am hungry here. Bring to him a jug of water. Have it sank. Must he sit here and drink water while leg? He said nothing. He thought of nothing thing as silence. Smiling and waving his hand of whom knew him, he continued. &quot;I did hear from a traveler just returned piece of stone cut so thin that one can look house to keep out the rains. It is yellow, to look through it and all the outside world What say you to that, Tarkad? Thinkest all color from what it is? &quot; &quot;I dare say,&quot; responded leg of goat placed before Dabasir. &quot;Well, I know it to be true for I myself have what it really is and the tale I am about right color once more. &quot; &quot;Dabasir will tell his neighbor, and dragged his rug close. Other semi- circle. They crunched noisily in the meaty bones. He alone was without food. Dabasir him to a small corner of the hard bread that to the floor. &quot;The tale that I am about to tell,&quot; began the goat leg, &quot;relates to my early life and know that I once was a slave in Syria? &quot; A to which Dabasir listened with satisfaction. after another vicious onslaught on the goat making of saddles. I worked with him in his and not greatly skilled, I could earn but wife in a modest way. I craved good things Soon I found that the shop keepers would trust at the time. &quot;Being young and without experience he earns is sowing the winds of needless self-indulgence of trouble and humiliation. So I indulged for my good wife and our home, beyond our all went well. But in time I discovered I and to pay my debts. Creditors began to pursue my life became miserable. I borrowed from my friends, but could not worse. My wife returned to her father and city where a young man might have better chances. life working for caravan traders. From this scoured the desert for unarmed caravans. Such but I was seeing the world through a colored I had fallen. &quot;We met with success on our and silks and valuable merchandise. This loot &quot;The second time we were not so fortunate. attacked by the spearsmen of a native chief Our two leaders were killed, and the rest stripped of our clothing and sold as slaves. by a Syrian desert chief. With my hair shorn different from the other slaves. Being a reckless my master took me before his four wives and Then, indeed, did I realize the hopelessness These men of the desert were fierce and warlike. or means of escape. &quot;Fearful I stood, as those could expect pity from them. Sira, the first was impassive as she looked upon me. I turned was a contemptuous beauty who gazed at me the earth. The two younger ones tittered as an age that I stood waiting sentence. Each Finally Sira spoke up in a cold voice. "Of eunuchs we have plenty, but of camel lot. Even this day I would visit my mother slave I would trust to lead my camel. Ask thereupon questioned me, 'What know you of I replied, I can make them kneel, I can load tiring. If need be, I can repair their trappings. my master. If thou so desire, Sira, take this over to Sira and that day I led her camel I took the occasion to thank her for her intercession by birth, but the son of a freeman, an honorable of my story. Her comments were disconcerting she said. "How can you call yourself a free this? If a man has in himself the soul of his birth, even as water seeks its level? If a man has within him the soul of a free in his own city in spite of his misfortune? with the slaves, but I could not become as eventime when the other slaves can mingle thou sit in thy tent alone? ' &quot;To which I to me. I wonder if I have the soul of a slave. too, must sit apart,' she confided. 'My dowry it. Yet he does not desire me. What every Because of this and because I am barren and apart. Were I a man I would rather die than tribe make slaves of women. ' "What think 'Have I the soul of a man or have I the soul the just debts you owe in Babylon? ' she parried. ' "If thou contentedly let the years slip hast but the contemptible soul of a slave. No man is otherwise who cannot respect himself repay honest debts. ' "But what can I do in Syria, thou weakling. ' "I am not a weakling,' ' "Does not thy great king fight his enemies has? Thy debts are thy enemies. They ran thee grew too strong for thee. Hadst fought them and been one honored among the townspeople. But thou had not the soul to fight them and art a slave in Syria. ' &quot;Much I thought over phrases I worded to prove myself not a slave to use them. Three days later the maid of is again very sick,' she said. 'Saddle the on water skins and saddle bags for a long kitchen tent. ' I packed the camels wondering provided, for the mother dwelt less than a The maid rode the rear camel which followed reached her mother's house it was just dark. hast thou the soul of a free man or the soul I insisted. "Now is thy chance to prove chiefs are in a stupor. Take then these camels of thy master's to disguise thee. I will say visited my sick mother. ' "Thou hast the 'Much do I wish that I might lead thee to 'awaits not the runaway wife who seeks it own way and may the gods of the desert protect or water. ' &quot;I needed no further urging, but I knew not this strange country and had only but struck out bravely across the desert toward I led. All that night I traveled and all the next fate that was meted out to slaves who stole &quot;Late that afternoon, I reached a rough country rocks bruised the feet of my faithful camels and painfully along. I met neither man nor this inhospitable land. &quot;It was such a journey after day we plodded along. Food and water At the end of the ninth day, I slid from the too weak to ever remount and I would surely out upon the ground and slept, not waking up and looked about me. There was a coolness not far away. About me was a vast waste of and thorny things, no sign of water, naught in this peaceful quiet I faced my end? My My body now seemed of little importance. My parched and bleeding lips, my dry and swollen supreme agonies of the day before. &quot;I looked again came to me the question, 'Have I the ' Then with clearness I realized that if I lie down in the desert and die, a fitting soul of a free man, what then? Surely I would who had trusted me, bring happiness to my contentment to my parents. "Thy debts are thine enemies who have run was so. Why had I refused to stand my ground go back to her father? &quot;Then a strange thing different color as though I had been looking been removed. At last I saw the true values new vision, I saw the things that I must do. every man to whom I owed an unpaid debt. I and misfortune, I had come back to pay my Next I should make a home for my wife and be proud. &quot;My debts were my enemies, but the me and believed in me. &quot;I staggered weakly thirst? They were but incidents on the road free man going back to conquer his enemies great resolve. &quot;The glazed eyes of my camels With great effort, after many attempts, they they pushed on toward the north where something &quot;We found water. We passed into a more fertile the trail to Babylon because the soul of a to be solved and solves them, while the soul a slave? ' &quot;How about thee, Tarkad? Dost thy Art ready to take the road that leads back in its true color? Hast thou the desire to be, and once again be a man respected in Babylon? He rose eagerly to his knees. &quot;Thou has shown me a vision; already I feel how fared you upon your return? &quot; questioned is, the way can be found&quot; Dabasir replied. to find a way. First I visited every man to until I could earn that with which to repay. me but others offered to help me; one indeed Mathon, the gold lender. Learning that I had been a camel tender in trader, just commissioned by our good king the great expedition. With him, my knowledge able to repay every copper and every piece head and feel that I was an honourable man &quot;Kauskor, thou snail,&quot; he called loudly to Bring me more meat fresh from the roasting. Bring thou also a very large portion for Tarkad, shall eat with me. &quot; So ended the tale of found his own soul when he realized a great by wise men long before his time. It has led success and it will continue to do so for magic power. It is for any man to use who IS, THE WAY CAN BE FOUND ... The Clay Tablets Swithin's College Nottingham University Newark-on-Trent of British Scientific Expedition, Hillah, The five clay tablets from your recent excavation boat with your letter. I have been fascinated translating their inscriptions. I should have I could complete the translations which are thanks to your careful use of preservatives as we in the laboratory at the story they One expects the dim and distant past to speak sort of things, you know. When instead it to pay off his debts, one realizes that conditions in five thousand years as one might expect. rather "rage" me, as the students say. be a thinking human being possessing a working Yet, here comes this old chap out of the dust-covered heard of to pay off my debts and at the same Pleasant thought, I say, and interesting to as it did in old Babylon. Mrs. Shrewsbury upon our own affairs which could be much improved. undertaking and waiting eagerly another opportunity Shewsbury, Department of Archaeology. ... Tablet Now, when the moon becometh full, I, Dabasir, in Syria, with the determination to pay my worthy of respect in my native city of Babylon, record of my affairs to guide and assist me the wise advice of my good friend Mathon, an exact plan that he doth say will lead any respect. This plan includeth three purposes doth provide for my future prosperity. Therefore one-tenth of all I earn shall be wisely when he saith: &quot;That man who keepeth need not spend is good to his family and loyal in his purse is indifferent to his family who hath naught in his purse is unkind to his own heart is bitter. &quot;Therefore, the man who wisheth to achieve in his purse, that he have in his heart love the plan doth provide that I shall support to me with loyalty from the house of her father. of a faithful wife putteth self-respect into determination to his purposes. Therefore seven-tenths clothes to wear, and food to eat, with a bit in pleasure and enjoyment. But he doth further enjoin the greatest care of what I earn for these worthy purposes. live upon this portion and never use more portion. ... Tablet No. 2. Third, the plan shall be paid. Therefore each time the moon be divided honourably and fairly among those Thus in due time will all my indebtedness the name of every man to whom I am indebted Fahru, the cloth weaver, 2 silver, 6 copper. my friend, 3 silver, 1 copper. Zankar, my 1 silver, 3 copper. Harinsir, the Jewelmaker, friend, 4 silver, 1 copper. Alkahad, the house 9 silver. Birejik, the farmer, 1 silver, 7 be deciphered. ) ... Tablet No. 3. To these nineteen pieces of silver and one hundred Because I did owe these sums and saw no way to return to her father and didst leave my only to find disaster and to see myself sold Mathon doth show me how I can repay my debts the great extent of my folly in running away have I visited my creditors and explained to pay except my ability to earn, and that upon my indebtedness evenly and honestly. Therefore if they be patient, in time my obligations my best friend, reviled me bitterly and I pleaded that I pay him first as he didst badly disagreeable and insisted that he would make with him. All the rest willingly accepted than ever to carry through, being convinced than to avoid them. Even though I cannot meet I will deal impartially with all. ... Tablet Again the moon shines full. I have worked my intentions to pay my creditors. Because the past moon, buying camels of sound wind pieces of silver. This I have divided according keep as my own, seven-tenths have I divided have I divided among my creditors as evenly Ahmar but left it with his wife. Birejik was alone was grouchy and said I must pay faster. To which I replied that if I were permitted would enable me to pay faster. All the others at the end of one moon, my indebtedness is I possess almost two pieces of silver besides, lighter than it hath been for a long time. hard but with poor success. Few camels have silver have I earned. Nevertheless my good we have bought no new raiment and eaten little Again I paid ourselves one-tenth of the eleven I was surprised when Ahmar commended my payment, flew into a rage but when told to give back reconciled. The others, as before, were content rejoiced. I intercepted a fine herd of camels were forty-two pieces of silver. This moon sandals and raiment Also we have dined well silver we have paid to our creditors. Even Great is the plan for it leadeth us out of keep. Three times the moon had been full since paid to myself one-tenth of all I earned. seven-tenths even though at times it was difficult. In my purse I now have twenty one pieces of stand straight upon my shoulders and maketh keepeth well our home and is becomingly gowned. of untold value. Hath it not made an honorable 5. Again the moon shines full and I remember Twelve moons in truth have come and gone. because upon this day I have paid the last good wife and my thankful self celebrate with been achieved. Many things occurred upon my remember. Ahmar begged my forgiveness for all others he most desired for a friend. Old Alkahad is not so bad after all, for he to be pressed and moulded by any hand that bronze capable of holding an edge. If thou me. &quot; Nor is he the only one who holdeth me to me. My good wife looketh upon me with a confidence in himself. Yet it is the plan me to pay all my debts and to jingle both it to all who wish to get ahead. For truly if it will enable an ex-slave to will it not aid any man to find independence? am convinced that if I follow it further it College Nottingham University Newark-on-Trent of British Scientific Expedition, Hillah, professor: If, in your further digging into ghost of a former resident, an old camel trader Tell him that his scribbling upon those clay life long gratitude of a couple of college remember my writing a year ago that Mrs. Shrewsbury out of debt and at the same time having gold we tried to keep it from our friends, our for years by a lot of old debts and worried start a scandal that would force me out of We paid and paid--every shilling we could enough to hold things even. Besides we were get further credit regardless of higher costs. that grow worse instead of better. Our struggles less costly rooms because we owed the landlord. do to improve our situation. Then, here comes Babylon, with a plan to do just what we wished to follow his system. We made a list of all our debts and I took I explained how it was simply impossible for along. They could readily see this themselves only way I saw to pay in full was to set aside be divided pro rata, which would pay them in the meantime, we would go on a cash basis purchases. They were really quite decent. a way that helped to bring around the rest. &quot;If you pay for all you buy and then pay some done, for ye ain't paid down the account none names to an agreement binding them not to income was paid regularly. Then we began scheming determined to keep that extra ten percent gold was most alluring. It was like having figuring this way and that, to live comfortably with rent and managed to secure a fair reduction. Next we put our favorite brands of tea and how often we could purchase superior qualities letter but anyhow it did not prove difficult. a relief it proved to have our affairs in by past due accounts. I must not neglect, percent we were supposed to jingle. Well, laugh too soon. You see, that is the sporty money that you do not want to spend. There is more pleasure in running up such it. After we had jingled to our hearts' content, took up an investment upon which we could to be the most satisfying part of our regeneration. There is a most gratifying sense of security By the time my teaching days are over it should will take care of us from then on. All this yet absolutely true. All our debts being gradually paid and at we get along, financially, even better than a difference in results between following At the end of the next year, when all our more to pay upon our investment besides some again to permit our living expenses to exceed understand why we would like to extend our saved us from our &quot;Hell on Earth. &quot; He knew. He wanted others to benefit from his own bitter hours carving his message upon the clay. He message so important that after five thousand just as true and just as vital as the day Shrewsbury, Department of Archaeology. ... The caravan, proudly rode Sharru Nada, the merchant wore rich and becoming robes. He liked fine stallion. To look at him one would hardly Certainly they would not have suspected that Damascus is long and the hardships of the tribes are fierce and eager to loot rich caravans. guards were a safe protection. About the youth was he disturbed. This was Hadan Gula, the Gula, to whom he felt he owed a debt of gratitude to do something for this grandson, but the it seemed because of the youth himself. Eyeing the young man's rings and earrings, for men, still he has his grandfather's strong robes. Yet, I sought him to come, hoping I get away from the wreck his father has made upon his thoughts, &quot;Why dost thou work so its long journeys? Dost thou never take time life? &quot; he repeated. &quot;What wouldst thou do I had wealth equal to thine, I would live Never across the hot desert would I ride. came to my purse. I would wear the richest be a life to my liking, a life worth living. no jewels. &quot; Sharru Nada spoke before he thought, no time for work? &quot; &quot;Work was made for slaves,&quot; lip but made no reply, riding in silence until his mount and pointing to the green valley far down and thou canst faintly see the walls The tower is the Temple of Bel. If thine eyes the eternal fire upon its crest. &quot; &quot;So that wealthiest city in all the world,&quot; Hadan Gula started his fortune. Would he were still alive. wish his spirit to linger on earth beyond well carry on his good work. &quot; &quot;Alas, of us, not his secret for attracting the golden shekels. to his mount and rode thoughtfully down the Behind them followed the caravan in a cloud the Kings' highway and turned south through a field caught Sharru Nada's attention. They One does not pass a field after forty years something within him said they were the same. The others laboriously plodded beside the barrel staves to keep them pulling. Forty he would have exchanged places! But what a With pride he looked back at his trailing loaded high with valuable goods from Damascus. pointed to the plowers, saying, &quot;Still plowing ago. &quot; &quot;They look it, but why thinkest thou Nada replied. Recollections were racing rapidly past and live in the present? Then he saw, Gula. The barrier between himself and the could he help such a superior youth with his Work he could offer in plenty to willing workers, too good for work. Yet he owed it to Arad He and Arad Gula had never done things that came almost in a flash. There were objections. standing. It would be cruel; it would hurt. objections and decided to act. &quot;Wouldst thou and myself joined in the partnership which not just tell me how thou madest the golden That is all I need to know,&quot; the young man continued, &quot;We start with those men plowing. men in which I marched approached, good old way in which they plowed. Megiddo was chained protested, 'the plow holder makes no effort oxen in the furrow. How can they expect to thou say Megiddo was chained to thee? &quot; Hadan collars about our necks and a length of heavy Next to him was Zabado, the sheep thief. I man we called Pirate because he told us not had entwined serpents tattooed upon his chest thus so the men could walk in fours. &quot; &quot;Thou incredulously. &quot;Did not thy grandfather tell of thee but never hinted of this. &quot; &quot;He was Thou, too, are a man I may trust, am I not the eye. &quot;Thou mayest rely upon my silence, Tell me how didst thou come to be a slave? man may find himself a slave. It was a gaming I was the victim of my brother's indiscretions. to the widow by my fattier, desperate to keep law. When my father could not raise the silver dealer. &quot; &quot;What a shame and injustice! &quot; Hadan regain freedom? &quot; &quot;We shall come to that, passed, the plowers jeered at us. One did doff his ragged hat and bow low, calling He waits for thee on the city walls where soup. ' With that they laughed uproariously. 'What do those men mean by the King awaiting walls ye march to carry bricks until the back it breaks. They won't beat me. Ill kill 'em. sense to me to talk of masters beating willing, Masters like good slaves and treat them well. 'Those plowers are wise fellows. They're not they be. ' "Thou can't get ahead by shirking,' that's a good day's work and any master knows shirking. I don't shirk. I like to work and friend I've ever known. It has brought me cows and crops, everything. ' "Yea, and 'I figure it pays better to be smart and get You watch Zabado, if we're sold to the walls, job when thou, who like to work, will be breaking silly laugh. &quot;Terror gripped me that night. guard rope, and when the others slept, I attracted first guard watch. He was one of those brigand thee of thy purse, would think he must also 'when we get to Babylon will we be sold to cautiously. "Canst thou not understand? I want to live. I don't want to be worked any chance for me to get a good master? ' &quot;He fellow, give Godoso no trouble. Most times buyers come, tell 'em you good worker, like to buy. You not make 'em buy, next day you walked away, I lay in the warm sand, looking Megiddo had said about it being his best friend Certainly it would be if it helped me out &quot;When Megiddo awoke, I whispered my good news toward Babylon. Late in the afternoon we approached like black ants, climbing up and down the were amazed at the thousands of men working; the dirt into mud bricks. The greatest number up those steep trails to the masons. * &quot;Overseers over the backs of those who failed to keep to stagger and fall beneath their heavy baskets, If the lash failed to bring them to their paths and left writhing in agony. Soon they bodies beside the roadway to await un-sanctified So this was what awaited my father's son if works of ancient Babylon, its walls, temples, by slave labor, mainly prisoners of war, which This force of workmen also included many citizens sold into slavery because of crimes or financial It was a common custom for men to put themselves, to guarantee payment of loans, legal judgments those so bonded were sold into slavery. &quot;Godoso gates of the city to the slave prison and Here the rest of the men huddled in fear and moving so the buyers could examine them. Megiddo permitted us to address him. &quot;The slave dealer shackled Pirate and brutally beat him when As they led him away, I felt sorry for him. no buyers were near, he talked to me earnestly be to me in the future: 'Some men hate it. it like a friend, make thyself like it. Don't about what a good house thou build, then who from the well to carry the water for the plaster. for him as hard as thou canst. If he does work, well-done, does good to the man who It makes him a better man. ' He stopped as at us critically. &quot;Megiddo asked about his would be a valuable man. After violent bargaining purse from beneath his robe, and soon Megiddo &quot;A few other men were sold during the morning. was disgusted and would not stay over another to the King's buyer. I was becoming desperate the wall and inquired if there was a baker &quot;I approached him saying, &quot;Why should a good ways? Would it not be easier to teach a willing me, I am young, strong and like to work. Give gold and silver for thy purse. &quot; &quot;He was impressed the dealer who had never noticed me since my abilities, good health and good disposition. At last, much to my joy, the deal was closed. was the luckiest man in Babylon. &quot;My new home Nana-naid, my master, taught me how to grind the courtyard, how to build the fire in the flour for the honey cakes. I had a couch in slave housekeeper, Swasti, fed me well and heavy tasks. &quot;Here was the chance I had longed I hoped, to find a way to earn my freedom. the bread and to bake. This he did, much pleased Later, when I could do this well, I asked and soon I was doing all the baking. My master head in disapproval, 'No work to do is bad time for me to think of a way by which I might the baking was finished at noon, I thought employment for the afternoons and might share to me, why not bake more of the honey cakes of the city? &quot;I presented my plan to Nana-naid this way: is finished to earn for thee coins, would with me that I might have money of my own desires and needs? "Fair enough, fair enough,' peddle our honey cakes, he was well pleased. sellest them at two for a penny, then half flour and the honey and the wood to bake them. Of the rest, I shall take half and thou shall offer that I might keep for myself, one- fourth a tray upon which to display them. Nana- naid look well, and Swasti helped me patch it and supply of honey cakes. They looked brown and street, loudly calling my wares. At first I kept on and later in the afternoon as men soon my tray was empty. &quot;Nana-naid was well pleased with my success to own pennies. Megiddo had been right when his slaves. That night I was so excited over to figure how much I could earn in a year my freedom. &quot;As I went forth with my tray One of these was none other than thy grandfather, to the housewives, going from one end of the high with rugs and a black slave to tend it. He would buy two cakes for himself and two me while they ate them. Thy grandfather said remember. 'I like thy cakes, boy, but better thou offerest them. Such spirit can carry canst thou understand, Hadan Gula, what such boy, lonesome in a great city, struggling his humiliation? &quot;As the months went by I to have a comforting weight upon my belt. Work was proving to be my best friend Just was worried. "Thy master, I fear to have she protested. &quot;I was overjoyed one day to was leading three donkeys loaded with vegetables said. 'My master does appreciate my good work the marketing to me, and also he is sending from my great trouble. Some day it will help me to buy my freedom went on and Nana-naid became more and more would be waiting when I returned and would also urge me to seek further markets and increase to solicit the overseers of the slaves building sights but found the overseers liberal buyers. in line to fill his basket with bricks. He with welts and sores from the whips of the I was sorry for him and handed him a cake animal. Seeing the greedy look in his eyes, dost thou work so hard? ' Arad Gula said to asked of me today, dost thou remember? I told it was proving to be my best friend. I showed how I was saving them to buy my freedom. "When "Then,' I answered, I intend to become a I had never suspected. 'Thou knowest not that I am in partnership with my master. &quot; &quot;Stop,&quot; lies defaming my grandfather. He was no slave. calm. &quot;I honor him for rising above his misfortune Art thou, his grandson, cast of the same mold? dost thou prefer to live under false illusions? a voice suppressed with deep emotion he replied, were his good deeds. When the famine came did not his gold buy it to Damascus and distribute it to the people but a despised slave in Babylon. &quot; &quot;Had he well have been despised, but when, through Damascus, the Gods indeed condoned his misfortunes Nada replied. &quot;After telling me that he was how anxious he had been to earn his freedom. was much disturbed as to what he should do. He was no longer making good sales and feared his indecision: 'Cling no longer to thy master. man. Act like a free man and succeed like and then work will aid thee to achieve it! had shamed him for his cowardice. * &quot;One day to find a great crowd gathering there. When 'Hast thou not heard? An escaped slave who brought to justice and will this day be flogged Even the King himself is to be here. ' &quot;So I feared to go near lest my tray of honey unfinished wall to see over the heads of the Nebuchadnezzar himself as he rode by in his such robes and hangings of gold cloth and I could hear the shrieks of the poor slave. I wandered how one so noble as our handsome when I saw he was laughing and joking with why such inhuman tasks were demanded of the was dead, his body was hung upon a pole by As the crowd began to thin, I went close. serpents. It was Pirate. &quot;The next time I enthusiasm he greeted me: 'Behold, the slave magic in thy words. Already my sales and my She was a free woman, the niece of my master. city where no man shall know I was once a for their father's misfortune. Work has become my confidence and my skill to sell. ' &quot;I was way, to repay him for the encouragement he though they may seem inconsistent to us, were slave could own property of any kind, even claim. Slaves intermarried freely with non-slaves. Children of free mothers were free. Most of were in partnership with their masters and Swasti came to me in deep distress: 'Thy master ago he lost much at the gaming tables. He honey. He pays not the money lender. They we worry over his folly. We are not his keepers,' thou understandeth not. To the money lender Under the law he can claim thee and sell thee. Why? Oh why, should such trouble come upon him? I was doing the baking next morning, the money This man looked me over and said I would do. to return but told Swasti to tell him he had the purse of pennies hanging safely from my baking. &quot;I was whirled away from my dearest the forest and casts it into the surging sea. me disaster. &quot;Sasi was a blunt, gruff man. As he led me across the city, I told him of and said I hoped to do good work for him. not this work. My master likes it not. The of the Grand Canal. Master tells Sasi to buy how can any man finish a big job quick? ' &quot;Picture and a sun burning with such fury the water drink it. Then picture rows of men, going heavy baskets of dirt up soft, dusty trails Picture food served in open troughs from which tents, no straw for beds. That was the situation in a marked spot, wondering if I would ever will, but as the months dragged on, I felt hold of my weary body. I lost my appetite At night I would toss in unhappy wakefulness. the best plan, to shirk and keep his back my last sight of him and knew his plan was &quot;I thought of Pirate with his bitterness and and kill. The memory of his bleeding body &quot;Then I remembered my last sight of Megiddo. work but his heart was light and there was &quot;Yet I was just as willing to work as Megiddo; did not my work bring me happiness and success? or was happiness and success merely in the my life without gaining my desires, without All of these questions were jumbled in my sorely confused. &quot;Several days later when and my questions still unanswered, Sasi sent to take me back to Babylon. I dug up my precious of my robe and was on my way. &quot;As we rode, me hither and thither kept racing through I seemed to be living the weird words of a a man like a whirlwind, Driving him like a destiny no one can foretell. &quot;Was I destined What new miseries and disappointments awaited house, imagine my surprise when I saw Arad me like a long lost brother. &quot;As we went our follow his master, but he would not permit everywhere for thee. When I had almost given up hope, I did meet directed me to thy noble owner. A hard bargain price, but thou art worth it. Thy philosophy to this new success. &quot; "Megiddo's philosophy, thine. Thanks to thee both, we are going to he exclaimed, 'in one moment thou will be his robe the clay tablet carrying my title. to break in a hundred pieces upon the cobble With glee he stamped upon the fragments until my eyes. I knew I was the luckiest man in time of my greatest distress, didst prove enabled me to escape from being sold to join impressed thy grandfather, he selected me &quot;Was work my grandfather's secret key to the had when I first knew him,&quot; Sharru Nada replied. The Gods appreciated his efforts and rewarded was speaking thoughtfully. &quot;Work attracted and the success it brought. Work brought him Work brought him all those things I have approved. &quot; &quot;Life is rich with many pleasures for men its place. I am glad that work is not reserved deprived of my greatest pleasure. Many things do I enjoy but nothing takes the rode in the shadows of the towering walls At their approach the gate guards jumped to citizen. With head held high Sharru Nada led the streets of the city. &quot;I have always hoped confided to him. &quot;Never before did I realize shown me. Now that I understand, I do admire to be like him. I fear I can never repay thee