Today I'd like to talk about one of, ... whole of mathematics: the law of there. Which proves that mathematicians thinking. P over Q times Q over P equals cancel out, making the left side equal to 3, then the right side simplifies to ... equal to - 1. Does this mean that the so you guessed it, mathematicians may be is going on, those aren't everyday fractions on the left side. I leave it as a mystery for First I want to get you really curious facts. Then, once you're truly hooked and we'll go together on a crazy journey. one. The law of quadratic reciprocity was Adrien-Marie Legendre and the superhero pondering questions like Fermat's two-square theorem that great theorem which I talked about in my last video and with fallen in love. And who was the first to as is so often the case was... NOT Euler!! we finally stumbled upon a theorem that who was the first to actually succeed in It was none other then that other Gauss. It's like a marvel movie, isn't it? comes to the rescue. in eight different ways, amazing isn't it. Clearly, Gauss believed that the law of quadratic reciprocity is incredibly important. In theorem of higher arithmetic or the in his respect for this theorem. There law. Lots of them by other mathematical Cauchy, Jacobi, Liouville, Lebesque. 200 is more in math(s) apart from maybe Pythagoras important theorem. But then how come have even heard of quadratic reciprocity. today is to motivate and to explain induct you into a very select group. But mission in today's video is to take one quadratic reciprocity and to Mathologerise to get it within reach of Youtubing Luckily I found a great starting point mathematician Matt Baker. Matt takes the Egor Ivanovich Zolotarev and interprets permutations and dealing a deck of cards. Well I've also put a link to Matt's blog mathematicians. Okay, I first need to take math(s). No, wait, come back. I promise it familiar school mathematics in a new not a Lord of the Rings ring or a to propose :) A math(s) ring is a world of be added, subtracted and multiplied, maybe the same simple algebraic rules that B = B plus A, etc. Not surprisingly the rational numbers and the real numbers rings? Well, as I hinted you already know just never identified as such. There are hiding inside the integers. There's one integer greater than one. Ok, let's start corresponding to the number 5. In this its official name. This cute mini ring numbers are the possible remainders when multiply these remainder numbers in then calculate the remainder on division arithmetic works in our mini ring. Let's 4 as usual giving 7. Okay, now remainder when we divide 7 by 5 and of 3? Well in Kansas of course this equals 9. magical land of Oz the product is the gives us 4, of course. Pretty easy, right, arithmetic which is the official name of all now fill out the addition and There. And the same easy process works the tables for the ring Z/4. Here's integer greater than 1. finitely many numbers and the arithmetic Nonetheless, as I already indicated, the in these rings works very much as usual: brackets as usual, and so forth. before, here's a small but very useful rings, say Z/5 and prove that true in that ring. Can you do it? Now it based on a prime number, and it has to be mini ring is super nice. In a prime multiplication and ALSO division as multiplication also makes sense in a mini rings are known as fields and, yes, The world of rational numbers is a field complex numbers. And then things get math(s) that builds on everybody's favourite for these finite fields and rings: plane believe it or not, even to some extent fact, there are whole branches of geometry. I used to be really into finite about visualizing finite geometries. I'll videos. Now, just quickly here are abstract beauty of four geometries whose tables you can see over there. and yet it gives birth to all this guy, another one, it's called the doily that's the smallest perfect universe. to help motivate what's to come is that numbers are super beautiful and super are definitely worlds that we want to mathematician will ask about these works in those worlds. mathematical questions, right? And now out that quadratic reciprocity leads to beautiful connection between the completely different mini fields. Crazy understanding these worlds. That was a surprising geometry of finite rings. But attraction. We'll begin by looking at the finite rings are incredibly useful for particular the prime numbers. Is that Here's an easy example which may also be an integer by 2. Yep you just get a whether the number is even or odd. But the algebra of even and odd numbers and all the ones by odd, and voila... Those multiplying odd and even numbers. For number is odd. Odd times odd equals odd capturing of even an odd is incredibly integers into two classes according to hardly be surprising if splitting division by other integers also led to indeed the case. Let's look at a few of roadside attractions along the way to squares, so let's have a look at squares tell us about the integers. That means particular at the diagonal of the And we have, even times even is there. It just tells us that squares of go on. What does the table for Z/3 tell us. are 0, 1 &amp; 2 but now we see something square can only be 0 or 1. 2 is integers of the form 3K+2 can 5, 8 and 11 cannot be integer squares it keeps going. What about 1 lots of numbers are squares and so we'd probably can we be sure? Yes, know this. On to the tables for Z/4. can get similar but at the same time divide by 4, we have 4 possible However, 0 &amp; 1 are the only possible possible. Let's use that to go back and last video. I briefly noted that such a in other words cannot have a remainder division by 4. So none of these numbers written as the sum of two integer is so. Since the only remainders of remainders of a sum of two squares are 0 plus 1 equals 2. So definitely no 3. square facts hidden in the table for diagonal and once again only some of the possible for integers squares. But even 0 and so 0 will always be a square in that every nonzero number on the Coincidence? No. It's not hard to prove mini field associated with any odd prime. because every square pops up exactly numbers must be squares and the other a little familiar? The situation is very which are also split into two equal the positive and a negative numbers. And square times the square is a square, that But also a non-square times a non-square is always a square and the square times a non-square is a non-square. Try non-squares to check for yourself that same is true in any of our mini fields everything that we are used to from the fields? Well, no it really could't be numbers the negative of a square is a about for our mini fields? Well this also In Z/7 the negative of 1 is 6, right, number and it's negative 6 is a non negatives of squares can be squares challenge for you, check that the squares, weird. And now, after that ready to launch into quadratic First, I have to explain to you what Legendre symbols are. That's the official name of those weird Here the A on top can be any integer the bottom must be a prime number. Then - 1 according to some squarish rules Legendre symbol equals 0 if the integer by P. In other words, the Legendre symbol the 0 case when we were looking at or minus 1? They correspond to the mini field summarizes the &quot;quadraticness&quot; of the number P. Here a few examples. Here A is divisible by 7 that results in remainder 0. Now for integers that are not squares in non squares in Z/7 but multiplication table earlier, right? Here we replace 70 by 75. Then we'll get a square in Z/7 the Legendre Replacing the 75 by 72 we get a remainder symbol equals 1. All clear? Great. Then quadratic reciprocity and see if we can quadratic reciprocity P and Q stand for Then the law tells us that if we know Q then straight away we know the respect to P. Okay, what's the big deal A LOT. I mean this is 100 hours later of is a very powerful, amazingly simple and between pairs of primes. It is one of the gain a deep understanding of the very see if I can make you care, too. Okay some little primes 23 and 7. Evaluating so that's minus 1. Okay what about on the comes to the field Z/7 right? So the calculate 23 divided by 7 has a 2 is a square and this means that our straightaway gives us the value of the does that mean? Z/23 didn't do the multiplication table for something about squares in Z/23. deeper purpose to all the streak I hope amazing trick. Now before we do some more want to do a simple fiddle of the clearer. Suppose we want to solve dividing by the second Legendre symbol. Okay like that. Why do that? Well since we have distinct primes. 0 isn't symbol must be 1 and disappears. There, symbol directly in terms of the second how you should think of the law of That's how I'll be expressing it. Now proof but before that there are few application of quadratic reciprocity here just giving you a quick taste. Okay primes so what about that one even prime. Q there's also this formula here. Next, multiplicative property. This last noting the fact that squares and non a non-squares a non-square and so on. I combining these formulas it's easy to we can quickly calculate very this one. So the Legendre symbol of 412 remainder of 412 on division by 389 is a we could make the multiplication table reciprocity comes to the rescue. the whole calculation here so we you see the numbers getting smaller and calculation really very quickly and the to -1. Pretty amazing isn't it and And now are you ready to venture forth before? this amazing theorem? Great! But now a proofs should we choose? reciprocity and it took Gauss a long all of the standard proofs are tricky serious textbooks, putting them way out background in math(s). And, to be honest, I always wanted to Mathologerize quadratic possible. So that's why I got so excited reformulation of a proof in terms of a quite magical. Ready for the magic. Okay are you ready for some card magic? Our ultimate goal is the I'll get there by showing you how to the -1 power in the formula in terms of primes P and Q in the formula lead us to usual Mathologer style I will focus on a prime's P and Q equal to a 5 and 3 so face-up numbered 1 at the top down to 15 let me show you how the complicated arises in card dealing. The starting laid out in a 5 x 3 array, like this. arrangement pick up the cards row by row. cards flying around. There aere lots of and the order we choose Okay, first pick up the 1. Now pick up under. Next the 3 which again under under under under under under are now in descending order in your hand. grid but this time column by column from first there there and then the next Third column, fourth column, fifth column. then placing them back down by column This amounts to a permutation, many of you will know every permutation you're not sure what that means don't explain later. for our scrambled 5 times 3 deck. It turns stuff in the reciprocity law. Got it? What reciprocity law is captured by picking placing them down column by column. And turns out that they can also be captured from dealing and picking up by rows and include a weird way of placing cards shortly. Okay there's definitely lots of reciprocity quantities are captured by established those three identities the be finished in one magic step. Ready? let's look at the three permutations. permutations and let's perform them one Now put four five. Now the next permutation, pick up by columns again. Did you see the The magic is that the last two moves, the cancel each other out. This means that at as if we had just performed the single step of got this equality. In other words, the second and the third permutations done weapon, the multiplicative property of for now if you've never seen secret weapon gives us this equality. translates, via the green pink and blue reciprocity. Ready? Pure magic. I hope you But of course there are some have to explain to you what the diagonal prove to you that the signs of the three reciprocity formula as indicated. So little less to do than it seems. The are the same because switching the roles and columns and so there are really only proving these two equalities give or weapons. As I've indicated the proof of permutations and is a bit too much to So for this video I'll only state these of you will be very familiar with aren't don't worry just run with it I exclusively about permutations that we're using here as well as plenty of know this stuff already and even if you to look forward to. Okay down to work. In identity. The key to doing this is to this permutation. Well the sign to a certain power. The minus one bit is minus one there ... And what is that power what I call the inversions of the numbers in the permutation where the so in that permutation there the seven Here's another one and another one. But are still in ascending order. Okay so it upon counting those inversions. So let me count inversions. For this particular with here place the cards back in the Let's focus on one of the cards say 5. with 5 make an inversion. Check the cards no inversion. 4 comes before 5 no 5 so we've found an inversion. Next 10 one, nope, 8 comes after 5 so no inversion. No, no no and finally no. the other cards around five? Let me show other starting numbers. So there's 8, 10 particular type of permutation always placed positively sloped. If they are horizontally or vertically sloped then no inversion. So is that pair sloped so it's an inversion. And now for inversion pairs we introduce coordinates inversion position with their coordinate 2 is smaller than the 4 and smaller than the 3. Ok but now it's easy Can you see why? First choose any two those will be the first coordinates of first card. And then choose any two Those are second coordinates, with the There an inversion. Can you see we get right? And it's also really easy to count inversions. It's just the number of ways of number of ways of choosing the second the first two coordinates? 5 choices of your magic wand and chant 5 choose 2 :) and now the second two coordinates ... wave 3 they're just mathematicians shorthand objects. We'll get to actually Whatever they are it means the total 3 choose 2. And what if we start with a of inversions is P choose 2 times Q And that means that the sign of our that power there. Okay and from here formulas for P choose 2 and Q choose 2 And now we can have a little and switch on the algebra autopilot, let it the power of -1 in the quadratic these two are supposed to be equal. So the numbers P and Q are odd primes. Okay get set, relax. Tada, finished :) Really nice isn't it and quantities in our reciprocity law. Time don't you think? Okay celebrations is over. you. Take any random permutation of cards. all but the last card one space to the front like this. Your challenge is to changes the sign of the permutation. whether the number of inversions is even is to show that if we have an odd number cycling but with an even number of cards cards, sign doesn't change. Even number, insight twice at crucial junctions of the your thoughts in the comments. Fresh and ready to go again? No? What definitely a marathon Mathologer. But mountain. The big task left is to prove tidying and we're done. Of course, if we're have to explain the D up there in our dealing. But before that our dealing in columns. That's easy, so let's do it. So, Right, under, under, under, third column comes the diagonalizing. 1 is the top corner. 6 is next and goes on the where does the 2 go. Easy whatever your favorite loopy video game the grid continues at the bottom the 2 we simply wrap around and the 2 goes there, continue diagonally. Off the right continue diagonally, wrap around, and so wrap around.. Cool, it's works without the cards running into Show that this works with the whole grid dimensions of the grid. It is because P a very interesting permutation, right? Hmm me show you a remarkable property of the starting setup, there. You got it? Yep shuffled amongst themselves and the same row. another challenge for you, not a hard one if you go back to how we got that permutation. Anyway diagonal down combo permutation can be permutations, one for each row, like this. permutation. Remember that's the sign number of inversions. So what about the inversions of our big permutation each row. But the sign of a permutation and that tells us that the sign of our the signs of the three row permutations. And now really clever insight. Those three identical. Can you see it? Nope, definitely not that first and third row and cycle shift there see 2 aligned, 4 aligned, 1 aligned, essentially the same permutation of each can easily check that the same thing remember your challenge from before. each row the cycling doesn't change the and this is very cool, and really permutations have the same sign. Now if is 1 then 1 times 1 times is 1. sign 1. And if the common sign of the row we are dealing with an odd number of also -1. Summarizing permutation is the same as the sign of of the first one. That's pretty cool where you take a deep breath :) Now believe hats off to all of you hardcore really really proud of you. And I'm proud Okay recovered? Sort of? Good! Time to show is that the sign of this row symbol we're chasing and for that we this row got permuted around. Well, what like the remainders in Z5, which And it would be exactly the remainders beginning with 0 rather than 1, like Of course relabeling like this doesn't when you ponder the effect of the quickly figure out what's going on. Let's get from the cards in their starting when we pick up the cards by columns the order in our hand. Now dealing diagonally came from. card in the second row. Then we move row. Move right again but now it's the second row, move right, well wraparound again, and so on. One, two, our turn. One, two, successive card, we move three spaces to necessary and the successive advancing by three in our mini field Z5. Let arrangement again. There. multiply by 3. 0 times 3 is 0 and so 0 3 and so 1 goes to the 3 spot. 2 times of 1 and so 2 goes to the 1 spot. 3 times way to the end. Just 4 left and it check: 4 times 3 is 12 remainder 2 and relief :) Okay so our row permutation is captured Z/5. That definitely feels like we're symbol of 3 on 5. To complete the capture we permutation is equal to the Legendre just about set for the final - up to the to one more final magical property of you in the know this is the fact that unchanged after conjugation. I know that jargon. What it means is that if you order of the cards to any other order, stay the same. I call this property the mysterious I know. Let me explain. First our cards this one here. So on top we've at the bottom the permutation. Now first five top and bottom pairs of numbers. things in pairs any way you like this. Finally think of what you order. So four is the new 0, 3 is the new Okay, now drum roll here's the reordering at the bottom is the same as the sign of different but the sign is the same, we shuffle things around. Again if all don't worry everything in my next video. our armory, we're ready to attack the called Zolotarev's lemma. Now Matt mathematicians and so Zolotarev's few lines. Not very Mothologery is it? Mathologerized version. Okay Matt starts hell is a primitive root I hear you ask. I'll then everything will click into place. mucking around with the remainder after performing algebraic acrobatics fields contain special numbers called the number 2 is one of those explain what that means. First write down remainders after division by 5, so we get around. It's pretty easy to see that the important point for us is that all appear in the cycle, all of them. And having this primitive root. But now with these power look at the squares and non squares in them maybe two hours ago :) us the squares and the squares. So even powers are squares, odd pretty natural isn't it? And this turns And this is the second property of to us. Now back to our permutation and to that Legendre symbol is supposed to be And it turns out that our primitive root Notice that the zero stays put in the just a permutation of the four nonzero the sign of this four card permutation. about by multiplying 1,2,3,4 of those permuted remainders as there's 2 and there's 3 and again, the permutation comes about by 3 but in our Z/5 minifield two multiplying by 3is the same as and, and here it comes, when we multiply all this by adding the exponent 3 to Multiplying powers of two amounts to insight. The critical multiplication the exponents. reordering weapon. Let's make the order natural order, like this. There the 4. So the reordering property tells permutation equals the sign of this new new permutation you just get by adding 3. than multiplying so we've definitely when you have a really close look, is times from natural order. There natural times. Super simple. All right, so we've look at. everything is all ready in primed to come me just remind you of all the bits and deliver a big proper punch. This is what column then diagonal permutation equals that the sign of this permutation permutation. The crucial link was powers of a primitive root. In particular corresponds to the shift exponent 3 be the same in our example is really to check whether our pink prime 3 is a if the green exponent is even and it's a green 3 is odd and so the pink prime 3 square means the Legendre symbol is same green exponent 3 also tells us that shifting the cards natural order. In natural order there are 1. Now we have an even number of cards. one space the sign of the permutation meaning three shifts and therefore the be -1 as well. Have a look: shift once, green exponent being odd or even permutation at the top and the Legendre one or both 1. And that finally, finally and the Legendre symbol below are equal. Tada. What an incredible argument. Real genius are just placeholders for any two through and see that the argument except for some facts about our prime permutations which I'll cover in my next it really is a complete proof of the law final challenges. Nope just kidding have I. No more homework but if you're notice there were two other places the reordering property of permutations the fact that P and Q are different odd this last chapter. roots if you are dealing with primes many more pairs of numbers P and Q. Also my master class videos. Maybe that has It is obviously a super challenging everything in the first viewing unless Zolotarev. Now please let me know what always, please ask in the comments if that's it for a very very long today. See