A popular image of the British Army throughout that of the infantryman dressed in the infamous The famous crimson military uniform was used up until the modern day. One of the many units to don it in a ceremonial that can rightly be declared as Britain's But what events brought the UK's oldest Welcome to our video on the Coldstream Guard supporters, Stuart Turner. Shoutout to Ridge for sponsoring this video! We have been using Ridge wallets for almost They don't fold, don't bulge in your pocket design. As many people, we were using outdated wallets We moved away from large flip phones to smartphones, we deserve? Ridge holds up to 12 cards and has an attached It comes in 30 different colours and styles, burnt titanium. For us, switching from the old wallets to super fancy gaming armchairs. But don't our word for it - ridge has Each wallet comes with a lifetime warranty like it, that they'll let you try it for The Wallets are an excellent gift choice for If you don't love it, just send it back Support our channel and get 10% off today going to ridge.com/KINGSANDGENERALS and using Located on the northern bank of the River quaint 2,000 person strong Scottish town of and Scotland. The Coldstream Community Trust asserts that and that is a view that has been widely regarded What would otherwise just be an ordinary town armies march through it, the crossing being It was events revolving around this picturesque, the border which would eventually give the However, the gathering of soldiers who would done elsewhere during the English Civil War, history. When Charles I raised his banner at Nottingham outbreak of war, prominent nobles, officers, choose sides. Would they support parliament or the king? One of the men who opted to back Charles was The second son of a staunchly royalist member up near Torrington in Devon. The brazen youth assaulted a sheriff in his consequences, becoming a soldier at the age Monck's military career began in the late by almost a decade of soldiering in the wartorn By all accounts, the young officer gained exceptional leadership skills, and harsh but However, after a disagreement with his employers, to England as a seasoned veteran in 1638. The newly returned man of experience was quickly regiment. As tensions throughout the British Isles began off his considerable military prowess despite During the Bishops' Wars, he managed to the disaster at Newburn, and succinctly criticised long after. When the day came on which George Monck was to fight on the royalist side, probably at firm loyalties to the crown. The war heated up later in 1642, but Monck Once again he fought with great skill, but Monck being taken prisoner by a Yorkshire Battle of Nantwich. He was then imprisoned in the Tower of London, couple years of spare time to write a military and Political Matters". Such extensive knowledge in both the strategic of a Parliamentary commander who was quickly That man was Oliver Cromwell, Lieutenant-General influential political leader. Always in need of competent military officers Monck with an offer he could hardly refuse. The ex-royalist would be released from prison in its upcoming Irish campaign. Forced to choose, Monck agreed to change sides. The newly ranked Monck went off to Ireland distinction, this time by commanding parliamentary Monck impressed Cromwell so much he was given from Yorkshire. However, after being told just who their new Monck and Cromwell looked more deeply into unit that had captured Monck at Nantwich. The solution was actually quite a simple one While simple, it was a solution that showed a position of leadership as soon as possible. In August 1650, somewhere in the vicinity companies of infantry, each from the regiments were taken and meshed together to form 'Monck's later become the famous Coldstream Guard. Soon after, Cromwell's 16,000 strong-army, The northern kingdom had taken the young Charles English king to impose universal Presbyterianism After weeks of maneuvering around one another, near Dunbar in early September, but he was Forming up in a column with Monck and his the Scottish units in front of them with incredible The colonel personally led his regiment at in hand. The Parliamentarians won a crushing victory, war. After Dunbar - the greatest of his victories all of the officers and soldiers who had taken George Monck's regiment received the honour the British Army to have been awarded it. The Dunbar Medal belonging to this regiment Wellington Barracks. When Cromwell marched south, he left Monck regiment left to subdue all of Scotland for The colonel didn't disappoint his benefactor far highlands under control. In March 1652 however, Monck was taken ill He recovered relatively quickly and assisted remaining 'reign' as Lord Protector, commanding 1654, and suppressing further uprisings in While Monck spent years in the north subduing was degenerating down in England. On September 3rd 1658, Oliver Cromwell died skill in governance and generalship were but The inevitable result of such a sudden power into civil strife once again. The Commonwealth, nominally under the younger a series of disliked military commanders known more democratic Rump Parliament was widely All of a sudden, by luck more than anything considerable influence. Isolated up in Scotland and far, far away he was insulated from the turmoil which was powerful army under his leadership. With confidence in the loyalty of his soldiers he was in Scotland, waiting on events. He didn't have to wait long. In October 1659, two of Richard Cromwell's John Lambert - marched on London and deposed Regardless of its ineffectiveness, Monck was and made no secret of the fact, writing to "I take god to witness that I have no other freedom and authority, and the people to their The next month's events accelerated matters In December, the military 'junta' in London and his officers sign a treaty of loyalty 'Commonwealth'. Unwilling to capitulate to that demand, Monck all his subordinates present "swore to live Then, in order to position himself adequately the roughly 7,000 strong army in Scotland Berwick-upon-Tweed to the sleepy town of Coldstream. The presence of so many soldiers strained the breaking point, and there was only just That wasn't the only issue. Such a small town only had limited accommodation, army suffered plenty of discomfort through Monck himself wasn't exempt from this period's discomfort and deprivation as his troops. Writing about life in Coldstream at the time, - stated: "The general's 'palace' dunghills at the door, a hall or entry so it; the rooms were worse than I can describe..." While hunkered down at Coldstream, the colonel and received many delegates of causes which Monck didn't give away his own intentions would happen next. In response to a massive buildup of public parliament on December 26th. The moment Monck heard of this up in Coldstream, soldiers, including his personal foot regiment, The army set out on January 2nd 1660 and reached been created - only two days later. On his way south, Monck passed through Newcastle, prominent English cities, meeting a jubilant Despite this ever-increasing and seemingly kept his cards close to the chest. Finally, on the third day of the second month, the city limits. The general settled down and made Whitehall were billeted in and around St James' Palace. Having just imposed himself on London with became a pivotal figure in determining where He was immediately disdainful of how far the Only four days after arriving in the city, and essentially told them that England was Therefore, it was necessary to replace the the common good. Nevertheless, Monck acknowledged that this itself. He was therefore bound to obey when it ordered because its common council had refused to When the distasteful task was half done, with the senior officers in Monck's regiment hadn't marched so far to make themselves Reluctantly, they threatened to resign if they and he both considered to be utterly With this justification obtained, the general to support the people and the common council A few days later, he wrote a formal letter which was finally accomplished on March 16th two-decade episode in British history. Free elections were subsequently held in April unsurprisingly the popular Monck won a seat. One of the very first acts passed by this for a measure which had become increasingly England's Stuart monarchy - which had been decade earlier. After all of the minute details had been sorted Monck at Dover in late May. As the restorer and kingmaker, Monck was rewarded He was granted the Order of the Garter, a born a non-aristocrat, but because he personally rather than the more standard proxy. In addition, Monck was raised to the status of the infantry. Along with their commander, Monck's Regiment General's Regiment' or 'The Duke of Their symbol also became the Order of the ever since. Now that the monarchy was here to stay, it order of the late 1640s and 1650s could not hostile parties and loose ends for that. Front and center in the new king's sights which had been radically anti-royalist throughout not be assured. Though this was the case, Charles liked the one for his own uses, but without all of the burden him with. Unfortunately for him, the so-called 'convention a recent and bitter memory, refused to let hands. Therefore, on August 26th 1660, parliament including Monck's two regiments of foot There was to be only one symbolic concession. For their services to the King of England, disbanded in their entirety. Little known at the time, this 'symbolic' practical impacts. After most of the army had been gotten rid were due to lay down their arms, a small extremist called Thomas Venner, took up weapons and He and as many as a hundred supporters rampaged militia unable to deal with them. With little other option, parliament hesitantly with the crisis. Supported by some of the king's own personal but the outbreak of minor violence did prove Firstly - England did have a legitimate need Secondly - Monck's regiments, in particular, A writ annulling the dissolution of Monck's 1661, Charles II signed a royal warrant sanctioning at its core. Although its purpose was already accomplished, was technically still in effect and had to So, on February 14th 1661, both Monck's Hill in full uniform and regalia, symbolically New Model Army. However, the soldiers were then immediately in their monarch's new standing army. They fought a number of actions in the following Monck passed away at the age of 62. From this point, Monck's regiment, granted before, was granted the prestigious official of Foot Guards." That name, granted to them for the town in of 1659/1660, has survived for over three We are going to talk about more elite regiments sure you are subscribed to our channel and We would like to express our gratitude to who make the creation of our videos possible. Now, you can also support us by buying our This is the Kings and Generals channel, and