This was TikTok in 1977. The standard for home movie-making then was Super a lab - but the Polaroid Polavision for the first time in history, you could shoot Now everyone can do it with their phone - but your only hope was the Polavision. It was an idea so innovative and disaster. It cost Polaroid hundreds of of the company's legendary co-founder - the the beginning of the end of one of the most All I wanted to do was experience the thrill of but I ended up going down a big Chungus-sized rabbit hole that changed my life. Because the chemicals that develop I needed to find out whether the Polavision was only one person in the world who could last Polaroid factory in the world and who is I went on an 8,338 mile journey in a hail tape to work - and to take a photo on and to eat humanity's oldest hot dog. Because only one locale provided I'm in Vienna! The August 1977 issue of Popular Science featured detailing the technology of Polaroid's The 1 1/2 pound Polavision camera is powered by cassette phototapes to capture up to 2 minutes so the films are silent, just like Super 8 introduced in 1973, four years before states that the Polavision film did carry a When you peel off the seal of a new tape labeled "Unexposed" - and it became a word After you successfully record to a tape and then... and then what? How do you actually Before we get to that, I ordered my own it was working. If you've seen my other tech came paired with the Polavision Twi Light - attaches to the top of the camera. The bulbs are you really needed all the light you could get if But recording the video is only the first To play the tapes you needed and finding one working now is nearly a few came up in months of searching and with the power of eBay alerts and the fact I was of these - I finally snagged a working projector And.. the 23.2 lb monster with a 12-inch her child embracing decades ago, probably as the surely I can make my own heartwarming No. No I cannot. The tapes are dead. The Polaroid instant technology that used a chemical reagent that spread the positive sheet to develop the with 12 drops of a honey-colored reagent that it's put into the Polavision Player The 42 feet of film are spun inside the tape then the player pauses for 45 seconds to allow projection begins and you watch your home the film and the tape automatically pops You can see the tape now says "RERUN" to let The problem isn't just that after 40-plus years of sitting around in attics and closets that meaning you can't develop an image, it's that The player was working, I I had the Polavision camera - I did not get lucky. When I tried recording with my Polavision, the So at this point any rational, well-adjusted, healthy human being would quietly resign has simply passed its expiration But I am no healthy human being. I found a fantastic video by Analog Polavision Film?" in which he received decades - thereby preserving the precious So I reached out to him on X to ask if he had I eagerly awaited with baited Polaroid reagent as I know, he received 2 from a guy in Germany So, yeah. That was that. The Polavision NO I DIDN'T. There had to be more tapes out there. technology. And people like us are weird no one has used since ALF was on prime time. I needed to find someone obsessed with the someone infatuated with Polaroid. Out of the 8.2 After weeks of fruitless searching and dead-ends, the last remaining Polaroid factory in the I found Doc's email address on his Supersense workshop dedicated to analog technology, tapes in cold storage. He replied NINETEEN Hi Kevin. I (of course!) have archived original Polavision tapes in my of some crazy visionaries. Teach WHAT?! I called Doc planning to ask him By the end of the conversation I dropped everything, packed my There's a feature documentary about Doc located in Enschede, Netherlands - the factory's told him it would be impossible - so he just The documentary highlights not only his he's putting that into action with Supersense obsolete artistic devices but breathing the present. He has smell vials? And the coated metal discs that FINALLY allows the of music? And a restaurant? And the world's It all makes perfect sense when doctorate in biology with a focus on the I booked my flight because I but I got on the plane because I needed to meet Okay. Here we go. Hi. Oh, hello. Welcome in. Thank Uh, long. But, you know, we made first sent you that email? Did I was impressed because, you know, you not many people know. For example, you know, waiting for ten years for you finally writing right away and said, come on over. I think, First of all. This place, has been created already some crazy visionaries started doing this I discovered the building a long time ago, again to, give us the chance that we can build It's basically, the Paradise of analog bring all these amazing technologies, out of the one room and then start to think about how can we So what is analog? That's a good question and Ya know, it's what human beings are, it's it's what we can touch it's what is real. There's what analog is. Because it's much more than We had the experience that especially the young about what we are doing and it's a place where we Maybe we start with the easiest part. You and why people in the more and more digital easiest way to explain it is when we start with still don't download their burgers from the This is one of the most important sections. also shows how the philosophy that we have in the technologies. So everything is prepared on wood people. So we want to be very transparent so the and the people performing it. They are on the kitchen and the dishwashers, they are basically to hide anything and everybody is invited to The main product that we at the moment produce records which are basically cut in This is a very complicated process, and we put then promote it and say, this is the best, this is where the people just can listen to it. Because listening to the records, they will do all the this is, ya know, something that is different from the experiences, then, you know, we we have a he once said, marketing is what you have to think that's a pretty, pretty nice quote. is also perfect to show you the the because it all started with this machine. And the 60s. The beginning of the 70s. So these are all over the world that every record, is cut. onto the machines and with a little sapphire So that's always the process. But usually this you never play, but you try to go into And the first thing about, you know, when the record and then you put silver on it and you you get basically a stamper out of the grooves. the process so nobody can hear it. And from After listening to the first master, they it?" I said, "Yeah of course we can!" this incredible warm sound, I said, okay, we for the first time in history of music can end people simply have to listen to that. to explain to the people. To show how to open up something that has been hidden Everybody was thinking okay the vinyl is going newspapers are going to disappear, magazines are but it didn't happen. In fact, it was just the opinion, to really even become more valuable as an We can cut on a 98% recycle ocean plastic. One of pressing is that it's technology from the 40s in many, many aspects. And it only makes sense that we want to introduce within the next weeks right from the start, but it's a new take on very small editions and which opens up, totally So it's made and developed for the artists rather to create the most creative records in And the other part is the part where we, take want to give the full picture, to the artist, not which should not be just packaging, but for And especially the main target is, again, or problem of digital is that it doesn't create digital to analog converters. So find ways generated and melt them into reality by, you on paper or, creating, or, you know, cutting a is to preserve and to give a value to even it's transferred into objects of, of beauty It's analog little things and put effort into it, ya know? And to create a room where are in a room is always an important part of This is the print shop. Everything you on a daily basis to create all our packaging, our communication material, our menu for These are the ones to basically press posters this is a Heidelburger Tigel. You can do it, you can emboss you can print, you can foil print. If you make a letterpress poster, the luxury because digital, everything is perfect, you know, it's everything is sharp and whatever. that there is maybe an imperfection. So of the of this, this digital unlimited access And we combine technology, this for example is combined with a foil print, and so the a different analog technology to Also the musicians, ya know, energy on the perfect recording. I think the super interesting thing is, and we have is how to combine the very best of the It changes, bringing back super reduced, that are not at all out of time, but it just, another inspiration to to merge it with, and to, tell the people, inspire them what has been done. So they can I am you know, I was born an optimist, but the next generation is so interested in, in spin and that they how they behave and react to very positive and optimistic that, they're We have this incredible opportunity that curious. They want to get their hands for example, they come and say, "Okay, yeah!" Interesting project, we here is the PDF." I say, "Okay." I look at the So maybe select a font. What kind of look at the characters. And then, we start and we say, "Okay maybe we have found some nice creative and it opens up a new world where You know, the fear was that maybe at a certain tangible and they are totally satisfied with all I think they are even more interested. they miss you know, the, the photo, the real you know, things they can touch and smell should not, you know, get them interested I can only recommend it if and have hard times to get them excited about a handwritten letter or a typewriter letter maybe Put some color on the lips and then kiss on the of, the person at least with think This is also why we love analog technologies in senses. And on the internet you can only see touch it, you cannot smell it. And people in to feel good, they need all their five senses how we can make the right decisions. So I don't think that people can be happy or can So it's a smell memory kit. So, we have So this is a smell you have never smelled lab. Sissel Tolaas is doing this, she is a she's amazing. So, anyhow. So you carry never smelled in your pocket. And then there is All you have to do is crack open the smell and is forever connected with this emotional memory. and I reopen the ample and smell it, I close Somehow because I have so many observations of the impact can be, and how just watching them how it has it's own magic to it and, you know, I but I gave up. I just always love to observe it. connected to a very detailed understanding of and messages and to educate the people to put This is like your magazine back in the days, by treating them as experts by sharing the To create a canvas and a tool it and combining it and playing I was thinking a lot about the magazine about innovations and new stuff. I think we have of point of view. To get the young generation we tell them about things, they can come up with an interest of these things that are having public You know, people always ask me, "Okay it's a romantic comeback." And I say, "Sorry that's a trend." We more and more find out to connect the diaries of millions, billions of learned all the side effects and at the end of the beginning of something that for me, and this real party is beginning to start. I am not able to for the internet is still selling the private data And you know, for you interesting of Basically for me, um, oh, it's dusty. The when I started to fall in love with the Polavision was my holy grail. You know, I to know more about right from the start. And and I found out that some parts of this This it's, it's funny but I share and I think here somewhere behind...behind here? So this is, uh, the projector. Let's see. What Ah, this is uh- um okay, anyhow. Kevin: Too many treasures! Doc: Too many treasures! Oh my god, this is a nice So which system is this? So that's the projector. So, we should be able to plug it in. original presentation manual is But let's go down! Okay. So Kevin: Haha, you hope you Doc: Yeah! Because, you know, it's all in is super important and I collected them I was always waiting for you to call or "Wow let's make a film! There's a good project!" This is one of the most unique let's see. But I think I know where follow me, be careful. It's not the Alright, we're going to find Doc's archaeological dig through the catacombs of Supersense unearthed armfuls Oh yeah, that is good! I had everything I needed to fire up platform - I'd spent weeks acquiring a and I'd flown over 4,000 miles to get the tapes. My precious. But I failed to account for the threat of one TSA. I did everything I could to pack and and I carried it with me instead of checking manual inspection more than once. To be fair, the so I can see why they opened up my bags to take a sure I wasn't bringing some retro ray-gun was with the bunny - and it turned my working I had... no idea what to do, and I didn't have a the problem didn't exist while I did a deep-dive how does a company that revolutionized the capture A few months ago I made a video which was an all-in gamble by RCA to do for music. The Selectavision's discs and RCA assumed that everyone would want to build play anytime they wanted. It didn't work out VCR format had already gained a foothold on and in the blink of an eye a 20th century The story of the Polavision is Edwin Land's early passion which he essentially taught himself - started on what would become the Polaroid sunglasses - a technology used in full light through windows. It also became Oh, and he also invented polarized goggles But something happened in 1940 that started Land his 3 year old daughter asked him why she couldn't World War II was a detour - Land including dark-adaptation goggles, guided missile polarized glasses called the Vectograph, the satellites to monitor enemy positions, and After the war, Land was able to return to photography - which resulted in 1948's Model 95 of self-developing film and one-touch cameras. positive photography technology - also called invented a camera that required no expertise could just push a button and hold a developed The Polaroid story deserves about a the Model 95 to the Model 20 Swinger, to dry-developing film and the SX-70 - and 1963 he won the United States Presidential Medal Oh - and he kind of invented the smartphone. The SX-70 was the first ever instant single-lens look through the lens to see exactly what will for the SX-70 that included a vision of the "They were a long way from the dream being able to take a wallet out of my press a button, close the "We are still a long way from the concept, that would be, oh, like the telephone. whenever an occasion arises, in which you memory. Or when you want to record any object of You can understand why a man like Edwin Land quality that he'd brought to photography The problem was how to do it. Land spent 20 years dreaming of how to of development within Polaroid's hallowed only make an educated guess as to how It relied on the additive-color coming through one primary filter is and third primary filter to produce a of all three primary colors." So the red filter green filter passes green and they're recombined The genius of the Polavision was imprinting had microscopic stripes of color in triplets, emulsion, and a microscopically-thin Additive color systems weren't new, in fact, Ducos du Hauron described the principles of first color cinematography utilized the additive it was an additive color process that required to expose black-and-white negative film behind light loss resulting in a darker image - and By 1922, Technicolor had pivoted to subtractive printed on the film by photographing it processing it in a lab. As their subtractive bringing The Wizard Of Oz, Snow White and Land believed that the Polavision project an innovator. In his 1977 annual report, "...perhaps [the] most important cycle rooted He considered it a breakthrough to get to industry leaders overwhelmingly thought and therefore unprofitable - including that movies were only 2.6 percent of all "Polavision is not movies; it is a way to In "Land's Polaroid: A Company and the man who Peter C. Wensberg explains that when Chicago the Polavision player due to their frustration it would end up being manufactured by a Austria. So by sheer coincidence we managed The player and camera were sold together And just about everyone at Land thought the Polavision was a really bad idea. I found an incredible blog post from Paul the creator of the iconic Polaroid color stripes. preserved by Internet Archive's Wayback I can remember about these days it's [Executive this product that contributed, I feel certain, he would say in his Chugwater, Wyoming, twang,&quot; only three per cent of the entire photographic Giambarba went on to say, "I tried using the to anything I was using that Kodak offered and a Okay, internally Polaroid on Polavision - but what did consumers think? The headline for Anne Hillerman's July 21, "Instant Movies Pose Several Disadvantages" - complaints included the camera only being capable only playing those same tapes, so there was you could play the film on a Super 8 mm projector... She also mentions "...it's considerably more Unlike standard home movies, it can't longer than 2 1/2 minutes, the images can't But it made beautiful images, right, right? "...the quality of the picture heavily slanted toward blues and magentas." Even in Everett H Ortner's May 1978 "In image quality, Polavision is inferior in It was... a total disaster. To give you a sense of how quickly Polaroid's they released a full page newspaper ad in reasons for buying Polaroid Instant agencies to introduce children to prospective Dance instruction, Bridal shops, and you have to tell people what to do with You have to understand that Polaroid customer to all this professional usage. for law enforcement. So that was their big customers. And the same problem that, big companies have, they don't have a really For me, the Polavision is still an incredible and develop a technology and do impossible not a success at the point of time that it was distinguish between a commercial success and it's a success that the two of us are sitting They shut down Polavision manufacturing in tallied a $68 million loss. Wensber's came in at $660 million because Polaroid 1974 that wiped out $4.4 billion dollars of hitting the balance sheet came on the heels Polavision is scapegoated as being the product but they were still going strong in 1991 with peak revenue of $3 billion - that's 12 The real casualty of Polavision Everyone from the board down to shareholders needed new leadership going into the next market confidence in Land's ability to run the in April of 1980 and retired as Chairman 75-year-old Edwin Land sold the last he concluded a lifelong journey of success, having run his company longer than This unpredictable picture that is you know, that has an incredible kind the Polavision. These movies will be far you know, spent so many years to achieve. many people feel that this is most likely ever seen in a long time because of its chemical On March 1, 1991, Edwin Land died at the Polaroid he created was gone. After years of failed products, a failure to age of digital photography, Polaroid filed a year after the iPhone debuted, Impossible Project to prevent Polaroid The first step was that I basically I tried to on their own material and to. I had the idea of film. Because for me, it was so hard to find It was super hard to find the film in retail, so online because and all the people looking for the they could build a beautiful global shop, for the they said, you know, if you want to do it and if You have the global right to build an online that's how it started and what we this was a super idea because more and more retailer. And at the same time, Google, you know, So we had more and more customers from we became more and more important to times, in order to make special editions I was there on a regular basis, and I And, you know, I, I was always fascinated by the factory. So I visited many times and I had the special case that I spent four had all the customers. I, I know all I was the only one talking to the people Polaroid would never give me the factory because, guy from Vienna maybe succeed in something And then I received the invitation It was the first time they even recognized but it was too late. You know, the management It was basically a very, very, difficult invaded the Polaroid headquarters in management board was taken into custody This is still, the spark, and the good message it again and again and believe it and go accept the no for no, it can happen, you You know, when for example, you know, when know we had been writing with friends "Okay so what are you doing?" I said, "Yeah everyone was like, "O-Okay...huh. Interesting, conversation. Then later when I pulled a just put them on the table it totally turned it does something. It's uh, it's it has an minds find it so hard to establish it, you about thousands of the best scientists working I think it has this magic and this power that for me that was the most fascinating you know, for taking portraits. You don't take you don't take it away to a black box but on the table. An object that smells, that I had a living, operational but then it got busted. Doc had a solution: POLAVISION CAMERAS. We tested a few So, I was saved from disaster once again - and I Polavision player. I had a working Polavision would allow us to watch a tape after filming and The first attempt ended with but getting completely jammed inside the wizards to find Punjo Hofer - who could only Until then, we explored another rescue missions - the offices of the world's So this is a very important place we we had this huge factory in the Netherlands in giant machines in order to produce instant film. it's possible to produce instant film even in this dedicated people, who, who basically are ready to up with a real working strategy to turn my dream So originally we always made, like, box. Everything was ready to go. Put it in your steps in the darkroom under seats. Infrared light how can we create something where, the without a changing bag in the light, So that's the DIY kit, basically. it was a special seal so that no light gets in, then attach everything else to it. They have, light. And then in the end there's a simple You know, I think the, the principle of public interested partner, to show him all the details and even, you know, spark his creativity and it's not outdated like the I think this is a very, very modern approach. And, I see a lot of potential of getting people excited but, you know, making them the producer You know, imagine it's, you know, there's out there and you can get them super cheap you know, it's just unbelievable. And without you know, throw into trash. And there are some But, you know, I think to really find a way to keep this alive by in a new Kevin: Yeah. It makes a lot of sense. Doc: It makes super sense, my friend. Doc tried to convince Fujifilm to continue politely said they weren't interested, Doc Doc and I went outside to get a nice photo and then I screwed it up. I didn't pull the was properly covered in reagent and Doc was It started with my grandmother. Whenever the cake, something went wrong. I love them more special stuff. This will always remind He wasn't kidding. I found the photo on his desk Chris Holmquist handled the pull and it came showed us a little Polaroid magic trick which is So this is hard to replace by digital, right? Kevin: Yeah. It's impossible. Yeah, it it's the smell. It is so great. I love the smell. We officially ended our Supersense pottery studio where all the dishes a fully functioning darkroom complete room - it's what revolutionized the newspaper and cast for printing which replaced having The next day Punjo took the dead Polavision the tape, and cleaned every tiny electronic ... it was still dead. Which meant we'd have to fly blind. There was develop until we got back to the United States I felt like we just could not catch a break, but then Punjo fired up a custom video off of vinyl records - which is one of the Doc explained that our best chance of use the last 40 seconds of the film, because in reagent to get to develop the physical center it's furthest from the spools, so the seconds of video to get to the tape closest He also gave me a manual for the Polavision and not available anywhere online until which is translated in 14 languages and is But before we finally set out on the Polavision I surprised Doc with the Popular Science Magazine that kicked off this entire adventure. Now I have to see the magazine. Pocket cameras, instant movie system, A lot of smoking. A lot of smoking ads. A lot of smoking ads. Oh, they're all I- Oh, my god. Oh, god. Oh, this is really detailed. "Paint like Wonderful. Truly wonderful. We had one day left, and one opportunity was... what do we actually shoot? What's marries my passion as an American HOT DOGS. There's ongoing debate about where exactly the a hot dog at all. Frankfurt and as does Ancient Rome with the legend first to stuff the emptied intestines of But if you've ever spent any time in Vienna, without coming across a Wurstelstand - Wurstelstand LEO has been serving what better way to honor YouTube, create a tier list ranking of some It may sound like a frivolous use for that is the Polavision tape. But I it was intended - I wanted to feel the excitement of making a short film and deal with all Imagine it's 1977, you've just gotten your to Vienna. Frank from down the street showed the a few years ago - so you want to do something that You've got video. You're in control. it was like to be there. You want to and you also want to capture it for yourself This is why we film hot dogs. So I bought 5 of them to eat and to rank a classic frankfurter, a Chicago style, an some discarded benches from a restaurant and set We followed Doc's instructions to run through the that prime 40 seconds at the end. It meant stopwatch to make sure we wouldn't go over 40 taking a bite of each hot dog and then finished the first tape, we repeated the ... and neither one worked at all. But I had to keep trying, which meant hot dog. The guy at Wurstelstand LEO buy the same 5 hot dogs over and over, or Upbeat music We ended up recording hot dog tier rankings one actually exposed. The other nine even the hope of a blurry, stained And even our modern tech failed - our brand new DSLR camera overheated in the 90 degree documenting our seemingly hopeless So after all that, we packed up and our hopes and dreams resting upon Okay, I've recorded everything you've so that I could end it with you and I just like it was 1977 and we were crowded around only exposed tape from our Polavision Hot Dog Please, some of it develop. Here we go. It's fired up, you can hear the film spinning the reagent to the film and then allowing it legendary voyage to Vienna. Or revealing anything, fifty seconds or so will be blank but the last Not looking good. Nothing. Completely blank, it didn't work. Ugh. 2 minutes and 35 seconds of a I thought it was stuck too. Oh, man. Maybe Analog Resurgence really did and Edwin Land's ambitious attempt to bring home movies to the masses has died for But you know, Doc taught me that we're forms of analog tech, not just Polavision. The tangible, physical ways of creating meaningful one by one. We need to decide what's worth preserving - fast - and someone has to be Absolutely no one thought that saving sense. That's why it was called The did it succeed - in 2020 they officially so The Impossible Project came full I traveled all the way to Vienna in to shoot a video on something that's past - but I came back with something Doc owns one of only 5 known Polaroid cameras. It's the largest and you can see that they're sold That's because they only had enough Doc offered to use one of those two of me holding two Polavision cameras as a Because it's a reminder that technology it's about who it allows you to meet. See you in the future. It's, it's an incredible chance that not a company the people themselves can lead the change and because industry nowadays is so slow and you know, the demand, but you So it's, I think there is a big opportunity there.