Welcome to my channel. Today, I will give you two important fertilizer recipes to help your orchids bloom abundantly again and get rid of leaf diseases. Let's move on to the first method we will use for orchid care today . For this, a potato that you can easily find at home. I specifically use potato peelings. The reason I use potato peelings in this method is that there is plenty of vitamin C in potato peelings. and it also has plenty of potassium. These will especially help the orchids' leaves to revive and get rid of insects and diseases . Now I cut off the potato peels. and I will cut them into small pieces. I especially recommend you cut it into small pieces. Because when you cut this type of fertilizer into small pieces, the vitamins in it will pass into the water much faster. I separate small pieces for this. I cut the potato peels into small pieces and put them in a glass bottle . I add boiling water to it. Boiling water will help it release the vitamins into the water much faster . Cover it with a lid or stretch wrap . and leave it to rest overnight. Now we move on to our second recipe. We need garlic for this. I'll just use one clove of garlic. You can cut the garlic into small pieces with its peel . Garlic has high antioxidant properties. Thanks to its antioxidant properties, it will help your orchids and all your flowers at home to be protected from insects, flies and diseases, and to have stronger leaves and flowers. Now I put the garlic I chopped into a glass bottle again. And I will put boiling water on it again and let it rest for a night. If you watched my video up to here and liked it, you can immediately press the like button and if you are not subscribed to my channel, you can subscribe to support me. I would be very happy if you share my video with your circle and help it reach more people . Yes, the two fertilizers that I kept overnight are ready. I will show you how to combine two fertilizers and use them on orchids. We filter both fertilizers. The potato peels and garlic grains should not mix with the water. We just need water. I put 200 ml of normal water on top of the garlic juice and potato peel water. and now I put this in a glass because I'm going to put it in the spray can. I will show you the fertilizer we have prepared with two different methods. Be sure to watch the video until the end. Yes, now I want to show the first method. These are the leaf diseases we frequently encounter in orchids. In case of wounds or yellowing on orchid leaves, or in case of diseases such as mealybugs or red spiders, you can save your orchid leaves from these diseases and insects by spraying them directly on the leaves. You can give this mixture to your orchids once a month. However, if your orchid has one of these diseases or insect infestations, you can spray the orchid leaves only once a week. You can spray this mixture not only on the leaves of the orchid, but also on the roots, so that the orchid grows strong and healthy roots . The roots will be healthier and stronger. After squeezing this mixture, you must leave it for a few hours in a place with plenty of air . We do not wipe it, we leave it to dry. Yes, as you can see, my orchids have started to grow new roots and new leaves in abundance . With this application we have made, the orchids have healthier leaves and can grow more than one flower branch in abundance, producing one main branch flower branch. This is the old flower branch I pruned. Two more flower branches emerged from the nodes. Yes now for the second method. In the second method, we apply this fertilizer directly to the orchid soil . about 5 tablespoons for each orchid. I give this fertilizer mixture. Give this mixture only once a month . We do not give this mixture very often. I'll show you right now. As you can see, water will accumulate under the flower pot. The orchid will absorb this water until the evening. I will also share with you the development of my orchid. Yes, you can apply such fertilizers to orchids as liquid plant food. You can give them alternately. I give new fertilizer to the orchids once a month . So I don't just give fertilizer. I give natural liquid plant foods alternately. And in this way, my orchids have healthy, lively leaves and abundant flowers. I hope this video was useful for you. If you watched my video up to here and liked it, you can immediately press the like button and if you are not subscribed to my channel, you can subscribe to support me . You can make a lot of comments and ask questions in the comments section. And especially this month, do not forget to place our orchids on a window sill that receives plenty of light and morning or afternoon sun . Goodbye. stay healthy