November 15th, 1967. In the skies over Nevada, a B-52 modified The objective of todays flight is obviously deliver another, very special payload. Strapped to its right wing is a device that is the fastest crewed aircraft ever built. Yes, you heard correctly. Over here, between the fuselage of the B-52 and six, sits the X-15. In its tiny cockpit, a test pilot is patiently aircraft. Soon, the B-52 reaches its target altitude After some seconds in free fall, the powerful and the X-15's lone test pilot accelerates But today's flight will not be like every Let's find out what happened here. Welcome to Airspace. First, let's take a closer look at the X-15 about. The North American X-15 was a hypersonic, jointly by NASA and the US Air Force. Its maiden flight was performed in June 1959 December 1968. Measuring just over 50ft or 15 meters in length inches or 6.8 meters, it resembles a fighter At the back, a powerful XLR99 rocket engine The X-15 was a vital tool for the United States During the sixties, the Americans used it and to gather vital information about space During its decade of operation, the X-15 broke For instance, the aircraft reached a maximum or a whopping 354'000ft. According to the US definition, the edge of which effectively meant that most of the X-15's According to the international definition, Line, at an altitude of 62 miles or 100 kilometres. Only two of the X-15's pilots exceeded this To control the X-15, pilots were given not used conventional flight surfaces like ailerons commonly found on spacecraft, a so-called This system uses jets of compressed gas to flight control surfaces are no longer effective What's even more impressive though is the fly. On October 3rd, 1967, a test Pilot by the to is limits and accelerated to Mach 6.7 at This remains, to this day, the fastest speed To put that in perspective, at that speed, Angeles in just over 28 minutes. 12 Pilots, among them some future Astronauts this exceptional aircraft. So, now you are familiar with the X-15. Let's go back to November 15th in 1967, was about to begin. In the cockpit of the small but fast aircraft 37. He was an aviator at heart and graduated top In 1966, he joined the X-15 programme. Now, a year later, the countdown to flight The purpose of the flight of the day was to to test a new insulation for the Saturn 5 When the countdown finally reached zero at local time, the X-15 was dropped. A few seconds later, the powerful rocket motor higher and higher. During the X-15's ascent, an electrical the flight control systems of the aircraft. Having adequate backup controls, Adams continued. After having fixed the issue, he began a planned the aircraft left and right repeatedly to At the conclusion of the wing rocking portion yaw angle of 15deg to the left, which means the actual flight path. 40 seconds later, Adams reached the target or 50 miles. At this point, the yaw error disappeared and correct direction again, but only for a short After a few seconds, the yaw to the left again rate. Within 30 seconds, Adam's descending flight the aircraft, which means he descended pretty At an altitude of 230'000ft, 70 kilometers increasing density of the atmosphere, the that's five times the speed of sound. Back in the control room at NASA, there was so the situation was unknown to the engineers Normal conversation continued between the advising Adams that he was &quot;a little bit high&quot;, Adams radioed that the aircraft &quot;seemed squirrelly&quot;, center that he had entered a spin. The ground controllers sought to get the X-15 spin recovery technique for the X-15, and supersonic spin tendencies. Spins are a vicious phenomenon in which the rotating motion. Exiting a spin requires great effort and skill and disorientation can make prudent actions Michael Adams fought for his life with all He used the conventional flight controls as the spin and finally, against all odds, he of 118'000ft. But now, he found himself inverted, that is, at a 45deg angle. Also, he was still hurtling towards the ground In theory, he was in a good position to roll and set up a landing. However, he soon found himself fighting his The rather new flight control system of the amplifying all his flight control inputs in Quickly, the aircraft developed severe oscillations up and down motion. As the X-15 neared 65,000 ft, it was diving 15 Gs vertically, and 8 Gs laterally. The forces experienced by the pilot and the Ten minutes and 35 seconds after launch, the California. The aircraft was destroyed and Michael Adams After the accident, NASA and the Air Force Ground parties scoured the countryside looking from the cockpit camera. The weekend after the crash, the camera was huge forces acting on the camera. Since the film was lighter than the camera, location. By the end of November, the film was found The accident board found that the cockpit and concluded that Adams had lost control distraction, misinterpretation of his instrumentation The electrical disturbance early in the flight aircraft's control system and further added But in the end, it seems that Michael Adams heading was starting to drift dangerously. Unfortunately, NASA's flight controller situation. Back in the day, the X-15 transmitted telemetry not contain heading or aircraft attitude data. After this crash, this deficiency was quickly A heading indicator and a so called 8-Ball center so that flight controllers could monitor in real time. Also, after a recommendation made by the accident were screened for vertigo sensitivity. After the fatal crash, the X-15 program was Only 16 further flights were conducted until 1968. The program had been invaluable for NASA and In the decade of operation, the X-15 allowed modern space flight possible. Among these achievements were various material application of the hypersonic theory. The X-15 also was the first aircraft to use space. The test pilots also demonstrated how it was reaction controls. Essentially, these pilots volunteered to fly where they would see if the controls the engineers work. I really admire the courage of these men. Today, modern spaceflight still uses many For example, reaction jets are still commonly nicely here on SpaceX's Dragon capsule while of the international space station. While the X-15 is a museum piece today, its Thanks to the brave men who piloted these about space and how to get there. Michael J. Adams gave his life in the name He is remembered at the crash site with a him. More prominently, his name appears at the a huge slab of black polished granite pointed It bears the name of all the men and women spacecraft. Their names are illuminated in bright white to float in the reflection of the sky. A very fitting memorial for aviators and astronauts, I hope you liked my account of this tragic If you did, make sure to like, subscribe and any future videos. That said, thank you very much for watching