I always eat sweet potatoes with a ton of butter. But when I want to keep it simple, I serve it with strained yogurt. I sprinkle some crushed nuts on it. With a little honey, it's perfect. For me, the tartness of the yogurt makes it taste just right and simple. I've recently discovered this way of eating sweet potatoes. In this video, I'll show you the sweet treats I've made so far. 100g flour, 20g sugar, 4g baking powder. Bread flour 50g. 30g butter. I mix them well. egg. 50g fresh cream. I knead it until it comes together. Then I cut the dough into shapes. I brush the dough with milk and bake it in an oven at 200 degrees Celsius for 10 minutes. Then I bake it at 190 degrees Celsius for 10 minutes and it's done. I put a lot of cream on my scones. Lots of jam makes it the best. I always make pancakes with this ratio of ingredients. 100g flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 30g sugar. And one egg. Approximately 60ml of milk. From what I've researched, adding MIRIN is a good way to make brown, soft pancakes. I added 1 tablespoon of MIRIN. I may have put too much cooking oil in the pan. This might be better than the previous one. I'll hide this part. This looks much tastier than what I usually make. This is softer and tastier than what I usually make. I'm going to add MIRIN to my pancake batter from now on. I use 16g of ground coffee in 200ml of hot water. Slowly, I make a strong cup of dark roast coffee. I add 3 teaspoons of sugar to it and let it dissolve. I put it in a bag, thin it out as much as I can and put it in the freezer. I take it out of the freezer a few times along the way and crumble it up. I pour a lot of condensed milk over it. The coffee is strong, so I enjoy it in small portions with condensed milk. The coffee ice melts eventually, so I add milk to it to make cafe au lait. I love having this cafe au lait at the end. I dissolve a little sugar in my espresso. These cookies have a simple sweetness and a slight saltiness. I let the cookies soak up the espresso. 1 tablespoon sugar. 2 large tablespoons mascarpone. I mix them well. About 100ml of cream. About half a tablespoon of sugar. I add ingredients in rough amounts because I can taste them as I go. I mix the cream and mascarpone together. I put a lot of it on cookies. At this moment, I feel energized. 40g flour. 2 eggs. I add 35g of sugar in two batches. 10g melted butter, 1 tablespoon warm milk. I bake the cake batter in an oven at 170 degrees Celsius for 12-15 minutes. This is soft. I add a cinnamon stick and 10g of butter to the cored apple. I sprinkle sugar on it and bake it. The process is simple yet surprisingly delicious. I baked it at 200 degrees Celsius for 20 minutes. Vanilla ice cream is a must. I beat one egg well. 60g sugar. 1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil. 130g flour. 1/2 teaspoon baking powder. I mix them together gently. All I have to do now is roll the dough and deep fry them. I find it easier to roll the dough if I put cooking oil on my hands. This is a quick, easy and delicious treat. I deep fry the dough for 5-7 minutes in low temperature cooking oil, about 150 degrees Celsius. It's crispy on the outside and soft on the inside. For iced coffee, I've recently been slowly brewing the coffee using half the amount of water I usually use. I pour it over a lot of ice. This glass is not heat resistant, so I pour the coffee slowly. I separate the egg yolks from the whites and put the whites in the fridge. I mix the yolks with 1 tablespoon of milk. 2 1/2 tablespoons plain flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking powder. I sift them in and mix well. After that, I whip the whites and add 1 tablespoon of sugar to it in two portions. I add a scoop of meringue to the batter and mix them together. I add it back into the meringue and gently fold it in, and the batter is done. I covered the pan and cooked the batter for 3 minutes on each side. I pour 25g of ground coffee into 300ml of hot water and wait 3 1/2 minutes. I pour 3g of gelatin into a little bit of hot water. I stir them well to dissolve the gelatin. After 3.5 minutes, I strain the coffee through a filter. It is best to use a coarse filter. I add the dissolved gelatin and mix it all together. I pour it into a container to set. I just chill it well in the fridge and it's done. This coffee jelly is not sweet, so I sweeten the cream with condensed milk. I can also make coffee jelly drinks with this. I pour in a lot of maple syrup. I was having a hard time using up my frozen ricotta cheese. So I decided to make a cheesecake with it. I've been experimenting with ingredient quantities lately. 150g ricotta cheese. 35g sugar. 50g cream cheese. This bowl is too small. 1 egg yolk. 25g fresh cream. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 2 tablespoons flour. I whisk one egg white. I mix them together gently and the cake batter is done. I poured hot water into a baking tray and baked the cake batter at 170 degrees Celsius for 50 minutes. I slowly pour hot water over dark roast coffee. I love making this when I have some leftover whipped cream. I add a lot of cream. I soak 5g of gelatin in a little water. I heat 400ml of milk. 2 tablespoons sugar. I add the condensed milk in a circular motion about 3 times. I add the gelatin that I have soaked in water and mix it well. Once the gelatin has dissolved, I add 100ml of cold milk. I just chill it in the fridge and it's done. I could just eat this as is. But I enjoy taking it out of the mold. I like to drizzle a little maple syrup on it. I've loved melon milk since I was a child. This is also delicious as a milkshake. But this tastes even better when frozen. I stir this a few times along the way to make it easier to eat. I think this ice cream is the best and it's a treat for myself. I make these coffee floats most often in the summer. I just put ice cream on my coffee. But still, this drink makes me happy. I specially bought some cherries today. Let's enjoy coffee time.