MOSFILM VERA ALENTOVA ALEXEI BATALOV IRINA MURAVYOVA in MOSCOW DOESN'T BELIEVE Screenplay by Directed by Director of Photography Production Designer Music by Sergey NIKITIN Lyrics by D. SUKHAREV Yu. VIZBOR, Yu. LEVITANSKY Sound by M. BRONSHTEIN Moscow. 1958 Workers' Dormitory - You failed? - Have you checked the list? Don't give up. You'll work and next year Look who is here! Don't look so depressed, Katerina. I'm not depressed. - Just two points! No one said you wouldn't. You got plenty of time, believe me. Couldn't you at least clean up Kolia'll be here any minute. To watch a concert! you can't talk properly. - Don't come in! - Hi!.. - You're not well? I'm sorry. - Want to have a look? Kolia! I'll be ready in a second! Why d'you have to frighten him? Yeah, you wouldn't call him You could have found a dunce What were you so scared of? Don't forget, We'll be back in time. To watch a concert! Women's dormitory. Which Ludmilla? There're Oh, that Ludmilla... Just a minute. She's taking a bath Sviridova, telephone for you! She'll be right with you. She's I said you were taking a bath. Vadik? Of course, I remember. What dormitory? Oh, that's our Some cousins came to visit and now she's complaining Everyone wants to come to Moscow, Today? No, I can't. Tomorrow? I'd better call you back. - Dormitory! - Why don't you just say ''hello''? Fate flies like a rocket Sometimes along a rainbow, There lived a red-headed artist, A Bohemian, though To end up in the Louvre, He made a detour He rocketed, What's he trying to say? After five years of slaving, you're supposed to go in a factory? What kind of life do you want? Stop necking on the street. This chemistry of yours is so You don't understand. You should be thinking more - Hey, girls, what about... Why did you do that? That's right, just nice. To love no less than a queen, French Film Festival Ever seen a mink like that? I love her! It's Koniukhova! - That's what I call life! Why are you out here? Nina was supposed to bring me Wait. I'll try to get you in. - Are you an actor too? - A bit late to be getting started. You probably never heard of me. - Tell me anyway. Oh! Kharitonov! - You fixed it all by yourself? Their work load's too big, Pretty good. pretty good. Tossia, mother wants you on Sunday. Why don't you say something? - I'm not sure if I should. Can't you see she's scared? - Scared of what? In that case, why don't you ask The fresh air will do them some Sviridova, when are you going Do you know how much you Look, why don't you leave her Stop playing the tough guy. Sviridova, stop wrecking my Do I have to get down on my knees? Oh, I'm really beat today. - Liuda, are you coming? - Ludmilla, aren't you ready yet? Isn't she just beautiful? - Ludmilla, where are you going? Where's she off to? She never goes with us. - What are you reading? - Is it interesting? What's the title of it? ''The Three Comrades''. Never Really? Everyone in Moscow's - You're not a Muscovite, huh? Hello! Women's dormitory. For whom? Ludmilla? Who? Rudolph? From the television, of course, Oh, that's just grandma kidding. so she's calling our apartment No, we're spending the weekend - What road we're taking? I wouldn't know that. I really have to run now, You're such a liar! Stop teaching me how to live You know, you're quite a catch. If I had gotten to you first... You're not my type. As for the place in the country, Oh yeah? That doesn't suit us. Stop frightening her. There's nothing to be scared of. Why talk about marriage? Come on. My parents. Ludmilla. And Katerina. This is Tossia. How are you? In '33 she came And she had only one suitcase, Mother, please, don't butt in. I'm barely making We'll help you get by. In two months Out of the way! This is the black currant bush These are strawberries, Here we'll have an apple tree. Why don't you grow cabbages You're right, we'll do it. - This is great... I take one look at all this I'd kill myself rather Everything's decided in advance. after that it's a washing machine, You've got a twenty-year plan - What's so bad about it? Don't you understand that And Moscow's one big lottery, Moscow is full of diplomats, Practically they're all men. And we're women. What do they need us for? But we're no worse than the others. Where can we find those artists? That's the point. Leave it to me. Galia, get up! You told me Girls, strip your beds today! - What happened to the hot water? Still sleeping? You're going It's Sunday. Why are you - Where's Antonina? She's got bogged down in the I'm going to visit some relatives. What relatives? - Uncle Lyosha. He's a professor. I stayed at their place for a week Oh yeah, I remember now. - Where are you going after that? After all I taught you about how The only kind of men you're I go to see the paintings, Well, I'm going to visit the Lenin Imagine the clientele it's got. Doctors, academicians, philosophers. Are you going to spend your No, I'll hang around the smoking Hello, Maria. I managed to dig up two tickets Tonight at the Sports Palace. Try to get out early today. Thanks. All those guys are not serious Imagine, to a distinguished man, I babble something half and I can have him eating out - Want to come with me tomorrow? Uncle Lyosha is going South. - I couldn't say no. - Where does he live? In one of those skyscrapers? Good morning. The Tikhomirovs. No, wait! Hold it! Now, here's where I keep the beans. Don't worry about a thing, Well then, make yourself at home. Tchapochka, my baby, you're Only half an hour left and the car Don't get so upset. The car is It's all Bogomolov's fault, I had to get up on the podium Katia, how are you? Everything is all right. Pleased to meet you. Tikhomirov. I was able to arrange Write to your mother that I'll - What are you crying about? - Come on, girls, hurry up! Water the flowers twice a week, put the mail on the desk. Tchapochka's got to be walked You forgot to give me Tchapochka! May Ludmilla stay with me? - Is she neat? Alright then, she can stay. May I speak to Ghena? Is that you? Look, they changed my telephone Say hello to Tchapa, guys. You wrote down my address? Here, hold him. We're having guests tomorrow - Here? I already got in touch with an athlete, a television man, - They accepted? One thing you have to agree to. We're the daughters of I'm a medical student and you're studying chemistry Men prefer women For example, a doctor. Her hands Or a music teacher. It's very Of course, interior decorating The only trouble is that Can you fake a psychiatrist? I wasn't a nurse's aid in a loony The stories I can tell them - The point is to impress them. I know what to do. I'll have a fight Then I'll go to work every day, That goes on for a year, then I'll And even if he does find out, He will have gotten used to me, He'll probably even beg me Why would he do that? Well, I'll find a reason when I We'd never get away with it. Oh, Katia, do it for me, please. No, I don't like it. Then I'll tell them What a bore you are. Take a chance for once in your life. I don't even look like a professor's All we have to do for it to work One is lousy grammar, and What if they ask me a question Do it, but like you mean it. - Take me, I'm pretty vulgar, right? Well, guys call it eccentric. No! I just don't believe you can Pleased to meet you. - Katia. And what's your last name? You can call me just Anton. Please, come right in. Put these in some water. Gentlemen, I think you can make - Kruglov, industrial executive. Perov. I'm a scientist. Edward Ozeryansky, Kruglov, industrial executive. The one with the badge - What science? - Oh, you shouldn't have... - It wasn't necessary. Oh, pardon me! Could you take all this I'm sorry, I was delayed I understand. It's a pleasure. - Katia. I don't agree. Poetry is definitely There are interesting young poets. Who? You don't know him? Although in my opinion, Rozhdestvensky. You've heard He's fabulously talented. There're too many rebels now. They want to know why we kept I wonder what they would have We would have spoken up. Seryozha, you haven't touched - I'm not allowed. No. The coach won't allow me to. You are Gourin, aren't you? Yes, Gourin. I thought you looked familiar. I used to broadcast the games We should be honored to be Don't be so modest. I read what - You play for Moscow now? I think we should all drink a toast Just one glass toasting yourself. No. Thank you for your kind words, but really I'm in training, - Have you been long at the TV? - It must be very interesting! Someday television We'll never go to the movies, We'll only be interested in Don't you think you're getting Theatre, I agree, isn't going to last Just wait twenty years and you'll Well, in twenty years everything It isn't all that much, twenty years. In twenty years I'll be old. Believe me, at forty you'll think that your life just begins. At forty? You're joking! If God really created us all, and give us at least a thimbleful Where did you graduate from? We don't have any special school Seryozha, you're like a bear. Well, what do you think of Sweden? We just looked out a bus window. We're still at the beginning of TV, - Have you been to a studio? - Want to visit? I can arrange it. Washington says we're a bust, But in space we're the first. An old house on the block And instead the new one fell, An old man in a restaurant Now his rent is paid well for, Oh look! It's Katerina! She really looks pretty, doesn't she? It's funny, but for sisters you're - You mean I'm not pretty? You're so different. A loving son to his dear dad Father won a car, no buts, Don't do that again, Why not? You're famous, and girls - I'm not that kind of girl. My coach also says that I'm not And I've only had one girlfriend So you've got one... It was when I was still in school. Don't do that. but I'm the kind who takes it So am I. Vitya, will you stop pounding, That's Rudy when he was one year Our place is small, isn't it? - I think your apartment's lovely. Rudy told me about your apartment. Yes, it's not bad. Vitya, stop pounding the piano! And here we all are on vacation. Your family must go to the Crimea, The Crimea's cold this year, Cold? Somewhat, yes... - But it isn't summer either. Mother, you haven't stopped talking - Vitya, sit down. Would you like some salad? - You want some champagne, mom? Vitya, we bought some soda for you. Well then, as they say, here's And who knows where friendship Vitya, don't eat like a pig. I forgot, which one? Oh, we went through that this - Let me offer you some sturgeon. I'm allergic to sturgeon. - It gives me cramps. And besides, I already ate a big Good you're here. You can give me We've just got a telegram. Our hosts That's what I call being polite. - What are we going to do? Seryozha, good that you've called. Yes, sure I'll see you tonight. They're going to cut off my phone. They said it's because of From now on I'll be calling you. That's it, I'm fed up with this When Rudy comes here tomorrow, Don't even think of it! Well, I don't care about that! No, Katia, you'll ruin everything. This champagne is so heady. The aristocrats used to drink it. - To you. - Shall we dance? The light hurts my eyes. No, don't, Rudy! Please don't... - Goodbye. - And who's going to walk Tchapa? We'll be back here someday. Rudy said that in the West they celebrate special events They have all gone crazy over there. What kind of food can you get You got to have a television. Absolutely. When the furniture's Tonia, you'd better start with Because the television is I just love your dill pickles. That's Misha who makes them. I never knew that you liked I do now. Are you trying to tell us something? - I don't know what you mean. - Yes. - While we were living there. - Does he know? - Why didn't you tell him? I've gotten myself into trouble, First you have to make him marry If he loves you, he'll forgive you. No, a lie is no way to start I hate to do it. Kiss the bride! Leave me alone. And may you have a happy and long We have to do something, girls. Mikhalych has been asking for you. This girl has a promising future. The kerchief must go. The lady's a director. But I can't. There's too much work I think she'll do very nicely. Would you mind saying a few I don't know what to say. I've written down the answers to the questions that Liudochka - Please learn your lines. Are you sick? Yes, I'm sick. Stop this nonsense. people will be writing to you. You take this tool and start Rudy, are you ready to begin? Let's get going! Katia Tikhomirova who is working as a mechanic. Have a look at the complex machine Katia can solve any problem here, Well, I think I can. You were hired as an operator, But you wanted to do more Is that why you decided to be Not really. I was asked to become a mechanic Excuse me, I mean Comrade Lednev. He's our foreman and a very good He asked me, and I agreed. It's rare that anyone accepts - What are you talking about? We simply have to reevaluate You probably want to continue and return to this factory I was hoping to enter a college I hope to do better this year. But I'll come back to work here I want to be a chemistry major. Good luck to you, Katia. Is that all? Here. Hi! Interesting coincidence, Yes, very interesting. I see you're a model worker. Are you disappointed? No, not at all. Well, I've got to go. You shouldn't stay in bed all the You know, I told Seryozha - And what did he say? He was afraid that a professor In fact, we got a marriage license - Congratulations. I was the one Now I'm engaged, but you... What happened was my own No, there's someone else That's just great! I went to the hospital, Maybe your mother would know No, I won't let you get my mother Hey, what are you doing? - What am I going to do? You too. Look, don't try to make me I feel like we're personages He's a jerk, she's a saint. Only in our case, you're Well, no use crying over spilt milk. We can still be friends though. All right. I think you're right. I'm only asking you How am I supposed to find one? This is a thing for women. What do I know about it? Why don't you ask at the factory? They're supposed to take care Anyway, we have the finest I'm going to be late at the studio. Come on, stop crying. I'll keep in touch, all right? I'll be going now. Goodbye. May I come in? So this is where Professor - How are you? - May I sit down? I had a long serious conversation He never really loved you. He was very disappointed by your schemes I came to ask you We've had enough of your I never called you. You must have asked one of your I never asked my friends to, either. All right, I've been calling you up! And I'm also going to write He should me made to do his duty! Oh, you must be the specialist who earns her living working - Yes, I do. So what? And in your dormitory. I had lived in a communal - Times have changed. There are already four of us and now you want to move in, I never wanted that! I will never ask you for anything, That's the only thing I can do Thanks. I can earn my living. As you wish. Why should you raise your child There won't be any child. Don'tjust stand there, young father. What are you waiting for? Go on! - Congratulations. You should take the baby Goodbye. You should've asked someone else Soon Tonia's going in here. Don't worry about that for now. Oh, she's so lovely! She looks just like you. What are you going to name her? Alexandra, after my father. Come to the table, everybody! Katia, put your girl to sleep She's fast asleep already. Come on. Did you see the TV set? - What's that? You'll be in this room, We're not going to wait What do you mean, let's not wait You got it after all! The store manager went to the In six months you can pass it over - And then it'll be Ludmilla's turn. I haven't seen the baby yet. The spitting image of you! It's amazing the way she looks - No, no, I'm not allowed to. But I'm in training. And you know Just this once. It's for the baby. All right, I give up. To Alexandra... Alexandrovna. To the newest Muscovite in town! End of Part One