This tiny little engine which fits neatly into the but a power output of 1.8 horsepower. If you cutter engine, which is 50 cc and 2 horsepower, something this miniature actually is. But things power output for this engine, and that is the So, if we take the specs off this engine, plug it into per liter of this placement. To put this insane It's a $3 million hypercar, whose 5.1 L twin turbo V8 5 ethanol fuel. So, 1.603 horsepower absolutely crazy, get only 316 horsepower per liter. So, around half cylinder nitro engine which costs around $80. Now, we're going to have to venture beyond $3 million So, away from things that money can buy, into things cars, they output somewhere between 750 to 1.000 the numbers are never published, but it's somewhere turbocharged V6 engine, and their hybrid drivetrain which contains electric motors, which add power to the engine. Now, we're going to, in order and we're going to pretend that all of the power existence of the electric motors, and when we do power output of 625 horsepower. So, now we're the numbers, we're cheating, in favor of Formula budget friendly, beginner oriented engine. If we dip say from a company in Japan called OS engines, engines and we're going to choose their r2105 but you do get 2.76 horsepower from 3.95 CC of output of 791 horsepower per liter. So, even Formula twisting, it cannot touch that number. Now, specific exciting, but to experience the sheer fury of have to use a radio controlled chassis, and I has pretty much everything we need. We have a drive differentials, we also have a fuel tank, we and we take this, we're going to pop it in, we're pop the exhaust in, we're going to connect our fuel You know what, I've spent the better part of car engines, two-stroke bikes, four-stroke bikes, something like this, because I thought it's just a whole another world, and it's really fun, and engine, is absolutely incredible. Yes, yes, that question. And the obvious question is where does engines actually come from. Well, there are three is a two-stroke engine, the giant exhaust probably capable of making more power per liter of engine because they have twice as many power strokes, but Now, the second reason, is that because important in terms of mechanics in this. This is cooling fins to maximize surface area, to help in order to prevent it from overheating, because or valve springs, and because we have a very in here, this thing can rev to around 30.000 RPM. times RPM. So, if you can rev very high, you are Reason number three, is that this is called a nitro methane. And, the power potential, hiding inside see just how mind blowing it is, we're going to specification, engine spec statistic, if you will. power output per liter of engine displacement. But more insightful, and that is engine power output whatever. We're going to, we're going to do that liter. Because, for example, let's say you add does not increase engine displacement, but it most make the engine have a very high power per liter of but you cannot trick power per unit of weight, to the engine, and this is why power per unit of the engine is from squeezing power out of its, you technologically advanced the engine is. Now, if we our little engine on the scale, we will see that the the power output, we will get that this engine per kilogram. Now, we're going to compare it to Formula because Formula 1 engines are probably the most Now, Formula 1 engines are 1.6 engines that weigh 150 kg. The electric motors have around 150 horsepower. Now, engine's output 2.6 horsepower per pound or 5.7 beat this, but they actually only beat it because nitromethane. It is only 16% nitromethane, because that you can legally buy in the EU without there's about 10 to 20% of lubricating oil in Now, you can only, now getting a license in the EU is I don't plan to compete, so 16% nitromethane and as you have seen it, makes this thing more loads of fun. However, there is something that much higher concentration of nitromethane which than technology. And, that something, is called Top because these dragsters they run 90% nitromethane, a bunch of other additives. Now, the engines in Top power output of, wait for it, 11.000 horsepower. When pound or 48.5 horsepower per kilogram. As you like a joke, and the totally crazy thing about architecture is based on a design, which is pretty kind of stone age compared to even the engine architecture of Top Fuel engines is based on valves per cylinder, pushrods, and a supercharger, based on a archaic GM design for scavenging to automotive use in the early days of the Top much ancient, but it, but the power potential that there is nothing on planet Earth that humans unit of weight. Nothing, I actually know there and that stands for Space Shuttle Main Engine that per kilogram. But, of course, comparing anything to make sense, because it's not something you can ever and expertise of NASA, to develop and build this dragsters, they contain a lot of off-the-shelf anyone willing to do so, and they most certainly affordable for the amount of power you get. Now, motors in existence that can outperform Top Fuel Let's take Koenigsegg's most recent, I believe, electric outputs 800 horsepower. Very, very impressive, but horsepower per kilogram, so not even close to Top electric motor that, that is in existence. eHelix SPM177-165, from a company called Helix of 15.4 horsepower per pound, or 33.9 horsepower engines, and comparing electric motors to any sort the fact that to power a free moving vehicle, really make sense, because these batteries are most tank required to power a top fuel dragster. So, the extremely powerful fuel which contains a lot of creates impressive power. Surprisingly, energy than the gasoline available at your nearest kilogram. Methanol has an energy density of 22.7 MJ per of 11.2 MJ per kilogram. But here's the catch, running running that same engine on gasoline. Running it running it on methanol. So, the fuel with the least Well, the secret is in the air fuel ratio. Now, to Now, air in itself does not contain energy, like the energy available in the fuel, in other words, Now, gasoline has a stoichiometric air fuel ratio ratio of air and fuel, all the air and fuel will kilograms, or whatever, of air, to burn just one pound, or need a lot more air than gasoline, to harness the we're so obsessed with trying to get our engines of valves in the engine, or changing the size manifold, or getting a larger throttle body, or lift, and more duration, and even turbochargers in an endless battle to try and get more air into the energy of gasoline. Gasoline has the energy, and systems and even carburetors, they have zero issues there's no point in doing that if you cannot get that's the hard part because we need a lot more into the engine over a broad range of RPM, is very, a secret here, an ace up their sleeve, and it becomes formulas. The important bit here, is the O, oxygen, their own oxygen, it's already in there. Methanol nitromethane has two. And, oxygen is what you need own oxygen, the stoichiometric air fuel ratio for In other words, you only need 1.7 kg of air to oxygen in the fuel, it means that all of a sudden engine to breathe better. You do not need to get as And the fuel is what makes the power, because the fuel more power you can make. And, although nitromethane gasoline, you can burn more than eight times as event. But this ridiculous air fuel ratio also in regular daily driven vehicles, because to burn a lot more fuel, which means that your fuel the important bit, Top Fuel dragsters, they actually What they run at is 0.5 :1. In other words, they're you run too rich, something like 9:1, you're you were to run something closer to stochiometric. burn off your gasoline. But because nitromethane much of it as methanol, it has the potential to In other words, it can burn by itself it doesn't even more fuel you add the more power you will make. further out away you are from the stochiometric still more power, and this is why the fuel pumps 378.5 L of fuel per minute and this is why the V8 There's 10 injectors in the injector hat above the another 16 in the cylinder head, two for each of benefit of nitromethane is that it has a very high lot of heat energy to transition from a liquid to enters the chamber and as it vaporizes it absorbs the engine cool and it's also one of the main radiators or water passages in the head and in the head and in the block and the fact that the head and the block incredibly strong, but can still blow them to pieces and this is why prevent the supercharger and other parts of the if the engine blows up. Now something else that's the engines are rebuilt after every run. That is actually not true, the engines are not rebuilt they are opened up after every run and everything within spec and if it's not it's replaced but most of the parts are returned into the engine done is more of a prevention of a rebuild rather nitromethane is still absolutely crazy stuff. governing body for Top Fuel racing they had to fuel to 90% even though even more power could be with an increased risk of blowing up engines all cannot run 100% pure straight nitromethane because tendency to explode rather than burn. Now the sheer Top Fuel dragsters, they don't run the full quarter mile 1,000 ft or 304.8 M and this is because if you speeds that controlling and stopping them becomes the drivers and everybody else on the track. But drag strip they manage to achieve speeds So that's the trap speed but the acceleration is even more the Rimac Nevera which is a very very expensive 0 to 100 km per hour in 1.95 seconds so very very you can go 0 to 60 in something road legal that a that recently a group of students from Switzerland Guinness World Record for the fastest accelerating EV. 0 to 62 mph in 0.956 seconds now a Top Fuel dragster is even faster it does 0.8 seconds but not 0 to 62 mph. 0 to 100 in 0.8 seconds and if Something that might have crossed your mind The Fast and Furious movie pressing that button on the injecting nitromethane into the engine? No they thing, nitrous oxide is a gas nitromethane is a oxide is very similar to that of nitromethane cheapest simplest way to achieving some of Atmospheric air is composed of 78% nitrogen, 21% burn is oxygen. Now nitrous oxide is 66% nitrogen it vaporizes and releases the oxygen, meaning that if you will because it increases the amount oxygen you can add more fuel and make more power. take a match and light it in a room full of you can think of nitrous oxide simply as a more Now nitromethane sits on the opposite end of that a match it can burn by itself and this gives it