&quot;The process of making large bearings with hot forging technology. Amazing Korean ball bearing factory&quot; The steel bloom, which is the raw material for bearings, is cut with a metal cutting machine. Cutting oil is sprayed on the cutting surface to cut the metal smoothly. A long saw blade rotates at high speed to cut the steel. It takes 25 minutes to cut one block. Metal cutting surface The cut bloom is moved to the kiln by the manipulator attached to the forklift. Electric kiln Put the heavy blocks inside first. Now heat at 1250 degrees Celsius for 6 hours. The temperature of the bloom just taken out is about 1150 to 1200degC. A large hydraulic press presses and forms a round shape. Even at this distance, the surroundings are extremely hot! A 'punch' for metal forming The hot donut shape is complete :) The metal is fired once more in the kiln and fixed to the Ring Rolling Mill machine. Various tools press and turn the metal around to stretch it into a ring shape. Products produced by ring rolling mills have high strength and durability. The following is the process of cutting this metal ring to make a bearing. The outer diameter of the forged ring is cut with a metal cutting blade. Then, a groove is cut on the inside of the ring. Make several gears on the outside of the ring using 'gear milling'. It takes about 6 hours to machine the gears. Combine the inner and outer rings of the bearing. Put the bearing balls and ball supporters into the inner ring holes. Put 250 bearing balls. Complete the large gear ball bearing weighing 800 kg! &quot;The process of making a wing body truck with both wings opening. A large truck special purpose vehicle factory in Korea&quot; Doing the basic work for making the wings of the wing body special purpose vehicle. CO2 welding Moving the frame for making the wing body floor. Fix the fluorescent ink thread at both ends to accurately match the gap between the pipes. Erect the front of the wing body and attach it to the floor. Turn the buckle so that the wing body front plate is perpendicular to the floor. Now attach the painted wing to the main beam. Wings and the folding parts of the main beam are precisely welded. Cover the finished frame with a lightweight and durable high-impact GRP cladding. Pull the cladding with clamps to tighten it. Wing body rear door Scania 5-ton truck to be equipped with the completed wing body Attach the hydraulic press to lift the heavy wing. Finish with full polishing. The wing body's wings open to a height of 150 cm. Complete custom special vehicle with both wings open! &quot;Cutting and separating fish in an instant! Amazing Korean live sashimi mass production factory&quot; We only handle domestically farmed flatfish weighing 1.7kg or more per fish. (Flapping) Ice compress This is a method to make live fish fall into a state of sleep so that they are stress-free It is a method to obtain a chewy texture that is not hard. The fish neck has been cut with a knife to drain the blood. The flatfish is moved to the conveyor belt. It is washed with high pressure water and moved to the next process. The worker arranges the flatfish neatly on the rail. This is the first automatic flatfish filleting machine developed by this company. Tail cut Head and gill cut Cut off the head with a sharp cutter, and suck out the entrails with a suction right next to it. Remove the tail, head, and entrails of the flatfish in 3 seconds. Separate the top and bottom of the flatfish. The skin is automatically separated when passed through the skinning machine. It only takes 30 seconds to cut the tail and head of the flatfish and remove the skin. The delicate entrails removal work is done by hand. The flatfish is sterilized and washed cleanly with sterilized water. Finally, the flatfish sashimi is prepared. The center meat with a lot of bloody taste is removed. The flatfish is cut evenly using an automatic fish slicing machine. Easy, fast, and delicious fish dish is complete! &quot;The process of mass producing amazingly sophisticated plastic models. Korea's last assembly toy factory&quot; We model the structure and detailed parts precisely by comparing them to photos taken directly of actual aircraft, tanks, cars, etc. We apply additional electric shock to the mold that has been cut for a long time, using precision metalworking technology, to achieve more detailed processing. This operation takes about 100 hours or more. This is an injection molding machine that injects and ejects plastic raw materials melted at high temperatures into a mold. Aircraft wing mold All operations that move the injected plastic are automated by robots. Aircraft jet engine parts mold Packing the finished parts. Close the package opening using a sealer. Pack the plastic model parts and the graphic stickers that decorate them in one box. Let's assemble the US XF5F-1 fighter plastic model. Complete the plastic model of 'Academy Science' developed with thorough research and mold design technology! &quot;How to mass produce car tires with amazing technology. Manufacturing process of tire factory in Vietnam&quot; Put natural rubber and synthetic rubber on the rail one by one. Mix and mix other 20 materials Tire rubber sheet injection Extrude the sheet in multiple layers. Extruded outer sheet Cut the rubber sheet to fit the tire size. Forming the outer of the tire Overlap rubber sheets of various properties Tire Inner Forming Tire Bead Wire Inserting Tire Inner into Bead Inserting the Inner into the outer Adhesion the outer and Inner The tire is completed by applying strong heat and pressure to the rubber using a tire mold. Tires coming out of the mold are extremely hot Korea's representative tire 'Kumho Tire' produced in a local factory in Vietnam is complete! &quot;Mustang Jacket Factory Made by Korean Sheepskin Masters&quot; Cut the pattern required for the jacket onto the Mustang leather. Make pocket openings on the front fabric. Shave the fur around the pockets. Sewn using a special sewing method called 'linking sewing' that leaves no seams on the fabric. Sew several pieces of fabric to create a wide surface. Neatly cover the sewing area with leather straps. Remove unnecessary fluff. Attach a zipper to the front. Sew the pockets. Sew the sleeves. Connect the sleeves to the body. Iron all the leather sides of the garment. Complete a Mustang jacket that is warm enough for the cold weather! &quot;A surprising mass production process for ready-mixed concrete. Korea's largest concrete mixing plant&quot; Pour sand into the aggregate storage. Then gravel is added. The amount of ingredients is adjusted according to the mixing ratio. Then it is added to the weighing machine. The amount of material is adjusted according to the mixing ratio. It goes to the mixer, which mixes cement, sand, gravel, admixture, and water together. The ready-mixed concrete is delivered using a ready-mixed concrete truck. Delivery to construction sites requiring concrete must be completed within 90 minutes. Ready-mixed concrete that is not used within 90 minutes loses its marketability Trucks circulate quickly to receive ready-mixed concrete and transport it to the site. Arrived at an apartment construction site. &quot;The process of mass producing concrete retaining walls. Amazing Korean concrete block factory&quot; Installing the pattern frame on the assembled concrete retaining wall mold. Pour concrete into the mold to fill it. It's like a bread making process :) Remove the air inside using a concrete vibrator. Smooth the surface and finish. Separate the mold to remove the hardened concrete. Remove the pattern frame. A sturdy concrete retaining wall with a cool pattern is complete! &quot;How a Korean high heel factory mass-produces thousands of pairs of shoes. The amazing process of manufacturing high heels&quot; Putting multiple layers of leather fabric into the press machine. Cutting using various molds. Sewi the lining with a sewing machine. Cleanly removing the protruding lining. Temporarily attach the midsole to the shoe last. Attach the upper part of the shoe. Make the heel. A heel with a thin, pointed bottom is called a 'kitten heel'. In addition, various shapes of heels are made. Attach the sole with a chunky heel to the midsole. Attach the insole over the sole cushion. A pair of pretty shoes is complete :) &quot;The process of mass producing high-quality teapots and teacups. A luxury porcelain factory with 80 years of history&quot; We make porcelain by strong and heat-retaining 'bone ash' raw materials. We shape the teacup. We trim the corners of the cup. Attach the handle. Inject the liquid 'bone ash' raw material into the kettle mold. Remove the kettle from the mold. Clean the surface and details. This is the ceramic that has been fired and polished. The machine automatically sprays the glaze. Glaze gives luster and texture to the porcelain. Attach the transfer paper to the porcelain that has been fired once more in the kiln. Third time baking in the kiln. Delicate patterns are hand-drawn. Complete a set of high-quality teacup and teapot with excellent heat retention!