In this video, I'm going to show you how to capture beautiful with your iPhone. I'll show you how to do this, both using the regular as well as using portrait mode, which is a really advanced feature designed specifically, for capturing the best I'll also share with you for how to use light in and how to make sure so that you can get the You'll see that we have a sunny day and for portraits, it's actually bad news. That sun it's going to cast on the face of my subject. So that creates a real challenge So if you can try to choose a cloudy day for your portrait shoots. If cloudy is not an option, you'll have to find shade or you'll have to wait for the golden hour when the beautiful evening light can actually work really So let me pick up my iPhone and let me show you why that So right now, you'll see that I have and I like this background, but what I don't like is the light. You'll notice that as my wife the sun is hitting her face from the side, but the problem is that and that light is really hard and we have some really harsh shadows that illuminate a part of her face and then there are other parts so that doesn't really work for me. Another reason why this light is if your subject is so that's a big no-no So if I ask my wife to you'll see that she's squinting and that's because it's I'm asking her to take. So while I like this background, and I think this wall for portrait photography, it's not the right light here. I think we should be able to find another part of this building that's going to be in shadow and hopefully that's gonna Let's take a look. When you're taking portrait those shots are all about the person. It's all about their face and because of that, it's a good idea to position against a background that's relatively simple Now when I open up my camera by default it has the and wide angle isn't the ideal angle for portrait photography. Now you'll see that as two things are happening. One, my subject is kind 'cause I'm so close to her, but even more importantly, if you look carefully at that there are some kind It's just not a pleasing So I'm gonna step back again and instead of shooting with that 1x, I'm gonna switch to my 2x, my telephoto that is immediately so much better. I'm much further from my subject so she can feel more comfortable but more importantly, her And that's because that 2x, it's much closer to a natural than that wide angle. Now, if you don't have a telephoto lens, then you're either going to get photos that are more distorted, or you're gonna have to step further back to reduce the effects of that distortion. Or even better you could that you screw onto And if you go down that route, then Sandmarc and Moment that make the best I'm finally happy with so I'm gonna take some photos. One of the keys to getting is to just take a lot of them and to make sure that So I'm gonna ask my wife to And in general, just experimenting with different poses, different angles is a good thing to do when I like this shot a lot, so I'm gonna go ahead I think I got the shot So this is how you can take without actually using the portrait mode. So here we are on a different First of all, it is a colder day, but beyond that, we and that wind could actually because that means that is gonna blow in the wind and that can look really The one thing we haven't yet used is the portrait mode of the iPhone. So the latest iPhone models come with a really powerful feature called the portrait mode. And with the portrait mode you can create a depth-of-field effect. In other words, you behind your portrait subjects so that only their face is gonna be sharp and in focus, but everything that's behind them is gonna be blurred out. That works really well And with each new iPhone So as I'm gonna do this demonstration, you might see some options if you have an older iPhone, that's just something to keep in mind. So the first thing I need to do is activate the portrait mode. So I can do that by tapping at the bottom left. And when that natural light is in yellow, that means that the portrait mode has been successfully activated. Now, another thing you'll see is that there's kind of a square box around the face of my subject, that just means the portrait mode has set focus on the face of my subject while blurring out the background. Now, there are many other so let me quickly walk you through those. On the left-hand side, that kind of looks like a That's the option I Let me show you the next option. So to do that, I can tap my and I swipe my finger up until This is called Studio Light. With Studio Light, the the kind of lighting I'd so you'll see that now is brightly illuminated Let's take a quick shot. All right, next up, we have Contour Light. This will essentially amplify the facial features of my subject. This is another option And you'll see that as the hair of my wife is and that actually looks Now let's go to the next You can already see what it looks like, it's supposed to emulate if you were illuminated on a dark stage, but to me, this is a gimmick and it's not very accurate, so I'm personally not a Next up, we have Stage Light Mono, which is essentially the same thing and now the image is I also don't use this effect very much. And finally we have High-Key Light Mono. So this simulates a high key portrait, that's kind of the So this does look better but still it's not always accurate and it sometimes creates but I like high-key just a bit better, so I'm gonna grab a shot. What I'm gonna do is go which is actually my There are a couple of more options, I'd like to quickly show you. At the bottom right-hand corner, you'll see this icon that I'm gonna tap my finger there and now on the left, which allows me to control the strength of the studio light effect. By default, the slider is set to 50, but if I increase the value you'll see that that light But at 90, unfortunately and this no longer looks natural, so I got to dial this down a little bit. I think a value near 60 Now next to this icon we have another option that says F so as I tap there, another slider comes up and this allows me to change the f-stop of the photo I'm gonna take. Now, if you know what an f-stop is coming from DSLR photography, then this isn't quite the same thing. The iPhone has a fixed aperture, so this is again a digital simulation, but as I move that slider, what I can do is change how much background And if you want more background blur, you simply need to make that number lower. If I go all the way to f 1.4, you pretty much cannot tell that there is sea behind my subject, so this is definitely too strong. I'm gonna have to increase the f value. I think something like f so I'm gonna quickly grab a shot. Now I got these shots but if I wanna capture I can't just take a couple of shots and expect that they're gonna be perfect. So what I wanna do now is experiment with a and a couple of different qnd throughout this whole process, you've got to keep so this has to be kind of like a dialogue and in general, a great to relax and to stop worrying is to actually give Anything that would make and that would add to I'm gonna ask you to face that way with your whole body, just like that and I'm gonna try to take a shot this time from a slightly different angle. This is gonna be a profile shot and look at where I'm placing her eyes, very close to that top gray line and that's not an accident. Let's see what else we can capture this time without that hat. All right, we got in a with the sea and those but let's see if we can Now, as you're thinking about against the background, it's really important that your subject maintains some distance from whatever is behind them. Because when you're shooting that project mode is going but it needs to be able to so that background has behind the subject. Just now that light is Now, you'll see that the right side of and it adds a bit of depth to the picture. Now, look at how that And I think that's gonna be We've captured so many portrait photos, but the one thing I is actually changing the after the image is already captured. Let me show you how to do that. I'm gonna start by tapping the Here I can actually change about this image. So at the top, you'll If I tap that portrait, I'm and you can see what if I didn't have portrait mode at all, and it clearly doesn't look as good, so I'm gonna turn that Now, towards the bottom of the screen, we have the same options that you had when we were first We have the slider and that's gonna be the And finally, at the is where I can change the strength of that background blur effect. And this way I can adjust any that I've already captured after the fact, I don't have to worry about as I'm shooting. I'll just pick one set of I'll take a whole bunch of photos and later on, once I found I can simply go in and All right, it's been a long video and it's been a long day, because if I simply when we were right there on the beach, and if that was all I did, then I definitely wouldn't get that I was dreaming about, but because we had that we got those truly incredible shots and thanks to the portrait mode, I can blur the background and I can even artificially that normally I'd only That's the power of portrait mode and that's how you can capture some truly incredible portrait This video was a free preview of my iPhone Photo Academy online course. In this course, you'll discover everything you need to know to take stunning photos with your iPhone. So if you'd like to that will leave your friends please take a look at the full version of iPhone Photo Academy. You'll find a link in the description right next to this video. So click on that link right now, and I'll see you inside the