Hey everyone, I'm Paul, I One fine day I bought some Then I made some plans, and a Youtube ill leave a link in the description Some people actually liked it! and they sent Something... if I ever plan to included So I got to work. I modified my original design. Oops, hold on... Ok, I redesigned my workbench to include an but before I take apart my work I first made this prototype out of scrap wood. I also made this bracing that holds the with these, 3/4 inch black So I did all this to help understand and hopefully learn something. Well, I did, I learned three things: One, not all flanges are equal. This one rocks So if anyone ever builds a route around in the box for some good ones. Two, I made this shelf to When I went to adjust it, And finally three, this angle, it and the first time I tried to rotate it, it didn't Well that's enough, and lets get into the This new design calls for and it just so happens that I made a mistake I tried to fix it, long story short, it Well, off the shelf it comes, because that day's today. I think that leg Ill just take this time to mention if you are interested, Ill leave Will Im pretty happy with how it turned out, and it kind of reminds that nothing's perfect and For this next part, ill be using a dado blade, I learned something about making this cut from at full depth, its safer to build up to the raising the blade each time, until As I'm fastening these legs to the assembly, I had just to check the fit. Things to the new leg. There's a pretty You may already know, but if not, I'll introduce you to the power Handy. Ill use it as a shim to close that Now Ill modify the lower shelf, of an existing leg, and the addition of a new leg. And since I'm here, I mid as well fill And with the lower shelf now to level the assembly using the levelling help to ensure the upper stretchers I needed one more piece of but all I had was this warped one, Ill place shims around it so it doesn't rock, Now I need two rails, so Ill cut this old floor rails, keeping them vertical, then Ill use won't show how I made it, there's a tone of And now that I have one flat surface, Now I have fix the sides that aren't level, but I do have a long level. Ill place the board the fence. This makes a straight cut. OH, this So this is one of the more challenging parts my router, and I'm nervous because Ill and watch what happens raaaaaaight here! Well I carried on and finished, and to be honest but what I wasn't happy with, was the amount of at it, and the rotation of the bit, and the to tear bits out of wood. And I thought, what If protect it from tear out, just like I noticed it and another brace to do, Ill try again, but Well I think that looks better, If anyone's wondering why I made these its because I didn't have a bit that was Now ill drill the holes in the braces They don't need to be as accurate And now that their done, I'll fasten this so the shelf can rotate freely. And Just so you know, I screwed those so when I actually cut the top of the shelf Now that the top is done, I can Ugh, I've been at this for a while, and I didn't leave that there. Interesting Hmmm... Well, now that lunchtime is over, drill holes for four threaded rods. I'll just pre drill And countersink so I can fasten these two sheets of So now we have our four threaded rods. secure them in this sheet of wood. until one night, where I had a dream. I think I and my feet looked pretty weird and then I think was my shelf, with four threaded rods in it good! Well in the morning when I woke Well after coffee I got back to work. And what solid piece of wood. But in reality its just I realized I could hide a bolt and washer inside how to secure the threaded, I can get to work You know I'm nervous. I've been looking forward to placing this shelf for a long time Hold on I forgot something, these Ok, Lets try this again. Ah I might able to place this better without My Dad. Now I know this that was short lived because I forgot these! Well now that the shelf is placed, It took a bit of effort to cut all the way By widening these holes on the room for adjustment when I install them later on. And I'm starting to get pretty nervous and rotate this shelf for the first Ok lets give it a try. Wow fits nice to see how it fits again, My Dad is my inspiration, as a kid I and he's now here messing about in mine. I often as I'd like, and todays a sad day cuz And I'm already looking forward to our next visit together. The screws that I'm adjusting now towards the outside of the bench help level And the screws that I'm adjusting now towards the inside of the bench help level Ill install some latches now, to keep the shelf I wanted a latch with little to no them and I found this one. It I used a marker on the end of the pin, then where to drill, then I made jig with some clamps and help drill a hole at 90 degrees with a Is That Good? That Looks good :) And this part was enjoyable, levelling my miter I think now is a good time to put my a couple more things to do. One is to install And cut some miter slots. Well I hope you enjoyed my workbench journey please let me know, and if you're interested Ill have the plans available, just If you like what you see, please subscribe, hit