Build me car on an empty road. Hello, I'm James, a digital human. Feel free to ask me anything about NVIDIA Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and welcome to the stage, NVIDIA Founder and CEO, Jensen Huang. Hello, Japan! Hello, Japan. Welcome to NVIDIA AI Summit. Everything you saw just now was simulated. Everything was simulation. No animation. At the core, NVIDIA is a We simulate physics. We simulate virtual worlds, we simulate intelligence. Through our simulations, we help you predict the future. So in many ways, NVIDIA builds time machines. Today we're going to talk to you But most importantly, this is an event We have so many partners here. 350 startups, 250,000 developers, hundreds of companies. We've been coming Japan has been very dear to us It is here in Japan we did many firsts, It was our first game developer SEGA, Yu Suzuki, the famous developer, 3D game developer, SEGA's incredible It was the first time that someone used NVIDIA CUDA The Tsubame 1.2 at Tokyo Tech, which enabled NVIDIA Japan has been first in so many ways. It was also the first time that which led to one of our very, very dear projects, So many firsts. Now we're in the beginning of a new age. The AI revolution: a new industry, This is a time that is very exciting, So we're here to partner the amazing companies here, all together take advantage of this We have many partners here today GMO Internet Group, Microsoft Azure, MITSUI and Company I want to thank all of you for that. Thank you. And 56 other sponsors. Thank you all for coming NVIDIA invented accelerated computing. Accelerated computing does not replace the CPU. In fact, we were just about the only company who did not want to replace the CPU, so that we can take the workloads and offload them onto the GPU. These are GPUs, that's the CPU. Working together, we can take advantage of the best one that is extremely good at and a processor that's incredibly good This I'll talk about in just a second. But this is accelerated computing. Not just parallel computing, CPU and GPU working together. This computing model is In fact, just using the CPU has been around since 1964, The vast majority of everything we see in the world today But there's a new change, a fundamental But in order to do that, that's running sequentially We have to create a whole bunch of new Just as OpenGL made it possible for computer to connect to acceleration we had to create many like OpenGL, These are some of the 350 different libraries we have in our company, CuLitho was for computational lithography, Making the mask of chips may require many, many weeks We take many weeks of computation We could, of course, but very importantly, to advance the algorithms of lithography more sophisticated so that we can well beyond two nanometers, So computational lithography CuDSS for Sparse Solver, AI Aerial-- I'll talk about that today. An incredible new library that makes it possible Basically a radio in real time CUDA-Q for quantum simulation, quantum Parabricks for gene sequencing, cuVS for vector storage, for indexing and querying CuPyNumeric is a numerical processing library. NumPy is the most popular Five million different developers use it. It has been downloaded 30 million times Incredible number of downloads. It is now fully accelerated for multi-GPU CuPyNumeric, please go look it up. CuDF for data frame processing, structured data processing CuOPT, the classic incredibly complicated This problem has now been accelerated Modulus for AI physics, and then one of the most important called cuDNN. CuDNN for deep CuDNN for deep the different layers, the various layers It enabled us By creating cuDNN, and accelerating we made it possible in the last decade to scale artificial intelligence and scale machine learning by 1 million times. Increasing the scale of machine learning of course, the incredible breakthrough The advent of artificial intelligence. CuDNN did something very special. It enabled a change in the way that software is done. This is the way that software was done Software 1.0. Software programmers writing code to describe an algorithm-- That function is software. You then apply input, it predicts an output. That code written by human runs Software 1.0 was coding, writing software that runs on CPUs. Software 2.0, because the computer is now you can give it an enormous so that it can learn, it can predict We call that software 2.0. So instead of coding, Instead of code running on CPU, And neural networks, these neural networks is now the formation of a new way of using computers. The operating system of the modern This machine learning approach has proven to be incredibly scalable. You can use it for all kinds of things. Of course, digitized text, languages, of course, digitized sound, It could be multimodal. You could teach it amino acid sequences. You could teach it to understand anything where you have large observed data. Well, that was the first step, was to understand Just by studying an enormous we were able to understand the words, the vocabulary, syntax, grammar, and even the meaning of the words. by finding patterns and relationships. Using the same approach, understand the meaning connect it to different modalities-- Connect the image of the word 'cat' and the image of a cat learning a multi-modality. We can now even translate and generate, so we can understand data of all kinds, and we can generate intelligent information, Well, if you look at all the amazing startups applications that are being created, in one of the two combinations. One side to the other side, Text to text, would be summarization, question and answering, Video to text would Image to text-- Text to images-- image generation like Midjourney. Text to video--video creation All of these different combinations You can even have proteins to text, explain what a protein does. Text to chemicals, that might be a successful drug You can even have video and text Each one of these combinations is a new industry, incredible Cambrian explosion And we're just at the beginning. One of the properties of machine learning, the more data we can teach it, the smarter it becomes. We call it the scaling law. There's every evidence that as we scale up the size of the models, the effectiveness, the quality, the performance Every single year, the industry is scaling up which correspondingly need 2X the data, and therefore we need 4X The amount of computing resource necessary of artificial intelligence We call that the scaling law, Pre-training is part of it, Post-training with reinforcement reinforcement learning, AI feedback. So many different ways now of using synthetic data generation So training, pre-training, scaling and we're continuing Well, when Strawberry or it exposed the world Inference is when you interact with the AI, just like ChatGPT. But ChatGPT is one shot. You ask it a question, Whatever question you have, whatever prompts you provide, through one shot, However, we know that thinking is oftentimes and thinking requires us to maybe do multiple potential answers Just like when we're thinking. We might reflect on the answer Reflection. We might take a problem and break it down into step by step There are many different technologies for inference to perform better and better as we apply more and more compute. Now we have the second scaling law: inference scaling law. Not just generation of the next word, These two simultaneous scale laws to drive computing at extraordinary speeds. Every single time when we deliver a new generation, we increase the performance by X factors, but we also decrease the power We decrease the cost by the same X factor. So driving up performance is exactly Driving up the performance is exactly And so therefore as the world continues it is our mission, it is our duty, it is our duty, to continue to drive the In the process, expanding the reach of artificial intelligence, driving down its cost, That's the reason However, AI is not a chip problem. These AI systems are enormous. This is the Blackwell system. Blackwell is the name of a GPU, but it's The GPU is extraordinary in itself. There are two Blackwell dies. Each Blackwell die is the largest chip 104 billion transistors made by TSMC and their most Two of these Blackwell dies are connected together Right in the middle, Thousands of interconnections between the two dies. It's connected by eight HBM3E memories from SK Hynix And these memories together And 8 TB/s, these two GPUs are connected very energy efficient series, 1 TB/s. Each one of the GPUs are connected That's a lot of terabytes per second. And the reason for that Even the most advanced computer cannot work alone Sometimes it has to work with thousands nodes like this, together as one computer, separately because they are responding So sometimes separately, In order to enable the GPUs to work as one, two ConnectX-7s that connect this GPU with thousands of other GPUs, but we still need this NVLink. This NVLink allows us to connect the few GPUs in one rack That one rack behind me, with this NVLink 5.0, 1.8TB per second, 35 times higher bandwidth than the highest which allows us to connect to this NVLink switch. There are nine NVLink switches in one rack. Each rack has 72 computers like this connected through this spine. This is the NVLink spine. This is cables, copper. 50 pounds of copper, driven directly by this incredible series, incredible IO we call NVLink. They connect into, connect into the computer, into NVLink this way, and this switch connects all of these computers together as one. And so what results, are 72 of these computers connected as one large GPU. One incredibly large GPU. From the software perspective, and these racks, these NVLinked 72 systems. This one rack. This one rack is 3,000 pounds. It is impossible to put on this stage That is 3,000 pounds and 120kW. That is, I have my my friends here. That's many, many Nintendo Switch power. It is not portable but it's very powerful. And so this is the Blackwell system. We designed this so that it can be or one entire gigantic data center with thousands and thousands of them, And they're connected to them Some of them are Quantum InfiniBand switches. If you want to have a dedicated AI factory NVIDIA Spectrum-X revolutionary ethernet system that you can integrate into your existing ethernet environments. We can build AI supercomputers with these, we can integrate them into enterprise configure them for the edge. The Blackwell system it is also incredibly adaptable, into every corner of the world's So this is this is Blackwell. On top of Blackwell, But most importantly, top of it, this computer is just When you see these computers all of the wiring, How do you program This is where NVIDIA's software stack, NCCL, all of our Megatron, Megatron-Core, all of the software that we created, all of the software that we created over into the system, anyone, to deploy And then, of course, on top we have AI software And so what is AI? What is AI? We talk about AI but I think there are two types of AIs And there are two mental models It's very helpful to me. The first AI is basically a digital AI worker. These AI workers can understand, they can plan and they can take action. Sometimes the digital AI workers are being asked to execute a marketing campaign, support a customer, come up with a manufacturing supply optimize a chip, help us write software. Maybe be a research assistant, a lab assistant in the drug discovery industry. Maybe this agent you know is a tutor to the CEO. Maybe there's a tutor These AI, these digital AI workers, are essentially like digital employees. And just like digital employees, You have to create data teach them about your company. You train them for their particular skills, depending on what function you evaluate them to make sure that they learned you guardrail them they're asked to do, and not the jobs And of course, you operate them, you deploy them. Provide them energy from Blackwell, And they interact with other agents Well, you're going And we created several things to be able NVIDIA is not in the service business. And we don't create, we don't deliver but we do deliver the enabling technology to create AI, to deliver AI, to continuously improve AI. The AI agent lifecycle libraries, the lifecycle platform is called NeMo, and NeMo has libraries for each one of the stages that I mentioned, tuning to synthetic data generation And these libraries are integrated into workflows We're working with AI startups, service providers companies all over the world to bring this We also work with ISVs like ServiceNow so that they can create agents Today, you use ServiceNow and your employees interact with the ServiceNow platform In the future, ServiceNow will also provide a large number of AI agents Essentially digital employees that you can We're working with ServiceNow, Cadence, Ansys, companies Snowflake, companies all over the world that can be helpful to you Now, these agents are able to understand, And these agents are collections or systems of AI models. It's not just one AI model, but a system of AI models. And NeMo helps us build those. We also create pre-trained AI models that we package up in And so these NIMs are microservices. They're basically AI packaged. In the old days, and they'd come delivered with CD-ROMs. Today, AI is packaged in a microservice and You could talk to the software because it understands what you mean, with other software. You can connect this you could create So this is the first thing. Let me give you Agenetic AI is transforming every enterprise using sophisticated planning to solve complex, AI agents help marketing campaigns go live faster with instant insights, saving hundreds of millions in costs, from days to seconds by helping analysts What makes agentic to turn data into knowledge, A digital agent in this example from a set of informationally dense It was built using NVIDIA AI Blueprints. These are reference workflows SDKs, and NIM microservices that help you rapidly build The multi-modal PDF Data Extraction a data ingest pipeline, provides smooth, human-like interactions. "Hi, I'm James." A digital agent ingests PDF research including complex data like images, charts a high level summary delivered through "What an exciting breakthrough in weather The development of CorrDiff, is a significant step forward by combining a U-Net regression model James can also answer questions or generate new content NVIDIA AI gives enterprises into real time AI agents. Three parts: NeMo, NIMs, and Blueprints. These are all references. They're available to you in source form and build your AI agent workforce. None of these agents can do 100% of anyone's task. Anybody's job. None of the agents can do 100%. However, all of the agents will be able to do work for 50% of your work. This is the great achievement. Instead of thinking about AI as replacing you should think that AI will do By thinking that way, boost your company's You know, people have asked me, And I always say, because it's true, AI will not take your job. AI used by somebody else, will take your job. And so be sure to activate So the first is digital AI agents. Digital. These are digital AIs. The second application is physical AI. The same basic technology is now embodied, sits inside a mechanical system. Of course, robotics is going to be one of the most important Until now, robotics has been limited and the reason is very, very clear. In fact, here in Japan, 50% of the world's Kawasaki, FANUC, Yaskawa, Mitsubishi. Four of the leaders that build As much as robots have driven the productivity of manufacturing, The robotics industry And the reason for that It is not flexible enough. It is not flexible enough scenarios and different conditions We need AI that is much, much more flexible, Notice the technology that we described up Irrespective of who you are, you should be It can give you response. Of course, sometimes the response is not as good but many of them are in fact And so we can now apply this general of embodied AI or physical AI, In order to enable robotics to happen, The first computer is training the AI, just like we did with all of the examples Second is to simulate the AI, you need to give the a place to learn, a place to retreat, to receive synthetic data We call that Omniverse. Omniverse is our virtual world that could be used for creating physical AIs, robotics. Omniverse, then, after validation, then you can take the model Inside that we have processors We call it Jetson Thor. Thor is a robotics processor This loop goes on and on and on. Just as there is a NeMo AI agent life cycle platform, there is this Omniverse platform that enables you to create AI. Well, ultimately, what you want is the AI-- tt sees the video, You tell it what you want. And this AI will generate articulation motion. Just as we take text, we can take text We can take text and generate articulation motion. So this concept is very similar And this is the reason why we think that now we have the necessary technology and all the computers the latest generative AI technology, that the time has come for humanoid robotics. Now, why is humanoid robotics so hard? Well, obviously the software developed However, the benefit is incredible. There are only two robotic systems that The first robot is a self-driving car, for that is because we created the world The second is humanoid robots. These two robotic systems in brownfields anywhere in the world. Because we created the world for us. This is both extraordinarily that the time has come, Well, this last week at the Conference we announced a new framework It's called Isaac Lab. Isaac Lab is a reinforcement that allows you to teach humanoid robots And on top of it, we have several The first workflow is Groot-Mimic. Groot-Mimic is a framework how to perform a task. You use human demonstration and then mimic that environment, using domain randomization generates hundreds of other examples So that the robot can learn to generalize. Otherwise it can only perform Using Mimic, The second is Groot-Gen. Groot-Gen, using generative we can create an enormous number of random, domain randomized examples of environments and the actions And so we're generating a whole bunch evaluation scenarios to perform and improve itself, learn And the third is Groot-Control. Groot-Control is a model distillation all of the skills that we've learned that allows the robot to perform Not only will robots be autonomous, but remember that And so these factories that are orchestrating robots, building Let me show it to you. Physical AI embodies robots like self-driving cars manipulators that perform complex industrial tasks, and humanoid robots Plants and factories will be embodied and adjusting its operations NVIDIA builds three computers to enable developers The models are first trained on DGX, then the AI is fine-tuned and tested using reinforcement And the trained AI runs on NVIDIA Jetson AGX robotics computers. NVIDIA Omniverse is a physics-based Robots learn and fine tune their skills in Isaac Lab, And with GR00T workflows like GR00T-Gen to generate diverse GR00T-Mimic to generate large scale based on a small number of real-world and GR00T-Control This is just one robot. Future factories will orchestrate teams entire operations For factory digital twins, they use an Omniverse With Mega, the factory digital twin is populated The robots execute a task by perceiving planning their next motion, These actions are simulated in the environment and the results are perceived by the robot brains Based on the sensor simulations, and the loop continues while Mega precisely tracks the state and position This software in the loop to physical spaces and embodiments, simulate and validate changes before deploying to the physical world, The era of physical AI is here, transforming the world's Incredible times. So we have two robotic systems. One that's digital. We call AI agents, collaborating with your employees. And then the second is a physical AI, And these physical AIs will be products And so companies will use AI to increase And we will use AI to drive and power the products that we sell. Car companies will have two factories one factory to build cars, one factory to produce the AI that runs in the car. Well, this is the robotics revolution. So much activity is going around the world to lead the robotics And the reason for that is, as you know, this country loves robots. You love robots. You have created some of the world's best robots. These are the robots we grew up with. These are I didn't even show some of my favorites, Mazinger Z, Gundam. I hope that Japan will take advantage in artificial intelligence and combine No country in the world has greater skills in mechatronics than Japan. This is an extraordinary And so I hope that we can work together NVIDIA AI in We have so many partners here. We have partners that are building large language Institute of Science Tokyo, Rakuten, SoftBank Intuitions, NTT, Fujitsu, NEC, Nagoya University, Kotoba Technologies. We also have if you go to the upper right, AIST, SoftBank, Sakura Internet, GMO Internet Group, HIGHRESO, KDDI, Rutilea, building AI clouds here So many robotics the capabilities that AI is now providing Yaskawa, Toyota, Kawasaki, Rapyuta. Medical imaging systems-- Canon, Fuji Films, Olympus-- because in the future, these medical It's almost like a nurse helping the nurse guide the diagnosis. So many different ways, the drug so many different ways that AI is being used. And so I'm delighted. I'm delighted by the advancements here. And we want to go even faster Well, this industry is changing. As I said earlier, the computer industry From coding that runs on CPU to now machine learning running on GPUs. From an industry that produced software, we have now become an industry that is manufacturing and the artificial intelligence They're running 24/7. When you license software, you install it onto your computer. The manufacturing, the distribution However, intelligence is never complete. And you're interacting with all of the AIs, whether they're AI agents or AI robots. And the tokens, the intelligence is expressed in tokens, It's a number. And these numbers are constituted. These tokens are constituted in ways intelligence in steering wheels, intelligence in motors to articulate human robots, intelligence in proteins and chemicals All of these tokens are being produced these infrastructure, It's a brand new thing, which is the reason why we're seeing For the very first time, we have a new industry, a new factory producing something that we call artificial intelligence. These factories They'll be built. Every company will be an AI manufacturer. Of course, no company can afford not to manufacture, How can any company afford How can any country afford You don't have to produce chips. You don't have to produce software, It is vital. It is core to who you are. It is core to who we are. And so we have the new industry, AI factories. And that's the reason why I call it. It's a new industrial revolution. The last time this happened when electricity was discovered, and the distribution of electricity And that new factory was a power plant. And then a new industry Several hundred years ago, there was no such thing It happened Now we have a new industry, Artificial intelligence sits on top of the computer industry, it is created by every industry. You have to create your own AI. The drug industry--creates your own AI. The automotive industry--creates your own AI. The robotics industry--creates your own AI. Every industry, every company, A new industrial revolution. I have a very big announcement to make. Today we're announcing that we're partnering to bring and to build an AI infrastructure for Japan. Together, we're going to build It's going to be built out of NVIDIA DGX. When it's built, it'll have 25 AI exaflops. Just remember, the largest supercomputer This is 25 exaflops for an AI factory to produce the AI. But in order to distribute the AI, which was the engine that I mentioned earlier, By doing that, we can unify and combine the radio computers, the basebands and the AI computers from 5G-RAN. We can now evolve and reinvent It will be able to carry voice, we will also carry AI, a new type, a new type of information: intelligence. This will be distributed across SoftBank's serve 55 million customers. AI factory and AI distribution AI-RAN to distribute the AI. We're also going to put on top of it a new type of store, an AI store, so that the AIs that were created parties could be provided So we will build those applications on top of NVIDIA AI enterprise, and there will be a new store This is just a magnificent development. What will result is an AI grid that runs across Japan. Now this AI grid will be part of infrastructure Remember, you need factories and roads, so that you could just make and distribute You need energy and communications, Every time you create something new industries and new companies are created, If not for roads and factories, If not for energy and communications, how would we have the IT revolution? Each one of these new infrastructures and so it's incredibly exciting to make this possible in Japan. Miyakawa-san's team, Partnering with you is incredible. And, really, really happy This is completely revolutionary. This is the first of its kind to transform the telecommunications network, into an AI network. Well, let me show you what you can do. There's some amazing things you could do. For example, I'm standing underneath one of the base stations, one of the radio towers, and the car has video, and the car's video is streamed to the radio tower and the radio tower has AI. This radio tower has video intelligence. It has vision intelligence. So it could see what the car sees and it can understand That AI model may be too heavy but it's not too heavy to put in the And using the video it can understand anything that's Okay, so this is just one example of using AI at the edge to keep people safe. Or maybe this is the air traffic control, The applications are endless. We can also use this basic concept to turn a whole factory into an AI. This is a factory on this side. Lots of cameras. The cameras are streamed to the base station. And what's amazing is this: because of all the cameras and the AI model in the AI-RAN, now this factory became an AI. You can talk to the factory. Ask the factory, what is happening? Ask the factory, were there any accidents? Is there anything abnormal happening? Was anybody injured today? Could it give you a daily report? You just have to ask the factory, because That AI model doesn't That AI model can run in the SoftBank radio. Okay, so that's another example. But the countless examples, physical object into an AI, a stadium, a road, a factory, They can all become AIs and you can just Okay. What's the condition of the aisles? Any obstruction or spills? You're just talking to the factory. And the factory has observed everything. It understands what it sees. It can reason and it can plan an action or just talk to you. And here it says &quot;No, the aisles in the warehouse did not have any obstruction, spills or hazards. The conditions of the aisles in the video appears to be well-organized, clean, and free of obstacles or hazards.&quot; Okay, so you're talking to the factory. It's incredible. You're talking to the warehouse. You're talking to the car. Because all of these Well, I have a very special guest and also to talk about And this friend of mine, You might know him. That's the two of us. You might know him. This friend of mine is really, Where is Masa? Where is Son-san? Is he here? - He's here. Hey! Son-san. Ladies and gentlemen. The great Masa. Great Jensen. Let me let me tell you something. I don't know if you know this. So we've been in, I've been in the Started in the PC revolution. The computer industry went from PC to Internet, Long journey. Masa is the only entrepreneur in the world that has selected the winner and partnered with the winner, in every single generation. Remember, it was Masa that It was Masa that invented or brought, It was Masa that made it possible for China's It was Masa that brought Steve Jobs And maybe many of you probably don't know this, Yes. Oh. It's okay. We can we can cry. We can cry together. Yeah. Sit down. Sit. How did you do it? How did you pick the innovators, of each one of the technology revolutions 100% record. Well, I think I was just lucky. I was born in the right time, and I met with great entrepreneurs It's a passion. It's a dream. And it's an instinct that you smell, is the real pioneer who is a real, you know, innovator. And, I really think I was lucky, but it's the same vision It's like, wolf smell wolf. I think we smell each other. I have two puppies. I don't like that mental image. No. No. Masa, each, as you think back on the history. - Yes. transition, this platform shift, how is this one different How does it feel different to you? Well, I say this is the most exciting, This is 100 times, a thousand times bigger. This is the biggest wave. I thought that's how it feels. - Yeah, yeah. I think mathematically the important thing to realize although AI is software, Yeah. The software industry you and I created, and are part of is an industry of tools. It's tools used by humans. Yeah. For the very first time, Large Language Models, agents, robots are not tools, but they are skills. They're tasks. They do work. They can perform work. And the industry, the market, $1 trillion, it is $100 trillion. And that's the reason why we realized that this industry is, in fact, not a transition of the IT industry. But this is a transition of every industry. Which is the reason why it's such a big deal. Yeah. Mankind is the only animal that has the super brain Because of brain power, mankind is so powerful. If you compare just the muscles, lions and the elephants, But mankind has the smartest brain. And every activity of GDPs today is based on So I think every industry will be affected by this revolution. And one of the one of the amazing things, the size of the industry is limited. Because there's only so much atoms It's heavy. But the industry of AI - Exactly. It's governed by quantum mechanics. - Right, right, right. It can be infinitely large. - Yeah. And intelligence. Intelligence is so much more valuable compared to just moving things. You know, you think, chain of thought, reasoning. It's amazing. It's amazing. - Yeah, Masa one of the things that we announced today - Yeah, yeah. And the AI grid will have AI factories It will have AI-RAN distribute the AI models all over Japan. The architecture of the that we worked on together - Yeah. Japan will be the world's first. - Yeah, every other telco will have to follow this - Yeah. And. And so several things that So one, how would SoftBank use this yourself And how do you imagine this AI grid - Yeah, as you just mentioned our cell towers for the telecommunication and internet However, now with this intelligence network that we densely connect each other, becomes one big neural brain, right? For the infrastructure That will be amazing. You know, and of course, you could use it - And PayPay. - That's right. And so it will create AIs to make all of your services But one of the things that I'm very excited about is so that, researchers and students, - Yes, definitely. And with your support, we are creating the I'm talking with Miyakawa that we should provide the students, the startups, with, we are trying to subsidize so that - Yeah. - Well, building infrastructure And you're making a very big bet on Japan. - You know that you and I have spoken In a lot of ways, Japan technology led - Yes. when when mechanical technology In fact, even consumer electronics, during that age, Japan And then when, when the there was a, there was a miss as the software industries flourished really, Japan could have been - Totally agree. Totally. Yeah. And back in those days, big enterprise, the medias, they used to say, 'monozukuri'-- Physical stuff has the real value and the real meaning. And software is something virtual That has been the mentality for many, young, startup guys, the young, especially after the net bubble crash. Everybody criticized. I was criticized a lot. And that really, you know, was sort of Made, you know, the, depressed feeling. I think we have to revive this passion As you say, you know, Astro Boy, in Japan, we call 'Tetsuwan Atomu.' You cannot just have the muscle. It has to have, intelligence Robot can have a passion, I think that kind of, front end challenge - Yeah. Yeah, I think the software era was, is now, The good news is that - Yeah. Reset. Once more, reset. Reset button. - That's right. The industry is in reset. And you could see that the entire stack of the last generation are - That's right. - And so there's an emergence of a whole - Right. - Japan must take advantage. And artificial intelligence is very Artificial intelligence requires that you have domain expertise. Yes. If you are an artist, if you develop video games, If you look for drugs, you discover drugs, If you have domain expertise, That data could be used to train That AI model becomes - That's right. At least, Japanese you know, depress the, this AI revolution. Some of the other countries, they try to be overprotective of the, intelligence, artificial intelligence, so the regulation goes a little crazy. Here in Japan, at least we are lucky seems not, you know, trying to, So I think, but they should encourage more. They should encourage more. As you said, this is the reset. This is the catch up moment We can't miss this time. - Cannot miss this time. And of course, in order to be part you need infrastructure. - This type of software, - We're gonna buy a lot of your chips. - Well, thank you, thank you. - And and, you need infrastructure. You need AI factories. Without the infrastructure, - Totally. - That's the reason why SoftBank is building And you will catalyze, you will activate, - We're going to show by our example. - Yeah. - And hopefully, today 350 startups that we work with out of 22,000 in the world. Yeah. It makes no sense. - That's right. - And so we we must encourage, - Yeah, yeah. - To jump, to leap, to engage AI. The infrastructure is coming. - Yeah. So as I said, Miyakawa and I are discussing, we're going to create the largest So we are going to provide a lot of encouraging program. Subsidize the compute power, so that they can they can use almost free. Okay, almost free to try out the new models, try out the, you know, whatever, the applications of AI. You should also help with some donation, right? - Okay. - Hey, Jensen! For some sort of startup, and researchers-- - This is the last time I'm inviting myself to-- - Yeah. That's good for everybody. - Yes, yes. Yeah. Very happy about that. Masa, what are you most excited about What do you hope? What is your dream? - Well, look, you know, as you say, I think the medical solutions, I think medical agents is definitely coming. I think a lot of, new agents. You know, so we have LINE, we have Yahoo and other services, Paypay. We can make many specific AI agents for, for helping Japanese lifestyle. That cannot just come from US, you know, the cutures, the local intelligence and APIs to many, many, sites in Japan. So that I think, agents, I think every--you mentioned about, enterprise AI agents, definitely I support that. I'm excited about that. But also, I think personal agents will Bill gates said, the PC on every desktop. Steve said, a smartphone in every hand. I think now we should say, AI agents to everybody. So each of us - That's right. - That will help make our plans for trips, - And it follows you your whole life. - Yeah. Yeah. - Could you imagine an AI agent - Exactly. - Our grandkids, they grow up with, iPhones from, you know, age one, right? They talk, and every time even with a still picture. Right? Because they are born the, they think, you know, - In the future, they'll see a picture, - Right. They talk. - They'll hope it talks back. - They will have agent, their personal agents and their personal agent, like your, grow together with you knows everything. You are sick. You know, your health. - Your tutor. - Yeah. Yeah. - Since you were a child. - Exactly. - Yeah. Remember everything that you read? Remember everything that it taught you, That. Yeah. Your personal Aristotle. - Totally, totally digital twin. You know? I think that is really coming and having, you know, Japanese domestic knowledge, culture and so on, - You know, one of the things is that the data of their country, their, their citizens' data, encodes the country's knowledge, its culture, its intelligence. And that data belongs to the country - National security, national security. - So that country, every country, and turn it into its - Totally, totally. - Makes no sense to outsource - Oh, this is this is very, very important. Their each sovereign, each country, each government into their own data center, That becomes the, something that you have to have Each country have to have I think that will become, regulated to each protection of each country. - Yeah. Every country, every country Of course, every company Their own AI. How is it possible that a company, does not create its own AI? - Yeah. - A company doesn't-- - It's like giving your brain away to somebody else. - That's right, that's right. And so I think, I think, And the most important part is the first part, - Right. - You cannot have an automotive industry - Totally, totally. - You know, and so so now you have On top of it, you know, all kinds of new services, - Totally. - So really, really excited about that. Well, Masa-san. Could you imagine if today, you were the largest shareholder. - Oh my God. - [laughs] - Yeah. We tried this. - We tried, we tried to. - It was three times. - Was it three times? - No, no. The first time, we became your We talked about the, you know, the... We even talked about. - Some things we can share. You and I had a private talk. - I don't want, don't say it. - You know, ten years ago-- - --in my garden. - All right. There's nothing. Okay, Are you guys ready? So Masa said, "Jensen, the market does not Your future is incredible. But the market - That was ten years ago. - "And your journey of suffering will continue for some time. " So, let me give you the money to buy NVIDIA." He wanted to lend me money to buy NVIDIA. All of it. Now I regret not taking you up on it. That was a great idea. - Oh, that was a great idea right? - Now, now we're both sad. - That was one month after I acquired Arm. - Yes, yes. And then we talked about That was another. Another. - That was the third one. - Yeah, right. - The first we talked about this privatizing and then second was we And then the third time was merging. Three attempts! Oh my god. - Well now we are going to we're going to create So NVIDIA and SoftBank - Yeah. The market is so huge! - It's incredible. - So huge, so huge. - And so I am so happy. I'm so happy that that we're doing - Yeah. - Here in Japan, I, I am very hopeful. - Well, this is just the beginning. We're going to do many, - Thank you. - And the industry is so big and, you know, - And you have a great data Many, many things that we can collaborate. - I'm looking forward to it. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, Son-san. - Yeah. - Unquestionably one of the great entrepreneurs - No, no. You are the greatest. Thank you. Masa-san. You could see The work, the partnership that we're throughout Japan from the factory Before I before I leave, I want We have so many sessions here, Our purpose. Our purpose is to partner with you, to bring AI, to activate AI here in Japan, and to use this reset, this opportunity, for us to transform the companies and to create the next Japan has always been dear to me. Most of you do not know that if not for Japan and I mean this very seriously, if not for Japan, And there's a reason for that. If not for Japan, AI supercomputer, CUDA supercomputer built. So Japan has been very dear to me I'm very grateful for our partnership. I'm very grateful for your friendship. And I made a small video Please run it. "If there is a heart in the fish, there is a heart in the water." Our friendship with Japan began 30 years ago. &lt;font color=#E7D500FF&gt;"Ready? Go!"&lt;/font&gt; We had a dream to reinvent 3D graphics. SEGA, with its groundbreaking 3D games, chose NVIDIA to build its next game console. But it became clear our unconventional approach would not live up to our vision. With humility, we asked SEGA's Irimajiri-San to release us from our obligations. He generously agreed, giving us the time needed to invent the GPU, a chance for success -- saving our company. In the years since, we've worked with Japan to redefine gaming on the PlayStation 3, SEGA Arcades, and the Nintendo Switch. And created a medium for telling beautiful stories. With the invention of CUDA, we transitioned from a gaming company to a computing company. As we expanded into the world of Supercomputing and AI, it was Japan's then Tokyo Tech that first saw the promise of GPU accelerated computing. &lt;font color=#E7D500FF&gt;"It's just the beginning of GPU acceleration becoming mainstream."&lt;/font&gt; Less than a decade after Tsubame, we introduced DGX-1. The AI computer that changed the world. &lt;font color=#E7D500FF&gt;"A GPU is not just a GPU anymore."&lt;/font&gt; NVIDIA and AI are now at the center of a new industrial revolution. From the beginning, Japan has been a friend on the NVIDIA journey. And our story together is just getting started. Thank you, Japan. Have a great AI Summit. Thank you.