Wars of the Diadochi Episode VI: Introduction: was now descending upon the Eastern Mediterranean. but still powerful and vengeful Antigonos sent his capital of Hellas with ease. Demetrios and Athenians, but they have many obstacles to the Hellenistic world. Kassander remained ruler newly acquired territory of Cyprus against the Hellas would see many battles and sieges, between empires for the millionth time. Who would a future all of the Successors wanted to seize. War of the Diadochi, the war in Greece, and Background of the War: keen to reassert their geopolitical dominance by Seleukos in the Babylonian War, and the that we covered in the previous episode were they preemptively invaded Greece, taking discontent amongst the Greek poleis. Antigonos of a distinctly Macedonian way of conducting war honours strength, militarism, and conquest, and asserting control over Greece was the perfect For their part, Ptolemy and Kassander also had the same effect Antigonos was now aiming for to weaken Antigonos, they could both do overtures the invasion of Greece was both and their own attempts to weaken Antigonos and It is also important to understand the state because it determines how the major geopolitical Generals cared about Alexander's legacy until except for Kassander, who was perfectly by this point, it was obvious that the Empire was someone like Antigonos could take his place. have preferred to have spheres of influence, enlarging them as much as possible in Asia Minor ambitions similar to Antigonos as early as now, Using Alexander's myth would become a major theme stage when the Hellenistic Kings put themselves at legitimacy from Alexander in order to legitimize of each Diadochos, as well as the state of the Fourth War, meant that the Empire was consigned The War in Greece: the young Demetrios now tried to champion this propaganda strategy to gain favour with the Greece. This quickly bore him positive results in sided with him, and this gave him the ability to he had done in Athens. Demetrios also conducted a fought the Thirty Tyrants in the aftermath of a testing ground for some of his most famous later The consolidation in Attica was a stunning a foothold in Greece. Thereafter, the which was now a loyal ally of the newly deified Kassander scrambled with his troops to crush for he now had to ensure Greece was under his Having achieved some success in Greece, Antigonids front and the scheming Ptolemy. The main target the island of Cyprus, which was probably the most Demetrios set sail while his allies began their a well-known shipbuilding hub. He asked claiming they preferred their neutrality. the island of Aphrodite with only the Battle of Salamis: it was a springboard into Asia Minor or Egypt due naval raids elsewhere. The island's population had and been unified as a single province under the of becoming a resource hub for timber and copper Eteocypriot, and other peoples living there. The city of Salamis, near modern day Famagusta. The Menelaos. Thus, the Antigonids made plans to island in Salamis. Already in possession of 30 in Cilicia. There, his army was enhanced and the navy was also enriched with bottomless at the dawn of the invasion of Cyprus, the consisting of 53 heavy warships and around and landed on the Karpasia on the north-east of cities, Karpasia and Ourania, leaving The Antigonids would have to contend with a Menelaos had 60 warships alongside 12,000 to ensure Demetrios did not reach the city, stadia's length of distance to meet Demetrios in battle that followed are unknown to us, but it over Menelaos' Ptolemaic host. 1,000 of Menelaos' remaining troops fled back to Salamis. Demetrios Moreover, the sea was blockaded by the Antigonid On land, Demetrios was determined to using his experience from Munychia. He put and ordered a siege tower to be built. or Destroyer of Cities, was nine stories high and the siege began. Despite the defence of the struck by lightning. However, Salamis and Menelaos famous for the shrines to Zeus. That night, siege engines, giving the city a brief respite. In the West of the Island, in the city of Paphos, force in the form of Ptolemy himself. Ptolemy From there, he sailed on the southern coast, where in Kition. On the way, he received reinforcements that he should order the ships out of Salamis be too many ships for the Antigonid forces to but Menelaos likely tried to exploit some gap in this plan through unknown means and decided to go his siege equipment, as well as all of his elite the night, he placed them in front of Salamis's The night passed, and when none of Menelaos's his plans had been compromised. Thus, he decided own armada and sailed out of Kition across Demetrios saw the Ptolemaic fleet, he ordered ten harbour and continue the blockade while he moved The Antigonid heir put his largest and heaviest with himself on the front of this line. However, affairs, he deferred command to a certain of the Antigonid army. The centre and right flank a mirror strategy, putting a double line on his right. Both enemies hoped to break their enemy's After a tense standoff, Demetrios and left clashing against the Ptolemaic right. Using Demetrios easily pounded the enemy and smashed advancing his left flank and breaking the left flank of Demetrios's ships turned line of the enemy. The ships of Menelaos began to blockade. Ptolemy turned around to rout the had been routed already. Believing it would be time Menelaos had successfully broken through The Battle for Salamis ended with with 40 warships and 100 supply ships from Menelaos fled from Salamis to Alexandria. to Demetrios. 16,000 infantry and 600 cavalry As for the Antigonid troops, they had minimal but it is likely that only 20 ships were had lost something far more important than the surrendered to Demetrios one by one. Antigonid foreseeable future, providing resources, halloumi, The War in Egypt: Antigonos now turned his sights onto Egypt, the man who had stolen Alexander's corpse. After the usual rhetoric of protecting the unity of farce. Instead, he declared himself king and named Antigonos made a claim that Alexander's was fit to unify it. The ceremony was elaborate The multitude then, for the first time, proclaimed tied at once a diadem round his head, while addressed as king in a letter he wrote. When Egypt also proclaimed Ptolemy king to dispel any And so emulation spread the practice Lysimachus began to wear the diadem, and so too as with the barbarians he had already however, although the others wrote continued to write letters in the same style The presence of the friends of Antigonos at later Hellenistic kingship relied on the as a trusted inner circle of administrators. be the case for their descendants Kassander did not also declare himself king, Alexander's sister, gave him enough legitimacy. turning point that hastened the war because now respective spheres of influence or the entire and if it ever were to reunite, Antigonos and Demetrios now had an incredible and that meant he was vulnerable. south for an invasion of Egypt. Antigonos while Demetrios got his ships and set sail. down south from Asia Minor through the Levant and Demetrios tried at once to march to the Nile the desert landscape, as well as the constant the Nabataeans, who remembered their Eventually, they reached Pelusium, only to find fight them off. Antigonos ordered Demetrios to Demetrios tried to do so with his best troops Phatniticum. Both times, he was pushed back attempting to cross the Nile via other means would equally fatal consequences. Thus, he ordered his However, this was not to be the end of the war. and the Levant, but there was a small island the Rose of the Dodecanese, Rhodes. Antigonos island. Demetrios, who remembered the Rhodians and it was a choice that would define his very Conclusion: the Antigonids showed that they would not go down Demetrios had shown that he could bounce areas for his father's control. In a world where Demetrios and Antigonos wanted theirs to and Seleukos also wanted to become immortalised continue even after the Antigonid victory will thus continue at sea, and many, many more Mediterranean will tremble from the marches of To paraphrase the Italian politician Antonio are dying, and the Hellenistic World struggles to This series will soon continue. make sure you are subscribed and have pressed the subscribing, commenting, and sharing - it releasing weekly patron and YouTube member ranks via the link in the description or button learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals