Narrator: From Sikh chefs feeding 100,000 people for free at the Gurudwara Bangla to Korean chefs making 10,000 lunches by hand, we traveled all over the globe making the world's biggest batches of food. Our first stop is Maison du Beurre, where master chef Jean-Yves of malaxage to knead butter Claudia Romeo: We're in and we're about to visit Bordier, a traditional maison du When you picture butter, a yellow block in a plastic bag. Well, not here. Here, butter is done artisanally. Everything is churned, And I can't wait to see that. Let's go. In February, we met son and grandson of who brought back to France of malaxage, using this big wooden wheel to knead the butter. To Jean-Yves, the malaxage is a more romantic way to make butter. Claudia: The malaxage is really what makes Bordier butter unique. These are 50-kilo blocks of and are pretty standard in even for the most artisanal. But while everyone else would use huge centrifuges to filter out the last remaining drops of buttermilk, butter at the Bordier by a wooden wheel and Claudia: Let's do it. Little by little, the malaxage is going to give butter a new life. Dating back to the late 19th century, this tool was first used to At Bordier, it also helps give butter the desired texture. Claudia: There's, like, Claudia: And when you see it almost has, like, an harmony. It's not easy. Monsieur Bordier said this So, try and lift a bit of it, it's gonna be, like, what? 10 kilos just in one go? Claudia: Eric then salts This step is crucial finally rejects all the Claudia: Oh, wow. Actually, I can see that it's getting wetter and wetter. It's picking up more water. Claudia: According to Jean-Yves, they work with old techniques, but they are not trying Claudia: Big one. Ah, no. Jean-Yves: Ah, no. Like this? OK. Voila. Claudia: It's salty. Jean-Yves: It's very salty. Claudia: It's softer than It's much sweeter, this one. Bordier also makes flavored butters, including chili butter, buckwheat butter, vanilla butter, and more. Claudia: Yeah. It's very fresh. It's very fresh and... yeah, it tastes like seaweed, but it's not fishy at all. It's nice and sweet. It really reminds you of when you're just sitting and you can smell it. Claudia: Yeah, I've just, like, been catapulted into the picture now. Claudia: It's marvelous. It's really incredible. And so this one is your because you're from this region? Jean-Yves: It's the roots of my identity. Claudia: Ah, no. I would like to taste Claudia: After it's ready, each stack of freshly churned butter is then placed into this butter cutter, another machine signature to Bordier. Claudia: There's a lot of water. Claudia: So this means that's coming out of the butter? Claudia: The only thing And just like the rest, Each shape and size is custom. Some chefs may order others may just buy the whole stack and cut it themselves. Claudia: There's something in this butter. Narrator: This crew of 20 chefs is working against the clock as they prepare 150,000 sadyas for Kerala's harvest festival, Onam. Every sadya is made of 20 and requires the team to prepare at least a month in advance. It is a huge task, and for delivering it successfully Narrator: We visited to see how Chef Mahadevan and his team prepare an Onam sadya in such big batches. Among the 20 dishes they make, one of their most popular is a dessert called palada payasam. Narrator: Making this and begins with making rice flakes out of a brown rice that is Coconut oil and sugar are and the mixture is placed where it is rolled, tied, and steamed. Narrator: The resulting rice flakes are pressed in the morning and set aside. Also in the morning, 120 liters of milk are poured into a large pot and boiled. Narrator: Another popular dish which has traditionally been made with 13 different vegetables. At Vinayaka, avial is made in batches that can feed 500 to 600 people. Narrator: Because there everything is washed and Narrator: In the morning, inside of the giant pots Narrator: At this stage, turmeric, salt, raw mango, and sour curd. Then they cover the pot Narrator: Once all of the the avial is ready for more spices. Cumin paste, green chili paste, and curry leaves are all Narrator: But achieving this flavor is easier said than done. Narrator: Another popular dish is sambar, which also requires a day of prepping before anything is cooked. Heaps of lentils are washed, Once the lentils have cooked, a mix of spices is added to the pots, including tamarind water, coriander, turmeric, asafetida, green chilies, curry leaves, and jaggery. The sambar is brought to a boil, and coconut oil is added Narrator: But the most lies in its masala, which black gram, Bengal gram, long chilies, chilies, curry leaves, and asafetida. Narrator: Chef Mahadevan's sadyas for 32 years. It began cooking for and eventually grew serving thousands of meals every month. Narrator: Today, Chef of 20 people at the height of Onam to meet the demands of his customers. Narrator: While feeding this Chef Mahadevan remains humble about the art and craft of his work. Narrator: When all of the they are packed and where they are served as Banana leaves are placed on At a traditional sadya, must always face to the left of the eater. Once set, workers scoop the dishes into exact positions from left to right, and papadams, which are are added as a final touch. Narrator: The smallest portions are also served on the left side, and larger portions are Narrator: Onam is a that marks the first month and commemorates the return from the underworld to his home in Kerala. His return is celebrated traditional dances, boat races, and the Onam sadya. Vinayaka's Onam sadya and the amount of food Throughout the meal, servers refilling hot rice in the and spooning out more dishes. While many Hindu communities in Kerala opt for a purely vegetarian meal, other Hindu, Christian, especially those in the enjoy their Onam feast with The meal concludes in with a variety of sweet payasam puddings and a fragrant, digestive paan. Narrator: This is the in New Delhi, India. Open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the temple's kitchen, or langar, feeds 35,000 to 40,000 people every day for free. And on religious holidays, that number can swell to At the heart of this entire operation is kitchen manager Harbhej Singh, who makes sure there is Narrator: To keep up with demand, the kitchen uses specialized machines that can do everything from chopping vegetables to steaming the perfect dal. We visited the temple during a special holiday called Gurupurab to see how it makes a festive The day begins with making a type of sweet rice pudding called kheer, which is a special menu At the helm of the operation who's been overseeing Narrator: Large bags of white rice are poured into metal 25 kilograms of the washed rice is then scooped into and mixed by a mechanical arm. Narrator: Once the pot and it starts to boil, they pour in a large bag of wheat flour. Narrator: During the pandemic, needing to make more food with less staff. The solution was to introduce pots that could automatically stir and cook most dishes in half the time. Narrator: While the kitchen has embraced technology for cooking, many of the vegetables the kitchen uses are still processed by hand. One of the most popular dishes is aloo matar, a curry peas, and a creamy tomato sauce. Making this dish begins in a pot as a base for the tadka. Narrator: This is followed peas, and large ladles of tomato puree. Narrator: When the dish is ready, chefs tip the pot and Another curry dish the kitchen serves for the holiday feast is kadhi chawal, which is made with a and dried fenugreek leaves. When the base is mixed, chefs add gram flour and hung curd. Narrator: While the kadhi mixes, chefs prepare the final part They mix spinach, onions, in a large pot to make When they achieve the right consistency, the mix is then tossed into These fritters are then Narrator: Next up, the a simple vegetarian dish made It starts with a tadka base of cumin, turmeric, and chili powder. Then the chefs add in baskets They mix everything together and continue stirring until An everyday staple on the langar's menu is fresh dal, or split lentils. Green, yellow, and brown lentils are all washed by hand daily and added into a pot full of water. The lentils are then seasoned with salt, chili powder, and turmeric and covered. Narrator: Across the kitchen, flatbreads are made using machines. Narrator: While these machines make a majority of the there is another area of the kitchen dedicated to making these breads by hand. This is done so people can practice seva, or selfless service, a tenet of Sikhism. Narrator: The langar at 5 a.m. to serve food. Narrator: Because of the it's not uncommon for people to wait 2 1/2 hours outside to get a free meal. Inside the dining hall, side by side in long This style of seating is an important part of the temple's philosophy of promoting equality and Narrator: Once everyone is seated, volunteers known as sevadaars lead a religious chant Then the servers come around spooning large portions And while the amount of food there is a rule that not a single bite So plates must be clean Narrator: When a batch of workers sweep and wash the floors before another group is allowed to enter. Narrator: Every week, make 10,000 meals by hand. Working 10-hour shifts, the chefs use specialized that can cook 800 Today, the kitchen is making And every meal comes chili japchae, pickled radishes, stir-fried garlic scapes, It's a tall order but worth the effort, according Of course it's hard, to hear reviews from they enjoyed their Narrator: We visited how this kitchen prepares in such big batches. The process begins at 4:30 a.m., when Ho-jun and his team for the day's menu. Chefs begin by 40 kilograms of white onions and 20 kilograms of green The onion is spicy, so the chefs are working hard and Ho-jun: We cut the onion into small cubes because it makes the prettiest shape Narrator: Next, cut, and added into the same Once the vegetables it's time to start Ho-jun: About 40 containers of tofu are received per day, which allows for about 1,500 servings of tofu to be made. Narrator: The tofu and loaded into metal trays, which are then wheeled Ho-jun: This steamer prevents tofu from being crushed when steaming in Narrator: While the chefs start cooking the other in a large cast-iron wok. They add red-pepper oil and and 10 kilograms until the meat cooks through. Chefs then add in the basket as well as large a savory Chinese bean paste made from fermented chili peppers, and soybean. They season the mixture and to help adjust the consistency. Finally, once the tofu and mixed into the wok Ho-jun: This shovel is specially designed for cooking, so it's used only for the kitchen, not for digging the soil. Narrator: And that's that's custom in the kitchen. Chefs use a special machine to wash about 120 kilograms Ho-jun: We wash There are seven rice so there are 21 units, and 900 servings We can make 50 servings and when the machine the rice is ready in 30 minutes. We put water in until the After pouring water you put your hand If the water fills up to then you've got the right point. Narrator: The next is making chili japchae. Ho-jun: The ingredients 20 kilograms of meat, 10 kilograms of green pepper, 20 kilograms of red and yellow 3 kilograms of oyster sauce, 1 kilogram of sugar, and We fry the meat in chili oil, and fry them all together After that, we add and finish cooking quickly. It takes about 1 hour Narrator: While chefs start prepping the 40 kilograms of cucumbers are Ho-jun: If you don't pickle will be soggy when you so pickling the After pickling the cucumbers and completely removing the water, we finish by You need 40 kilograms 10 kilograms of wild chive, 300 grams of starch syrup, 600 grams of sugar, 100 grams of anchovy sauce, Cooking takes about 1 hour We are preparing I'm boiling garlic We mix 900 grams of soy sauce, 600 grams of sugar, 300 grams of starch syrup, 300 grams of garlic, 200 grams of sesame oil, and garlic scapes to Narrator: Next, the kitchen Ho-jun: To make 1,000 servings of crabmeat egg soup, you need 20 eggs, 20 kilograms of crabmeat, 20 kilograms of 200 grams of sesame oil, 300 grams of oyster sauce, salt, and pepper. Crabmeat and egg soup making broth with After scooping the we add eggs and starch then add crabmeat and enoki mushrooms to finish. Cooking takes about Narrator: For are reheating flower buns. Ho-jun: We are preparing Since Chinese flower we fry them in oil the next day. Narrator: Once fried, with condensed milk and When everything is cooked, employees fill small with rice and crab egg soup and scoop portions into a divided tray. Each of these lunch or about $5. After 10 hours of the lunch boxes are then put into insulated containers to offices around the city Overall, everything but the mapo tofu I am constantly subscribing it solves the lunch-menu worries of office workers, and I can enjoy meals with guaranteed quality and taste. I think it's good to be of side dishes made with fresh and to be able to conveniently Narrator: This is just a Grimaldi's makes every year. For the past 30 years, the Brooklyn-based pizzeria has stuck to classic recipes and kept a veteran team of pizzaiolos. Today, you'll find kitchen and his team of pizzaiolos slicing 200 pounds of fresh mozzarella, and working a 1,000-degree oven. Tony: It's a series of marathons for us because we have to make for the next shift, the to keep up with the demand at the door. Narrator: We visited in Brooklyn, New York, to see how it makes these At 9 in the morning, Tony making a 33-year-old dough recipe. The mixer is loaded with olive oil, New York City tap water, activated yeast, and 50 pounds of high-gluten flour. Tony: So, we have it It's on a low-spin cycle. OK? And so what we do is we sprinkle Five minutes later, we have our famous dough recipe. Narrator: Once mixed, the weighed, and shaped into so it doesn't rise. For this, Frank relies on the most experienced Tony: They're cutting each and every thing to the same size every day. It's almost like muscle where the scale's not even needed. You know, they know what they're doing, and it's almost like a healthy competition down here to race. Like, &quot;Let's go, come on, keep up with me. I'm rolling. You gotta Narrator: Another skill is rolling the perfect dough ball. So, we're rolling the dough, and we're making sure that as well as making sure So, for example, if you're rolling it and you're just going to meatball it and you're just going to it's going to rise and it's And then the pizza, when you pick it up, that's when it flops down. So, Grimaldi's is known for That is the texture. It's the base. It's the most important It's the foundation to the house. No foundation, no pizza. Narrator: This batch of dough is enough to make 65 to 75 pizzas, which is just a fraction of what will be needed for the day. Once all of the trays are filled, they're taken across the Tony: So, this is only the dough that was made last night, OK? So this is getting ready for our first few hours in Grimaldi's, and then we'll start fresh. Probably go through the first and then as well as another eight or nine for the night shift. Narrator: In 2011, Grimaldi's moved into its current location. The double-story palazzo building at No. 1 Front Street was originally built to be Brooklyn's first safety-deposit company. Now, Grimaldi's fridges as the old vaults. So, I think that's really cool that we made them into our own vaults. So basically it protects our gold, and this is our gold right here. Narrator: Next, it's Large cans of San Marzano tomatoes are poured into buckets, topped with sugar, and blended. Tony: For us, we use a one-day shelf life, so we're just trying to keep it marinating for a few hours, if not a full day, and it's going right onto our pizza. So we like to keep it It's nice, thick, and imported tomatoes. Narrator: Grimaldi's goes through about 700 quarts of tomatoes every week, or roughly 662.4 liters. Upstairs, 200 mozzarella balls a process that's gone Tony: The Grimaldi's It's made only for Grimaldi's, so nowhere else in the world that we're doing on our mozzarella. It is a low-moisture, low-sodium, UV-dried fresh mozzarella, the high, intense heat of our oven and be cooked and melt to perfection in a short amount of time. Narrator: By the end of the around 2,000 pounds of mozzarella. An hour before opening, so they can relight the oven. Tony: OK, so right now, he's throwing 40-pound into the bottom of our So we keep about anywhere down there at a time. And what we're doing is, we try and dry out our coal to make sure that it's burning it's not hopping from the as it starts to heat up. It makes our stoking process and our oven heat up a little bit quicker too. Narrator: The pizzeria keeps embers in the brick oven Tony: So, right now, we have It's holding our coal up, but he's right now flipping it and getting rid of all the old coal. The reason why we don't because we want to make sure that it stays warm overnight, too many hours to heat up our floor. Narrator: When the charcoal ignites, the team begins shoveling into the side of the oven. Compared to wood, anthracite coal burns longer, hotter, and with less smoke. Tony: You can't get a up to 1,000 degrees the way we can. So we're able to get a different not only flavor profile from the coal, but we're also getting a and intensity that that Narrator: When the doors it's all hands on deck to fill orders. To be an official Grimaldi's pie, it needs to be made a certain way. Unlike most pizzerias, Grimaldi's builds its pizza cheese-first. Slices of mozzarella are and the gaps are then filled with sauce. Tony: So when it melts together, you're seeing a little bit of both, but you're also getting a not too much cheese. So that's what we're Narrator: Specialty toppings range from hand-pinched Italian sausage to thinly sliced And most pies are finished of the Grimaldi's Romano blend, extra-virgin olive oil, and a few pieces of fresh basil. To help streamline the cooking process, Grimaldi's uses a two-shelf system. So, we have our pre-stretch and then a stretching and We're pre-stretching, cheesing, throwing them on the and everyone standing on So that means they're the sauce on, they're finishing it off with the olive oil, the basil, and then finishing it off by The top shelf is so the oven guy knows that they're ready to go in the oven. Narrator: Working a coal oven takes years of experience to master. From memorizing cook times to keeping a consistent heat, it's not easy to make a perfect pie. Tony: So, what we're doing we're closing the door right away, we're giving it a pop of heat so we can actually move it around without ripping it or anything like that. What's rare about Brooklyn is that we use this You know, it's really If you're using a wooden stick, they're just breaking and drying out nonstop, especially when you're So, you can see it's only and they're already rising up. So, basically, I'm making give them a small spin, and then I'm actually just moving them into position right here. Narrator: The high heat only need a few minutes to cook. Water in the dough evaporates quickly, creating air bubbles and leaving behind a light, while charcoal gives the pizza a charred, slightly smoky flavor Outside, people begin queuing and waiting up to an hour to get a table. And 16 minutes after opening, the first and third are practically full. On the dining floor, you'll find servers with and a good sense of humor. Server: Oh, mommy, I'm hungry! Boom. Thank you, sir. You got it, papa. Narrator: While Grimaldi's a vast majority of its business Since 2005, Tony Muia, has been coming to So, if I can describe it would probably be legendary, because people love Grimaldi's. Tony: The key to making It's love. You take dough, cheese, it's just simple objects. But when you're building a pizza, it's a piece of art. So for us and for myself, it's the passion and love that makes it special. Narrator: In less than an hour, everything inside of this These are samsas, a popular made of dough, meat, onions, and spices. And here at Samsa Markazi, in Namangan, master chef Qobiljon Gofur hand-roll and cook 3,000 Narrator: We visited these famous snacks are Making samsas for the weekend Large bags of strong a mechanical mixer and Markazi uses strong flour because of its high gluten content, which is helpful for But not all flour passes the test. Narrator: While the dough is being mixed, large chunks of beef and lamb then cubed and minced. Over the weekend, Qobiljon and his team will cut up to 500 pounds of meat, a process that takes around 15 hours. They also prep eggplants, onions, green peppers, cilantro, tomatoes, and cucumbers. When the dough is ready, workers pull pieces into that they then slap on These shapes are what they'll And by the end of the weekend, about 3,000 of them in While Samsa Markazi makes 20 one of its best-selling a colossal meal that weighs Narrator: Head samsa chef Tokhir Khamdamov starts making the deluxe samsa by adding beef into a large bucket, seasoning it with black and and mixing it with the green peppers, cilantro, He scoops and weighs before placing it on top of the dough, which has a quail egg in the center. He tops the mound with meatloaf, beef tongue, and horsemeat sausage, which before wrapping the entire One of Markazi's other popular which literally translates Narrator: They then Narrator: Markazi is also well known for its samsa with cheese. Narrator: When all of the they're placed on long wooden and sprinkled with white which give them a nutty finish. Workers then carry the boards outside, where Markazi's nine tandoor ovens have been preheated with wood. Determining when these ovens are ready is done entirely by feel and experience. Narrator: Unlike the conventional tandoor ovens retain heat and require less fuel. Narrator: The kosa samsa and is the first samsa Bakers rub a small amount before diving into the to every square inch of the wall. Each of these ovens can hold After about 20 minutes, the tops of the kosa and the oven is sprayed again with water before it's covered The samsas are then steamed But knowing when they're Narrator: At 10 a.m., is ready to be served. The metal lid is removed from the oven, and the samsas are scraped into metal catchers. Cooks slice open the flaky and pour a hot veal-tongue broth inside before serving them to customers. Hungry groups who want begin queuing an hour before opening, while other guests take a seat and have their samsas Every samsa is enjoyed spicy tomato-chili sauce, The deluxe samsa, which is the costs around $6. And while each samsa has a and shape, the most important are the crispy dough, juicy Narrator: While it is now in the US to eat horsemeat, Today, horsemeat also remains Canada, and East Asia, including Japan, where it is considered a delicacy. Eating samsas is always a social event, and many people come to samsa restaurants like this multiple times a week. Narrator: The samsa is in the 10th century, when a Persian word that refers of the original samsa. Because of its portability, a popular snack among Through trade, it eventually made its way across the Middle East and Here, it evolved into the samosa, where it was no longer baked While these differences remain, both countries share an absolute Narrator: This massive amount of dough is about to be cut, folded, and rolled into 2,100 croissants, a small portion of the 21,000 croissants Colson Patisserie makes every week. But making perfect is easier said than done. For executive chef Natalie Abrams, it's a constant race against time and changing temperatures. Natalie: If our dough if it's overmixed, if it's undermixed, if it's mixed too warm, you see it immediately. Narrator: We visited Colson Patisserie in Brooklyn, New York, to see how it prepares its croissants in such big batches. The day begins with making the dough. 5 gallons of milk and buckets of ice water are added into the mixer first. Natalie: And basically how much ice is going into that water. If it's in the dead of winter and the kitchen is freezing, then we maybe put the Narrator: Keeping the dough of slowing down the fermentation process. Next, an entire tray of is scraped into the mix. Natalie: It's wild yeast, basically. It helps our croissant Narrator: Finally, they add yeast. Natalie: And then we mix to sort of combine, let everything start to bloom. Narrator: After a short spin, 250 pounds of flour is gradually added so it doesn't overwhelm the mixer and send flour into the air. They also add in a before continuing the mixing process. And we mix it for maybe Natalie: So, here we're for a little bit of gluten development, and then we start adding butter, since that's sort of a hydrating thing, and it inhibits gluten development. So that's why we hold that Narrator: And lastly, dough scrap, or pate fermentee, is combined. Natalie: This helps as a flavor enhancer because it has a more mature flavor, and it also helps with shelf life. Narrator: Once the dough the entire mixer is lifted so Natalie can easily to the prep table. Natalie: After the mix, we start to try and slow down any warmth or fermentation that happens. So we try and take it as fast into the freezer to really sort of put a pause Narrator: The mixed dough and wrapped as quickly as possible. Natalie: It's important that doesn't have much of a chance to do much, that the yeast going in is all going to save all of And so that's why we want to try and work as quickly as possible with this process, so that way we can get Narrator: When all of it's carted into a blast freezer. Natalie: The dough is for about two to three hours until it's pretty solid, that we've stopped that And then we're going to where it is going to let the flavor develop a little bit, and hydrate all of the dough. Narrator: In another room, workers begin unwrapping Natalie: And we use a European-style 83% beurremont butter. We love it in terms of taste. We've tasted a bunch of other stuff, but this for us has for some of our biggest flavors. This will get us through of croissant production just for the actual sheets Narrator: All of this butter but instead of rolling it out into sheets, Colson uses a hydraulic press. Natalie: We get it to temp, then basically it goes so it becomes pliable but not warm. We want the butter and the dough to be as even in temperature as possible. So that's why we have to basically use what we pressed out of so that way we know that Narrator: The relaxed dough and layered with these sheets of butter in a process known as lamination. First, the dough needs to be stretched to the same thickness and width as the sheet of butter, so it can be completely folded over. Natalie: So, basically here that's a little pliable but not soft, and we're going to just make sure that all of the dough This is called the lock-in stage. And then after this, we begin putting in our series of folds. Narrator: After the folds, each sheet will have 24 and it's these layers that their honeycomb interior and But if the temperature they risk losing the entire batch. Natalie: If you have then the butter shatters, and then you'll see little throughout the dough and If you have dough that If it's not laminated correctly, if the butter is broken, then it comes out with 50 or 60 croissants that we can't really use. Narrator: When the dough it's wrapped and stored in a proofer at 55 degrees for a few hours. At this temperature, the dough and butter remain which is essential for the next step. Now it's time to stretch the For this step, the bakery that stretches and cuts Natalie: So, we have about which is about 14 pounds. Each one of those makes And so every day we're going through approximately 60 to 70 of these laminated pieces of dough. So we have a specific program for all of our different croissants. It helps us maintain consistency. This passes through about seven times, and then here we have coming off of the sides. And then all of our triangles are ready. Even though they're very close here to being super-duper consistent, we still are weighing to make sure that we have at exactly pretty much the same weight. We have about a 3-gram spread which means that all come out around the same Because croissants really show every single imperfection or perfection. Narrator: The triangles into their crescent shape. Natalie: So, after the we basically straighten out to make a nice straight triangle. We give it a little bump to And then we have a nice one-two motion where we basically put the So, after that, it gets moved to the tray and we give it a nice little tap. You kind of have to to show them that you love them. So. Narrator: The rolled croissants for another eight to 10 hours and proofed for another five to six hours. But even at this step, slight changes in temperature Before the croissants are baked, Natalie gives each of them a squeeze to make sure they're proofed enough. If it feels tight here, then we let them go for If it feels pretty even, then we know that we're Some of them that you can see got a little close to the And so we have a couple that the butter just started leaking out because they got a little too warm. But that's how sensitive Like, if it's a slight, like, then it's probably just going Because you're going to that it's going to have sort That means there's less Narrator: Here, Natalie is with a coat of vegetable spray. Natalie: So, it's like a vegetable protein that does a very nice job of still giving us that color and shine. Narrator: The loaded rack is then carted into this massive oven. So, this is our oven that's programmed with our croissants recipe. We have everything sort of set up for, again, maximum consistency on the bake. It can adjust the venting, it can adjust steam, and it can decrease our Narrator: Inside, the oven can bake 360 croissants at a time. Natalie: That raises, lifting And then once I hit &quot;Start Bake,&quot; it starts rotating this rack around for the most even bake possible. And so the hot air is coming that line this entire side. And so, again, all of those I think there's about 200 or something, to adjust for the perfect airflow to make sure that the bake is happening in a very even way. [oven beeps] Narrator: After about 25 minutes, the baked croissants are So, normally, we stand Let the steam out a little bit. Narrator: If they're packed too soon, the center of the croissant will collapse. Natalie: If you're it shows you everything that's happened, in terms of all the attention to detail, all the technique that has gone into it. Narrator: While most of these croissants are headed to wholesale customers, Colson also sells some of Natalie: Our goal is really just to have all of these multitudes of customers who are walking into different walk away with a pastry and that they find some joy in and then make everybody's The croissants are to die for. They look just beautiful. They're art. They're a But just the flakiness, how they crumble into your mouth. They are so good. Narrator: And reactions like this are exactly what motivates Natalie. Natalie: You can have a but if the flavor isn't there, then kind of what's the point? I would much rather draw and have them keep coming back than have something that Narrator: This team of bakers makes around 1,200 trays And master chef Mehmet Akincioglu has to pay careful attention Narrator: We visited Akincioglu Baklava to see how it makes its The day begins at 5 a.m. Hard wheat flour, water, eggs, and salt are added into a mechanical mixer and combined for 20 to 25 minutes. Once soft, the dough is taken out, cut, weighed, and kneaded into small discs that are left to rest for Narrator: The discs are and run back and forth to Narrator: Here, chefs roll 10 to 15 sheets of dough at a time and generously coat them in starch so they don't stick together. Narrator: Every sheet of dough is rolled until it's paper-thin. Narrator: The thinly rolled dough is then brought to a Narrator: Next, a mountain is added into the tray. Narrator: All of the are harvested locally and picked within 10 to Narrator: The pistachios are topped with another 15 to 20 layers of dough before they are taken Here, Mehmet and his team to the top of the baklava with melted butter. As with the pistachios, Mehmet from sheep that have been To retain its flavor, the Narrator: Once the last bakers cut the excess and Then they coat the tray and cut it again into The baklava is now ready to bake. Mehmet uses a traditional stone oven filled with oak wood to cook the baklava. Narrator: Each tray bakes depending on the style of the Once cooked, the baklava The baked baklava is placed on a burner to get the bottom crispy. When it achieves the right it's time to sweeten the dish. But if there's not enough sugar, the baklava will be too soft and dry. And if there's too much, it will lack the right Narrator: After three the baklava is ready to eat. Narrator: It's believed that baklava was adapted from a savory which was popular across Central Over time, it's believed with the Arab practice of in honey or sugar syrup. Some of the earliest come from the 1400s. It was enjoyed by sultans and remains a popular Narrator: Every weekend, Samgeori Farms in Damyang County, South Korea, cooks 1,700 pounds of inside of their 40 wood-fueled woks. The final result: dakbokkeumtang, a spicy chicken stew full of and a secret chili sauce. Narrator: We visited chef Kim Chun-gu and his crew of 21 cooks to make dakbokkeumtang Cooking this dish begins Workers coat the tops with soybean oil and add into the base of the grills. Narrator: When the grills are ready, workers use propane torches After five minutes, the woks reach their optimal temperature and an entire bucket of is poured inside. Narrator: While maintaining it's worth the flavorful payoff. Narrator: Oakwood has a smokier flavor than apple and cherrywood, with a lighter taste compared It also burns at a high temperature without emitting too much smoke. Even though this dish it still takes a while to cook. Narrator: Thinly cut onions and cooked for a minute. At 11 a.m., the first is ready to be served. Workers wheel the woks out and scoop the stew into metal bowls. And a single order costs around $55. Narrator: Samgeori Farms and since then, business has Preparing for a weekend of cooking starts early in the morning, cutting vegetables and Narrator: The restaurant uses potatoes, and carrots every weekend, along with 1,000 green onions and onions. Narrator: But the most is the locally sourced chicken. Narrator: Once the chicken and vegetables have been chopped and it's time for the most the secret seasoning. Narrator: The bright-red help create the dish's signature color and spicy red-pepper flavor, while the red wine helps Narrator: Dakbokkeumtang has been a staple of Korean cooking since the 20th century, following the mass production And while chicken might be the famous red chili has been grown and eaten in Korea for over 1,000 years. The stew used to be called dakdoritang, containing the Japanese The National Institute of to change it to dakbokkeumtang, literally translating to Today, it's typically cucumber pickles, and chive pancakes. And in some cases, there At Samgeori Farms, when most the remaining sauce is pushed back into the center of the wok. Ramen noodles are added in and enjoyed, so nothing goes to waste. Narrator: Every weekend, make and sell 500 pounds of lamb barbacoa to nearly 1,200 people. Narrator: Wrapped inside and slow roasted for 11 hours, this lamb barbacoa is and its sweet and smoky flavors. We visited Saul at his in Texcoco, Mexico, to see and what it takes to Narrator: Making enough begins at 8 a.m. on Friday. Saul and his team begin by adding large cuts of and stripping pieces of Using a lighter, they set the and place them into When the flames reach the top of the oven, they start off-loading fresh maguey leaves and placing them across the ovens. The agave leaves are roasted until they become more flexible. Meanwhile, another team and places it into the meat-prep area. Using a machete, they cut so the meat can better fit All of the ovens El Pica 1 uses are preheated for seven to eight hours. But knowing when the oven is ready is based entirely on feel. Narrator: When the oven is ready, the remaining pieces of wood are removed and a smoldering pile Workers then take the and line the ovens. These leaves contain a sap, which will infuse the meat when combined with the wood embers. Narrator: Once the oven has been wrapped, a large steel pot filled with chickpeas, guajillo chilies, secret spices, and water is lowered into the bottom. Narrator: They then place a to hold the stack of meat inside the oven. Narrator: When the oven is full, the maguey leaves are folded over the meat and a large metal lid is placed on top and sealed using wet mud and sand. Narrator: The barbecue for 11 hours, braising in Underneath, the consomme helps steam and infuse the meats with flavor while collecting fat drippings. By morning, the team at El Pica 1 will have a rich consomme the smoky, sweet lamb barbacoa. Narrator: They start serving the barbacoa at 7:45 a.m. the next day. Narrator: Using two plates, workers dive headfirst into the oven, scooping large pieces of tender lamb into plastic-lined boxes. The meat is sold for about $10 per pound, and customers can choose Narrator: The word &quot;barbecue&quot; originated with the Taino people of the Caribbean, who used a wooden platform set over a fire to cook their meat. And barbacoa, which directly has been cooked in pit ovens in Mexico for more than 500 years. Narrator: Inside El Pica 1, customers buy the consomme and vendors sell other condiments and tortillas to complement the barbecue. Narrator: Even though El of its lamb barbacoa every weekend, the restaurant has no plans Narrator: Over 160 kilograms and rice go into this massive pan to make one of the But this paella is just half of what Vicente Martinez and his team are making for Quesa, Valencia's, At the end of the day, these paellas will feed all for free. But the size of this paella isn't the only thing that's special. It also has a unique ingredient that makes this paella So, what does it take to make Narrator: This is known as On the morning of the festival, Vicente and his crew offload and wheel two 2.35-meter paella When the pans are secure, Narrator: Each paella is cooked with 8.5 liters of olive oil, 75 kilos of chicken, and 30 kilos of rabbit. Narrator: When the meat is done, 40 kilos of frozen green and white beans are added into the mix, along with 5 kilos of snails. Narrator: Once everything 135 liters of water Narrator: After the water has been added, 60 kilos of a local medium-grain rice called arroz redondo Cooking with wood means need to be constantly monitored so that the rice doesn't burn. Narrator: In Spain, bomba, are commonly used because they can absorb more liquid and flavor than regular rice without getting mushy. Narrator: Paella pans often but the general shape and round with sloping edges. This shape is important because it helps the rice Narrator: And many Spaniards agree. Narrator: While everyone enjoys paella, the exact ingredients for what constitutes a true paella is still hotly debated. Narrator: While the and celebration today, the origins of its birth are much darker. In 1690, Quesa experienced a devastating outbreak which left only a few members Resilient, the surviving to anyone who moved back to Quesa. Narrator: Paella is thought to have come from farm workers in Valencia who used shallow pants to and added in ingredients to create a cheap but Over time, the elites of Spain started to enjoy paella and it became more popular And while paella is now recognized as a traditionally Spanish dish, it wouldn't be what it is today without the introduction of rice by the Moors in the 12th century. Since then, paella has taken on many iterations across Spain, but the classic ingredients and beans remain integral for Narrator: There are of this famous Indian street food. Chef Mohammad Nasir can make That's 2,000 eggs. Egg bhurji is India's take It's a specialty of the We visited Pav Bhaji and to find out how this dish is made and see just what it takes It begins by finely dicing For a daily portion of egg bhurji, this stall uses and chops approximately 88 to 66 to 88 pounds of onions, and 10 to 15 bunches of cilantro. Next, oil is added to a tava, or griddle, followed by a mountain of chopped onions, which are fried for a few minutes before green chilies Narrator: Next, a medley The vegetables are cooked until the tomatoes and onions melt and form a thick emulsion Once the tomato-onion emulsion each egg is slowly cracked and added onto the heat. The eggs are scrambled with a spatula, and the outer layer of is slowly incorporated. Next, the fully cooked egg bhurji is pushed to the perimeter. In the center of the followed by finely chopped green chilies and large spoonfuls of multiple spices. This process is called tadka, a common Indian cooking technique that allows for the tempering in oil, butter, or ghee. This process enhances the flavor and aroma and creates a richly spiced dish. The final dish is garnished with cilantro and portioned into plates It is served with a buttered, and an onion-tomato salad. If the spice is too much to handle, you can request a side of yogurt. Unlike scrambled eggs, egg bhurji isn't limited to breakfast. It can be eaten throughout the day. In fact, this stall between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. Narrator: A single batch with 200 eggs takes three hours to make, cracking all the eggs, and frying to serving the final dish. A single batch is sold within one hour, feeding 60 to 70 people. Mohammad Nasir is an His street stall is now famous in Mumbai. Pav Bhaji and Bhurji Center has been attracting About 500 people visit a day to watch vendors make Claudia Romeo: Every of Gouda cheese are Most of it is produced industrially, But there are some exceptions. We're here to visit one of the few farms that is still producing Marije Van der Poel: We on this farm. And we are specialized in and the taste will really Claudia: This place is We're, like, immersed in nature, and we're actually on an island. We had to take a small in order to get here. Do I go back? We're in the right direction. Maybe. I'm not very coordinated, no? How do you row? [laughing] And the woman that is producing the cheese is actually doing it in her own house, which is this one behind me. Depending on whether you're a native, you will pronounce it So since we're talking about we're going to call it &quot;How-da.&quot; The cheese takes his name from the city of Gouda in South Holland. But unlike with other cheeses that are named after cities, there was never any In the Middle Ages, Gouda acquired sole cheese-market rights, basically becoming the where farmers could trade their cheese. Gouda was associated so much that it was eventually The Gouda Cheese Market Today, it is one of the in the Netherlands. There are only 280 still making raw-milk boerenkaas, or farmer's cheese. And there are only two to the next level, making or aged artisanal Gouda, farmhouse cheese that must and can be made only in the summer with cattle grazing in between the cities of Amsterdam, Meet Marije Van der Poel, in the village of Rijpwetering in South Holland with her husband, Hugo, and their three children and makes 15 wheels of aged at the back of their house. Marije: The family Van der So my husband's grandfather, and we still make cheese on the same way, on the authentic way of cheese-making. And in 1965, his father and mother, they came here, they married, and they came and started We start living here in 1996. We get married, and my she learned me how to make cheese. And now, so I do it now We have 150 cows, and we Claudia: The cheese is made from cold milk from the previous day and warm milk that's fresh. Marije: Every morning, and my husband wake up at 4:15. He calls the cows out of and then at 5 o'clock and in the evening before, And then when I wake up at 10 to 6, first thing I do, I make the milk sour. And then at 7 o'clock, I have about 3,000, a bit more, milk liters. And then I put some rennet to it. And when you put some rennet to it, the milk will get thick in 30 minutes. It's real special every morning. So when I...leave the After that short time, you And when you cut it, the And the whey woke up. We bring the whey away, we and the real fresh cheese and slowly we bring it back up to 37 degrees. Not higher, because we Claudia: The process of adding warm water to the cheese, called &quot;washing the curd,&quot; is generally used to Washing the curd removes lactose, which bacteria could transform into acid. Blocks of curd are then pressed with the help of linen cloths. Marije: We still use the grandfather and grandmother. The wooden molds is real There are only a few who still use wooden molds. It's because we think the to make old, aged cheese, because the wooden molds And that's the best for the taste. So the taste after two You can still make slices and that's real special. There are only two farmers in So that's really, really special. Claudia: Each wheel has a unique plaque made from milk protein with information about where and when it was produced. The curds are pressed in the wooden mold for two hours on each side. In the evening, they are moved to brines. Marije: It's a natural way to and water, slowly, only And that's different of the factories, because, in the factories they bring salt during the making process. And we do it on an authentic So really slowly. Claudia: Cheese wheels stay five days in the salty baths then dry for 24 hours. The Van der Poel family in their farm, where they are covered by a biological coating. Marije: We put a coating on because it's easier to keep them clean. And then every week, about 90 wheels up here, and he keep them in big trader houses, for a long time, and he age them. Because we are good in making cheese, and he's good in aging cheese. Claudia: Gouda has to This specialty, the aged artisanal Gouda, ages for least two years, but Marije: And there are no to keep the cheese as long So it's really special. This is a perfect. It looks perfect. Only a few small holes. So the cheese looks at you like eyes, only a few, and you see the crystals. All the people think but it's protein crystals. Claudia: Marije cut us a and as you can see from the texture, it's actually quite soft, and it's something that I wasn't expecting coming from a cheese that has Like, three years is a such a long time, and I would expect it to be, like, harder. But here it is, let's give it a try. It's got, like, real, Like, no salt at all. And it's sort of, like, Like, it reminds me a bit But in the sense that, like, it kind of touches the same taste buds. But texture-wise, it's Like, this one is softer, and It's buttery. Authentic Dutch Gouda is protected by the EU's Protected under the name &quot;Gouda Holland.&quot; This certifies that the and has been made Real life is a real gym. [Producers laughing] Producer: Row, Claudia! Claudia: Huh? Producer: [laughing] Do you have a TV? [Claudia sighs] Claudia Romeo: We're in in the birthplace of Brie. And, actually, we're not far from Paris. We're at, like, 12 kilometers but here it's another type of theme park. We are at the Ferme des 30 Arpents, which is one of the seven and the only one that makes it fermier, which means from the farm, which means that the cows are milked here and the cheese is just Claudia: The farm has 250 cows in total. After milk is collected, it is stored in these vats for 18 hours and some part of its cream is taken out while some natural ferments are added. These include penicillium and Geotrichum, which make up Brie de Meaux's But more on that later. One day after being collected, milk is moved to another room, where it will be split into curds. This is done thanks to which takes about one Claudia: In this other room, it was so hot that our camera steamed up and we had to wait a Claudia: The mold is made of three layers, which are removed gradually as From 25 liters of liquid, it's going to get smaller and This is going to take three hours. And at the end of the the weight of the cheese Claudia: On their first day, cheeses in molds are turned three times with the help of a steel plate to make sure they hold their shape. They are then piled up Claudia: Oh, wow. The cheeses stay in the molds for 24 hours to make sure they drain all their liquid. In total, the farm will make about 300 wheels of Brie de Meaux, ladled from 100 basins. The day after, the cheeses are removed Claudia: Oh, wow. I have some salt crystals. No, it doesn't smell like anything. It's much more pleasant. Claudia: Wow, yeah, it It's strong. It's tangy. Didier: Yeah. We can Claudia: It's true, it smells like apples. Cheese wheels are then where they stay for five to seven days, within which they're going to be turned three times Here, they start to get whiter, and it's where we start of the ferments added to Here, 8 degrees. Claudia: Cold. [laughs] It is cold. This is the last room of And it is another cold one! Claudia: Oh, I'm dead. It's So cold. Claudia: Can I touch? Claudia: You can feel the and then inside you can feel that it's very, very, very soft. Claudia: Oh, OK wow. [cows mooing] Claudia: So creamy. So creamy and buttery. Claudia: But actually, it's very sweet. I would say probably sweeter than how it would have been if it had been only four weeks old. Claudia Romeo: Baguettes. Can you name a more The recipe is quite simple. You just need flour, Yet, here in France, it's that anybody can make at home. We're in Paris in the 14th district, and we're about to meet He's an artisanal baker, son of a baker, who's been making bread basically ever since he can remember. This is his shop. Let's walk in. [bread crackling] Look at this giant loaf! He even won an award for What he's going to show us but the baguette tradition, which is a baguette made Claudia: Making a baguette and time consuming than you'd think. Every step requires inside It all starts with the dough. Mahmoud starts making the dough at 5 a.m. with only flour and water, kneads it, then at 8 a.m. he adds yeast Claudia: You can hear [dough squelching] Claudia: When the dough is Then it is taken out in small batches. Claudia: The batches of dough will be left to rest until the following day, while batches from the day before are going to be cut in pieces and shaped. This is when the dough starts Claudia: One batch of dough and about 200 baguettes will come out from the whole of the dough. [crunching] Wow. It smells so nice. So soft inside. Narrator: Every week, aboard the world's largest cruise ship. And all those people need to eat three, four, eight times a day. Allan Gentile: You have to lunch, and dinner, plus plus all 24-hour food all around. And that never stop. Narrator: Ship kitchens run 24/7, manned by a culinary team They dish out over 30,000 And they do it all from compact kitchens on a rocking ship. So how does all this food We'll start on the loading This is turnaround day, when all new food is delivered to deck two. Jaret de Silva: This is basically a place that you would not like to be on on turnaround day when we are loading. It's busy, busy, super busy. Narrator: That's Jaret. He orders food for the ship's 23 different restaurants. Every week, Jaret's got a All of that is just Sometimes, Jaret will tweak his orders based on who's coming aboard. More kids means more chicken fingers. De Silva: That's how the operation runs. We monitor it on a daily basis, what has been used, And then we adjust our orders accordingly. But by in large, being in Miami, having the same number of people, it's almost the same every cruise. Narrator: On turnaround day, 30 trucks arrive at Miami Port. They're carrying 500 and all that has to be loaded De Silva: Any delay in the sail away of the a big logistic requirement. Narrator: Over 600,000 are provisioned for just Once on board, everything is moved along the ship's secret highway. This is I-95, and it runs the entire length of the ship on deck two. De Silva: We separate all the stores to the different locations that they are supposed to go. We have about 20 different storerooms, divided into freezers, fridges, walk-in fridges, and dry stores. Narrator: Seafood, meat, are all divided and stored De Silva: If you come towards this box will be almost empty with a few fruits that are which we keep as backup stock. Narrator: There are also six freezers. That's where the 700 pounds of ice cream that'll be eaten each week are stored. Dry goods are stored down on deck one. De Silva: Full of spices, full of chocolate in this storeroom, coffee. It's nice to be in this storeroom. Narrator: An elevator Jaret's team checks all of the food for quality control every day. If produce is ripening they try to work it into another meal. For example, overripe broccoli cheddar soup Once inventory is stored, put in food orders with Jaret. Chefs will come downstairs, and cart it away to be cooked. That's where this guy comes in. German Eladio Rijo Rijo: beautiful ship, anything you're eating, is my responsibility. Whenever you have beautiful Rice is mine, pate is Salad, shrimp, whatever you're Narrator: Rijo's team of 280 Each chef works 10- to 12-hour days. Contracts typically last four months, without a single day off. Rijo: Some of the people start to work at 8 p.m. in the morning all the way to 2 p.m., take a break, come back again 5 p.m., Then other group starts to all the way to 10 a.m. in the morning. So we cover day and night productions. Narrator: Chefs on board cook up nearly 100 different menus every week. All the menus are developed at Royal Caribbean's Miami headquarters. And every week, chefs stick cooking up everything from racks of lamb to hand-rolled sushi. The food has to be diverse to match Symphony of the Seas' vacationing at all kinds of price points. Rijo: We try to please everybody and to make sure that everybody find what you're looking for. Narrator: All the cooking or galleys, as they're called on a ship. There are 12 specialty costing up to $50 a person, and each of those restaurants In those tight quarters, chefs crank out the same menu every day. At Jamie's Italian, it's fresh pasta. At Hooked, it's over 2,000 But the largest amount of food is reserved for the main dining room, and serves up to 6,000 people a night. Eating here is included in your ticket. Before food heads up to the main galleys, it starts in one of the There's a butcher shop. De Silva: Butcher! Good morning! These are the gentlemen looking after all the meat cuts. Narrator: The butcher goes through about 15,000 pounds of beef and 9,700 pounds of chicken each week. There's also a veggie-cutting room and a fish-thawing box. Lobster is the most popular The ship goes through about 2,100 pounds of lobster tails every week. Finally, the food heads The ship's biggest kitchen Desserts, bread, cold food, and hot food. In dessert, chefs whip and 100 different types of pastries. Over in the bread bakery, they make 40 different kinds of bread all from scratch. But the real hustle comes 6,000 hungry passengers Remember Rijo? Before dinner prep starts, he has to approve all the dishes. Narrator: Rijo tries each dish and gives his critiques. Narrator: Chefs take his Chefs can see a tally of each The system also keeps track In the cold room, salads and appetizers like carpaccio come together. In the hot room, chefs dish out soups, sauces, sides, and mains. Narrator: Finally, waiters to hungry passengers out in main dining. Between the chefs, inventory crew, waiters, and dishwashers, it to keep this massive operation going. Together, they cook nearly And they're doing it all on a moving ship. Gentile: The ship is rocking, is built to the ship rocking. And in whatever moment, somebody don't put one and you see that trolley flying away. It happen. That's why all the cooks Narrator: But if crew members passengers won't even know They'll just get back to eating their eighth meal of the day. Narrator: These cooks make for the 4,400 cadets here at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York. Today, the team is making over 22,000 meatballs combined and 150 gallons of tomato sauce. And that's just for one of I would say in comparison we do things a little than most colleges do. Group: Attention all cadets. For lunch, we are having chicken. Narrator: There are lunchtime rituals, and each meal is balanced specifically for these future military Christine: The cadets' nutritional because they are engaging in military training, as well as their physical exercise that they're completing here day to day. Every meal is earned, not given. So the fact that we are keep our military bearing, or long morning of classes Narrator: Meals at West Point are served here at Washington Hall, the historic mess hall where army cooks have been for nearly 100 years. News announcer: At mealtimes, the destination is Washington Hall, where the cadet gains during last summer's hike. And the food is tops and wholesomeness. Jason: Probably our most is our lunch meals, where the to get into the building, Faye: I think the one don't realize is how fast it all goes. So it starts at noon at formation. We all get in there by 12:10, and then after that the food is served to 4,000 people and eaten Narrator: But it's not just the cadets who have to move fast. Christine: A lot of the cook staff who have been in those and who have understood and what that looks like, so I think they try to structure the menus so that they may see similar things when they're out and not at West Point. Narrator: But how does the over 4,000 nutritious and eaten in under 25 minutes? Insider was granted rare to see how they pull it off. The food is prepared in a labyrinth of hallways, Jason: So feeding 4,000 cadets It is also a very well-oiled machine. We've got multiple My whole background in the Army has been in food service the entire 20 years that I've been in the Army. In the cadet mess, I have approximately 90 Department of the Army They're the ones that cook all the food. But we also have another that work in the mess here. And their job is to actually The challenges of preparing are substantial. Our staff is arriving and we're not opening for But the reason is because to prepare food for 4,500 cadets. Narrator: On the menu for today's lunch: spaghetti with meatballs, breadsticks, fruit salad, broccoli, and iced cake. Prepping enough spaghetti starts nearly two hours before lunchtime. In the large kitchen, cooks start the spaghetti by boiling 400 pounds of Then they add 22,500 meatballs, which they prepared early this morning, enough for each cadet to have five. With the spaghetti underway, cooks begin steaming Meanwhile, in the bakery, 400 cakes are being iced Back in the main kitchen, cooks drain the water from the vats and add 150 gallons of tomato sauce. While the spaghetti is simmering, cooks in a temperature-controlled for a lunch that won't be These cooks are opening two pallets of frozen ribs weighing 3,600 pounds and breaking them into pieces. Prepping meals days in advance is one of the methods to serve so many cadets so quickly. Jason: For menu development, I work with a dietician that works for the United which is upstairs from We come up with options using Army recipes that are in the Army system, as well as other recipes And we review those recipes, make sure that they meet that they need to meet for and then we try them out. I am a registered dietician and a certified specialist for the Core of Cadets at West Point. So the menus are structured that they are meeting all of So on the menus there's usually which are going to fuel their brain health and support their academic performance, as well as prime their moderate-to-high-intensity exercise that they're going to engage in. And then we usually have protein sources in order to support their And then we have a lot of different fruit and vegetable options. So fresh fruit, we have a cooked vegetables at the table, as well as a pretty robust salad bar that provides lots of antioxidants to make sure that they get that color in. It supports their immune system and makes sure that they combat some of that inflammation that's incurring from that intense exercise. Narrator: Once all the they're served into portioned containers and loaded into heated carts. We have around 50 to 75 So generally speaking, each hot cart will hold Group: Ten minutes until assembly for lunch formation. Before lunch formation and the plebes call minutes, and they say the meal for that day. Group: For lunch, we are having chicken, rice, and vegetables. Narrator: After receiving by freshmen, known as plebes ... Group: Five minutes remaining. Narrator: ... cadets get in front of Washington Hall While the students gather, members of the West Point Meanwhile, inside the mess hall, the waitstaff is setting out the water and bread for the 25-minute meal. Jeanaoh: Oh, it's like everything Before formation, we heard really telling us to Once the accountability then battalion, in the regiment, we all start marching to the mess hall. And really, the drums keep the cadence, and keeping our military bearing. Narrator: As cadets file in, the waitstaff has only six minutes to get the food from the We make sure that all the table is set in terms of etiquette and making sure that everybody has their The plebes are actually in charge of making sure that this Narrator: Meals at West that the cadets observe, like the plebes pouring Etiquette is a huge deal in the military. And so this kind of just reinforces from your first year here that Narrator: At the plebe end of the table, every seat has a specific Typically you'll have and that's your cold-beverage corporal. They will be in charge of making sure that everyone has a cup full of water, because there's water when you get there. And then there will be a at the end of the table. They're in charge of the desserts. And then to the right of is the hot-beverage corporal. That person is in charge of getting if there's soup in the buffet line or coffee in the mornings. Faye: And then the plebes which means so that they basically say the fourth class has and now we're ready to eat. And then at that point, we Narrator: Portion sizes are crucial to ensure each cadet is receiving their daily caloric intake. But some tables in the than the standard portion. Christine: So there's a variety with a variety of And they're always doing Narrator: Tables with receive a portion and a half, and tables with a &quot;heavy/heavy&quot; For some of the athletes that we have that have to maintain a higher such as football or heavyweight wrestling or some of our track and field throwers, they require more calories to be able to support that activity, as well as keep their to be competitive in their sport. So they may need more Narrator: For cadets, They're all coming here and honestly, all over the world, because there are So it's a way to make sure that they can build that camaraderie and build that teammate, build that team together by Narrator: For upperclassmen, breakfast and some dinners are optional, where they can choose from Another tradition in Washington Hall: All four years of students sit I love having a table with both freshmen, juniors, seniors. It definitely allows you to interact with people in your company And we switch tables So we get to build those new throughout our four years here. So I think probably the most favorite meal and something you'll probably hear a lot is there's a spicy chicken patty that the cadets absolutely love. My favorite meal here would probably be either spicy chicken or the sweet and sour chicken with rice. Favorite meal is It's like a hot dog burrito, I really do like taco Tuesdays. I also think they do a very My least favorite food would Probably the pork chop. I'm not really a big Sometimes they'll get burnt There's only so many Chicken is one of them that It's trying to find different or different ways to prepare the chicken so that their palate doesn't get burnt out from eating the same thing. Sherman: This is Washington Hall, inside the cadet mess area, as we call it. So behind me is the famous mural. The inspiration behind this was by Gen. Douglas MacArthur, class 1903. And in the 1930s, he became He worked with the academic board here, and they came up with the concept of battles, leaders, You'll see Alexander the You'll see siege rams and so on. All the states are by admission. So you got Arkansas, Texas, Behind me is the entrance when it was finished in 1929. So below me about three or and then the grass area out here. This was the front of the mess hall. So in the early 1960s, the idea was to expand the because the Army and which was only a few years old, had an enrollment top of 2,500, where the Naval Academy had So there's different but in 1965, the law was signed, and they started building, expanding. So they built out from the So at the end of the meal, normally they'll call &quot;Upperclass and then at that point, So at that point, the meal has ended. It usually only takes, for everybody to eat. And then we're on our Our next class starts at 12:45. Narrator: As the cadets begin the waitstaff cleans the tables. And back in the kitchens, the cooks have begun preparing dinner, which is only five and a half hours away. Narrator These cooks are grilling 4,200 beef tenderloin steaks at the US Air Force Academy's 225,000-square-foot dining hall near Colorado Springs, Colorado. And that's just for dinner. Over the course of three meals, will make 590 pounds of hash browns, 375 pounds of eggs, and 90 pounds of bacon for breakfast. Lunch will require an 1,700 pounds of waffle fries, and 5,400 burger patties. On any given day, the cooks This is the biggest dining You're looking at 430 and you got a starch, a You're looking at about 1,300 pans of food that are going on the table on Narrator: But feeding isn't the same as feeding Their energy needs are quite high compared to the average person. Where most people are trying these kids, I want them eating and consistently throughout the day. Narrator: And on top of lunch comes with a set three days a week. We got to see how one of the military's largest dining facilities cooks massive quantities of food across three different meals. Mitchell Hall has an annual In 2022, the dining facility purchased 546,000 pounds of meat, 1.2 million pounds of produce, and 21,000 gallons of milk, which were served across Today's dinner is not just any meal. It's the cadet wing's Recognition Dinner. Motaz Ahmed: Recognition where the freshman class is put through a many stressful event to test their mental and physical stamina. Once you make it to Recognition Dinner, it's a sense of accomplishment. The freshman class is recognized as fully qualified Narrator: To celebrate, the 1,600 pounds of tortellini, and 788 pounds of orange-glazed carrots. The first steak hits to ensure the meal is ready on time, five hours before dinner is served. The steaks move in an They're removed from their packaging, then placed on the grill, where they're seasoned and then cooked. They're then moved into a pan, wrapped, and wheeled away to be stored in hot carts to keep them warm until dinner. At the other end of the kitchen, the premade pasta is poured into pans, topped with pesto Parmesan Alfredo sauce, and moved into a rotating oven to cook. Preparing this much food requires an incredible But not just today; a meal like this is planned out more than a month in advance. Maurer: We really want to work six to eight weeks ahead and commit, we call it committing our And sometimes we'll find there's a holiday meal, so we need to make special preparations for any special events Narrator: And the Recognition Dinner is one of the most In the front of the house, the dining area is prepped for the cadets. Back in the kitchen, onions, are cooked with a medley of seasonings for the vegetarian beef stew, while the rest of the staff strains 788 pounds of vegetables and moves them into hot As cadets begin filing freshmen, known as fourth-year cadets, typically have to pass for the table. After that, the the Air Force Academy as they wait to be seated while upperclassmen quiz them. Tonight, the fourth-years become fully recognized and will no longer have River Ferrari: So, during we're required to come in here, and after everything's set up, we have to hold our &quot;Contrails&quot; at the position of So, they make us do this, because we're standing at So, on Saturday night, it's and have your upperclassmen Potassium, 160 milligrams, 4%, sir! Ferrari: And then you like they would with We're, like, yelling at and it's just a really cool experience, tradition that we do. Sir, the answer is the bunny! Narrator: Before dinner ends, the wait staff brings a dessert made earlier in just for today's occasion. Ferrari: The Mitch's workers came in, and they brought us these boxes, and we're like, &quot;Oh, what's that?&quot; Then they opened them, and it's just this pile of dessert. And so it's pound cake on the bottom, topped with a bunch of and whipped cream and cherries and American flags on top And so that was one of for us as freshmen. Narrator: After the meal, the staff in charge of the In just eight hours, a fresh to prepare the next meal. Kenny McElroy: Good morning. Our headcount for today We had to increase because of So, breakfast, we have scrambled eggs, bacon, and the roundabout hash browns. Let's have a good shift. Narrator: This morning, the to prepare breakfast for 1,500 students. It's a smaller meal because unlike most cadets aren't required to attend. But it's still a challenge Oscar Haliby: The biggest is making sure that we to make sure that the job We are open seven days a week, and we do serve three meals per day. So the work never stops. Narrator: Like many other kitchens, Mitchell Hall is still recovering caused by the pandemic. The eight cooks on staff for this meal boil 375 pounds of heat up 90 pounds of bacon, and cook 560 pounds of hash browns in an industrial-sized fryer Kuzio: As our staffing dwindled, we've had to go to a lot of For instance, boil-in-bag mashed potatoes, boil-in-bag mac and cheese. It's a very time-saving opportunity for us with the short staff that we have. Narrator: It's a proven method of nutritious food with The staff will spend the transferring breakfast items into pans, where they will be set on the serving line for cadets to grab and go or dine in. But just as breakfast is being served, lunch prep is already underway. Kuzio: So, lunch today, the cadets are getting what They're getting waffle fries today. Again, they get run through Then we got the lettuce, that come in fresh, and those get placed Narrator: On Monday, there's no room for error All 4,000 cadets are required and they're only given 20 minutes to eat. There's only about a 30-minute window that they have between classes. Then right after that, or military training. So there's only a small window built in for them to eat in Mitchell Hall. Maurer: That limits their options. We can't provide endless so they do get their one main option. We usually have a and we have a vegetarian Where at a traditional college, you're going to go in different types of cuisines available. We don't have that necessarily here. I think it's just the is the biggest difference in how we provide food to our cadets. Narrator: Prepping the burger takes about four hours. Cooks start by laying out the before moving them into In another part of the kitchen, cooks work together to feed into the deep-fryer conveyor belt. As the fries exit, they're that are later loaded into hot carts. Meanwhile, vegetables in two 100-gallon kettles. McElroy: So, what we have steam-jacketed kettles. We cook a very diverse amount Right now, we're doing Italian vegetables. That's one of the vegetables Typically on veg, we'll do about 200 pounds' worth of Narrator: On the lower staff works to wash, chop, for meals planned later in the week. Prepping food days in advance allows staff to seamlessly serve Kuzio: Thursday, Buffalo chicken wrap, Buffalo chicken tenders for Narrator: But even more is planning the menu weeks in advance and storing the meals 20,000-square-foot warehouse. Maurer: When we are ordering foods, that order goes in all at the They get put into a category, and depending on that category Once everything comes up the elevator, we'll separate it and take it We have four storage departments, the warehouse, the Narrator: While the warehouse and stocks next week's food, the kitchen staff is wrapping up lunch, moving the last few batches Outside, cadets get into which is mandatory three days a week. The Air Force Academy band begins playing as the cadet wing marches Newsreel: 2,500 men in the making march en masse to mess for Narrator: Since the Air Force Academy was established, in 1954, cadets have been required Once inside, fourth-years set Ferrari: We set out all the plates. We set out forks, knives, I was at the position I pour the waters and set And then the person next to which, he would get all the food ready, everything, the meat, the He would set that for each Narrator: Today is the since Recognition, where those responsibilities They dine like the rest of the cadet wing. Maurer: It is impossible nutritional needs and and so really it's working on just emphasizing the and how that affects not only but their physical performance as well. Narrator: The Air Force Academy follows the nutrition standards which requires its most active members to eat up to 4,700 calories a day for men and 3,000 a day for women. Mitchell Hall provides as much not including food from Falcon Express, the grab-and-go station Maurer: I order every single So I try to balance it out too with things that are that provide a lot of energy and nutrition with some fun things as well, like Cracker Jacks and potato Narrator: At 12:15, lunch comes to an end. Cadets clear their tables The wait staff begins cleaning the tables and resetting the dining area. Back in the kitchen, the cooking staff starts which will be served in five hours. Alexia Grant: I, for the first five weeks, did not take any days off. I was here, open, Sunday to Sunday, rocking out for our guys. Narrator: That's Chef Lex, one of just 10 chefs inside the NBA bubble, a COVID-free isolation zone on Disney World's campus. Narrator: Disney was initially responsible for feeding the 22 teams that made it into the bubble. But after negative Twitter reviews and complaints from players, the NBA brought in chefs like Lex to live inside the bubble Alexia: Everything that we have to do has to be at the hotel. We cannot leave. We cannot wander. Narrator: She and the other chefs whip up about 4,000 meals a week. But Chef Lex is no stranger She's cooked for the Portland Trail Blazers, Oprah Winfrey, Kelly Rowland, Meek Mill, and competed on Food Network's &quot;Chopped.&quot; We followed Chef Lex to cooking thousands of meals for players inside the NBA bubble. Alexia: Let's feed our guys Narrator: For Chef Lex, each day inside the Alexia: I'm just throwing and throwing my hair up and, thank God, getting on a bus. Narrator: There are technically two zones within the NBA bubble. The inner bubble houses the players and staff, and the outer bubble is where the chefs live and work. And they're not allowed to Alexia: We have these and if you don't follow Narrator: Chef Lex lives but cooks inside the Buses transport her between Alexia: Rise and shine, Mr. Will. Yes, my guy. Joy. Joy: Rise and shine. Narrator: Chef Lex and her assistant, Joy, run Comfort Kitchen, a pop-up Southern and Caribbean restaurant that Lex launched specifically All the other chefs who were attached to a team. But Chef Lex came in as an individual chef. Alexia: I get to the kitchen, and it's time to rock and roll. As soon as I get there, Narrator: Teams can browse her menu and place team or a la carte orders through her website. But orders aren't guaranteed. Narrator: Chef Lex the night before, so she has a chance to order all the food she needs. Since she's not allowed personal shoppers outside Alexia: Thanks, sis. On my way to cook. See y'all later! Narrator: Masked up and with [laughs] Narrator: Chef Lex and Joy get to work. They start with making the Erik Spoelstra: Chef Lex, thanks for hosting this great team meal here for Heat Nation. It was the perfect way to celebrate our win last night. Appreciate you. Narrator: It's just Chef doing all the cooking for Comfort Kitchen. Alexia: Joy Dariel is instrumental in keeping Comfort I mean, I was able to walk away from certain parts of the cooking, 'cause I can micromanage sometimes. Narrator: Together, they're making all kinds of comfort food. Chicken and waffles, All of the things that I made Narrator: Once everything's cooked, it's packaged up for the Narrator: Because Chef Lex isn't allowed to enter the inner bubble, she has to hand off the food to runners. Narrator: Then the relay race begins. The first runner can only go as far as the security point for the inner bubble. There, it's picked up by a That person finally Chris Haynes: Chef Lex done it again. My food is here. This is my go-to. French toast, bacon, and eggs. On point. Bomb. Appreciate you, girl. Narrator: Then it's back and get ready to do it all over again. Alexia: Working in a to directly hand off food to my client was really hard and a huge, like, 'Cause I like my food to get there and be as beautiful as it But I have a lot of repeat customers, so that means that my a fantastic job. I feel like such a boss. Thank you for asking me to do this. Shout-out to the NBA and the More than 215,000 people are expected to flock to Miami for America's And all of those fans Dayanny De La Cruz: We do two things here: We play, and we eat. Narrator: That's Dayanny the executive chef of the Super Bowl. She's in charge of feeding everyone, from the fans to the She runs an army of 3,000 hustling day and night But they're not just They're also whipping up complex dishes like porchetta and seafood paella. And they're doing it delivering meals across a stadium the size of, well, a football field. De La Cruz: We are living in And it's like a bomb just blown in the middle of the kitchen. It feels like we all go to war. We all fight our own battles. And at the end of the run, we come back and we tell the stories Narrator: So how do they feed all of football's biggest fans? This year, Miami's Hard Rock Stadium is hosting the big game. The stadium and its caterer, Centerplate, are no stranger to big events. But for Super Bowl 54, De La Cruz: We are doubling that we're doing so far. Narrator: 50% more staff was brought in just for Super Bowl Sunday, including dishwashers, line cooks, inventory staff, and 35 chefs, flown in from all over North America. But the staff has to There are also press events, and the fan experience at Which means on top of the 65,000 fans squeezing into the stadium, the chefs are responsible 150,000 people in just one week. While it wouldn't share an exact number, Centerplate does expect in sales for the Super Bowl alone. To get it all done, the for this event nearly four years ago. But it all comes down to the De La Cruz: There is a I know people don't There is something behind it. So, this is how we work Super Bowl. Everything is in order. We kinda have a system. We have orders. We have labels. Narrator: Inventory staff starting 36 hours before game day. It's hustled into storage or divided into kitchen fridges. Chefs typically do most of the cooking from seven kitchens in the stadium. But for Super Bowl Sunday, they had to wheel in three and outsource cooking to local vendors in the Miami Beach Convention Center. Main kitchens crank out food for lounges, suites, and concession stands. And in those stands, the between ordering your food at 45 seconds. Narrator: Kitchens are divided up into cold and hot sections. In the cold kitchen, they're like wedge salads and ceviche. In hot, they're frying and chicken wings. Chefs line up rows of turkey sandwiches, labor over vats of lamb curry, and dish out gallons and for the suites. Here they'll be cooking Spruill: A little bit weary. Tons of fun, though. I'm a football fan, so, go 49ers! [laughs] Narrator: Once cooked, down the stadium's secret De La Cruz: Sorry, I walk fast. Tell me if you want me to slow down. We call this the belly of the beast. We are walking through when it comes to food and beverage. I'm having a coffee macaron so I can continue going. [laughs] Anybody who walks on game day should have between six to 11 miles. Narrator: All this is in preparation for the biggest food rush: right before kickoff. Food heads up to one of and carts in the concourse. While some stands have small most rely on deliveries from downstairs whenever they get close to running out. De La Cruz: Let's just say, but if it does, then and then somebody runs really fast. Narrator: But with the and thousands of people deliveries can be tough. De La Cruz: It's a big giant that moves on its own sometimes. Today, you might be selling Tomorrow, you might be So it's all about that we manage the expectation. Narrator: Upstairs, they're but the same amount of food. De La Cruz: We are in what we call the cold-side area for suites. Out of these two kitchens, Imagine 157 small restaurants. We are in the best kitchen [cheering] Who is the second Super Bowl? We got two pioneers. Three. Narrator: Here, they're slicing up cheese and roasting racks on racks of mushrooms. De La Cruz: Imagine what you see here, and cook for 1,600 people for me. The team cranks out 400 on Super Bowl Sunday alone. And if one thing breaks, well... De La Cruz: If one oven breaks, Something is gonna fall behind. So you can't take anybody for granted. Especially in such a large Narrator: And in this game, the size is the biggest hurdle. At a regular restaurant, you might order just two De La Cruz: Instead of receiving you're receiving 3,000. We just smoked about 4,500, 4,400, almost 5,000 pounds of pork butts. Right now, actually, I'm Which is crazy. I just called my vendor, and I say, you know, Narrator: Luckily, Chef to help make the magic happen. She's hired 40 local vendors to churn out everything within a week to cake pops, cookies, and Jenny Rissone: Working 24 hours a day. I have four shifts right now. I have to rent extra refrigeration. Narrator: This is the a family-owned bakery in charge of all the desserts for the Super Bowl. And, yes, she did get that Rissone: Chef D is super funny. We plan and get organized, &quot;Oh, by the way, mama, just so you know, I may order a little bit more cookies.&quot; I'm like: &quot;OK, sure, no problem. How many more?&quot; &quot;I don't know, about 2,500 more.&quot; You know, I say, &quot;Sure, sure, no problem. I got it, I got it.&quot; And then when I hang &quot;Oh, my God, we have 2,500 more cookies!&quot; Narrator: It's Centerplate's but it's Chef D's first. De La Cruz: We are, all of us, baring ourselves to I always tell everybody, on game day, find a little moment and, you know, look down into the bowl, and find yourself thinking, you know, pat yourself on the back