House Bracken and House But what started this rivalry? How long has it been going on for? And what is the fate of their feud? This is the animated history of The Brackens are the Lords of Stone Their sigil boasts a red stallion upon The Blackwoods are the Lords of Raventree Hall, and their sigil boasts a flock of black ravens on a scarlet field surrounding a dead Neither of their House mottos are known. But we do know that both Houses The Brackens claim to have been Kings of thousands of years before the They ruled the Red Fork river until they were usurped by their treacherous The Blackwood story is different. They claim to have ruled the being driven south by the Stark Kings of Winter - a story that's backed up by runes After fleeing to the riverlands, it is they petty horselords with the name Bracken, betrayed and usurped them after hiring sellsword. We don't know which of these stories is the truth. Although this historic feud these Old God worshippers actually forged and their blasphemous Faith of Seven. These First Men forces were shattered supposedly by 777 Andal Worshipping the Seven Gods. How convenient. But why did this alliance not break the feud? The answer is simple. Along with their own specific dynastic myths, these Houses have long been divided The Brackens eventually converted while the Blackwoods continued to worship As part of their personal tradition, they liked to nail copper pennies When the weirwood tree died, the Blackwoods but it is worth noting that nails so perhaps this is a self-inflicted In terms of land: The Blackwoods own the disputed while the Mother's Teats - a pair of grassy The chaotic centuries have seen numerous - marriages between both Houses. As Hoster Blackwood tells Ser Jaime Lannister: &quot;There's Blackwood blood in every Bracken, The festering wounds, however, remain open. Years after the Andal Invasion, two star-crossed lovers from both Houses birthed a A stern but wise man, Benedict grew kings throughout the riverlands until he was crowned King Benedict the Just. He forged the House of Justman, Alas, the Justmans were eventually wiped out Speaking of Riverkings. King Humfrey Teague, who tried to suppress the worship of the Old Naturally, Lord Roderick Blackwood rose in Roderick had previously married his and thus the Storm King rode to his aid, eager to grant the kingship of AKA his father-in-law. The stormlanders relieved and fought at the climactic Humfrey I was slain - followed closely by his sons Humfrey II, Hollis, Tyler, and finally his brother, Sadly, Lord Roderick had also been killed. King Arlan III wed Roderick's eldest daughter, and then suggested crowning Roderick's as Queen of the Trident. As a woman, she was rejected by the Riverlords, so Arlan instead integrated the Three centuries later, King army invaded the northern riverlands, seizing Lady Agnes Blackwood led the When Lord Tully's bastard son - Ser while defending the Tumblestone, However, she was betrayed. Lord Lothar Bracken attacked her forces It is possible that Lothar believed in his own right, a loyal ally of the Ironborn. King Harwyn Hoare was impressed offering to make her his salt wife. She said she would rather die, so he stabbed The House of Hoare claimed and Harwyn became King of Six months later, the spiteful Lord Lothar Stone Hedge was sacked, and Lothar himself spent The deadly tensions between until several generations later when King Aegon Lord Edmyn Tully led the charge in raising the red dragon banner and revolting against and both Lord Bracken and Lord After the burning of Harrenhal and the Conqueror had to choose a The Blackwood and Bracken and so he appointed Edmyn Tully as Aegon's sister-wife, Queen Visenya, arranged During the reign of Maegor Targaryen, the Cruel King accepted a Trial by the Grand Captain of the Warrior's Sons. One of his champions was a Another Bracken - Ser Olyver - proved more until he and Ser Raymund Mallery Their betrayal was not rewarded - the new King Jaehaerys banished Ser Olyver Bracken was ordered to Two years later, he had had enough. Olyver declared himself Lord of Rimegate, supported in his mutiny by Ser Raymund and Lord Walton Stark helped the Night's Watch Ser Raymund Mallery, meanwhile, fled only to be captured and At the end of Jaehaerys' reign, Lord Blackwood supported the claim of Laenor How Lord Bracken voted is unknown. What we do know is that, during his heir Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen Lord Humfrey Bracken's son, Ser Amos, fought The Bracken defeated the Blackwood, This next chapter will explore the civil If you don't want spoilers for skip to the next chapter in this video. You have been warned. When the Dance of the Dragons broke out in 129 AC, while Lord Samwell Blackwood Lord Samwell raided Bracken land, and in return, Ser Amos Bracken and his bastard brother Ser While camping near a mill, the Bracken led by Lord Samwell and his sister Flames engulfed the nearby mill, and thus Once more the rivals duelled, and once but the consequences for Samwell were deadly. Black Aly avenged her brother by firing a Ser Raylon Rivers and the Bracken but by then it was too late. Prince Daemon Targaryen and his men had Ser Raylon had no choice but to yield. Lord Samwell was succeeded by his Benjicot joined the Black army Joining him on the campaign the famous archer Red Robb Rivers, Alysanne often shared her tent with Lady It is rumoured the two women were lovers. Though the child lord became known as It is said that he wept when he saw the masses Near the end of the Dance of the Dragons, Bloody Ben fought at the Battle of the Kingsroad The three young men became known as the Lads. Kermit: &quot;Ah, we gotta go to King's Landing!&quot; After arriving at King's Landing, Benjicot Alysanne secured a marriage and convinced him to let rebuild in the riverlands for the upcoming winter. House Blackwood in particular welcomed In 134 AC, a succession war broke out in the Vale. Lady Jeyne Arryn's distant cousin Ser but her rebellious first He had gone mad in imprisonment, Oh, and Isembard Arryn, the but distant branch of the family, Ser Robert Rowan launched a campaign to end bolstering his forces with Blackwoods. After Ser Robert was crushed by a eventually helping Ser Joffrey Decades later, during the infamously a Lord Bracken served as his loyal Hand. Bracken's daughter, the vivacious Barba, was one of many maidens accompanying King When Baelor died and the Princesses were released, Barba met the licentious Prince Aegon Targaryen. A year later, when he sat the Iron Throne, he took So smitten with her was he, that he renamed the Mother's Teats to She gave him a bastard son with dark After Queen Naerys almost died boasting about marrying Barba to Aegon. This proved to be a severe political mistake. Naerys' brother, Prince Aemon the forced the King to send Barba Aegon quickly took the willowy a modest woman who was well-liked at court. She became friends with Queen Naerys and Prince Mya, Gwenys, and Brynden, an albino with a When Barba once japed about Missy's flat chest, King Aegon spitefully renamed and officially granted the land to the Blackwoods. To this day, each House has a Lord Bracken and his daughter Lady They groomed Barba's younger sister, The scheming succeeded, and the young woman caught the King's eye when he visited To Lord Bracken's joy, Aegon brought setting aside Missy and naming By now, Aegon was fat of body and foul of temper... and so Bethany found comfort in the bed When Aegon himself found them abed, before executing Bethany and her father. Despite Melissa being sent away, her bastard son Brynden was able to becoming loyal to the future King Daeron II. Brynden Bloodraven developed a fierce rivalry not least because of their affection for the Bloodraven would go on to serve House Targaryen, becoming Master of Whisperers and Hand of the where he rose to become Lord Commander of the Meanwhile, Bittersteel went founding the Golden Company and Daemon I of the First Rebellion, and Daemon III of the Fourth Rebellion. Bittersteel was eventually Twice, the powerful rivals but you can find out more about them During the First Blackfyre Rebellion in 196 and why we don't know for certain, it is likely that House Blackwood Lord Bracken was sent to Myr to hire crossbowmen, but storms delayed his arrival, and It is unknown whether the Brackens supported Two kings later, Aegon V known as Black Betha, in an act of love. Together they had Prince Duncan the the future Queen Shaera, Prince - the grandmother of Bobby B himself. Another famous Blackwood wife the fourth wife of Lord Walder Frey. She gave him five children, including Lame and the true architect of the Red Wedding. The feud continued into the Lord Tywin Lannister, the Hand, granted a mill - but Aerys gave it to the Brackens instead. Thousands of years, and these Houses Now we reach the Song of Ice and Fire. There are eight known members of House Bracken. Jonos Bracken is the Lord of Stone By his first wife he has two By his third wife he has three His only son is a bastard by due to his fair hair and comely features, the Lord Bracken also has a nephew called Hendry. There are also eight known Tytos Blackwood is the Lord of Raventree He has six sons: Brynden, Lucas, Hoster, Edmund, Alyn, and While the rivalry persists, both When Lady Catelyn Stark kidnaps Tyrion Lannister, Kurleket, Lharys, and Mohor. They're based on the Three All three are slain by As a response to the kidnapping, Tywin unleashes Bracken territory is spoiled, its people are War breaks out upon the death and Lord Blackwood helps defend Alas, Raventree Hall also falls to enemy. The rival Lords arrive at Riverrun after the Lord Tytos argues that they should while Lord Jonos suggests waiting and Because of course they can't bring After the Greatjon proclaims Bracken and Blackwood finally join The Brackens successfully take back Stone Hedge, but Jonos himself is wounded in the The Blackwoods also take back Raventree Hall. Meanwhile, Lucas Blackwood proves his mettle by accompanying Catelyn Stark The war brings epic victories The Brackens succeed in capturing Lord Quenten They prove to be brutal - in their with Lannister troops are hanged for all to see. Robb Stark's cause dies which sees members of both families culled. Unnamed Brackens are slaughtered, while Lucas The responses are different. Lord Jonos bends the knee to the Iron Lord Tytos is far too honourable to bend the The temporary alliance is over. The Brackens raid Blackwood Negotiations go nowhere - Jonos wants to snatch while Tytos refuses to yield anything. The Blackwoods are starving in their castle, Ser Jaime Lannister arrives to resolve the siege, stumbling upon Jonos abed - a spoil of war in the Bracken's mind. Jaime persuades Lord Tytos to yield Lord's Mill, and Honeytree, and to He also orders Jonos to send one of his daughters So what fate awaits these Some have theories a Romeo &amp; Juliet and the Bracken daughter sent to King's Landing. Perhaps, away from their toxic Although, considering the chaos it's likely their fates will be just as Perhaps there will be a more Lord Tytos has six sons, - mayhaps a mass marriage ceremony is in order. Could a true, wholesome alliance Considering their bloody history, probably not. But if the enemy of my enemy is my friend, and my enemy is responsible for killing well, we may witness the Brackens and A Second Red Wedding, perhaps, organised by Lady Stoneheart and and unleashed upon Lannisters and Freys alike. Or maybe there is truly no ending this rivalry. When a member of either House is slain, it is both Bracken and Blackwood blood that The cycle of hatred is a - like many feuds throughout history - is as pointless as the violence it inspires. Thanks for watching! Like the video if you enjoyed, and subscribe to Fantasy Haven for If you wanna support the channel, feel free -including HOTD episode as well as the Merch store. Get yourself a cheeky mug or something. If you'd like to learn about the Real Special thanks to all my Patrons, including: Alex, Andres, Boombler, Caden, See ya next time.