15 July 1099. Jerusalem. The Crusaders, are preparing to launch the final assault on the the Seljuk Turks, who and who forbade pilgrimage to Christians. Shia branch of Islam ruling in Egypt, do not oppose access to holy sites for Determined to take the city. The attack is The holy city is taken by the crusaders. Indeed, for 400 years, Jerusalem Religion was born in the Arabian Peninsula at the beginning seize vast territories and establish themselves in them Questions. How the Last Great Monotheism to occupy a third of the known world and convert Two videos on the expansion of Islam: in a which will tear the new believers apart, and then in Conquered territories and the slowdown The Arabian Peninsula is a vast territory, many deserts. Some oases and water wells in these hostile lands. The Southwest, Arabia monsoons, thanks to the high mountains, allowing caravan or maritime, the populations of Arabia Contrary to popular belief, which assimilates Bedouins, the population is mostly Arabic, and knows writing. The shared between nomads and sedentary, Breeders and farmers, and especially shared from the north and the south. Arab populations political and social organization: made up of several clans, including the leader the Prophet Muhammad, belongs to the Hashim clan, These great tribes made up of several Pre-Islamic Arabia is surrounded by two Eastern Roman, or Byzantine Empire, of which officially monotheistic, Christian empire, The Eastern Community on issues Jacobites or Nestorians who occupy regions Zoroastrian or Mazdean religion, religion and evil. But many communities These two empires are in permanent conflict Seventh century, the war intensifies: after who are pushed back to the gates of Constantinople, to reverse the situation and inflict even from the capital Ctesiphon. A peace is constant wars that have mobilized all their deeply weakened, then enter into a have lost territory through concentration From these two empires are 2 kingdoms allied with the Byzantines and composed of Melkites, to the Persians, who are Nestorian Christians. By its is experiencing a strong penetration of monotheism polytheism, the last traces of which were found Despite some pilgrimages still existing, Rewriting its history, the Muslim tradition the &quot;Jahiliya&quot;, &quot;age of ignorance&quot; in order to the new religion with a tribal past, It is in this context that was born in 570 in La he is taken in by his paternal uncle, of trader, which makes him travel in he married Khadija, a rich widow, which is rich and respected in the tribe As he goes to reflect and meditate in the to that of the archangel Gabriel, transmits to him the Muhammad accepts his prophetic mission, and enjoining them to respect the divine word, and adhered to the message, including his wife and other clans such as Abu Bakr of the Taym clan, or Umayya. Converts are gradually increasing, as this Reasons: to recognize Muhammad as a messenger of the city. It would then supplant all others of fair and pilgrimage that drains important black stone attracts crowds, the Kaaba. Muhammad Die. The new head of the Hashi clan for his life. After an installation attempt with the inhabitants of Yathrib, settling a Muhammad and his followers settle in Yathrib, prophet. It is the Hegira, emigration, exile, Rupture is important: it's a new time based on blood ties, is replaced by Next to the Muhajirun, Meccan expatriates Medinan converts, Ansar, auxiliaries are being put in place. The Constitution of Medina The community of believers is united in blood ties, and everyone can integrate it During this period, Muhammad consolidated His house and mosque, central to Medina, codifies certain social practices such as or games of chance in order to guarantee a the new religion through recited verses, Successors. Inspired by other religions, such as A set of practices is established: fasting, direction of Jerusalem. Muhammad tries to win But the lack of enthusiasm for the news Prayer quickly. Now believers community is fixed on Friday, Along with these religious aspects, Muhammad inflicted the Meccans on him by driving him out. He even by force, would allow recognition none to his other great design: dissemination He begins by attacking the caravans. In 623, defeated a Meccan army three times Grew up. But a series of setbacks weakens it against 2 of the 3 Jewish tribes of Medina, which are in front of Medina. The Medinans owe their salvation Meccan armies, mostly composed Mohammed hardens his tone and massacres 600 Jews Initially, accepted in Jews and Christians are definitely divine word. From now on, Islam is the only one the new chosen people. After the Battle of the the peninsula. Expeditions make it possible to while Muhammad's diplomacy works Mecca is gradually encircled. Elites ruin, begin to convert. In 629, when armed, the city surrendered immediately, and the Reassured by the leniency and generosity of the are crushed in the following years, while that the tribes recognize Muhammad. Several The peninsula is almost totally unified under this new religion. Several strict and superior motivation of the troops, charismatic of Muhammad, marked by his but also the idea of a new fraternity and crystallizing a diffuse feeling, that Muhammad's death in 632 provoked dissension converted, and to the Ansar, the Medinan converts, in decision-making, which using its is gaining more and more power. Some the family of the prophet, in the person of Ali, one of the first converts, to whom Muhammad had importance. He takes the title of khalifa: &quot;the The new sovereign institution of Islam: the They will be called &quot;the well-guided caliphs&quot; and who from Islam: &quot;the Rashidun Caliphate&quot;. Abu Bakr Many tribes: There are many reasons. lent to Muhammad stops at his death; Some Honoring new prophets, that tradition which were integrated into the umma under Muhammad and Apostates. They must be fought. Abu Bakr who are unable to federate, and The Wars of Apostasy, or War of definitely throughout the peninsula. This but well forced. Abu Bakr dies barely 2 as successor Omar, his right-hand man, who The policy of conquest of Islam is initiated rise under Omar. With battle-hardened troops are sent north, both to channel and offer a prospect of enrichment levied on conquered populations, which is Let's first look at the Sassanid Persians Khalid Ibn Walid manages to seize He then submits, without encountering resistance, Sassanid emperor Yazgard III, assembled an army He crushed the Muslim forces, deprived of Several years of skirmishes followed before the men face 40,000 Arab warriors in Beaten. Persia opens to Muslim troops, The conquerors set up two barracks-towns, will carry out attacks in the north and then seize repulsed, take refuge in the mountains The battle that marks a turning point takes place in by Yazgard are crushed by the Arabs. Battle Name of &quot;victory of victories&quot;, because it opens allows the spread of the new religion in His few troops fled inexorably. At his Iranian plateaus. The Sassanid ruler, murdered by relatives in Merv in 651. The Empire On the Byzantine side, the Ghassanid territory, allied For 20 years by the Sassanids, has some quickly conquered. Troops move towards the disgruntled region of Byzantium, welcome the reacted and sent a contingent to meet them. Join the troops who have gathered. One 634 in Ajnadayn. This is a victory in the many men. The Byzantines retreated while Heraclius' troops shut themselves up in Damascus, which then Homs and part of the Levant which falls in the More vigor: it sends the maximum number of troops Armies defeat Arabs retreat fight. The decisive confrontation takes place The Byzantines are defeated. Syria control of the Caliphate. In 638, An army of 40,000 men, commanded by Amr hand on the attic of the world. The attack surprises fortified before being defeated at Heliopolis. The and lay siege to Babylon, the present one. and takes refuge in Alexandria, well protected The Byzantines negotiate. An agreement is reached their property. Those who remain must either settled on the fringes of the delta and founded the From this base, Arab troops push Putting up little resistance. They seize At the same time, a large fleet was built by the Conquered. But a crisis is about to erupt in The new caliph, appointed in 644, Since he married 2 of his daughters, will of the community. From the powerful Umayya clan of his family to key positions as governors of in the form of land grants to his clan, returning to the old pre-Islamic clan ties. and the other clans of the Quraysh oppose the in his house in Medina in 656. The war The new caliph who is elected, Ali, is the cousin His election is contested, notably by of Othman who wishes to avenge the assassination of the to the murderers. The community is divided into 2 part of the muhajirun and Basra troops composed of Syrians, Egyptians, with the garrison Led by members of his clan, the The Great Discord, a period of war Muslim community. Charged with Othman's murder notably by the 3rd wife of the prophet at the Battle of the Camel. Armies to Siffin. But the fight is stopped: it is decided to disassociate, and form a new current late in Nahrawan. At the end of this arbitration, and gradually loses its supporters. It is finally avenge the Nahrawan massacre. Mu'awiya then he was proclaimed caliph. The centre of the From the Umayya family of the Quraysh of give its name to the period that is beginning and which In the space of 50 years, Islam has succeeded There are many reasons for this success of a new Arab community supported by the who has successfully integrated the tribes then by force. Militarily, the armies who did not hesitate to attack by surprise or Opponents. By directing their armies towards the an influx of wealth and thus avoided linked to a slowdown in these conquests and was poorly accepted by the community. But the great Umayyad will further push the borders of of a new administration. Key aspects which we will discuss in more detail in a I hope you enjoyed this video! If beautiful illustration by Khalid Ibn Whalid, History by going to the Tipeee page or Manon Potier from DTDA Obviously that allow the chain to exist. If you a thumbs up! Many thanks for your