Beginning of Guidance In the name of God, the Most Praise be to God, as is due to Him, and prayers His messenger and servant, and upon Know, O eager seeker embarking on the quest for thirst for it, that if your pursuit of knowledge attracting people's attention to yourself, and you are endeavoring to demolish your religion, your worldly life; such a transaction is losing, an aide in your disobedience and a partner in a highway robber, as the Prophet, peace be even with half a word, becomes a partner in it.' and God the Almighty, in seeking knowledge are for the angels spread their wings for you as you you as you strive. However, you must know, before knowledge, has a beginning and an end, an outward end without perfecting its beginning, nor finding And here I point out to you the beginning of your heart. If you find your heart inclining to then you may look forward to the ends and delve your heart procrastinating upon facing it, and then know that your self inclining towards seeking to the accursed Satan to mislead you with of destruction. His aim is to promote evil in the efforts have been wasted in this life while they And at that point, Satan will recite to you the and what has been mentioned about it in you from the saying of the Prophet, peace be does not increase in guidance only increases "The most severely punished people on the Day benefit through his knowledge." The Prophet, peace in You from knowledge that does not benefit, a elevated, and a supplication that is not heard." night I was taken up (the Isra and Mi'raj) fire. I asked, 'Who are you?' They replied, 'We and forbid evil but do it ourselves.'" falsifications, lest he leads you by the rope seek to learn once, and woe to the scholar a thousand times. Know that people in seeking it to use as provision for the Hereafter and aims he is among the successful. A man seeks it to and wealth, knowing his state and the baseness If death hastens to him before repentance, his of God. If he is granted repentance before his what he has neglected, he joins the successful, sin. And a third man whom Satan has overpowered, boast about status, and amass followers, entering pretending to be at a distinguished place scholars and his adherence to their outward blatant pursuit of the world externally and deluded fools. The hope for his repentance is cut oblivious to God's saying: 'O you who have And he is among those about whom the Prophet other than the Dajjal himself." It was asked, "The evil scholars." This is because the ultimate and such a scholar, even if he verbally and he drives them towards it with his actions and more eloquent than the expression of one's words, actions than adhering to words; thus, what this more than what he rectifies with his words. The life except by the boldness of the scholars, so servants of God towards sins. His ignorant self is him to bestow upon God his knowledge, and imagines Be, O seeker, from the first group, beware being from the third, lest you perish in a anticipation for your rectification. If you ask know that its beginning is the outward there is no outcome except with piety, and about obeying God's commands and avoiding Here I provide you with brief pointers on the adding a third category to make this and God is the one whose help is sought. Introduction: one is refraining from prohibitions, and the prohibitions is the more challenging part; only the truthful can abstain from desires. said: &quot;The migrant is the one who avoids evil, and desires.&quot; Be aware that you only disobey God with and a trust in your care. Using God's blessing and betraying the trust God has placed in you subjects, so be mindful of how you manage for their flock. Know that all your limbs will openly revealing your secrets to all creation. God and their feet will bear witness against them as their mouths, and their hands will speak to Us, Protect, oh unfortunate one, your entire for Hell has seven gates, each dedicated to a for those who disobey God with these seven private parts, hands, and feet. The eye was created for you to find your way in wonders of the kingdoms of Earth and the heavens, things: looking at the forbidden, at a beautiful with disdain, or prying into a Muslim's faults. Guard your ear from listening to heresy, gossip, It was created for you to hear the words of God, the wisdom of His allies, and to gain knowledge worlds. If you listen to what is detestable, what was a means of success will become a cause of your exclusive to the speaker and not the listener; for speaker and is one of the backbiters.&quot; The tongue was created for you to abundantly creation to His path, and express the needs of for other than its intended purpose, you have is the most dominant organ over you and others, more than anything else. Take utmost control the depths of Hell, for it is narrated: &quot;A man yet it plunges him into Hell for seventy deemed a martyr in a battle during the time of &quot;What a fortunate man, to be in Paradise!&quot; But spoke about things that did not concern him or was Preserve your tongue from eight things: Guard your tongue against lying in earnest or jest, for it may lead to seriousness. Lying is one your integrity and the trust in your words will To realize the ugliness of lying, observe how you liar and their lies. Do the same with all your in yourself but in others. What you find repulsive so do not accept that for yourself. Beware of making a promise and not fulfilling it. not just words. If you must promise, ensure due to inability or an emergency, as this is Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, said, &quot;There he lies; when he makes a promise, he breaks it; 3. Backbiting: as backbiting is worse than thirty fornications someone in a manner they would dislike if they what you say is true. Avoid speaking ill of showy &quot;May God reform him; his actions have saddened backbiting and self-praise by criticizing others. privately. If you're grieved because of them, it And sufficient as a deterrent against "And do not backbite one another. Would any of You would detest it." Indeed, God has likened how much more should you then abstain from it?! reflection on yourself: Do you have any apparent or openly? Recognizing your flaws makes you is similar to yours, and their excuse is like others dislike it too. If you cover if you expose them, God will expose you. being oblivious to your faults is the greatest is extreme ignorance. If you truly see no faults it by slandering others or indulging in their 4. Disputation and Argumentation: with people involves harming the interlocutor, showcasing one's own wit and knowledge. Such fool will bring you harm, and disputing with and potential enmity towards you. The Prophet argumentation while being wrong, God will build and whoever leaves it while being correct, God of Paradise.&quot; Do not let Satan deceive you into without compromise, as he lures the foolish become a mockery for Satan. Exposing the truth and through discreet advice, not through and requires tactfulness; otherwise, it becomes who mingle with the pseudo-scholars of the era are misled by corrupt scholars into believing Flee from such influences as you would from a divine and human disdain. God Almighty says, &quot;So do not claim yourselves One of the wise said, &quot;What is ugly truth?&quot; He habituating yourself to self-praise. Know that it God's disdain. To understand that self-praise observe your peers when they boast about their rejects it, how unnatural it feels to you, and that they too, in the moment of your self-praise, of it once you're gone. Refrain from cursing any of God's creations, Do not attest to anyone among the believers as God knows the innermost secrets. Do not come Day of Judgment, you won't be asked why you didn't if you did not curse Satan all your life and did accountable for it on the Day of Judgment. If you accountable. Do not disparage anything created never spoke ill of any food; if he desired 7. Praying Against Others: of God's creations. If someone oppresses you, &quot;The oppressed may pray against their oppressor and then there remains surplus merit with the oppressor on the Day of Resurrection.&quot; Some one of the predecessors to say: &quot;God avenges just as He avenges those oppressed by Al-Hajjaj.&quot; Guard your tongue against jesting, mocking, and as it humiliates others, diminishes respect, root of disputes, anger, and hostility. It embeds anyone; if someone jests with you, do not respond, different conversation. Be among those who pass pitfalls of the tongue, and nothing can aid silence except when necessary. Abu Bakr al-Siddiq, in his mouth to prevent himself from speaking saying: &quot;This is what leads me into tribulations.&quot; for it is one of the strongest causes of your Etiquette of the Stomach: refraining from consuming the prohibited or find lawful sustenance, limit your intake to less impairs the intellect, hampers memory, makes strengthens desires, and aids the devil's is the beginning of all evils, so how much worse is obligatory for every Muslim, and worship with on a crumbling foundation. If you are content of coarse bread loaves daily, avoiding indulgence you in lawful means, which are abundant. inner aspects of matters, but rather it is upon to be haram based on a decisive sign that can be the suspected based on signs involves the wealth whose only earnings come from lamentation, selling such prohibited amusement instruments. If you know then whatever you take from their hand--even if predominant assumption is that it is haram. endowments not stipulated by the in studying Islamic jurisprudence, and anyone who commits a sin that discredits their from an endowment or otherwise is haram. and the halal and haram in a separate book from so you should seek it out; for knowing and seeking like the five daily prayers. Protect your private parts from all that &quot;And those who guard their private those their right hands possess, are not to without protecting your eyes from improper your stomach from dubious and excessive eating, Etiquette of the Hands: unlawful wealth, committing injustice, betraying be spoken. The pen is one of the two tongues; Etiquette of the Feet: toward the sinful or hastening to the threshold without a dire need is a significant sin, as despite their oppression. God commands us to &quot;Do not incline toward those who do wrong, such rulers is akin to pursuing the forbidden. The himself to a wealthy man due to his wealth, This pertains to a righteous wealthy person, Overall, your movements and stillness do not move any of them in disobedience to Know that if you fall short, the burden is on you. God is independent of you and your deeds. earned. Beware of saying that God is generous and this is a true statement intended for falsehood, Messenger of God, who said: "The wise is the one after death, and the fool is the one who follows your statement is like that of someone who wishes studying, engages in idleness, and says: "Allah my heart the knowledge He has bestowed upon the repetition, and learning," like someone who wants remains idle, and says: "Allah is generous and and the earth and is able to show me a treasure that for some of His servants. If you hear these mock them, even if what they describe of God's the masters of insight in the religion will striving for it, as God says: "And that man can are only compensated for what you have done," and indeed, the wicked will be in hellfire." and wealth relying on His generosity, likewise nor slacken; for the Lord of this world and the in both. His generosity does not increase by your to eternal sovereignty and everlasting bliss a few days; this is the ultimate generosity. of the idle, but follow the resolve and and do not hope to reap what you have pray, strive, and fear God might be forgiven. guard, and the actions of these senses stem to preserve these senses, then focus on purifying is the organ that, if rectified, rectifies corrupts the rest of the body with it. Engage in rectification comes through constant vigilance. Know that there are numerous blameworthy traits heart from these vices is lengthy and complex. The largely been lost, overshadowed by humanity's preoccupation with worldly distractions. We have Religious Sciences,&quot; under the sections on be cautioned that these are inherently destructive Strive to cleanse your heart from these; if you destructive traits mentioned. If you struggle with others. Don't assume that a good intention heart harbors jealousy, ostentation, or vanity. &quot;Three things lead to destruction: stinginess impressed with themselves.&quot; Envy is a branch of stinginess. A miser is one who person is stingy with God's blessings, which are is greater. The envious person is distressed by wealth, love in people's hearts, or any fortune, vanish, even if they gain nothing from their hence the Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) wood.&quot; The envious person is in perpetual with the Hereafter's punishment being even more until one desires for others what they desire for like a single building where each part supports the whole body responds in kind. If prioritizing liberation from destructive traits argumentative knowledge is crucial. Regarding ostentation: It is hidden polytheism, in people's hearts to attain fame and reverence. led many astray, as people have only been truly just, they would recognize that most of their habitual actions are driven not by sincerity ostentation nullifies deeds, as illustrated by claiming martyrdom for God's sake, yet is told this acknowledgment by others was his only reward. As for vanity, arrogance, and boasting, these are with undue honor and others with contempt. self-reference, reminiscent of Iblis's claim versus clay. It leads to seeking prominence in reacting harshly if advised. Anyone who considers should recognize that true virtue is known only Believing oneself superior to others is pure superior: the young for their innocence, the elder knowledge, and the ignorant for their sins of Even towards a non-believer, consider the redemption compared to your own uncertain end. true greatness is defined by God and is dependent Concern for your own end should prevent arrogance, and leading astray as He wills. Your current faith of the unpredictable future; for God turns hearts, A Comprehensive Hadith on Sins of the Heart vanity is abundant, and one comprehensive hadith chain from a man who said to Muadh: 'O Muadh, tell peace be upon him.' He said: (Muadh wept until I then said: 'Oh, how I long for the Messenger Then he said: 'I heard the Messenger of God, peace a hadith--if you grasp it, it will benefit you with your argument will be cut off before God blessed and exalted, created seven angels and He made for each of the seven heavens an angel the servant's deed from when he wakes up until he until when it is ascended to the worldly sky, charge of it says to the recorders: 'Strike this backbiting. My Lord commanded me not to let any recorders come with a righteous deed from the and magnify it until it reaches the second sky. and strike this deed in the face of its owner. I to let his deed pass me to another, for he sought 'And the recorders ascend with the servant's deed, impressed the recorders, so they pass it on to the and strike this deed in the face of its owner. I not to let his deed pass me to another; for he was 'And the recorders ascend with the servant's deed, glorification, prayer, fasting, pilgrimage, to the fourth sky. The angel in charge there back, and stomach of its owner. I am the angel deed pass me to another; for whenever he did a 'And the recorders ascend with the servant's as if it is a bride being adorned for her groom. this deed on the face of its owner, and carry it to envy those who learn and act like his deed, them and slandered them. My Lord commanded me 'And the recorders ascend with the servant's deed, charity, pilgrimage, minor pilgrimage, jihad, The angel in charge there says: 'Stop, and he did not have mercy on any person from calamity or illness, but rather he gloated commanded me not to let his deed pass me to with the servant's deed from fasting, prayer, the humming of bees, and light like the sun's so they pass it on to the seventh sky. and strike this deed in the face of its owner, and the angel of remembrance. For I screen from my indeed, he intended by his deed but the elevation and reputation in the cities. My Lord commanded me deed not purely for God is showing off, and God &quot;He said: 'And the recorders ascend with fasting, pilgrimage, minor pilgrimage, good and seven heavens' angels escort it until they before Him and testify to that sincere good deed of My servant's deed, and I am the Overseer this deed for Me, but for others.' Therefore, 'Your curse and ours be upon him.' Thus, the &quot;Then Muadh wept intensely, and he said: the Messenger of God, and I am Muadh. How can I Prophet said, 'Follow my way, and even if there is guard your tongue from slandering your brothers, sins and do not impose them on others, do do not elevate yourself over them, do not mix the Hereafter, do not show off in your deeds, people avoid you due to your bad character, do not of a third person, do not exalt over people lest do not tear people apart with your tongue lest the of Judgment,' God says: 'And the extractors who replied, 'Who are they, my father and mother be 'They are dogs in hell that extract flesh from for you, O Messenger of God, who can bear these 'O Muadh, it is easy for whoever God makes for people what you love for yourself and then you, O Muadh, have attained salvation.'&quot; recites the Great Quran more than Muadh because of contemplate these qualities, know that the is seeking knowledge for boasting and rivalry. while the one who seeks religious knowledge is because of them. So, consider which of your to avoid these destructive qualities and and preparing for your afterlife? Or is it more seeking knowledge that leads to increased until you perish with those who perish. Know that of the heart, having a common root: the love 'Love of the world is the root of all sin.' Whoever takes from it what is necessary to aid and whoever desires the world to indulge in its brief outline of the apparent knowledge of piety, with it and comply, then refer to the book how to reach the inner aspects of piety. If you your calamity is great, your toil long, and your for the worldly gain you seek through religion stripped from you; he who seeks the world with his for his religion wins both. When you fill the between you and your Lord are lifted, the lights wisdom burst forth from your heart, the secrets of become easy for you, making you deem these new the Companions and the Followers, insignificant. path in your dealings with God by fulfilling And now I advise you with a summary of in your interactions and companionship The Second Section: On the The etiquettes of companionship with God Almighty: you whether you are at home or traveling, awake your Master, your Protector, and your Creator. as God Almighty says, &quot;I am the companion of those in sorrow for your shortcomings in the duties of says, &quot;I am with those whose hearts are broken take Him as your companion and leave others aside. not leave your night or day without a moment in communing with Him. Then, you must learn the These etiquettes include: bowing your head, maintaining silence, calming your limbs, hastening without objection, continual remembrance, constant losing hope in creation, being humble and still from devising means to earn living, trusting His excellent choice. All these should be for these are the etiquettes of companionship with creation will part from you at some time. If you are a scholar, the etiquettes sitting with reverence and modesty with a bowed worshippers except towards the oppressors as a humility in gatherings and assemblies, avoiding being patient with the arrogant, guiding the getting frustrated with them, not being too inquirer and understanding his question, accepting oneself when mistaken, preventing the learner discouraging them from seeking knowledge for any and preventing the learner from engaging in obligations... The individual obligation is to piety, and to first hold oneself accountable for actions and benefit from his words secondarily. If you are a learner, the etiquettes with the peace, speaking less in his presence, not speaking before questioning, not contradicting the not suggesting something contrary to the teacher's in the teacher's presence, not getting distracted, not overburdening the teacher with questions when persisting in conversation or questioning him on him based on actions that appear questionable, &quot;Have you made a hole in it to drown its people? his own mistake in judging based on appearances. If you have parents, the etiquettes for a child words, standing up for them, complying with not raising one's voice above theirs, responding showing them humility and respect, not boasting with their wishes, not looking at them with and not traveling without their permission. Know that people, beyond these, fall into acquaintances, and strangers. with Common Unknown People: the etiquettes of sitting with them include: listening little to their nonsense, ignoring them frequently and needing them, and gently when among those of them who are receptive. As for brothers and friends, you The first duty involves the conditions of a friendship or brotherhood with someone suitable peace be upon him, said: &quot;A person is upon the look carefully at whom they befriend.&quot; If you are and to accompany you in matters of religion First, intellect: There is no good in the leads to solitude and separation. At best, a An intelligent enemy is better than a foolish "Do not befriend the ignorant... and beware ruined a patient man when he became close to him. person... when one accompanies another. when one shoe matches the other. there are standards and similarities. there is a guide when it meets it." someone with bad character, someone who or desire. Alqama al-Ataridi, may God have to his son when on his deathbed, saying: befriend the one who protects you when you serve and supports you when you are in need... Be with you when you strive, and prefers you in disputes.&quot; "Truly, your genuine brother is he who is with And he who, when the times of doubt shatter Third, righteousness: Do not befriend a persistent as someone who fears God does not persist in God is unpredictable and changes with changing peace be upon him: &quot;And do not obey the one whose who follows his desires and Beware of befriending the corrupt; seeing sin heart to the dislike of sin, making it seem become less significant to many, while if they strongly condemn it, although backbiting is worse. greedy for worldly gains: Companionship like a deadly poison; because natures are one's nature unknowingly steals from the other's increases your greed, while sitting with a The fifth condition is honesty: Do not befriend as he is like a mirage, making the distant You may find it challenging to find all these so you have two options: either choose solitude or your interaction with your peers should be in three types of brotherhood: a brother for the a brother for your worldly life, so look only companionship, so ensure only his harmlessness, People are of three kinds: one is like food, needed occasionally; the other is like a disease, company, who offers neither companionship diplomatically to get rid of him. Observing and avoid them can be greatly beneficial if is he who takes heed from others. A believer is a peace be upon him, &quot;Who taught you manners?&quot; ignorance of the ignorant and avoided it.&quot; He peace - for if people avoided what they dislike and they would have no need for mentors. rights of companionship. Once a partnership is you and your partner, there are duties that the Observing these duties entails following certain &quot;The example of two brothers is like two hands picked two tooth-sticks, one straight and the He gave the straight one to his companion and kept &quot;O Messenger of God, you are more deserving &quot;No two companions are together for even an companionship, whether they upheld the rights &quot;Of two companions, the one more beloved to The etiquettes of companionship include preferring then at least share the excess wealth when needed, without them having to ask, keep their secrets, them what others have spoken ill of them, convey attentively when they speak, avoid argumentation, for the virtues you know of them, thank them for absence as you would defend yourself, advise their slips and mistakes without reprimanding, and after their death, maintain good relations easing their burdens by not imposing your needs sadness for their dislikes, harbor in your heart affection both privately and publicly, initiate escort them upon departure, remain silent during their speech. In general, treat them as you would for his brother what he wishes for himself, his of regret in this world and the hereafter. unknown public and towards close friends. The third category is acquaintances: be wary unlike friends who assist you, and strangers from acquaintances who feign friendship with your acquaintances as much as possible. If you markets, or towns, do not underestimate any of than you. Do not look at them with reverence for the worldly life is insignificant to people of the world become significant in your of God. Do not compromise your religion to gain this becomes insignificant in their eyes If they oppose you, do not retaliate patience required to match their actions, and your distress with them would prolong. Do not become affection towards you; if you seek the truth in is sincere. Do not expect them to be the same in if they slander you in your absence; if you are even among your friends, relatives, teachers, absence in ways you would not face-to-face. or assistance; those who desire more often end up If you ask one of them for a favor and them. If they fall short, do not reproach or Be like the believer who seeks excuses, not Think perhaps they fell short due to an unseen perceive a willingness to accept it; otherwise, adversaries. If they err in a matter and are too may benefit from your knowledge but become your out of ignorance--then mention the truth gently in them, thank God for endearing you to them. God Almighty, seek refuge with God and do not say to them: Why don't you recognize and I am the one excelling in knowledge? For such people are those who praise themselves and speak only allows them to prevail over you because of a from God for your sin, knowing that this is a someone who listens to their truth, deaf to their silent about their faults, and beware of especially those preoccupied with controversy and their envy, lie in wait for you, cutting you off tally of your missteps during their association their moments of anger and debate. They do nor cover a fault. They hold you accountable for the little and much, and incite your brothers If they are pleased, their exterior is flattery; with resentment; outwardly they are clothes, observation has confirmed about most of them, thus, their company is loss, and associating for those who show you friendship; what then of may God Almighty have mercy on him, said: And of your friend a thousand times. Becomes aware of what would harm you.&quot; &quot;Your enemy is gained from your friend, For often, the illness you see And be as Hilal bin Al-Ala Al-Raqi said: no hatred towards anyone, I greet my enemy when I see him, And I show a cheerful face As if my heart is filled with joy. So how can I be safe from People are a disease; their cure is to avoid them, of kinships. with people to be safe from their evils, And treat people, while enduring Deaf, dumb, blind, with self-restraints.&quot; and enemy with a face of satisfaction, without reverence without arrogance, be humble without as both extremes are blameworthy, as it is said: For it is a strong path to the straight way. For every state of affairs, Do not look around too much, do not frequently when you sit, do not fidget, be mindful minimize spitting and clearing your throat, stretching and yawning in front of people during your speech structured and organized, listen to do not ask for it to be repeated, stay silent admiration for your child, your poetry, that pertains to you, do not adorn yourself like avoid excessive use of kohl and extravagance in anyone to injustice, do not inform any of about the extent of your wealth; admonish them do not jest with your maidservant or servant, if you dispute, then do so with dignity, be aware your argument, do not gesture too much with your do not kneel on your knees, and when your anger close, maintain a distance like that of a spear's for he is the most dangerous of enemies, do The Third Section: On Obedience Know that the commands of God Almighty are duties the basis of the trade, and through it, salvation and through it, one wins degrees. The Prophet, exalted, says: The closest my servants come to me and My servant continues to draw closer to Me with him, I become his hearing with which he hears, which he speaks, his hand with which he strikes, you will not be able to perform the commands of limbs every moment from dawn until dusk. Know overlooks your external and internal being, and and all your stillness and movements; in your there is not a dweller in the heavens and the deception of the eyes and what the breasts hidden; hence, behave, O poor one, internally humble servant in the presence of the Almighty, Lord has forbidden you and not to be absent able to do this unless you distribute your times to evening. Listen to what is cast upon you of up from your sleep until you return to your bed. "If you wake from sleep, strive to awaken before tongue be the remembrance of God Almighty. Then caused us to die, and to Him is the resurrection. and the greatness and authority are God's, of the worlds. We have awakened on the natural on the religion of our Prophet Muhammad, peace be who was a true - Hanif - monotheist, Muslim, and awaken, with You we sleep, with You we live, and O God, we ask You to direct us to all good this or dragging evil to a Muslim or having someone day and the good in it, and we seek refuge in You When you dress, intend to comply with God and be cautious that your intention in dressing is Chapter on the Etiquette of Entering the Toilet yourself, lead with your left foot entering anything with the name of God the Almighty and His And say upon entering: &quot;In the name of God, I the wicked and the perverse, the accursed Satan.&quot; praise be to God who has taken away from me harm to adjust the arrows before relieving oneself, not ensure clearing of urine by coughing and shaking lower part of the penis. If you are in the desert, yourself with something if you find it, and do not sitting. Do not face the sun or the moon, nor face the gathering place of people, do not urinate or in a hole, and beware of hard ground and as the Prophet, peace be upon him, said: &quot;Most leg while sitting, do not urinate standing except stones and water; if you want to limit yourself to stones, then use three clean stones, wiping if not purified with three, then complete with istijmar is preferred and purification is with anything but your left hand. And say upon from hypocrisy and safeguard my private parts from cleansing with the ground or a wall, then wash it. Once you have completed the cleansing (istinja), as it purifies the mouth, is pleasing to the Lord, than seventy prayers without it. It is narrated that the Prophet, peace be upon him, said: I would have commanded them to use &quot;I have been commanded to use the miswak so much Then sit for ablution facing the Qibla on an and say, &quot;In the name of God, the Most Gracious, from the whispers of the devils, and I present.&quot; Then wash your hands three times before I ask You for goodness and blessings, and I seek Then sit to perform ablution facing the Qibla on and say 'In the name of Allah, the Most refuge in You from the whispers of the devils, near me.' Then wash your hands three times before I ask You for prosperity and blessings, and I seek Then intend to lift the minor ritual impurity and intention should not waver before washing your Then take a handful of water for your mouth and water to the throat unless you are fasting then Your Book and in remembering You often, and make the hereafter.' Then take a handful of water expel the moisture from your nose, and say fragrance of Paradise and be pleased with me,' You from the scents of Hell and the evil abode. the beginning of your forehead to the end of your Ensure the water reaches the hairline, which from the top of the ear to the corner of the Extend the water to the roots of the four types the eyelashes, and the sideburns (which align with obligatory to make the water reach the roots and say while washing the face: 'O Allah, whiten faces of Your allies, and do not blacken my face of Your enemies.' And do not neglect to Then wash your right hand, then the left up to for the adornment in Paradise reaches the places hand: 'Grant me my book in my right hand and judge 'O Allah, I seek refuge in You from being given Then cover your head by wiping, by wetting your the right hand to the left, placing them at the then returning them to the front, doing this three Allah, envelop me with Your mercy, shower me with the day when there is no shade but Yours. O Then wipe both the exterior and interior of your into your ear canals, and wipe around your 'O Allah, make me among those who listen to let me hear the caller of Paradise Then wipe your neck, and say: 'O Allah, seek refuge in You from chains and shackles.' including the ankles. Interlace using the with the little toe of your right foot until inserting the fingers from underneath, and say: along with the feet of Your righteous servants.' 'O Allah, I seek refuge in You from my feet of the hypocrites and idolaters slip.' And raise action three times throughout all your actions. sky and say: 'I bear witness that there is and I bear witness that Muhammad is His servant and with Your praise, I bear witness that there the Merciful. O Allah, make me among those who make me among Your righteous servants, and make and glorify You morning and evening.' his ablution, his sins will depart from all his seal and raised beneath the Throne, where it will and the reward for this will be recorded In your ablution, avoid seven things: do not shake and head with water violently, do not speak during do not pour water needlessly due to mere whispers mocks them called (Al-Walhan)--and do not heated by the sun nor from brass containers, It is narrated that: 'Whoever remembers Allah body, and whoever does not remember Allah, only Etiquette of Ghusl (Ritual Bath) intercourse, take the vessel to the bathing place, impurities from your body, and perform ablution as supplications, but delay washing your feet so as pour water over your head three times intending pour water three times over your right side, then and back of your body three times. Also, run your ensuring water reaches the roots and folds of your Be cautious not to touch your private touches it, you must perform ablution again. intention, the removal of impurities, The obligatory acts of ablution are washing the part of the head, and washing the feet up to Anything beyond this is considered strongly and reward, and neglecting it results in validity of the obligatory acts, as the deficiencies in the obligatory acts. If you are unable to use water due to or because of a valid excuse such as illness, or or confinement, or if the available water is or it is owned by someone else and can only or if you have an injury or illness from which of the obligatory prayer begins. Then, find palms while keeping your fingers together, intend face with them once. Do not attempt to get the remove your ring, and strike the ground a second along with your elbows. If you do not cover them palm with the other and interlace your fingers. voluntary prayers as you wish. If you prayer, start with a new tayammum. When you have completed your purification, in your home if dawn has broken, as the used to do, then proceed to the mosque. especially the morning prayer (for a superior to individual prayer). If you benefit then do you gain from seeking knowledge? As you head to the mosque, walk gently, calmly, 'O God, I ask You by the right of those who ask and by the right of this walk towards You; nor for show or reputation, but I left to avoid You to save me from the Fire and to forgive Etiquette of Entering the Mosque in with your right foot first and say: 'O Allah, Muhammad, and peace be upon them; O Allah, forgive Whenever you see someone in the mosque 'May Allah not profit your trade.' And if you see Allah not restore your lost item' - as instructed When you enter the mosque, do not sit until you unless you are not in a state of then the remaining virtuous acts suffice you, said three for the impure and one for the one who the two units of the dawn prayer at home, After completing the two units, intend to perform of God, peace be upon him, used to say after the I ask You for mercy from You, to guide my restore my affection, reform my religion, purify my actions, brighten my face, guide and protect me from all evil. O Allah, I ask for true certainty, until I know that nothing will and be content with what You have allotted to me. that does not lead to disbelief; and I ask for a this world and the Hereafter; O Allah, I ask for the stations of the martyrs, the life of and the companionship of the prophets; O Allah, I and my deeds are short, and I am in need of Your of hearts, as You separated between the seas, to from the cry of destruction, and from the trials deeds have not reached, of the good You promised any of Your creation, I desire it from You and make us guided and guiding, not misguided peaceful to Your allies, we love with Your Your enmity those who defy You from Your creation; to answer, this is the effort and upon You is the we shall return, and there is no power or strength Master of the firm handle, and the wise command, I paradise on the day of eternity with those brought those who fulfill their covenants with You; and You do what You will, exalted is He who is He who wore majesty and was honored with exalted is the Owner of grace and favors, exalted exalted is He who has counted everything with His and a light in my grave, and a light in my hearing and a light in my skin, and a light in my flesh, and a light before me, and a light behind me, and a light above me, and a light beneath a light greater than light, and grant me light When you finish praying, do not occupy yourself with contemplation, glorifying God, or reading the interrupt what you are doing and When the muezzin says: 'God is the Greatest,' except for the two declarations of prayer time power except with God the High, the Great.' respond: 'You have spoken truly and done well, and call to stand for prayer, repeat what he says, 'May God establish it and perpetuate it as After you finish responding to the muezzin, say: the voices of Your callers, the end of grant Muhammad the means, the virtue, and the high have promised him, for You do not break Your If you hear the call to prayer while you are responding appropriately after the salutation. focus only on following him and perform the in the manner and etiquette of the prayer. When Muhammad and his family, peace be upon him. and to You returns peace. Revive us with peace, Blessed are You, O Possessor of majesty and honor; there is no god but God alone without partner, He gives life and causes death, and He is living and He has power over all things, there is no god praise, there is no god but God, we worship to Him even if the disbelievers detest it.' perfect supplications, which the Messenger may God be pleased with her, say: 'O Allah, I I know of it and what I do not know, and I seek what I know of it and what I do not know. I ask whether by speech, action, intention, or Fire and what brings one closer to it, whether You for the best of what Your servant and prophet I seek refuge in You from the worst of what Your sought Your protection from, and whatever You Then supplicate with what the Messenger of may God be pleased with her, to say: 'O Living, there is no god but You, I seek Your mercy, I to myself or to any of Your creation even for the with what You have rectified for the righteous.' "O Allah, I have awakened unable to push benefit of what I hope for. The matter has become else. I am now entirely dependent on my deeds; and no one richer than You in disregard of me. do not let my friends be saddened by me, do not make the world my greatest concern or the who shows no mercy overpower me due to my sins." you wish, and memorize them as mentioned in the Let your time after prayer until sunrise be remembrance and prayers (repeating them with a Reflect on your sins and shortcomings in to His painful punishment and great wrath. for your past negligence, protect yourself from intend good for all Muslims, and resolve to God. Plan in your heart the acts of worship think about how to arrange for them to be done. the approach of death that cuts off hope, the that come from prolonged delusion. let there be ten phrases: alone without partner, to Him belongs sovereignty and He is living who does not die, in His hand is 2. "There is no god but God, 3. "There is no god but God, Lord of the heavens and the earth and whatever 4. "Glory be to God, all praise be to God, and there is no power nor might except 5. "Holy, Holy, Lord of 6. "Glory be to God and with His 7. "I seek forgiveness from God the Great, who and I ask Him for repentance and forgiveness." You have given, and no giver of what You have and the wealth of the wealthy 9. "O Allah, send blessings upon Muhammad, and and grant them peace." with whose name nothing on earth or in the heavens Repeat each of these phrases either one at the very least, making a total of one hundred. before sunrise; for it is reported that this descendants of Ismail, peace be upon him. any interruption for conversation. When the sun rises and ascends to the of prayer (rak'ahs). This marks the end of as it is disliked to pray after the obligatory When the day progresses and about a quarter of it four, six, or eight rak'ahs, prayed in sets of the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. Prayers more may do so, and whoever wishes to perform prayers between sunrise and noon except for this. The first, and the best, is to devote it to the subjects that people have become engrossed in is that which increases your fear of God, enhances understanding of how to worship your Lord, reduces desire for the Hereafter, opens your eyes to and informs you of the devil's tricks and evil, exposing them to God's wrath. These scholars a means to gain wealth from rulers and to consume They spend their entire day seeking prestige them into hypocrisy, argumentation, and boasting. the book "Ihya Ulum al-Din" (The Revival of acquire it, practice it, teach it, and practices it, teaches it, and calls others to it, as testified by Jesus, peace be upon him. have rectified yourself outwardly and inwardly, to engage in the study of jurisprudence (fiqh) to mediate between people in disputes, especially after completing these essential tasks, falls If you find yourself reluctant to engage in the it feels burdensome, know that the accursed the love of money and status. Beware of to your destruction, and then he will mock you. acts of worship and phrases, and you do but instead have a genuine desire to acquire solely for the face of God and the Hereafter, as long as the intention is sincere. However, the the intention is not sincere, it becomes a pitfall The second situation: If you are unable to but you engage in the acts of worship such as this is among the levels of worshippers will also be among the successful by doing so. that bring good to Muslims, that bring joy to the the righteous: such as serving scholars, Sufis, striving to feed the poor and needy, visiting than optional devotions; these are acts The fourth situation: If you are unable yourself or your dependents. If Muslims are safe and your religion is intact because you do "the people of the right," if you are not among This is the least of the ranks in the stations the haunts of demons; that is, to engage--God or harm any of God's servants. This is the rank Know that a servant in terms of his religion which means sticking to the obligatory which means volunteering for additional or losing, which means neglecting the essentials. and beware, again beware, of being a loser. there are three levels: treat them like the noble, virtuous angels, with kindness and bringing joy to their hearts. and inanimate objects, where they do not benefit 3. The third level is to treat them like where they do not expect any If you cannot reach the level of the angels, animals and inanimate objects to the level If you accept for yourself a descent from the fall to the lowest of the low, and perhaps During the daylight hours, do not engage in spiritual or worldly life that you cannot do you cannot fulfill your religious duties while then seclusion is better for you. In seclusion, you are plagued by thoughts that lead you away with acts of worship, then sleep is your best with safety in retreat. How fortunate is one who life, for sleep is akin to death, it suspends Etiquette for Preparing for Other Prayers the time of Zawal (the zenith). Take a short or if you have stayed up for something beneficial. as Suhoor helps in fasting during the day. A having Suhoor without fasting during the day. perform Wudu, and go to the mosque. Pray al-Masjid) and wait for the call to prayer and pray four Rak'ahs right after Zawal. The "This is a time when the gates of heaven are ascends during it." These four Rak'ahs before "Whoever performs them well, with proper Ruku' and and seek forgiveness for him until the evening." the Imam, followed by two Rak'ahs, as they Do not engage in anything but learning knowledge, or working for your livelihood to support your pray four Rak'ahs before Asr; this is a "May Allah have mercy on a man who prays this supplication of the Prophet (PBUH). similar beneficial activities as before such that you occupy yourself randomly. Instead, activities throughout the day and night, and not exceeding or replacing them with others. If you leave yourself aimlessly, like neglected at any time, most of your time will be wasted. capital. It is with it that you trade and reach is a priceless jewel, irreplaceable once it who rejoice every day at their increasing wealth wealth that increases while life decreases? knowledge or good deeds; these are your wealth, children, and friends will not follow. return to the mosque before sunset, engaging (Istighfar). This time is as virtuous as before your Lord before the rising of the sun, and before Qur'an before sunset: Ash-Shams, Al-Lail, and the Let the sun set while you are engaged the call to prayer (Adhan), respond "O Allah, as Your night approaches and Your day and the voices of Your callers are heard, grant Then perform the obligatory prayer after commence the prayer (Iqamah), and pray two units part of the emphasized Sunnah prayers of Maghrib. lengthening them, these are also Sunnah. the 'Isha prayer, enlivening the time between significant as mentioned in numerous narrations, prayer of those who turn (to God) in repentance. verse about those whose sides part from their stating that it refers to prayers between Maghrib As the time for 'Isha arrives, perform four units the time between the two calls to prayer. There and it is narrated that supplications made Afterward, perform the obligatory prayer prayers. In these, recite Surah Alif Lam Meem or Surah Yasin and Al-Dukhan, as was the After these, perform four units of prayer; the virtues of these are well attested in the which can be three units with one or two would recite in them Surah Sabbih isma rabbika and the protecting chapters. night prayer (Tahajjud), delay performing the you perform. After this, engage in studying or activities or games, as this could unfavorably actions are judged by their endings. When you intend to sleep, lay out your bed facing right side as a deceased person would be laid in and waking is a return to life, so be prepared will under your pillow, and go to sleep repentant to return to sinning. Also, resolve to do good Remember that you will lie alone in the grave and you will be judged only by your efforts. preparing your bed since sleep is a suspension then, your sleep safeguards your religion. twenty-four hours. Ensure that your sleep during If, for example, you live for sixty years, of your life, which is a third of your life span. before bed, and plan to wake during the night during the night is a treasure of righteousness; for the day of your need, for the treasures Recite before sleeping: "In Your name, my Lord, I Forgive me my sins. O Allah, protect me from Your O Allah, in Your name I live and die. I seek creature You hold by the forelock. My Lord is on a is before You; You are the Last, nothing is after You are the Hidden, nothing is beneath You. Settle You created my soul, and You will take its life. life, forgive it, and if You let it live, protect Also recite Ayat al-Kursi, the last Al-Falaq, An-Nas, and Tabarak Al-Mulk. remembering God and are in a state of purity. Throne, are recorded as praying until they awaken. taught to you and maintain this routine for the endure as a patient bears the bitterness of brevity of life; even if you live a hundred years, you endure hardship for a month or a year in Why not endure a few days for eternal rest? righteous acts burdensome. Remind yourself daily for God's obedience, thinking you might die by at a prescribed time or state, so preparation Knowing that you will only be in this world have only one day or moment left. Daily impose day by day. If you were to anticipate living it would rebel. If you manage this, you will and take it lightly, death will come unexpectedly, the travelers appreciate the journey, and at Remember that at death, the final news arrives, Now that we've guided you in arranging your daily of prayer and fasting, their etiquette, and Etiquette of Prayer the purification from minor impurities (hadath) clothes, and place, and have covered your face the qibla standing with your feet slightly and recite "Qul a'udhu bi rabbil-nas" as Focus your heart on what you are about and be aware of whom you are standing before and with your Lord with a distracted heart and a mind Know that God is aware of your innermost your prayer in proportion to your humility, Worship in your prayer as if you are seeing Him; If your heart is not present and your limbs are God's majesty, imagine a respected person from This will help you bring your heart to the prayer saying: "O evil soul, aren't you ashamed reverence when a lowly servant of His sees you, yet you do not show reverence knowing that God than His servants?" So intense is your rebellion Treat your heart with these thoughts; perhaps for what you comprehend in prayer is what absentmindedly needs forgiveness and correction. call to prayer (iqamah), even if you are then call to prayer and establish the prayer. "I perform the noon prayer for God Almighty," of saying "Allahu Akbar." Do not let the Raise your hands at the takbir--after initially with your hands spread, fingers extended, with the lobes of your ears and your palms with pronounce the takbir, then gently lower them. when raising or lowering them, nor shake them start raising them towards your chest. Honor spreading the right hand's fingers along the After saying "Allahu Akbar," say: "God is the to God morning and evening." Then recite: "I have and the earth, following the natural religion of my prayer, my rites of sacrifice, my living, who has no partner. This I have been commanded, with God from the accursed Satan," and then recite an effort to distinguish between the 'Dhaad' say 'Ameen,' and do not link it with saying: aloud in the Fajr, Maghrib, and Isha prayers, I in prayer. After Al-Fatiha in the Fajr prayer, part of the Qur'an, and in the Maghrib from the the middle-length chapters, like: "By the sky In travel during the Fajr prayer recite: [who is] One." Do not join the end of a surah with the duration of saying "Subhanallah." your gaze lowered, focusing on the spot of your and more likely to make your heart present. Avoid Then say "Allahu Akbar" for bowing and raise your until you have fully bowed. Place your palms on your knees, extend your back, neck, and head your elbows away from your sides. Women should bodies more compact. Say, "Subhana Rabbiyal Azeem" If you are praying alone, you may extend this to Then raise your head until you are standing saying, "Sami' Allahu liman hamidah" (God hears say, "Rabbana lakal hamd, mil' as-samawati ba'd" (Our Lord, to You is due all praise, that You will besides). If you are performing during the second rakah upon rising from bowing. raising your hands. First, place your knees on making sure it is uncovered. Your nose should Keep your elbows away from your sides and Women should not spread their limbs outwards shoulders on the ground, and do not flatten "Subhana Rabbiyal A'la" (Glory be to or ten times if you are praying alone. while saying "Allahu Akbar" until you leg with your right foot vertical, placing your and say: "Rabbighfir li, warhamni, warzuqni, Lord, forgive me, have mercy on me, keep me well and pardon me). Then perform Then sit upright briefly for a moment of rest with the tashahhud. Stand up, placing your hands feet while rising. Begin the takbir of rising as and extend it until you are about halfway to Pray the second rakah in the same way (seeking refuge with God from Satan) at sit for the first Tashahhud. Place your right hand for the index and thumb, which should be relaxed. saying "(but) God" and not when saying "There is on your left thigh. Sit on your left leg for this and in the final Tashahhud, sit mutawarrikan and the left foot protruding from underneath well-known supplications after sending blessings your left hip in this position, keep your left right foot. Then say after finishing: "As-salamu the whiteness of your cheek is visible from and greet the angels and Muslims beside you. The essence of prayer is devotion and the presence with understanding. Hasan al-Basri, may God have is not present is more liable to punishment." And servant may pray a prayer and have only a sixth or is only credited for his prayer in proportion Etiquette of Leading Prayer and Following the Imam Anas ibn Malik, may God be pleased with anyone whose prayer was lighter yet more peace and blessings be upon him." (the opening Allahu Akbar) until the muezzin prayer) and until the rows are straightened. Takbirs (the statements of Allahu Akbar) so the only raise his voice enough to hear himself. obtain the merit of doing so. If he does not make remains valid as long as they intend to follow The imam should recite the opening supplication (Ta'awwudh) quietly, as if he were praying alone. in all of Fajr, and the first two rak'ahs of alone would. He should also say "Ameen" out loud The followers should say "Ameen" simultaneously should pause briefly after reciting Al-Fatihah the followers should recite Al-Fatihah quietly in to the imam's recitation afterward. The followers unless they cannot hear the imam's voice. (statements of Subhana Rabbiyal 'Azim/Subhana prostration (Sujud). He should not add saying, "Allahumma salli 'ala Muhammad" (O Allah, two rak'ahs, he should limit the recitation the prayer for the congregation and should not beyond the duration of the Tashahhud and sending him. When saying the Tasleem (the concluding the congregation, and the congregation should The imam should remain for a while after and should turn to face the congregation, women behind him until they have left first. until the imam does. The imam can turn to although the right side is preferred. (du'a) in the Fajr prayer's Qunut for himself it out loud, while the congregation says Ameen. during this supplication as there is no confirmed should recite the rest of the Qunut starting from The follower should not stand alone; rather, himself to complete the row. The follower should should he move simultaneously with him. He should (ruku) until the imam has reached the position of until the imam's forehead has touched the ground. Know that Friday is the Eid of the believers. has specially designated for this within it during which any Muslim servant Prepare for it from Thursday by cleaning your and Istighfar (seeking forgiveness) on in virtue to the hour on Friday. fast on Thursday or Saturday, as there is a When the dawn breaks, perform the Ghusl (ritual said: "Performing Ghusl on Friday is obligatory confirmed practice. Then, dress in white clothes perfume you have, thoroughly clean your body by and other types of cleanliness and fragrance. dignity. The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: hour, it is as if he sacrificed a camel; in the in the third hour, it is as if he sacrificed it is as if he sacrificed a chicken; and in the When the Imam comes out, the angels close their It is said that people will be ranked according closeness to gazing upon the face of God. first row. However, once people have gathered, of them while they are praying. Sit near a wall of you. Do not sit down until you have prayed the (Rak'ahs), reciting the Al-Ikhlas fifty times in whoever does this will not die until they see Continue to perform the greeting prayer It is recommended on this day or its night to Al-Kahf, Taha, and Yasin. If that is not possible, Lam Mim Sajdah, and Surah Al-Mulk. Do not neglect hold great merit. Those who are not able to do so abundantly send blessings on the Prophet Muhammad, When the Imam comes out, stop your prayer and muezzin, then listen to the sermon and take heed. reported that telling someone to be quiet--even speaking--constitutes idle talk. Whoever engages in it is recommended to instruct others to be Then follow the Imam as previously described. read Al-Fatiha seven times, Al-Ikhlas seven seven times each before speaking. This practice as a shield against Satan. After that, say: "O O Restorer, O Merciful, O Affectionate; enrich me with Your obedience over Your disobedience, after the Friday prayer, pray as all these have been narrated from the Prophet Then, remain in the mosque until Maghrib or it is obscure throughout the day, so supplicating and imploring God the Almighty. gatherings in the mosque, but seek out sessions your fear of God Almighty and decreases your not divert you from the worldly life towards in God from knowledge that does not benefit. at sunrise, midday, sunset, when the call to the pulpit, and when people stand for prayer, Strive to give charity on this day, even if it charity, reading, remembrance, Dedicate this day of the week specifically for for the rest of the week. It is not sufficient to only fast during and earning higher ranks in Paradise; lest you as one looks up to the bright stars, while The virtuous days that have been recognized for reward in fasting them include: the Day of Arafah the first ten days of Dhul-Hijjah, the first and Sha'ban. The fasting of the sacred months, and Rajab--these singly and in series--are virtuous at the beginning, middle, and end of the month, as and 15th. Weekly, fasting on Mondays, Thursdays, the beginning, middle, and end of the month, and fasting these mentioned days and Do not think that fasting consists and sexual relations. The Prophet Muhammad people get nothing from their fast except hunger limbs from what God Almighty dislikes. You should your tongue from speaking what does not concern forbidden; for the listener is a partner to the Similarly, restrain all limbs as you do the "Five things break a person's fast: lying, and lustful gazing." The Prophet (peace be upon one of you is fasting, they should not engage in or insults them, they should say, 'I am fasting.'" and do not overeat, exceeding what you usually you consume in one sitting what you are used break your desires and weaken your strength eat in the evening what you compensate for the and you have burdened your stomach. The most food, so what if it is filled with unlawful? endeavor to fast as much as you can, for it closeness to God. The Prophet (peace be upon him) to seven hundred times except fasting, for it 'By the One in whose hand is my soul, the smell Allah than the scent of musk. God says, 'He sake. Fasting is for Me, and I will reward it.' and only those who fast will enter through it.'" an introduction to guidance. If you need more on fasting, seek it in our book "Ihya 'Ulum al-Din." This amount, young man, should suffice you as it comprises three sections: etiquettes of with creation, encompassing the servant's If you find it suitable for yourself and your know that you are a servant whose heart expanded with understanding, and realize that this depths, and revelations, all of which we have Sciences&quot; (Ihya' 'Ulum ad-Din); so engage in these duties and deny this type of knowledge, and you in scholars' gatherings, when will it advance position in the councils of princes and ministers, the stewardship of endowments, or judgeship? forget your abode and destination. Seek a Satan will benefit and lead you to your desire. Then, in your alley, let alone your village or city, and everlasting bliss near the Lord of the Worlds. All praise belongs to God, initially and is no might nor power except with God, the be upon our master Muhammad, his family,