Hello and welcome back to weeks, understandably, all of Trump and that seismic election talking a lot about that in another story that has been the UK, and that is Germany, noticed, they are facing economic crisis. Their They have general elections Europe, at the heart of Europe, got its own big problems, and it consequences for the continent for the US. Well, happily, there better than anyone else. His been on the show before, and he which tells the story of how unenviable position. He's here Hello, Freddie. So we have so much that we could audience, the most useful place version of the history of how in itself at this moment of crisis, model for that country, the successful, and the reason it's incredibly strong cornerstone of looks like it's not working understand that story? The best way to understand the story history, because it only so last year or so. In fact, some the last month or so. The became visible in the statistics interestingly, this is shortly and this was indeed a factor, it's it was one of the triggers would say the main origins date Schroeder, when he was and the long reign of Angela Germany was that the country War, specialized on industry, strategy. And I do not criticize they built a model very much industrial economy with great mechanical engineering, leaders in many of these sub we were all jealous of absolutely talked for 25 years. Ah, the German have that? That's right, that was the the envy of the geared towards this. It's not research institutes, both sort that were linked, that linked and, you know, and sort of pure they were government funded. role through funding, through government owned bank that that So for an example of that, would the Mercedes factories are, institutes looking at, yes, I it wasn't in Stuttgart. It was a different place. But happened. There was an institute engines. These were highly would be part, you know, would funded by industry. But it what Germany was never good at, the 1980s was the idea of moving was quite good at this. In my the supermarket chain that's now you actually come from the town. Founder, absolutely. And what's for Albrecht. It was Albrecht brothers, there were two lived in the town where I lived. Germany's richest man. And he, We didn't know he lived. He was, city, everyone tried to figure with no success. I hesitant to he died in his you know, he was, years ago, he had never met a an entrepreneur, old fashioned. this. This was classic. He kind brother had an idea. They supermarket, not a supermarket. from their from their family. into a. You know, probably the retail chain, with a whole new business idea that just caught this family. This was an 60s and 70s, and then it focused on an industry, very know, not so much that the The government supported the was engineering. The system kept the invention of the motor car still making a lot of money in that has then changed when, when change, and I think this is important thing that happened, consensus system, so everybody and they underestimated the underestimated the electric car, the patriarchs. He was part of have linked to VW. He used to electric cars in my garage. anything that was like, not what they didn't invest, as China invest. And they're still is where the future money will with batteries. They're And they have, now, you know, crisis. They want to close down And this is kind of symptomatic economy. Hugely successful the world and is now suddenly Chinese are not only cheaper, always thought, the Chinese are better. And that's something so that, I suppose, is reason which is that the whole German geared towards a certain type of the engine, which is no longer in the world. So it's kind of failed to adapt. It's failed to lot in the book, also about with German energy. Now the energy history is a leading country in nuclear chemists than nuclear physicists think today there are only about left in the entire university gave rise to a protest movement other countries. It was the movement that a large portion of merged into this sort of the and later became the Green Party. historic mission to get rid of eventually the Greens became coalition governments in the government to agree a total not until 2030 so we would still And then it was Angela Merkel incident in Japan, universally forward. And at the time when that were still accounting for it's almost as much as in States, where it's 20% so powered three years ago when coalition, came to power. But they had in the coalition political essentially gridlock, couldn't just change, change plan to do. They switched these schedule. This, I mean, this, you know, there was scheduled to schedule. She had brought the dates. But this, I've just got to stop must now rank among one of the harm that a modern economy has government decided to completely sector, strongest possibly in instead become 100% reliant, basically Russia, which, as years, was a very vulnerable single decision, which I guess responsible for, but previous be responsible for a big chunk if they had a thriving would be feeding the industrial this problem. It would also help them develop in. But failed, which is that requires a lot of cheap, Merkel had and the generation in generation of the last decade a very strong transition to would be the backdrop, the backs tradition, to deal with would have a strong supply of your renewables. And those two What happened, obviously, that Russia gas pipelines producing cheap gas forever. That ended. only when Putin invaded Ukraine. much earlier. I remember writing around the time 2014 when Putin clear that this became not raised the issue with Germany at resistant. It resisted this in national interest matter, no matter what France said, no one of the characters, it must this back way back then, was are absolutely videos that are supporters, of him addressing German delegation, I think it sort of, pretty much sniggering Indeed? That's that's sort of, you know, that on this issue, Trump was was wrong, but the sniggering much very reflective of a know, everybody you know would what is it? What did they think amazing new energy source that by now the Well, the idea was that, I relatively was, was relatively was secure. And they they would be would, over a longer renewables, which would be even even more secure. So the idea duality hasn't happened. It renewables are up at 50% of the went according to plan. The needs a strong backup, and gas Germany now buys the gas on I right that a big part of the that decision, and the sense leaning progressives with ideas and all the rest of it have and that it's actually self would not sort of classify it so right there certainly that what this idea. But parts of the left Schultz is not particular the the industrial sector. So you want, you know, if you look at want an industrial policy. They green power, but they're all I think the real difference in and that's still a majority who industrial models, and there's a wing component. And those who out of these sort of hedge your bets a little bit, sectors to develop. There's a the sort of startup scene, all the bureaucracy that has been really difficult for today compared to 20 or 30 years hostile territory. And the way, others increase minimum wages, contributions, this it ended the created in Germany, but also in behest, has now basically turned hostile environment for we've got the failure to particular type of industry. around energy, and I guess a globalization, because the good were really dependent on a kind environment, with China buying from Russia and a. Everything that has shifted, Germany finds Absolutely, there's a bit more to that similar kind of crisis in the number of things that saved it, them. It was especially the Just in time Supply Chain productivity gains to them. sort of competitiveness reforms. suppress wages, and that in that companies. Perhaps the biggest the the industrial the illusion which led to a devaluation of inflation. So Germany got itself its neighboring countries crisis. They had a fixed Euro zone. So we had Yanis Varoufakis here Greek Finance Minister at that are very unhappy about that I'm sure he must be, you know, in a lot of things he said at which was, you know, I always an unsustainable model that had also that, if you look at the generated huge surpluses. Now, like, you know, like Ireland or surpluses. The rest of the world but if you are the world's third dollar terms, which Germany is surpluses, it affects the rest It affects, you know, everybody. somebody to absorb those. Somebody has a deficit, generally reflected in the see surpluses as a sign of know, like a sports league table they lead and then, and that was vulnerability, because the on others, and that's where the turned into a string of really big picture, Germany now finds is that fair to say? I mean, I it a crisis. I think it's a You know, it's not dramatic in something happens. But it's decline in respect of other see it in, like, less air out of that's what it is. You see it in late, overcrowded. We saw a railway system to one that's is now worse than than what we something. And I mean, France world's best railway networks this is a complete, complete to invest in the public, public thing that happened with austerity, which is one of the count surplus is so large. The deficits that also generated investing. So they followed a And you see this in the rail in and the motorways, bridges have down. But you see it also in infrastructure. And this is is why this, this, this thing If I'm a voter in Germany, in particularly badly hit by some or, frankly, anywhere, I'm right kind of ruling elites, if you previous decades, because, by kudos, and a lot of people wrote actually they didn't make very Germany at this very difficult current political turmoil, alternative, for Deutschland, party, etc. How much of that be put down to this economic set Oh, that's almost entirely this would probably add that mismanaged. But again, that's to Germany tried to force East rather than allowing East ultimately the failure, and it failing in West Germany. It And the gap was never closed, never closed. But there's one we haven't yet talked about, a lot of people watching will be mentioning that? I mean, when a lot of their energy, a lot of fact that they are against the also count that huge 2015, refugees that Angela Merkel was that as a mistake? Do you think worse? Or how does that rank? Do you think I don't think it because the reason it became so was, I mean, it was badly eagerness to let them in did not allow to actually manage the eagerness. Again, they had and they set aside some money, smart, smartly, smartly managed votes for the far right, the industrial towns, dilapidated areas that were left behind by where the the change that became most visible. So these less economically secure than put a lot this would have been a Germany experienced 3.33 or 4% previous years, people would, been, been, been taken place in they are closer to it. I suppose wealthy person with a big house doesn't, it doesn't really having lots of newly arrived neighborhood, it massively got to pick you up on one thing talked about this before, but raising an eyebrow when you say, use that phrase confidently the AfD. How do you defend that? the UK, where we have a party Farage, which I definitely don't very similar to the AfD. They characters in there will be some unsavory parties and all sorts picture, they are just part of they? Are they really far right? They are far right. This is not particularly motivated. I'm even right, you know, builds against all the firewall against they should be brought into much a name calling or a thing. are. They take an extreme UK, I think we had this I thought you might have moved think what I mean there are tolerance. They're not Nazis, Nazis. And they're one of their, known leaders in one of the know, he's been convicted by Nazi slogans, which, under allowed. These guys are not, you not, your average right wingers. they're not talking about just these characters have been what they call remigration with not only what Donald Trump is but even immigrants that have citizenship. So you want so you know, if it was a different that's fine. If you say illegal leave, that's fine. They're not. that Germany is, unlike the problem with illegal immigrants. but to get people who are know, this is a breach. I mean, is a breach of the German are they really proposing forced with foreign heritage? No, the party does not do that where the federal party has characters. But the federal know, has these, these an important part in the party, It could. I mean, they have the those characters, and it's very coalitions with them. In in extreme as they are, they're not all the states, and I believe in to government, because at the keeping them out, the same form the same coalition. So it's of, you know, if you think of partners, it's like a game of and four participants. And it unless you unless you include And I personally always felt it the center left, the SPD, to or the far left, and then say know, I'm not accusing them of they are significantly more to same on the on the right. Okay, so we will, let's consider that can revisit it in a year, when happened since we're now up to with a series of very difficult people feeling less rich, less to be, than they used to be. You for what you call far right, and parties such as the AFG and the happens next? Because the apart, the general election has February. What's your Could Germany see a populist States has seen and so many populist government in Germany in February, but I would expect way the system that, the way it significantly stronger than it election, they were around 10% to 20% so they will be stronger. that make them the largest February, you think, no, the CDO will be larger. The the leaders, Freddie maths, 36% so they are way in the lead. know, maths is a, you know, a say things spontaneously that he it. Could, you know, last time four years ago, the CDU had a who, you know, he was making victims. And people thought this Friedrich Mertz, who is in party, the CDU, he's actually because he has learned from the sharpened his rhetoric about topics. So he's taken, he's taken he's you know, he has been very their subjects on immigration. position. He but also he's open to reform of the fiscal for the little FTP, because they leave the coalition, or they principle of allowing a fiscal always considered its national them, on this on this point, subtext. But the CDU was sort of up, sort of already preparing and that's with who then that basic two choices, not with the AfD, not with the AfD. ruled out for this time, yeah, this isn't, this is more than This is basically, you know, a is like, you know. This is down contract. This is a murder, fun, collaborating absolutely the case they cannot, they levels, local, state. Do you think that's a bad idea? I will just lead to fanning the popularity. I mean, it does seem obviously other countries from abroad than from inside, Germany would agree with me the view inside Germany is that must completely have nothing to we just form the same kind of lot of people, especially in the grand coalitions. They had three and it was those grand with Russia, that did the large current account surpluses put the economy on a broader on we come back with the story. So Matt's when he, when you know absolute majority. Now they are else, but a long way away from absolute majority depending on representation threshold, so an 50% normally, if I you know, I'd on current polling would be, majority. There's still some 10% FDP, the party from Christian natural, a natural coalition of center, right, you know, you but you know, we have to be business. Pro business in companies. This is not what I So the real, for me, the real certainly they have a certain even if the FDP manages to get polling sort of close to the they and the fact that they left their popularity somewhat this unpopular coalition makes because the others look so bad, will make it, but if they make enough of a majority for the two have to form a coalition with the left or the greens, and that So your prediction, then is you're forecasting is not a people might think would be an development. What you're the same, where you have a talking the talk of the aft, but coalition with a distinct group of sclerotic lack of decision and in 29 I would expect, if say, the CDU, performing a with the SPD, I would expect, be addressed because, because constraints as the current same disputes, like the SPD standards, and one of the things they couldn't do, but which they on the coalition, is to ensure can only be accessible to representation. So not every in that sort of trade union basically exclude any cartel, basically. So that's people on the political right generally, because it feels like regulation, making life more emphasis on trade unions. It's Musk Javier milay kind of desire spending. You don't even have to go to Trump even cite Biden. You know, even the Democrats are not like that. Biden introduced it into the a, it was a very significant, very successful, a rare case of program, and that that's simply not do because they're to blocking each other. So if forecasting, what happens the majority, potentially 2029, the largest party. That would be have two choices. They can still be excluded as deserve. That's right. And I think that's what's gonna happen coalition, or the two party will turn into a four party for the center to govern then not AFD to form a coalition like Imagine in the UK, you had to tourists labor and the Lib Dems. you didn't have a majority. You some nationalists from Scotland situation, because some other scenario can happen this but, but I'm saying it's sort of on the United States, you do not the Republicans and the of thing that happened. Happened France, Joseph Strauss, the sort figurehead of this of the leader always said, there can be no because, and they were into the conservative spectrum. modernity with tradition. They sort of Munich, which is sort of which sort of has some, you the 21st century. They have sort of the island of Germany to, to the modern digital world. that area. There are companies other areas. It's not like have a little and and that was a development of a conservative stand this. Now, what happened of Angela Merkel. The 16 years the party away from that center, opening up a huge gap the AfD has filled. It sounds a little bit like, even though that you think an AFD in one year or five years, time the only thing that is going to increasingly fractured and Be careful what you hope for, Trump. They are really very, you know, the traditional left and the right, but the but fact that Germany's industrial industrial country. You talk the left. She is the, you know, Left Party and created anti immigration, anti the worker, but she's pro old industrial model. old pipeline. So there's the gas AFD agrees with her on that. The workers. They're not, they're They're not. They don't they do freedom, what what Trump does. right is different, is why I is not Trump. This is not a very different party. They all, like unhappy families. They're right, they are not. So you're saying that more this a bit, maybe more like Marine Le big state, big state Hong I mean, we, we have, we've had extremism using socialism. And ideas are not as you go to the there are so many different liberal version of right. This not. They are not people in will not ever get any one of censored, except when they are are not. They are not many such wish for, but, but it's, it's help if there was a sort of a would destroy whatever an because it would become a very would, it would be, you know, it unions, because that isn't that. their agenda. So you may find talked about would be, would be, So the question is, where would were saying, where could there I don't think that can happen. much, I mean, decline can not, we always have to think it to, it has to, it has to come up fact that there is some corrects this. And you know that say, Look, we need to, we need And this doesn't work anymore. I haven't. I have an idea for like at this final part of our about Donald Trump and Elon Musk we jumped ahead to February, election, and we were happen a month before that, in administration in charge of they used to call it. That could for Germany, for Europe, for us and one of them, let me just if they see Elon Musk taking a state, and things don't break as world can. Is on. There might be other countries thinking, Oh, if their economy surges and is no doubt there'll be people in Europe thinking, maybe we need I would agree. I would agree administration, successful as UK, would change some people's this. I mean, we see this. And I these, these immediate of Kennedy to the health an, you know, an absolute disaster. It may or may not, but the question, what would industry if it is not a if the Elon Musk does actually $1 trillion from the public, realistic number, but, you know, you know, we having, you know, so absurd. It has, it has AI companies. It has crypto crypto companies. We have, we giants. We don't have any EU likes to regulate to make happen almost Absolutely. This is actually, if industry, the big money in the years is the self driving car. solved. This is not going to be now. And we need, we need big the big money, will be in restrictive AI regulation and in driving car, no AI companies and the self driving car, will not Volkswagen. It will be invented Silicon Valley, where I've taken Valley, they do exist. They do exist. The China's than that. In the United States, is gonna, is gonna, is going to an issue. It was interesting. could hardly find anybody writing about the need to free this up. Now we I see people saying, Look, I'm an emigrate. I cannot, I cannot do getting more and more of also industry. It's a small industry, this can't continue. This is an disaster. So there is a happening there, but it's not system. But we're kind of almost talking hope here, Wolfgang, because you decline was the most likely this alternative scenario for a incoming Trump Musk because Musk is such a central Vice President, obviously, Trump that does even a third of the going to do, and if it is not as people are predicting, it does will notice it, and there will seek to copy them. The German public and the media in misjudged the entire Trump funny. The German media for the about what happened to his writing about Trump is finished, jail. And they had to kind of actually the president, not in German media had been covering remember as if they were going And I also remember they did Brexit referendum, where they great detail. So as though to people turn out like, I don't large number of large Brexit, as though this was sort of emphasized in the media. they were completely shocked. It sounds like they need some new well. I would assume, well, I have think there isn't enough. plurality of of use. And the old left and an old right and compare the right in Germany There is, there are very few this is just about, how do we about, you know, I have yet to you know, why don't we open up that. We need a completely know, a completely different You don't hear that. You only bureaucracies, because bad for but it's only for existing not this. You know, it's not an exists. And that's what, why I Before the US elections, 80% of win. No. I mean, people could 80% of them thought this. I from the information but they're information environment. They're information environment, and sure that that a success of say, Trump succeeded in, sort of you know the stock market would would do well say that were to registered as such, because generally not take this as a think about social cohesion, would say, this is not happening probably report on the you know, there would, there differently, and because there objective judgment. You may, you Someone else might think it's this as successful? And you know mean, it was so funny to see shaking hands with with olas. at the moment to politicians who of character, but also in their political they're both Western, sort of our sphere to be, to be don't think there is space in character. Germany would good for Germany. But the, you that, you know, the German prevent that you can rebuild years to build a power station in the constitutions, in the obstacles to it. These are not procedures that you can just I feel like we've spent some scenario in which the new well, suddenly there's a desire kind of freeing up of regulation entrepreneurship is born. You do too. Let's put that to one listeners and viewers, let's end pessimistic scenario. Sketch out first prediction is right, that continues, the economy continues America perhaps succeeds, continues to grow. Europe is in the middle. Can't find an voters are happy with. You will voters, and they will be maybe increasingly implausible, future look like? How bad could Germany is a rich country, a can be irresponsible for a very, is, you know, we always assume next year. This doesn't have to for 10 years. And if it other rail system may have been done something and they they may know, they will not have they and they will not all decline will do well. They may be lucky what they do, and then suddenly area. Macroeconomics can always be low. Interest rates can boom, and that can create some, economies don't decline in a decline in cycles. But the low, the expectations are lower. income expectations will be cautious. They will go on happens in economies like this. still be, you know, they still holiday from time to them, not that can go on for what happens very fragmented, we will have a. Great fragment, you'll have, you know, you'll will people that will accuse because everybody points fingers problem. And you will have populists. We haven't had a know, Trump was a plausible difference between, well, he now looks plausible A lot of people said he was exactly. But that that's, you know, he's 2016 economy was pretty good. I us. I mean, you could, you prepared. It was a very chaotic now. So this is a this. This is think, for the Europeans, this experience than last time. Let's end by coming even closer to about the UK. This is where you brexited and left the European about Germany and about the that Brexit was a good idea? The irony is that a lot of what after Britain left. What there was always a balance less liberal countries the north with Germany being on the north the southern side. But the fixed, and the UK was a hugely EU. By leaving the EU, the EU liberal states, mostly of Europe, were become, became a EU, is very much, you know, the in this and the modern EU. And Germany is kind of retreating so is that a yes or a no? So, so the situation. Does it justify get me to say that I know I was, view at the time either. I did the time, so I stayed outside. I you know, like a science today, it would make no sense given the state of the EU, but can we go further than that and just described it, the UK's only its American relationship and entrepreneurial wave. Instead of overly regulated union, the way for the UK to prosper is to always said Brexit only makes It doesn't make sense otherwise. state stayed in so to decouple, up on the anti digital jihad of tech legislation, and to carve of tech area, which which the UK It has excellent universities. functioning capital market. So this, it doesn't need the US for to think of, oh, let's have a Trump. I don't think that's also thinks he can get a free I think we've been through this moment, is a different one. He trader. We know that he wants to want to impose tariffs because the trade balance. So he wants, industrial jobs back. It's a he knows that it's probably bad stupid but, but he's not He's prioritizing much more for his electorate. And these jobs in certain areas in the lost, and therefore that might term. It may well succeed a the US German or the EU would this picture. Well, the just to slightly other reason for the tariffs trade as a tool for hard will say to people, yeah, you tariffs. If you agree with us on sign up to rejecting Chinese us to do. So he may find that he and the UK might be on that list the tariffs, but you got to be in anything else, and that's the problem. For Germany. because, and I think that's what will will find out Germany is chains. I mean, German industry whereas everybody doing with And now, if the US were to do which I think is a very demand that Germany complies will demand that it decouples very difficult for Germany to do cause a significant chaos to system that Germany created is about the sales to China. It is from some from chains that in Volkswagen cars are not only are partially made with Chinese are cars that they're actually the EU and now that the EU has the companies that is paying the importing China made cars into And then you throw in, just to head spin. You show in the fact industrialist, in the sense that on China, so he himself can't how that plays out above my pay grade policy to decouple and I don't think it's going to that Trump, you know, what we people say and how people act the, you know, the stated the revealed preferences. Trump like conflict. He does focus. transactional things he wants, but he has so far shown no wars. On the country he his goal think he will end the Ukraine I think he will make a serious might be popular in Germany, some, some, some parts in say, this is better. It is might change views. And I, where political environment is highly New parties could could emerge. shift. But you know, it's like know, France, we've seen Macron France was open to this new to on the right and the left, but to be difficult to get a with a different political protective of existing parties, example, on the funding side, it get a party up and running in that would actually compete with have been some attempts locally voters, but they're mostly interests, but they're not, of big picture stuff that we shift in them, in the economic away from that 12th Kang. We could go on all fascinating. The next test of say, You predicted the emergence last time you were on this show, accurately. And that did happen. then, is a is a win by the CDU, coalition with some quite lead to not very much in terms Germany. That's right, it will be either it will be Well, we will get you on to so much for your time. Thank you, Freddie, that was Wolfgang munchou, a bit point. We've had him on a few on, he correctly predicts whose views on Germany and the more highly. So that bit of a facing Germany. What might fascinating. Thanks to him, and staying with us this long. If