Hey Everyone. We have some fun we'll let you know more at the end of the episode. Nobel laureate Roger Penrose is widely held to for his wide-ranging work from black holes to consciousness is caused by quantum processes. eccentricity--a guy like Roger gets to being demoted from the supersmartypants dismissal is that quantum effects can't as warm and chaotic as the brain. Well, prime candidate molecule for this quantum quantum activity. So was Penrose right The story starts with Roger Penrose as Godel incompleteness theorems. These are the which prove the limits of proof. The for any consistent formal mathematical system there are true statements in that system that Here's an example of an unprovable statement: language. Now imagine there's an algorithm expressions in the natural language in question this statement true. That very act would that the system is inconsistent. But if the would demonstrate that the statement--which true but unprovable. So either the system is statements--it's incomplete. Natural but mathematics is designed to be perfectly is incomplete. And since any algorithmic like classical computation, they too must But Penrose argues that humans can mathematicians seem able to be pretty sure of any formal mathematical proof--and sometimes those that means our conscious process of knowing Godel incompleteness--it's not algorithmic or that this implies consciousness itself can't Similar ideas were articulated so this whole "consciousness because Godel incompleteness" thing There are plenty of objections to this to equate our sense of knowing to a formal know something but be wrong. Or that even if it's a stretch to connect that to consciousness. books "The Emperor's New Mind" and "Shadow Of The OK, let's get to the weird part. what are we? Penrose argues that the only place or information processing or whatever that's is ... maybe you guessed it, quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics describes the world of particles or even molecules can have very weird or speed tend not to be well defined. They at once--in what we call a quantum superposition. correlated with other quantum objects in a This is all stuff we've described before. It's not hard to force a quantum object on well-defined values. All you need to do in a superposition of multiple states to choose entanglement. We say that measurement "collapses mathematical object that defines the distribution the measurement, one result is chosen and the Exactly what causes this collapse or even what even 100 years after the discovery of quantum mechanics. We call this One thing we know about wavefunction collapse factor--measurement results are chosen by the shape of the wavefunction. So, if an event is no algorithm that can perfectly determine the outcome of any computation or information wavefunction collapse is non-algorithmic, in the the framework of any Godel-esque mathematical to Godel incompleteness. Therefore maybe There are plenty of criticisms of this reason--for in a sense, even if not classically algorithmic. process frees one from the constraints Another common criticism is that Penrose has great Sherlock Holmes--When you have eliminated however improbable, must be the truth. In fact the reasoning that if consciousness can't then it must be accounted for by the other big and the measurement problem. But that assumes or is even aware of, all other candidate the other hand, this is Roger Penrose we're a complete census of all mysteries and is A final objection, and the one that is that quantum behavior is generally only Typically for individual or smallish collections from the environment. Quantum states decay at near absolute zero temperature. And the the more easily the state gets destroyed. That's The inside of the brain is far from gooey and seems thoroughly macroscopic of quantum information processing that a coherent quantum state needs to longer and involve far more particles than Penrose first published his idea in the Emperor's might do quantum processing. But then along came who had developed a fascination with consciousness molecular structure inside cells called Microtubules are these tiny tubes that play a major part of Eukariot cell's skeleton--the as conveyor belts, moving proteins around. They when a cell divides. They're constantly being the cell needs at any given moment. A given Microtubules also have an extremely regular of alternating tubulin molecules of two different can point one way or another. This structure could in some way work as molecular computers, to this two more hints: microtubules are in neurons than any other cell. Also, there's microtubules--thereby "disabling consciousness". whether these molecules might actually have And then Hameroff read the Emperor's New idea that microtubules could be a candidate neurons. That was in the early nineties. have developed some fairly involved scenarios information gets stored across one or many neurons. The information in the form of quantum for example the polarization So you have these quantum states that and they are in superposition. That means many qubits exist simultaneously across microtubules. superposition--some type of measurement causes a that moment of collapse that Penrose thinks is a experience would then be the sum of these By the way, Penrose also has a mechanism objective reduction, and it happens when curvatures corresponding to the different quantum quantum state to be chosen. We did an episode The overall theory is called orchestrated the brain uses this wavefunction collapse as and this leads to conscious experience and also Orchestrated objective reduction has and frankly very few people took it seriously--and the Penrose-Lucas argument, and fewer can persist for long enough inside the Which brings us to the reason we're doing microtubules may exhibit interesting quantum that microtubules display large-scale long-range electrical conduction properties switching elements. And just a few months idea. It's by Nathan Babcock and Phillip Kurian and is titled "Ultraviolet Superradiance from Architectures". Now those meganetworks of tryptophan are basically microtubules. But to grok the rest of that title So, normally, if you radiate a bunch of atoms absorb a photon, bumping an electron to a higher the electron loses that energy. When the emitted fluorescence. The de-excitation of many excited randomly one by one, so fluorescent materials Superradiance is a bit different. It can occur excited states as an entangled group rather than spacing between excited particles is smaller then we can't say which particle absorbed which particles as a single quantum superposition state In any case, if the system of particles is in a collectively, and so photons are emitted together. of radiation than regular fluorescence. Another photons by one electron in the ensemble prompts amplifying the first electromagnetic wave. work. Superradiance is sort of a scaled So, superradiance is a very quantum effect, it in actual microtubules. More precisely, they amino acids within tubulin molecules If this is right it would require tryptophan molecules across researchers of the paper didn't directly according to their models the amount of light simple fluorescence, and so could have only They also did a bunch of quantum and found that these entangled, excited states longer than would normally be expected in that microtubules could at the very least they found that this coherence was more stable the which gives some hope that this effect might hand, Penrose and Hameroff estimate that a good in the brain need to be entangled to generate wet, macroscopic entanglement So what are the implications of this? Well forget cognition, we may be way further from artificial have around 10^14 synapses. AGI optimists have when we have computers capable of simulating that be pretty soon. However, if neurons are also and there are a billion microtubules per neuron neuron firing rate, then we may need to wait And at any rate, if orchestrated objective no AI we make in the near future has any hope and I'm not sure we want that, we're going to After a good mix of science, philosophy, and a little disclaimer. What the microtubules potentially quantum processes happening in the paper that this relates to consciousness at all. the arguments of Penrose, Lucas, and Hameroff. stance there. But I will say that I've always but this has me looking at it a bit more But a lot of work needs to be done to establish that actual quantum information processing is happening in microtubules and to even establish could generate our conscious experience. On the massively entangled quantum state collapsing Hey Everyone. We have a few new items for sale edition wormhole enamel pin. If you'd like to at some other patch of space time then you should holo foil backing card. Next up is our Quantum let everyone know that you are in fact an official be featured on a t-shirt, a hoodie as well as our backing. The t-shirt and hoodie will remain on the patch will be a limited edition pre-sale that