There are over 8 billion people In our short 300,000 year history, we have and lived in every environment imaginable. We've even been in space! As far as species go, we are extremely successful. But it has not always been that way. New genetic evidence suggests a severe population collapse that left So let's talk about the time in order to appreciate how unlikely [ INTRO] Now if you think you know what you're actually, probably wrong. You might have heard that humans nearly but that is not the subject of this video. Because it probably is not true. Researchers do have evidence that could have happened around that time. Basically, the amount of diversity than it should have been, For a while, researchers thought had wiped out a chunk of the human population. They blamed the Toba volcano, a that erupted around 74,000 years ago. Because when you're looking for a volcano is usually a solid culprit. But new research suggests that this catastrophe at all, and that it is the result Basically, when some members of a population they end up with less genetic since moving away means majorly So because only some humans those small, isolated populations than the ones they left behind, resulting without an actual population dip. But that's not what we're talking about. What we're actually talking when our ancestor species So let's set the stage. We are in Africa, 930,000 years ago. Our species, Homo sapiens, did not exist yet. But our ancestors were there. The resident hominin species were and Homo antecessor in Spain. Now Homo antecessor probably it's more like our great aunt or something, But Homo erectus is, and we inherited at And their fossil record is pretty consistent. We can track them reliably just under 2 million years ago, right But then... nothing. We basically don't find any Homo erectus fossils that date to between 900,000 And that was, like, a pretty pivotal time for hominins. Like, this is right around when the and Neanderthals, which we would So you can imagine that this and that paleoanthropologists would to figure out where they went. The first guess was that this Not every living thing gets to become or decrease that likelihood could Anything from where it lived, where it or how big it was, can all affect an So maybe all the hominins were the right conditions to form fossils, After all, fossil formation Other than a few exceptions, fossils almost And for a fossil to actually preserve, it has And that's why a lot of fossils because water plus erosion equals And it's also why on land, fossils mainly are floodplains, because all that But one big problem with the have pretty much always liked River valleys means rivers, which so they've been prime real estate So it's a bit of a stretch to imagine living close enough to a Unless, of course, there weren't It turns out the evidence has been hiding right under In fact, right under all of the parts This SciShow video is supported Porkbun was named the #1 domain registrar And you don't have to take their word for it. Porkbun has more 5-star reviews from Probably because of features like their five-star When you're thinking about what domain to or personal website, Porkbun helps you It makes sense and lets people know But you probably didn't start building a So let your .bio domain name make it simple and direct people right where you want them to go. Porkbun has lots of free domain features like Plus a simple user interface about your new .bio domain from one place. You can get a .bio domain for when you go to porkbun.com/SciShow24 So let's talk about DNA. DNA is a fairly fragile molecule that so we don't have a lot of The oldest DNA samples we've ever found but those are from some plants and Our oldest hominin DNA from a Neanderthal specimen unearthed in Spain. And our modern DNA has our You just need to be able to read the code. Which is why researchers to estimate the population size of much They calculated something called To get it, you calculate or different forms of a gene, across the genome. See, there are these parts or single-nucleotide polymorphisms, that and the vast majority of them are neutral. They don't do anything, they don't break anything, they're just a variation in which And because they're neutral, natural so lots of them can pop up over the generations. When you've got a population you're likely to see more and more which you can quantify by calculating But if you have a population that goes you knock out a lot of that variation, which As time goes on and the population recovers, But if you know what you're looking for, you'll still be able to see the It's sorta like if you smudge your nail polish That bump is going to get smoother the still be able to see it was there, especially So these researchers used the what was going on with the hominin The model showed that nearly 100,000 individuals pre-bottleneck, to fewer than 1,300 individuals, Obviously, this was not great. And if you look at what was going it starts to make sense why it happened. See, this all went down right in the climatic cycles called which basically made glacial periods And we think there were two big One was a change in ocean currents, and the other was that there was a lot Yeah, we almost got extincted by erosion. Around a million years ago, we started phenomenon called the Atlantic This circulation happens when warm to the North Atlantic, where it cools And when that cycle slowed down, it bringing down temperatures At the same time, erosion exposed a massive layer of And since bedrock is rougher that created a place for these large The ice sheets got really thick, and And because cold seawater absorbs more the ocean started sucking up And we know that carbon dioxide because, you know, the climate crisis But the inverse is also true, and having less In this case, they went way down. So basically it kicked off a that once things start to get And that meant that the Ice Age was colder than anything our Like, think Game Of Thrones And our ancestors, just, were which could explain why the population dwindled. Now, this population dip didn't last forever. Otherwise, our view counts at But it took more than 100,000 years of began to recover, reaching 21,000 And that date actually lines up with our estimates for when hominins first started controlling fire. So figuring out how to make fire could be part of what led to our ancestors being It still took a couple hundred to start popping up again, but And I don't even think it's a stretch to say Because, like, it did, on a chromosomal level. See, that genetic bottleneck happened chromosomes fused together and Our ancestors had 24 pairs of and our closest living relatives, That major of a genetic change leading to the emergence of And that new hominin could have of other hominin species, like the It's pretty cool to think that might've been solved just by looking An entire population collapse And knowing how low our numbers dipped, I think, can give us a new perspective on Talk about a comeback! [ OUTRO]