Ladies and gentlemen, the recipient of the 2024 AFI Institute Lifetime achievement. Nicole Kidman. Come on baby. [applause] They told me I had to put it there because when Al Pacino got it, it went like that. And so it's better to have it like S**t. And I never swear. Can I just say, Meryl Streep, I've... I've just loved you. I've always loved you. I don't know what it is, but you have. You're a beacon of excellence and warmth and But you've been my guiding light. So to receive this from you, you have no My husband will attest. My parents will attest. It's always been you, and no one can touch [applause] You take it. Muah. And every other gorgeous person that got up up here and you spoke so beautifully. And now I have to say, you don't really want Because there's been too much said. I think you said it when you were on yours, that person because it's not me. But, I, I've written down a few pages. But I want to first of all, say thank people that put this together tonight. [applause] Unbelievable because you work tirelessly to And I celebrate you and thank you and thank and indelible. So onward, as David would always say to me. The path to this sort of astonishing room who's here. And I, and we were raised by From the minute we were born, we were allowed to just be who we were, which is so important because and we were allowed to just be. And for me, that was being allowed to act in And my family also allowed me to read books, And that is very important. And often those books were payment for the to be paid money. So I was paid in books, them voraciously, and I would read Chekhov And that was the most beautiful payment. Um, I'm still happy to be paid in books, or But the family, my family also allowed there were a family that had no idea that I &quot;wag school&quot;, but basically that was be absent. And I would sneak out and I would go and And I would then forge their signatures. Please don't do this, Sunny, Faith. Um, on the absentee form for school. And I would. Literally that was how I so many films that I would never have been And that was my classroom. I started work at 14, so I didn't have And it doesn't hurt because I met a woman She was i, um, she was doing student films, working, that I was performing in, and I And she said, I want you to be in my And I read it and I went, &quot;I don't like it.&quot; So I've learned, be careful who you say no Because I actually then became she was so good because she still said, &quot;But I want to be your friend.&quot; And we became friends for And I've subsequently learned you don't turn I was born, as has been said in But I am an Australian girl, and I dreamt of of doing that. And acting is the perfect career for that. But it is a nomad's life. So you actually go where the work is and you And so you try and you try and you try and someone's going to cast you in their film. And I was lucky. I was incredibly lucky. And I came to America. And even though I'd had some work, I still I was auditioning for films. I was relying on the kindness of friends as well as strangers. And a lot of those friends, though, are in their floors, on their sofas. I would sometimes have them give me a growing up as Nay said, it was really And, um, and if you got a cab to an audition couldn't have dinner that night kind of And I was like, trying to also pay for hotel and get more money and try to come So I just want to say thank you to all those that for me. And there's a lot of you and I And the other thing that would happen as because when one of you gets a job, it's And they would all celebrate you. And it was just pure magic. And then, of course, what happens is you meet the the producers and all the other My tribe. My. Yeah. I just love actors. There's only one person clapping for that. Come on and you see how they work and you you share and you go, &quot;Oh my God, who are all And some of them you may never meet again, them you you have incredible laughter and You fall in love with, some of them you wondrous things happen. And some of the people whom you get to know or they become your supporters, or And even though you may not see them sometimes you'll see them down the road on That's the nomadic life of what we do as So I have been part of so many families. I've had the good fortune to have worked the greatest directors who have not only ability to raise it so high that we all And a lot of them are in the room tonight. They take you in, they teach you, they take I have so many directors who were so Phillip Noyce, you're in the room You took a bet on me. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. And I slept on your sofa as well. Robert Benton, Ron Howard, Gus Van Sant, you and I had shown absolutely no skill that So, Stephen Daldry, you were by my side You held my hand. You got me through it, and you won me an Thank you. [applause] Lars von Trier, Alejandro Amenabar, John Cameron Mitchell, Rob Marshall, Lee Director Park. Thrilling. Wild. Amazing. Can you believe this list? But it goes on. Paul King, Werner Herzog, Yorgos Lanthimos, Sofia Coppola, Karyn Ryan Murphy, Richard LaGravenese, and Aaron Thank you! Thank you to all of you. You all took a bet on me. And then there's the new kids on the block, Robert Eggers, Lulu Wang, Mimi Cave, and Halina Reijn. If you get the chance to work with them, They're going to take over Thank you. It hardly feels enough. We're especially when it comes to the Thank you. My darling friend Jane Campion My family's all of them and there because one day you look around, they're there, and then And Tony Scott, Joel Schumacher. Yeah, please. Sydney Pollack, Anthony Minghella, Nora [applause] Jean-marc Vallee. Oh, God. And Stanley Kubrick. [applause] May they live on. May they live on in beauty, in spirit, and It is a privilege to make films and glorious storytellers who allowed me to just run unconventional women. Thank you for making me better at my craft in this world. Thank you for inviting me into your movie for my childhood dream that became a reality. And to the audiences who have stuck by me because there's so many little weird out there that go and find them and watch my weird, weird choices, and I so grateful There's an enormous amount of luck in my love. Big, big love. And then right there is the love of my life [applause] My daughters have never been anywhere Tonight was their first night. So they're here. [applause] Sunday and Faith. My mama who can't be here. But they said there's a live stream So I hope that, that's what I love about And my papa, who isn't here. But I feel him every day. And then there's all my nieces and nephews My beautiful aunt and her husband, who's our family now. And I am really this is all because of you, So there's no place like home. As they say, click, click. You're my home. And thank you for flying halfway across the I'm going to shut up in a minute. I like to think that I'm getting Because really, let's just hope I'm in the I've got my fingers crossed. There's so many more exciting young that are completely original and need to be And they have a lot to say. We need to give them the chance to say it And I am here. I'm ready to roll up my sleeves. As you see, Meryl and I are always ready to whatever power, whatever help to help you so I am, I am here always to support those So, you know, if we get a chance to do I think it was Andy Warhol who said, Let others decide whether it's good or bad. And while they're deciding, just make some Well, that's, that's what I do. So I believe art can hurt, but it can heal. And love does win. And film is forever. And I am so, so grateful to all of you for Thank you.