As any of my regular fans know, I love breaking Minecraft. Wait, this is not gonna- The orb! Oh! Oh jeez. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. But as you also know, we tend to crash the game a lot around here. Oh, rip. Uh-huh. Well, we haven't even done the prompt yet. So that poses the question, what does Minecraft look like if you break it without crashing? Well, something a little like- Ooh! You can see we've got ores here. Oh my gosh. This is so bad. But hold on a second, we're already getting ahead of ourselves. What actually qualifies as breaking Minecraft? Well, today we found mods, data packs, and resource packs from all across the internet that fall into three different categories of breaking the game. We'll start pretty simple with breaking game mechanics, turning things into things they're not supposed to be. For example, we're gonna touch on that in a second. After that, we'll move on to some good old world corruption, destroying the terrain in a pretty strange way. Oh yeah, that's pretty strange. After that, we'll be doing some visual corruption to make everything look absolutely terrible. And then as a fun end for this, I had my production manager put together a mod pack that she claims breaks the game. I have zero clue what's in this mystery mod pack, and she's given me a short list of tasks to do. We'll then be determining if her mod pack qualifies as breaking the game or not, and if it doesn't quite meet the standards of the channel, she gets fired! Not really. I wouldn't actually do that to her. But, uh... I'll pay! I'll pay L- No. No, I wouldn't actually do that either. Um... She'll just, uh... I'll, uh... The first mod on the list is called Loafy, and, uh, it does... It does just that. It makes everything a loaf. Is this... Is this a loaf? This is a loaf. All of this... All of the sand is loaves. What happens if I break bamboo? It's all bread! What was I expecting? Can I plant? I- You can use the bread to replant the bamboo! Mmm... Is there... I don't- This is- This is just... That's all this is? It's all just bread. Oh... Oh... Oh, yeah. No, it's all just bread. Boy oh boy, I sure do love loaves and loaves of bread. Essentially what we've done here is we've essentially broken my brain. There's no possible way that I could beat Minecraft like this. Which makes me feel like we broke every single thing. Every single thing is bread. This is log bread. And if I put this here, I get four plank bread, and then I create a bread. Which is actually a crafting table. Huzzah! And that's about as far as I can get. Because what am I- Yep, more bread. Yep. Mm-hmm. Yep, don't- Don't mind if I do. Really so much bread. Oh, multiple recipes for bread? I have no idea what I have right now. I have zero clue what any of these items are. So that's cool. What are these? Sand? Okay. Uh... Oh, melon. I've crafted a melon apparently. Uh, bamboo. Okay. Oh, sandstone. Okay, I'm just going to go into creative- Oh, it's all bread. It's all bread. I'm going to just go into creative mode. And- Oh, yeah, of course. Colored bread. Yeah, different types of bread. Natural blocks. It's- There's some of them are green. That's really- Oh my gosh. Oh, the only regular Minecraft item is the trident. Wait, hold on. I don't even know if this is the trident. I can't throw it. I'm trying to right click right now. What are you? Wait, can I turn on advanced tooltips? It is a trident. Why can't I throw you? We have broken everything. Guys, we breaded the game so hard that the trident no longer functions. Anyways, this is, uh... This is pain. As much as I love bread, I think I would prefer to be able to play the game. So we're going to move on to the next one. Even though this is great, I'm just- I think this next one is going to be even better. What the- Well, you weren't supposed to transition here. Oh, well, I guess you're supposed to subscribe. That's right. This is the subscribe plug where I tell you to subscribe. You should do that. Ah! Oh, yeah, here we go. Everything is TNT, which I'm not sure- I'm not sure exactly how this works. TNT. TNT. TNT. If I light it, boom. Light the TNT, and now it explode. Yes. Nice. Cool. Can I light? Oh! Oh, I think I understand. I think I understand the premise now. It's all TNT now. It all makes so much sense. Even that is TNT! What? The dead bush is TNT. You're all TNT. Yup. Uh-huh. Oh, my crafting table's fine. You, are you TNT? You're not- That's a- Hold on. Oh, this guy's angry. Got him. (laughs) Oh, yup. Oh, yeah. Oh, no, that makes sense, I think. Yeah, uh-huh. No, okay, okay. What if I just go up this entire tree and just like light a bunch of this? You know, just like completely explode this entire tree. Yup. Oh, that makes sense. You know, that's fair. Is it water TNT? No, no. See, that would be too crazy. What about fire? Can you light- Fire is TNT! (laughs) Coal, yup. Okay. This is the best tool ever for mining. Yeah, we've just completely broken every block. This is literally breaking every single block. What about here? Oh. Oh. (laughs) That's not- Oh, but that's TNT. All right, cool. Oh, that's just on fire now. Okay. You are TNT- You are- TNT! (laughs) This is so much fun. Yeah. Yeah. This is what I'm here for. This is what I love. Monster Hunter. Oh boy. Imagine you're in the mines and you're looking around and you find some diamonds, but before you can actually mine them with your iron pickaxe, you pull out flint and steel and light it as TNT and then explodes. What if I'm trying to light a portal? Oh no, it just doesn't work. Oh. Can I like, can I like, can I like- Oh, you can. You can also light the portal as TNT. (laughs) That's actually amazing. That's actually so funny. This is, this might be the best block I've found so far that can be TNT. Oh, well that is, that's a lot. As someone that enjoys breaking Minecraft, this does, this does make me happy. So I don't- Next up, we've got player weight, which doesn't mean what you think it means. It actually means you have this in your inventory and then as you pick up items, that gets full. So now I'm, I have too much stuff. I just throw some of it down, it slowly gets lighter. It slowly gets more and more, more and more manageable. If I just give myself, you know, a few gold blocks here, it starts to crush me. I can still move a little bit. I can jump around, but yeah, no, it's not great. (grunting) This is the fastest I can run. (grunting) This is pain. This is pain. This, this literally, all this does is make it so you can't carry things. It's painful. It's a terrible game mechanic that I don't want. Although I will say Steve is quite, quite powerful. He can carry a lot of things. So maybe this is more balanced than I thought. I'm not sure, but I don't really want to be here anymore. I don't want to, I don't want to have to deal with this anymore. Take the, can you, can you take these gold blocks please? Can you just, you just take them please? This is pain. I am in pain. I am in turmoil. Please save me from this. Oh, hello cow. How are you? Can you take this gold from me please? Please, please take it. Please, I don't, I still have so much gold. Cow, wait, wait, come back, cow. Wait, come back. Please, cow, please, please just take my items, please. This is fine. Ah yes, perfectly balanced as all things should be. No, I think this just completely breaks anything with Minecraft. We're strong for a reason. Let us carry our stacks and stacks of gold. The game is better because of it. Anyways, the next challenge we have is grass is lava. The floor is lava, essentially. That's what's happening here, but just you're not allowed to touch grass. Yep, so I got bedrock here. I'm not allowed to touch grass. And if I do, I die. But now I can run, now I can run in, I can get stuff. Now I can go do things. Okay, now I'm here. Two, I'm gonna jump. Uh oh, uh oh, wait, oh gosh. This just completely breaks things too. This is rough, wait. Dirt, dirt, I am safe. I am safe on the dirt. I am safe on the dirt. Ah, ah, the grass, the grass is pain. Yeah, what if you just couldn't walk on blocks? What if you just couldn't do that? You just weren't allowed to walk on grass. This feels like it fundamentally changes the way that we would play this game, you know? Ow, I just wanna get to that village. That's all I want, I just wanna get over to this village. I just wanna get here, it's working, it's working. Okay, I can jump in the water. I need some other block so that I can actually get through this. All I want is to be able to make it up to that village. I can do this, I can do it. Oh gosh, but I have to, like, I have to, oh gosh, now I'm back here, wait. (panting) Run, five, four, three, I gotta go here. I gotta go here, man, I gotta go here. I also still have weight, so I can't do anything. (grunting) Oh no, the skill, oh, the skill was almost not there, but it was there, the skill was there. Yeah, this breaks any sort of gameplay cycle in Minecraft because I just, I can't go places. Like, I would love to be able to go up this hill, but the moment I do anything other than place blocks on the ground, I die. It's a great time, you know, it's really fun. I really love being, I still am not gonna be able to make it to this freaking village. I just gotta break dirt and hope it doesn't regrow. I can make it to the path blocks, I can be safe. If I ever make it to the path blocks, I'll be safe. To be fair too, this is a very interesting challenge. Like, I feel like this could be really cool to watch someone try to complete, but not me. I don't want to complete this. I am in too much pain and turmoil for this. I don't wanna do that. What do you got, village? What do you got for me? Oh, there's still grass. I'm just gonna be suddenly, oh, paper, nice, wow. I love paper, wow, what else you guys got? Ooh, okay, note to self, don't stand on stairs. I'm not allowed to touch grass, so this video ends. (upbeat music) Next up, we've got bazinga craft, and I'm not sure if this really breaks any mechanics, but it sure is funny. Yep, that's all it does. Okay. (laughing) Yeah, that's it, that's the whole bit. We're just moving on. This was just a stupid one at the end. Because next up, we have world corruption. This is a mod called Cursed Worlds, and it looks like there's a ton of presets. This is actually so cool. Whoa, Brutalist stone architecture? That's what we're starting with. We'll have to go through a few of these because it looks like there's some depth. Whoa. (laughing) Whoa. Okay, this is pretty cool. I'm not gonna lie. We spawned in a mangrove forest? Or is just everything mangrove? I'm actually not sure. Whoa, this is wild. What does it look like down here? Oh yeah, no, you just can't see a thing. Oh my gosh. Does this just do this all the way down? Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Oh yeah, we've definitely broken this world. This world is, whoa. Look at that. That's just crazy. Okay, that's cool. But there's a bunch of other options too. What about broken amplified? That just feels like a good combination of everything, you know? Let's find out if it's actually broken. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, no, it's not. I think that's just normal. Worldgen, why is everything mangrove? Everything is just mangrove. Oh wow. Oh, this is, wow. This is just like a combination of all sorts of just garbage. Wow, this is crazy looking though. This is, wow. Oop, one block. Yep, new series starting here. The one block survival challenge. Wow. Honestly, if we were like playing in a world like this, I'd probably live up here, you know? This world is absurd, dude. This world is absurd. Whoa, what happened here? This looks a little broken. Although that is the intention. So maybe that's a good thing. Is there like, are there villages? Village, oh my gosh. Somehow they managed to stay generally intact, although they are on water. Huh, very strange. Interesting location for your village, guys. But you know, I'm no real estate agent, so you do you. What about like a mansion? What does a mansion look like in this context? Oh, just like that, huh? Just tucked into a wall. Is there like terrain coming? Yeah, yeah, no, that makes sense. Like I knew real estate was tight nowadays, but like dang, bro. Okay, wait, there's more. There's more presets. Bumpy, spiky? Don't mind if I do. Oh yeah, no, that makes sense. That sure is bumpy and spiky. Bumpy and spiky, oh my gosh. That turning the corner though is crazy. That's a good descriptor for that. I think you're right. It sure is bumpy and it sure is spiky. This is really reminiscent of the first video that I did on this topic of breaking Minecraft without crashing. This looks very similar. This is cool. This honestly looks like a little bit more like playable but also it's kind of unplayable anyway. Still, I'm not gonna lie. Whoa, look at this cherry biome. Like the trees just, oh my gosh, this guy is *precariously perched*. Dude, this is just the Far Lands, but it's a Mesa. That's so cool. That's such a tall post. You know what? This didn't actually affect the caves as much as I thought it might, but it still affects them a little bit. Oh, well, now that I look at it with night vision, actually, you know, there's these little pockets everywhere. I think it might've affected it more than I thought. Wow, this is beautiful, but that doesn't compete with just, yeah. I'm curious what an outpost looks like in this context. Oh, yeah, that's fair. Okay, what about a village, huh? What about a village? Oh, this guy's got a view. Look at this. This guy's got a view. And this guy has like the complete opposite of a view. Although this is actually kind of cool. I'm not gonna lie. This is kind of a sick spot to be. Look at this, dude. Look at this. Oh, the dripstone feature. Wow. Oh, you got such a nice place out here. You know, it's just next to the spike wall. Cool area. Very nice. This one's just called mangrove stripes. I kind of want to see what that means. Oh, oh no, yeah, that, I get it. I think I get it. I think I understand what they meant by mangrove stripes. Is this just what the world looks like everywhere? Does it just not change? There's gotta be so many frogs in this world, bro. Look at them all. They're everywhere. There's so many frogs. Bro, this is, wait, is that a portal? There was once a root. There is a ruined portal down there. Oh, it looks like the caves are actually pretty okay, but the overworld is a little bit destroyed. I would definitely say that this is breaking Minecraft. This is just insane. Wow. Once again, would be kind of a cool play through though. Kind of neat. Kind of sick. And with these mangrove stripes, that's the end of world corruption. We only had one mod for this because that's all it took. But now we move on to visual corruption and this gets a little absurd. We'll be starting with Minecraft legit edition. Don't cheat because we're gonna be using the xray'nt resource pack. I'm sure you can see where this is going. Typically xray allows you to see ores through walls, but as you can see here, the walls are totally fine. The problem comes when you see the ores. And water. Water is very broken. Whoa, what is what? This is super broken. (laughs) We really, wow. You can see we've got ores here. This is some copper ore. We think. Got some more ore here. That's more copper. A lot of copper down here, you know. There's some iron. Wow, it really just breaks everything. Yep, all the ores, they're invisible now because you didn't need to see them, right? You're not using x-ray. We're just gonna destroy your rendering anyways. Hee hee hee hee. Oh gosh. Oh, I just realized all the regular gravel is suspicious gravel now. Does that mean, wait, I think all gravel is now suspicious gravel. Yep, it totally, okay, suspicious gravel and suspicious stand is totally fine. But gravel is also changed. That's really funny. Also, I did read that creepers are now invisible. So. (laughs) So there's a ton of creepers here. You can see, there they are. There's the creepers, there's the creepers. But if I just go into survival mode over here, I'd never know. Oh, I got bazinga'd. You never know. The suspicious gravel is just very funny to me for some reason. Oh, water. I got water. Yay. The water's fine. Uh oh. That's super nice. Love that. Wow. What else has changed in this pack? I know they've done a few things. Oh my gosh. All of blackstone is, why is blackstone all gone? End stone is gone. Wait, nether bricks. Oh my gosh. Wait, this makes structures in the nether invisible. No way. No way. All the ores are also invisible. I gotta find like a bastion or something. Oh, wait. Oh, this is a fortress. No way. Does this also make wither skeletons invisible? Oh, wither skeletons are fine. Okay. Blazes are also fine. That's actually kind of funny. Oh no. Lava looks like netherrack. Oh, that's actually so funny. That's actually brilliant. What about the bastion? What does the bastion look like? (laughs) That's rough. I think there's chests in, yep, there's chests up here. Yep, chests are also invisible. Nice. Okay, but the other thing that I noticed is that end stone is also invisible. And you know what that means. That means the end fight would be painful. Oh my gosh. That's also all crying obsidian now. So you can see the dragon, no problem. It's the running around you gotta be careful of. Everything in the end is probably just impossible now. Oh my gosh. The end city is fine, but all of the blocks around it are just gone. Oh, this is brutal. Oh, this is so brutal. This is awful. I would just immediately, yep. There I go. There I go. Wow. Bro, bro went and made melons invisible. Why'd you have to make the melons invisible? That's so sad. What is this? What? Is that an end crystal? Why is it just not named? It doesn't have a name. Ender chests and chests are both invisible. Sculk sensors, sculk shriekers, trapped chests, redstone ore. Oh my gosh. Lava buckets, buckets, powdered snow buckets, regular buckets. All of it just, you just can't tell. Water's just gone, bro. What is this? I don't understand. I don't understand. Ancient debris is also invisible, bro. That's crazy. Monster spawners are invisible. Brutal. Absolutely brutal, but also kind of reasonable. And not quite as brutal as this next thing. I told you. This is silly rendering and silly is a light term for what I'm seeing here. Hilariously, this is actually a mod that we found for my next video, but I decided to use it in this one because it actually seems like it breaks it more. Pain and suffering. I'm so sorry to all of you watching this right now because this is gonna be awful to watch. Thankfully not everything in the game moves like this, but there's a lot that does. Oh, look at my hand. (laughs) Look at every, there's an out post. Oh my gosh, when I'm changing my key buttons. Look at this insanity. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Oh wow, even like essential. As if everything is broken. Oh, oh. This is moving so fast. I can't even really tell what's going on. Can I like screenshot this and oh. You know, it's still kind of wiggly, but you can kind of see a little better. Oh man. You know, I would try to explain. What the heck is happening to me? I would try to explain what's happening here, but to be honest, I don't even know. It's just, it's just so broken. See, when we say breaking Minecraft without crashing, this is exactly what I mean. This is completely broken, obviously. To a point where like, I don't even know. I don't even know how to handle it. Oh my gosh, the clouds too. Look at the chest. I can't even tell where the chest is. Oh, I got it. Hey, if I'm holding, oh, the item is generally okay, but the rest of me is just not at all. Yeah. Okay, so from a distance, the world looks generally normal and then you zoom in and it's like, oh, that sunflower is not in the right place anymore. What is this actually doing? Ah, so in the mod description, it says it just randomizes vertex points, which is kind of an insane way of saying it breaks everything. I would be zooming in on my face, but there's no face to zoom in on. I'm so used to going into third person so I can like, I can like talk to you, but I can't because it's just this. Imagine just playing Minecraft and you just see. (static) Yeah, no, I think I would just leave. I would just leave the room. Even spectator mode, I just go ballistic. Oh man, the caves are, wow, this is, geez. I don't even know how to handle this man. Like my brain cannot even compute the kind of chaos that I'm seeing right now. In the ocean, the ocean is just awesome. It's time for me to go on a grand expedition in my boat. No, that's, yeah, this is normal. This is totally fine. I did also notice that particles, the particles are also so broken. I love that the Ender Dragon is like, generally the right shape, except you zoom in and it's just static. Okay, I don't even wanna show this for too long because it's just so painful to look at. I think we just need to move on to the next one. And the next one is pretty insane too. Because if you thought this one rendered things weirdly, this next one is just a whole different ballgame. Because next up, we've got the super ugly shaders and flash warning because this is super ugly. Oh. Oh, geez, the lens flares. This, oh my gosh, the, oh. This completely breaks the rendering. Oh, look, a rainbow. This breaks all of Minecraft's rendering. Oh, and it looks like the water is heaven now. There we go, now we have water. Oh, oh no. Oh, you can see caves through walls. What is happening there? Those glow squids, I think they're glow squids. Oh my gosh. Wow, that lens flare. Pain. (laughs) This is so bad. Hello, chickens. This is, oh, oh. I don't even know what to do. The glass shows up through walls? Also, what's happening? Is that water? Water is going down. Iron golem! This is, this is like sensory overload. Like my brain is just, oh, oh, kinda bright. It's kinda pain, oh, geez. Why is there light through the wall? What is this? What is happening here? Copper ore? Is just the, is the ore just really, the ore is just bright. Oh my gosh, even holding it. (laughs) That's not good, that's not okay. Wow, wow. Oh my gosh, there's more ores over there. That's so bright. Oh, the lens flare again. Yeah, I'd say this successfully breaks pretty much everything. Oh wow, the cave is actually relatively safe. The moment I put that down, it's, oh, getting rid of that, I'm getting rid of that. Oh man, okay. Yup, we've broken rendering. I think it's, I think this is safe to say we've just completely broken it. There are three outlines on me. There's three of me. This is insane, dude. I don't know, I'm getting rid of, I'm just turning it off. I just, so, this feels so, so normal. Everything feels so normal compared to what it was. Oh my gosh. Never returning to that. All right, it's time for the final, final trial here. This is the pack that my production manager put together and I'm very interested to see what she put together here. I have a small list of tasks that I need to complete. So I'm just gonna do those things. Why did I take fall damage? It was the, what? Okay, all right, we're just gonna mine this tree. We're just gonna, oh my gosh. What the heck, wait, what? How am I supposed to craft wooden tools if I just explode? I've got some dirt. I've got some, I've got an oak sapling. Can I not? Oh, there's wood. Okay, all right, we've got wood. That tree's fine. What the heck? What? I don't know what mods she put into this. So I'm kind of worried. A part of me thinks that maybe it's a random chance of exploding and I just got really lucky. I'm not sure, or is it just oak trees? Is it just oak trees? Let's find out. Yeah, it's just oak trees. Okay, all right, well, that's good to know. Okay, that's the first one. Checked off the list. Definitely broke trees with our dumb ideas, that's for sure. Okay, we're just gonna replant those. All right, next up, I need to grow some wheat. I need to go find, why am I taking damage? What happened? I guess I need to find a village. Ow, ah, why? What is happening to me? I don't understand, I don't understand. I'm just running, man. Am I not allowed to run? I'm giving myself some food because I need it. Ow, ow, damage, the damage, man, the damage. Finally, a village. All right, let's see what happens. This can check off a couple things, growing some wheat and trading with a villager. And I guess I could sleep here too, probably. We got some time. Hello, villager. Oh, what? (laughs) And then this is wheat. Hey, breaking the wheat is fine. Planting the wheat? Okay, okay, I guess I'm just gonna break a bunch of this. Hold on, hold on. Going to attempt to bone meal the wheat. Bone meal, and ow, boom, it's fine. Do I need more? Wheat, wheat, I have wheat. Okay, the wheat is here. What if I hoe the ground? That's what it was. That's what it was. I knew it was something to do with farming, but that's what it was. What is happening? And there's like, you notice the confetti? There's like confetti. What's happening here? I'm so confused. I genuinely don't know what the mods are. Also, that popping sound effect sounds way louder than. Is that a melon seed? I didn't plant that. Oh, was it already there? I was like, what the heck? That's a weird mod. Very strange, okay. Just gonna grab some food real quick, I think. And then I'll also help me maybe, I guess I can't trade with the villager. I guess they die when I interact with them. So maybe I can't do that. You farmer, talk to me. Nope, they just die. Yep, now that's, you know, can I shift? No, they still die. I am just destroying the population. May you? Oh man. All right, well, the next thing is cracked a set of wooden tools so that, before I can sleep, so I'm gonna do that. I guess hopefully I can actually craft a crafting table. Sure can, okay. Seven, six, five, why is it counting down? Why is it counting down? Why is it counting down? Is it gonna explode? It exploded. (laughs) Wait, crafting tables have a countdown now. I just made that, we're not gonna talk about that. Five, four, I got a wooden pickaxe. I got a wooden pickaxe, wait. There's no way. How am I supposed to? Okay, I gotta strategically do this here. Okay, gonna do that. I'm gonna grab some of these. I've got enough to do this. All right, I've got the pickaxe. I need a shovel. I need a hoe. I need a, I don't have enough time. I don't have enough time. Oh my gosh, oh my gosh. Oh, but you get the crafting table back. Okay, that's actually huge. Sometimes, maybe you don't always. Okay, maybe not. I'm sorry, man, but I'm just trying to craft things, okay? I got that, I got the hoe, I need the axe. What? What? What? Why did it do that to me? Why? I'm going back, I'm going back. I don't even know where I was, man. I was so far away. I will get this full set of tools. I'll get it, I'll do it. I have the axe now. The axe has been completed. I'll get it. Is that all I have? Where'd the rest of my stuff go? Where'd my stuff go? It's gone. I just have these two tools left. Bro, bro, this isn't fair. This isn't fair. It feels like she broke the game in subtle ways, you know? In ways that I'm not even aware of. Why am I sometimes stubbing my toe? Is that what that actually is? I'm getting more hay. You can't stop me. Why is the pop sound so loud? All right, now we gotta wait till it's nighttime. 12 o'clock. It's nighttime. Where are the creepers? Show me the creepers. Show me the creepers. Where are the creepers at? I see a skeleton. Hello, hello skeleton. I gotta make sure I know where the village is so I don't lose it so I can actually sleep. It's kinda zooming. Why is it zooming? I don't think that's a thing. Bro, bro, please, please, bro. Please don't. Yes, monster hunter. Okay, there's a creeper. There's a couple creepers right here. There's a couple of them. Hey guys. Oh, there's an outpost. That's cool. Hey man. Oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, hold on, that's not good actually. Why is that guy so fast? Why are they so fast? Why are they so fast? There's so many. There's so many. There's so many of them. There's so many. Oh no, oh no, please, please, no. Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, wait, no, no, no, no, wait, please. (crying) I was able to eat. I am able to regain some health. Village, please, give me a bed. Okay, is there a bed in here? I keep getting free of the smack. There's a bed, there's a bed, there's a bed. They can't get me and I can sleep. I'm sleeping? Is it working? It worked, it worked. Why did it work? Is it not supposed to work? It worked, it worked. Sleeping worked, sleeping, sleeping worked. Sleeping, I'm so confused. I'm so confused. You can only, oh, you can only sleep. Oh, it just did just, yeah, no, that makes sense. That's, that's, wow, wow. I'm gonna blow up this house with this freaking crafting table. Crafting table, bread, wow. What even was in this mod pack? I need to look at this list of mods. Okay, so the mod is called Minecraft Hates You. So multi-creepers, spawns a bunch of creepers, no oak, no hoes. You could only use one type of hoe. Weak legs, 10%, that's what it was. When you craft that explodes. I didn't pick up sound, it isn't normally loud. I wasn't going crazy. All right, now we have to decide whether or not she keeps her job. You know, it did break a lot of things and it exploded a lot. And I appreciate that kind of thing, but you know, I don't know. I don't know if it really broke anything too, too substantial, too, oh, oh no. Oh, oh my gosh. No, yeah, she can keep her job. Hey man, check out this crafting table. Also, what trades do you have? Oh no, that's a bummer. (upbeat music) Yay! I get to keep my job!