Boom, boom &amp; that's a checkmate. It's so fascinating to trap your opponent Well, in this video, I will show you 8 brilliant strong players lost in the opening. Let's try and learn from their mistakes ideas in your own games as well. Let's start with this game - e4, e5, f4 Black declines the gambit &amp; brings out his The knight comes out, taking care of this Black defends it. And then we have c3, preparing for d4. D4 is a common theme in the king's gambit sneaky idea - queen e7, indirectly attacking Then we have d4, as expected. Takes, takes &amp; eventually, black gains an White can block with the queen or with the But instead, he moves out his king &amp; gives This seems like a dubious move, but he's see what happens next. This bishop is under attack so he moves back. And here, black is completely screwed up. Can you find the winning continuation for First, we have this bishop check. Doesn't matter whatever move black plays then rook to e1. And it's a painful love story, the king to sacrifice herself for her love &amp; white Going back, even if, after this check, he e1. And after queen moves, the rook jumps up the &amp; that's a brutal checkmate. The next trap in the king's gambit was played move, d5. White takes &amp; black offers another pawn. This is the Nimzowitsch countergambit. White does not take, but plays queen e2, hitting Black takes the d pawn &amp; invites white to White goes for it, it's a check. Black can block with any of these pieces, He's seducing the queen into his territory. Now what would you play here as white? Are you thinking of taking this g7 pawn? Well, white, who was a 2300 rated player, He fell into a very nasty trap - that starts The queen has only one safe square, and that And finally, we have the crushing move, bishop the lover's sacrifice &amp; this sweety is gone. Moving onto our third trap, which arises out Here, white goes for knight f3. Black defends his pawn; white can't take So, he develops his bishop. Black adds another defender to this pawn &amp; creates White wants to break it up so he attacks this Black says 'I won't let you do that' If white takes, then black can simply take And more importantly, retains this solid pawn But white is thinking on another level. Guys, can you even imagine what move did he Take a wild guess. He went for the stunning knight sacrifice White is threatening all kinds of attacks. He can fork the queen &amp; rook. He has this bishop check as well. So black obviously takes the knight. But then, white starts revealing his tricky First, we have a queen check. King e7 is the only legal move. Then queen f7 check, again this is the only Another check, the king goes back &amp; queen that's a beautiful checkmate. The king just got smashed in front of his By the way, you can also smash something. And it's the Like button! Show your support &amp; hit that thumbs up button Alright, let's move on. In this game, we again have the king's gambit But this time, white tries h4 straightaway Black pushes his pawn forward &amp; attacks the Knight jumps to the center, and now bishop This is the Kieseritzky gambit. Here, black is gambitting this pawn &amp; white Then comes d5, another aggressive move - attacking the bishop. White doesn't care, he just takes what he This e file is wide open so black strikes He cannot block with the queen or bishop because Therefore, he is forced to move away his king. The bishop jumps into action, again it's King f3 is the only safe square. Black continues his assault on the king - this He takes the bishop. But just look at this king, he is dancing Black is absolutely loving this! The knight joins the party, knight f6 check. King goes back to f3 &amp; finally, black finishes game over. Alright, the next trap comes out of the Falkbeer But this time, white does not take any of h4. Pawn takes, knight takes &amp; here black offers White does not take immediately, instead he to the king. Now look, this knight has two attackers, but Black should be doing something about this, other knight. White is over the moon &amp; he goes after the After pawn takes, bishop takes, he is forking Bishop blocks &amp; white picks up the rook as You might think black is in a completely lost &amp; that is, Bishop to g4. Believe it or not, the queen is caught napping In this position, the engine gives almost wins it from here. The next trap in the king's gambit arises And after bishop c4, he gives a check with has not yet come out. The king moves to the side and then comes He's looking to get it done &amp; dusted as But white has other ideas. First, he pushes d4 and forces the bishop Then knight f3, forcing the queen to go back. But black says "Hang on, I won't back maintain pressure on your kingside." He plays queen g4 &amp; that's exactly what Can you find the deadly move for white in Yes, it's bishop to f7 check. You might be thinking what on earth is white Look, if he takes the bishop &amp; by the way, We have this brilliant knight to e5 check He also has a discovered attack on the queen Going back, at this point, even if black realizes king f8, then you have h3, attacking the queen. Surprisingly, she only has one safe square Now we can bring out the other knight. If black tries to be greedy &amp; takes the bishop, G6 is the only safe square for this queen. Again, we have knight to e5 &amp; now, no one As per the engine, white has more than a seven-point it from here. Moving onto trap number 7. This game starts with the Falkbeer countergambit, Knight comes out. Black takes &amp; white takes back. Now the bishop comes out, covering this diagonal. Knight is developed, attacking the center. Black defends it. White attacks it again with the queen. But that's not the main point, he has another Knight c6, offering to exchange knights. And now white reveals his trick - Knight If black takes with the king, then after this up with a clear pawn advantage &amp; also an exposed Therefore, in this position, black does not White happily takes the rook, but now black Knight d4, going after the queen &amp; also threatening White wants to diffuse both these threats And now we have knight f3 check. What a move! If he moves here, black has some nasty attacks the knight. Pawn takes back &amp; this time, it's a discovered The boss is helpless, he just cannot move So, he is forced to sac his bishop. Black does not even bother to take it. Instead, he makes another brilliant move, That's again a check. King f1 is the only legal move. And now it's a mate in one, can you find Yes, it's bishop to h3 &amp; that's a beautiful Okay now, for all these traps, please keep just understand the basic ideas behind them, them, especially in the king's gambit. If you're aware of these tactical ideas, by falling for such traps, and also look out Anyway, let's check out the next game between Bronstein. The game starts with the king's gambit accepted Then knight f3, covers h4. Then knight f6, attacks e4. White pushes forward. The knight moves to the side, also defending The other knight comes out &amp; then pawn d6, central pawn so he offers an exchange. White simply brings out his bishop. Black takes &amp; white recaptures, this is actually Let's see how. Look, you might think that white is doing f7 square. But this knight e5 move has also made this a check. The king runs away to this side. Black needs to do something about this threat White accepts and Black is delighted to see Actually, his main motive was not to exchange bishop away from this important diagonal. Now let's see how black exploits this. Knight g3 check. White can't take because he loses his rook. Going to any of these 2 squares is also dangerous to go to g1. The hungry bishop pounces onto the king with He has to block with d4. And now the bishop takes that as well. What is happening here? The knight is hanging, the bishop is also Well, he tries taking the bishop because that's black has this absolutely stunning - knight The queen is hanging so he obviously has to Black wraps it up with the crushing move, Look, in this position, had this bishop been the bishop &amp; then he could've diffused this But that didn't happen &amp; black very smartly Alright, so it's puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn &amp; you Do share your answers in the comments section Let's see how many of you can solve this. Guys, don't forget to Like and Subscribe and up on your screen right now. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in