I don't know if you're high enough, lovey. - Oh no. Do you go any higher? I'm all the way up. I raised it up more. Alright, so I need a different chair. Oh my god. Okay. (laughs) Do you want me to lower down? This is me sitting. Should I sit in the pillow? We're trying to get our seating arrangement figured out here. It's not going well. I need a cushion or something. - Perfect. Wait, it needs to come forward a little. Just make sure you elongate that spine. Hello everyone. This is a nice, like, I feel like a news anchor. Welcome to WCLM News. I'm your host, Shane Robert Burcaw. And this is my co-host. Yeah, what? I thought you were going to introduce yourself. I'm your host? I'm the main host. Over here we've got someone who's helping. I'm going to get my knees up. Sit in a little ball. Alright, this video is about memories. Yep. It was recently, four days ago, our seven year anniversary. Seven years of knowing each other. Of being a couple. Of being in love. Being in love. What a wonderful seven years it has been. I don't know if I'm just like hormonal right now, but you know, with IVF beginning soon, I'm going through lots of emotions. It's making me reflect on our relationship. You think you're hormonal? Wait a minute, are you the one that's All your injections. Oh, I did not read the label. But Hannah and I have been reminiscing a lot lately. About all of the memories from throughout our time together. So we thought today, we would give you seven adorable memories. Yep. For our seven years together. And most of them are from pretty early on. You might not know about some of them. They're throwback, so they're a little bit embarrassing. So we have our list here. We have some photos to accompany them. Let's just go through. It's gonna be a trip down memory lane. Yep. (intro song) Hello. Hello. Welcome to It's time to talk about our lives. (Chloe bark) With every new season, buying clothes is But I end up buying things and then a couple months later, I realized it only wore it a couple of times. Now I kind of want something different and it was a waste of money. It was bad for the planet. It's a terrible cycle. So I'm really excited about the sponsor of this video, Thread Up. Thread Up is an online thrift and consignment store. So you can get amazing clothes for even I'm going to show you guys some of the I'll show you a couple outfits and tell you about them. All right. So here's my first outfit. I got these pants. So I already own the tank top, but I got these They retailed typically for around $115 and I got All right. Next up is a Draper James dress. I love gingham. So when I saw this, I immediately And while I show off my dress, I'll let you know where you guys can click my link to see items So I've been using this feature a lot and it's This is a Free People dress. I love Free People and I thought it was so unique. It's like a wrap style dress and it fits perfectly. I think this outfit is so perfect for spring, especially when I love the floral skirt, the shoes. I also got their Bueno flats. So they retail for around $110 and I got them for $50. Next up is an Abercrombie &amp; Fitch dress. This is another floral print that I love. It retails for around $60 and I got it for $12. I also got the bag. So I highly encourage you guys to go shop my picks for an extra 35% off your first order. Alright, memory number one, Shane sitting on the couch. Shane gaining the ability to sit. Which we became briefly obsessed with for I guess I should say regained. When I was little I could sit unassisted without Then the first ever treatment for SMA I don't remember. But I began taking that. Yeah, I think it was six now. Yeah, and pretty soon I was like And one day, one evening, Hannah was like, I was like yes. And it worked. I like held myself up. So you then did it every day for like a year. I just sat everywhere. Any time we went Sit me on that counter. Obviously we took way too many selfies during this time. And then I went and made it inappropriate with Photoshop. Oh yeah, Shane liked to Photoshop I like how it looks like I'm cheering you &quot;Go, Shane, use that toilet!&quot; Use that toilet. &quot;Sit on it unassisted!&quot; Hanah, I think you might be shrinking. The pillows are compressing Shane. Elongate! This is a horrible place to sit. Memory number two is the time that we the way, sign up now. But we did one years ago in person. And Hannah did the whole thing riding Ingenious, I would say. I think that was our second, like my The first one I like jogged a little. We didn't do the whole route, but I remember You gave up halfway or something. Yeah, I was like, why am I even doing that? I could just roll along behind you. So the next year I brought a longboard I mean, I think we look pretty badass We do. I felt a little bit bad for all the runners. We were like rolling next to. We got so many, like every time we passed Yeah, they'd be like, no cheating. I should be doing a business where I attend 5Ks Yeah. Is that cheating? Yes, it's cheating. A little bit. Well, I paid the price because I got really Oh yeah, you did. We went to a baseball game right after and that didn't help. By the end of that night, you were burnt. It was all around a really fun day. Yeah, it was. All right. The next memory. I don't think we've ever shared. I haven't seen this photo in five years. Yeah, I think we've kept this hidden from you. Yeah. Since it happened. Since we've took it like five years ago. But I do remember taking it. This is a photo of us sitting in Shane's parents' for the YouTube channel that we wanted to start. This is like the moment. Yep. This is the moment. This is when we were like creating a YouTube account What's your title? We had like filmed our road trip from Yeah. And so we had like videos ready to go. Yeah. We were like, ooh, let's put them on YouTube. And this was us deliberating. And we set up the camera. We were like, imagine if we actually do make a a picture of us naming it. So dorky. And now we have a YouTube channel and we We had some foreshadowing. Us setting up this camera and then being like, okay, look tired. We were taking great photos for thumbnails before Yeah. This was, we were posing. But we went through a bunch of names. Yeah. You know, every one felt not quite right. And then we were like, oh wait, our nicknames. Yeah. That would be really cute. And we deliberated that for a while Squirmy and Grubs is a weird title for our channel. But we didn't expect people to know Exactly. And we were like, well, no one's going But this is the moment where it all began. Could've just called it like Shane and Hannah vlogs. We could've, that would not have been as fun. But we didn't. No, we created a brand. All right. The next memory is us going to Yeah. We were going to London and Paris and we, Like as dorky as we could be. We were like, hey, Liz, Hannah's mom. Take a photo of us getting ready for London. With our London map and the sun glasses. Why in the world were we like, grab the sunglasses. Yeah, that's what I think of when I And you and your car seat. Oh, this was when we invented the car seat. Yeah. We had to figure out a way for me to So we bought this car seat, added all these pillows. It turned out to be pretty comfy, but I think we Yeah. The next photo is you on the plane where look pretty comfy there. Yeah. It was serviceable, I will say. But my biggest memory from this trip is arriving in scaffolding. Uh-huh. Like we didn't get to see Big Ben. Like 100% covered. Yeah. And I had just been there the year before. So, you know, I was just like, come on, It's going to be amazing. We're really excitedly walking through the city. Uh-huh. Turn a corner. Oh, there--- Oh. Oh, well. We hadn't, we hadn't known that that was a thing. We didn't Google that. All right. The next memory is another travel one. We have told this story. We tell it in some But this photo, I haven't seen in a long time. It is of Shane being measured with receipt paper to see if he would fit on the plane. Yes. We arrived to fly home from a speaking gig And the gate agent was like, how big is your chair? Yeah. And we were like, I don't know. Yeah. And they were like, do you have a tape measure? No. And we were like, do you have a They didn't. And they were like, no, don't worry. We have an idea. They whip out this receipt paper. Yep. Use that. As you can see, everyone around like trying not to look. Yeah. It was a bit of a scene. So they kind of marked where Shane was and it and Shane did not fit. The door was like two feet high. Like, OK, we could have told you that it Yeah. So we were stranded an extra night in Salt Lake City. I know. I missed classes. While we waited for a bigger plane. And the worst part was they were like we can't It depends on supply and demand. Yeah. We're actually still in Salt Lake City. We've never been able to leave that airport. But this is just another example of how Yeah. And this is also the trip where this happened. Yeah. I don't know what that, well, I guess I was like, This is a great example of like how silly Yeah. We were just like filming everything. Get it out there. Film this. And my mom was there. This looks mildly inappropriate though. I know. All right. The next one is a swim meet that you attended. Aw. These are like the little memories that So when Hannah and I were long distance, And I so badly wanted to be there. But I would just get text updates from But I was never there. And then finally, when I made the move to It was so fun just like being able to be there and Yeah. And then this photo is of my last ever dual meet, It was called our senior meet in college and Shane brought me flowers. Aw. All right. Our final and seventh memory. We've only had seven. Yeah. This is it. These are all seven of our memories. The last thing we remember from these seven of talk shows. This specific one was This Morning, a UK talk show. Yeah. They were so friendly. Yeah. I think we went on twice. Yeah, we were on twice. Yeah. But this is like, again, in the beginning days, Yeah. And we go this email and they were like, hey, Yeah. We had to go to a studio in Minneapolis to record. It wasn't recording. It was streaming. It was live, which was the most horrifying part. And so because of the time difference, And this is us on the monitor in the studio I think that was the worst, like the most Seriously. I remember in the green room beforehand, I think I'm going to have diarrhea. I cannot do this. It was so scary and you can't see the hosts. You can only hear them. And there's a big time delay. Yeah. So they say something and you hear it like So you know that you sound awkward. It was, oh my God, horrifying. They were very, very kind. We got through it. You did really well. I've never seen this segment. I have no interest in seeing this segment. Well, I watched it. And you did well. Alright, those are our memories. Thank you for taking the trip. The wheel down memory lane. What? Like we wheeled down. Oh. Instead of a walk down memory. Oh, okay. We're going to start That's it. You're not going to use walk anymore. My humor is... Going downhill. Beginning to dive off the deep end. Yeah, but we hope you enjoyed our seven I can't believe it's been seven years. So long. I wonder what we'll be thinking seven years from now. I know. Then, we're going to be cringing at now. Yeah. We're going to be like, can you believe that Didn't think I'd end up in jail, but. All right. Thank you for joining us. Do not forget to click the link below to shop to get an extra 35% off your first order. And we will see you next time. Bye everyone.