Some big numbers coming out and they're not looking If you're looking to buy Rent, there is a bidding war the market, every fixer that needs even a lot of. Work. Our house had 44 The decarbonization trend, People are moving out of They're buying bigger suburbs were built was a They should have been built Home prices in the large were so expensive that And then you see these going away. And rent growth is In big cities, rural areas, North. It's across the How hot is it? It's turning Existing home sales falling part because there just Shopping for a new single is arguably harder than There is a bidding war for market, every fixer upper, even a lot of work. My neighbors, actually, we're calling me and going on at your house? There's people in a line We saw two people having a With city dwellers and families looking for yards. Prices for the skyrocketed. Home prices 13% from the year prior, Case-Shiller index. Everybody expected housing with the rest of the opposite has happened. With homeowners unwilling to A record low supply of buyers into intense bidding At the end of April 2021, houses for sale in the US, prior. Higher costs for materials have also So currently in the United shortage of housing. We're not producing nearly be. We know that home ownership getting into the middle there are many impediments class and particularly With the 30 year fixed a 50 year low and a strong time highs, why is the Is the US running out of The US real estate market Since the start of the purchased a home did so seeing the home in person. In many markets, the norm. There is a every home on the market, every house that needs even It's still just a crazy Our house had 44 offers on. It with his New York City pandemic and looking for the summer of 2020. Justin Goldberg and his bedroom Bloomfield, New The house listed for My neighbors, actually, we're calling me and going on at your house? There's people in a line We saw two people having a With multiple six figure price. The house sold for than what the couple was But the family then found find a new home. It was a definitely a risk knew that the pandemic His job said You'll be foreseeable future and gave city. With little inventory on the The couple signed a one on the advice from their their house search from home to a fixer upper. I'm telling you, immediately you want to buy and you get And I got the feeling and and it was not in good The bones were there. You know, there was nothing house. Everything was Everything that needed to cosmetic. But every single changes. The family of four found a Randolph, New Jersey, with yard. We wanted a bedroom for each extra office or a guest fantastic. Although the home was review, the couple put in a buying the house for experts. A few key steps navigate the ultra getting pre-approved for a real estate agent, and much you're willing to An additional option first rent the home back to the their new home. My best you don't want to knowing that you're going you'll probably get it for And honestly, you can turn The US has a housing sellers unwilling to show pandemic. In April 2021, homes for sale, down 20.5% That lack of inventory has of existing homes higher, the previous year to a One key factor in that less expensive homes on the Sales at the higher end activity during that same Homes were selling in just 17 days on the market, publicly traded companies Homes and Hovnanian family homes, townhouses The vast majority of new done by small businesses. Homebuilding is one of the business in America. The overwhelming number of or 80% is built by small owned all over the country. Those builders have faced years, including pandemic disruptions that have of building materials like The supply chain is in from COVID. The poster child for that is As of May 2021, lumber from a year ago, according of Homebuilders. Rising almost $36,000 to the price An aging workforce and policies have also led to a workers. We simply don't Therefore, labor prices. Are going through the roof. during the last housing recovery. And it's even because in many places it workers not to come back to sidelines. An even bigger problem might built on. As of April 2021, up 11% compared to last Real estate data firm Zonda 24% from a year ago and the infill. How do we invest in How do we reinvigorate with accessory dwelling units the backyard? How do we challenged with affordable It's all going to mean that patterns. We new new forms So, yes, we're not building to double or triple that natural growth in our And I think we can do that. But we have to do that by housing and really changing Home ownership is a with the added benefit of neighborhoods for families But not everyone can afford That's why the homeownership Even now for many The problem is getting into In the first quarter of in the US was 65.6%, The homeownership rate for is almost 74%, compared to and 45% for black A major hurdle for many is Typically, homebuyers put conventional mortgage. We know that that typically certain amount of income. And for a lot of people, than done. For example, for harder to be able to put payment because they may The familiar support. As people who come from more These gaps are exceedingly implications of them are Black household wealth is households, and a big large to the lack of home Even though mortgage rates there's been a ratcheting that are required to borrow that has impacted minority majority households. Buyers paying less than a subject to primary mortgage from an additional 30 to $100,000 borrowed, Student debt is another homebuyers face. According to the National average home buyer in 2020 $30,000 in student debt. When I talk to young people, Times they are trying to pay grocery or they're trying Student loans. Single family zoning, US, limits the number of plot of land, making it afford certain communities. Single family zoning has lower to moderate income Be able to live in because single family home being built or any any type of detached home huge barrier to people who To start off. But that might be starting In 2019, Oregon became the legislation banning single state. Around the same first big American city to So one of the major of housing, in addition to supply chain, is that we this country that don't housing. They don't want to large suburban estates, if And I think we need greater over these local utilizing exclusionary impact the provision of The federal government is affordable housing, too. In April 2021, the Biden $5 billion plan providing local governments to allow neighborhoods that are single family homes. This is a market for for those who wish to get who are homeowners. People are expanding their homes. They're building out So this is a home owner's There's never been a homeowners than now and as overall economy. Homeownership is more Between remote work and the businesses are moving to The decarbonization trend, People are moving out of They're buying bigger We have seen that the incredible in 2021. The pandemic itself, it has and location preferences. America leads the world in I think the U.S. is Suburbanization has been magnitude here in the States, and it's creeping up But there's an opportunity those patterns and reset I think the way the suburbs mistake. The cities needed should have been built very To combat the economic Some suburbs are building Where we build housing, housing, and what kinds of implications for the for patterns of racial and The roads and the sprawling nation's $1.2 trillion How else the suburban Over centuries, developers pattern that experts call The farther out you go from tend to build lower buildings, more spread out It gives a little bit more live off in the country, This style of housing is the suburb and the American The one thing it does enable the city. So there is a individuals are deciding benefits and costs and is optimal. Sometimes that externalities for the rest The New Deal of the 1930s the States. The bill Administration which design. It made mortgages And Fairless Hills is community. The FHA guidelines made middle class reality. They also created problems. They prescribed rules to get No sidewalks, curvy Dead end streets and made it They also enforce a minimum people out and inflates the If that's an expensive land. It means that the community is going to be That means automatically afford to move in there now wealthy. A large minimum black people or no Latinos neighborhood. But it turns are really strongly part because of Many suburban towns also As a result, homes are industrial and commercial Local governments adopt this control over what gets But it also can make it housing that people want to to live. These guidelines were These are sets of subdivision codes, as well that exist in most America that provide a and can't build. And these Restrictive zoning codes of land for housing in San Francisco. Many workers in these buy or even rent homes near economic development. These old trends are still It was in the 1940s when the crossed that threshold from predominantly urban. And all of the growth since from rural to suburb. And since the 1960s, people Modify the zoning to let Mix uses and have stores, Offices, all mixed together. Which is what lets you. Have these sort of lively In recent years, cities with large job the population in America's As a result, the with suburbia are adding When a suburb grows, the city is expected to Which reduces its ability to including schools, on. And so those individual can be good at the externalities for the city So the spread out of the suburbs, it entails government costs relative If you're building roads and are located half a mile or another, you need more and more pipes. Suburban towns often long term infrastructure And population growth 0.1%, a record low. That means that the suburban towns is mounting. All of the declining cities problem that they just their current tax base to that they built 50 years times the size. So new, so powerful, so that we have hardly been influence. Federal spending can hide Local governments use to pay for a lot of these So if you've ever wondered your neighborhood street interstate is because different levels of America has a $1.2 trillion roads, bridges and tunnels. The American Society of spending in 2021 but it doesn't cover the If further improvements failing infrastructure three. Thousand dollars a Another problem. People don't realize how To their car. In the past, popular as cars fell in To take account of account of the rise in cost of car ownership today Of course, if you get a Tesla, which has features the 1950s, you can pay a very expensive. Since the 1990s, households credit to finance their Triple A says the annual has risen to nearly Making matters worse, the destabilized many suburban On average, people in the lower rates and have Home prices have also been central cities. Some call poverty. There's typically a greater exurbs and the land and tend to be more affordable. Experts say remote work and the suburbs better. New growth and density could redevelopment and infill There are so many of these there. Many of these infill closer to commercial areas, opportunities for If we focus on millennials, things that they really restaurants, so some of with them. And so what that opportunities for someone caters to these needs. And I think that sort of shift of employment to the Experts say the most also the least sustainable. So, for instance, a metro managed to keep housing last 30 years because they and they build these huge homes on very inexpensive That's essentially, you undisturbed. On the flip that there are terrible building. So there really Then you can see that very You see how close those Home prices in the large were so expensive that moving into the more wooded And then you see these going away. In fact, Meanwhile, suburban drivers climate of the future. It's really in the kinds of would characterize as car dependent, relatively This is where we see a more Most U.S. emissions come Commutes lengthened as the decades. So going back to 1970, lived in the county where declined substantially over If remote work persists, it the road. Home appliances emissions. Definitely, when you see you're seeing much more than you would in one large The U.S. has committed to from electricity by 2035, researchers expect U.S. auto emissions to remain That's mostly due to But there's an opportunity those those patterns and So what can be done to development in the states? Many regions are tackling In Montgomery County, Washington, D.C., 85% of already been developed. The county revised its increase the supply of light rail path. This is a suburb to suburb You see them in other enormous project underway, United States. It is really one of a kind. Leaders hope the 17,000 daily drivers off of Experts say that expanding community more equitable. Traditionally, lower income disproportionately from But funding and executing Residents are paying for rail project with an President Biden's economic more changes like this. They have called for a $5 fund communities that codes. One thing to remember is country has some walkable, like sort of a. In Street. And we don't have to invent We've already done this. to do. And so that's where beautiful, scenic, small streets that we remember tourists. Preexisting cases could not be rebuilt from scratch without zoning. Other parts of the world are reform too. There's been some very of Bogota documenting how a had uneven effects on low that city. Another study found that Paulo, Brazil, improve the with college degrees. But those changes also affecting landlords in Homebuilder stocks have interest rate hikes. A rising rate environment is for home buyers. Just takes purchasing powers. It means or they can buy less of a And we know that the entry leanest it has ever been. Suburban sprawl will American economy for the The development choices generations. So it seems as though over. The medium. Term the deck is basically suburbs and against the Ultimately, people are reason and it reflects a economic force that you see world, in many different You know, it took really 50 To make the problems. Of the suburbs, and it takes Rent in America is getting where you live. Rent growth is. Accelerated coast to coast east, west, south, north is The areas where we are growth are in places like Yes, my name is Maria and I During the pandemic, a lot actually the rent dropped I am due to renew my rent $400. Making matters worse. Few of the new homes in Rental demand continues to rental units that are being ones. That is the higher Meanwhile, workers pay isn't the new rent. We had wage depression for the period now where wages the low end. And so the that continue? Experts say the rent impact on the economy. A lot of the monthly expense money that's going toward house. So it is a very consumer expenditures. In the most competitive Rents are creeping toward Renters in smaller markets too. For example, one Arizona, spiked over 116% Meanwhile, rent for a growing at its fastest pace CoreLogic. So how did we One answer is the bounce You saw tech companies, smaller cities, cities like Antonio, Charlotte. These are cities that because workers had more And when the city starts rents go up because it's a But the story goes back way back to the Great President Obama, are you This has been building financial crisis back a A lot of communities have More difficult. To build more homes closer Building materials, been in short supply. That's been a problem. Labor know a lot of people The construction trades in A decade ago and because. Of the changes in foreign lot fewer foreign country. Many of those construction trades. Also, they rely on loans from And since the financial smaller banks, mid-size because of regulatory unable. To. To provide enough loans. So there's a melange of After the financial crash of by the end of the tends. Renters had fewer options, hotspots. Pre-covid, we saw a huge Millennials love to live in They were actually living previous generations their able to get out and afford prices were so high. So you had so much demand Then the pandemic. Hit. So if you look at some buildings in the really districts, the big cities, declining in the first 12 But smaller cities like more of those remote upward for people like Right now, I would say for a But this place, it's a one at 1700 when I first moved Maria is a teacher and needs day. She and many other luxury to move further away That's creating wider There's a lot of evidence closer to where the demand a meaningful negative economic growth. So if we change zoning rules and land and and labor that we closer to where the jobs will be able to grow more the longer run. Renters in the traditionally the Bern, too. Economists rent right now is uniquely Because the vacancy rates It's the lowest we've seen Coming out of the pandemic, keep rising. Fortunately, builders are They can make a lot of and house prices this high, incentive to put up more And that's happening slowly We are seeing more homes So that's a good sign. And we've seen an increase starts. That's really preferred housing structure So having investors come puts a little upward Sure, maybe it does. But it does increase the rental homes available in to moderate rent growth. And in the cities, some whether to convert their into residential The ideal is to say that buildings, you know, brick established, but maybe one residential units. For the short term, renters If I had signed the lease, I taking a lot of my savings. And so I decided to move to I'm losing about 150 square These hikes are hitting U.S. citizens at an inopportune Over decades, wages for The wages and benefits of a suppressed in the period After 1979, growth was very There was growing against the middle and the bottom 90% in 2019. Oregon became the first rent control. They cap Cities like New York, San D.C. also limit rent These policies have some One study found that likely to stay in their Other economists think that than good. So what history has shown is control, yes, it's benefit pay lower rent. But that deters incentive provide money for housing stock steadily one does not want to see encourage more production. The answer to rising rents Both Congress and the Fed the economy. It should earn higher wages. There's been a huge increase services, so we're going to low unemployment. I think faster wage growth for bottom. The other related structural changes that economy rather than be an unemployment? And I think labor standards, putting in rebuilding, collective mean paying attention to unemployment. Which means that the answer getting yourself a raise or They're not building enough because for builders, the high due to high costs for shortages for materials, can't build affordable You know, it took us ten predicament. It's not going the year after. It's it's we solve this problem. Some big numbers coming out and they're not looking buy or rent. It's all Home prices in the US have during the pandemic. The median home price June 2021, a 23.4% increase Many of these houses are asking price, often bidding wars becoming the competition. At the the Fed cut interest rates mortgage rates to And as soon as people home in a safe manner with people came right back to So you can see in just or so, we've seen a home price growth to levels How hot is it? It's turning Existing home sales falling part because there just While the market has cooled compared to its peak, fears becoming prevalent among I think it was sticker I think a lot of people got can't afford this. And down. Almost every conversation decade is, well, one, might find ourselves in don't want to be the ones middle of that transition If a housing bubble were to very large portion of in risky assets, and they wealth as soon as those So is America currently in what are the signs that can oncoming crash? A housing bubble occurs speculation drive up the estate to the point of like look at any one data we're in a housing bubble The signs that I would look intangible kind of a adopt. If people go into they're going to get this And you see a lot of bidding up prices, if you homebuyers buying homes little money down, those If you see credit too easy, telltale sign as well. If a bubble is left continue to rise in order and prices will climb When demand suddenly and leads to a sharp decline in Bursting the bubble. Housing bubbles eventually realize that what's going As soon as people see their and maybe their neighbor than what homes were worth may start to get nervous And then it becomes like a burst pretty quickly. So that's why one day you in value like 20% because But sometimes the market incident to crash on a Catastrophic economic That's it. You need a to make a housing bubble You can definitely have a housing market. But to crash, there needs to be There have been numerous history, going back as other equity busts that years. It's far less However, the International that housing crashes as long, with output losses large, leaving a much more economy. The 2008 financial how a real estate bubble to an economic meltdown. A lot of people got it what it's like to see your Some people end up losing able to continue making then they couldn't sell at they bought it for. So they the loss themselves or end So all of that can be very And I think it's very are concerned about that Demand off the charts. Price is rising at the But is the market too hot? Is it overheating a bubble, So. Is the recent real housing bubble? According is shaping up to look more bubble. I know. Expect that we're crash. I don't think we're We say bubble because we prices have gone up. But really, a bubble tends inflated that could burst And that's not really the While speculation certainly for today's demand is in At the start of the 30 year fixed rate mortgage In July 2021, that number We've got 30 year fixed rate the last several months That's a phenomenal rate. It's rock bottom. It's a record low. I don't see them going any the reasons why that has to buy homes and has added home prices up. Supply is also an issue. According to the National The US has under built its 5.5 million units over the That's a stark comparison bubble in 2008, when In my town, which is As of this morning, we had the market. 17. So in some of. And that's not even Some of the surrounding they had five single family So we've got really the coming together. We've got fueled by record low a shrinkage of supply as decided to postpone listing Sale and wait until a later When the pandemic was in So between more demand, Prices are up and they're the 1970s. There also haven't been any which is often associated Most of the new mortgages compared to the riskier the past. Subprime loans. Are those to applicants who have scores? Those are gone from What's also gone are the Just about all of the documented. Documenting employment, documenting both the borrower and the that the borrower has the manage that mortgage loan Furthermore, rapidly rising in June 2021 after sales of the lowest level since the in April 2020. I think it was sticker I think a lot of people got can't afford this. And down. We did see some more and that's helpful. And that's a lot of sellers height of the market, I But again, they're not if people can't afford it. So I think we're at kind of housing market is cooling may stay elevated if we there to meet the current exist. The US might be safe moment, but that doesn't never happen again. But there are certain danger on the horizon would Where you should fear about to plummet is if you look new construction in your prices aren't moderating at this added inventory. If you see a whole lot of coming in, you know, doing home and then getting a in when they end up That would be a sign that starting to look a little thought of another crash is Experts say that a real one during the 2008 unlikely to occur again. The market today is not in bursting because everyone has a mortgage that was Some of those changes were which also created the Protection Bureau. And through some of the promulgated, that is really underwritten in a prudent mortgages that can lead to for the home buyer over But for both current and remain worried, there are taken to lessen the risk. If you're a homebuyer today prices are overheating and the market. The most do is not overpay for your If you feel the price is comfortable with, higher economic value of the home You don't need to buy. Now, the mindset that I to have is a very long term Like it doesn't really down for a couple of years not sell for a decade. So I would just keep your make sure that you have could keep paying your lost a job, even if you So you can ride out any market.