Why do pumpkins sit on porches? They have no hands to knock on the door. Today, I'm going to recap a 2003 action drama The movie begins with a young man named Erik For no apparent reason, Erik beat his friend The rest of his friends just watched. No one tried to break up the fight for fear fights. Erik is then called by the principal who can He was immediately expelled from school. Arriving home, Erik still has to receive the incident that got him expelled from school. His biological mother, who knew this, didn't Erik would learn from his mistakes. After that, his mother asked him to meet her The lawyer gave Erik his business card and involved in any kind of problem. Erik, who was confused, just looked at the After Gunnar leaves, his mother tells him from school. Then his mother said that she had enrolled His mother turns Erik into Stjarnsberg, an His mother hopes that Erik does not waste that he will not be expelled again, because Erik nodded in understanding. He promised his mother to go to school well Erik arrives at his new school. This time he was wearing a uniform and his His roommate is Pierre, the smartest student They talked to each other and it turned out Pierre was a friendly person. Night fell, Erik and Pierre rushed to the Erik then gets acquainted with a student named its own traditions and in this school, each social status. After Johan said that, the student beside sitting at the end of the table, namely Otto The student who was summoned earlier came were the sons of wealthy nobles. Otto and Gustaf who came from noble families, ordinary families, like the student sitting Otto and Gustaf dared to act arbitrarily because school so they were not afraid of being expelled Otto and Gustaf are also part of the intra-school the power to punish students. After dinner, Pierre invites Erik to smoke At first Erik refused because he had promised Johan then warned that they would get severe But Pierre made sure they wouldn't be caught, The following day at breakfast, Otto and Gustaf They wanted to give a 'welcome' greeting because taught about the traditions at this school. But he immediately refused. Because of his refusal, Johan is the one who Otto injured Johan's head, until he was finally In the evening, Otto and Gustaf are about The two of them called Erik to their headquarters shoes that had piled up on the floor. Again Erik disobeyed their orders and left An annoyed Gustaf then asked Otto what they Otto didn't seem to want to worry about it He still looked relaxed and told Gustaf to Erik then told Pierre everything. The look on his roommate's face suddenly turned Pierre then told Erik not to disobey Otto who disobeyed them would be punished. Erik, who used to be a bully, said that he He also insisted that he would never obey In the evening, Erik and Pierre think of ways without violence. But it seemed difficult to do because the rather than get bruises all over their bodies. The next day, Gustaf accidentally bumps into Gustaf then told Erik to apologize. But Erik refused because he felt he didn't It was Gustaf himself who accidentally hit Gustaf was then furious and challenged Erik Erik was then invited by Pierre and Johan Pierre explained that Otto and Gustaf never They would call their friends and gang up That night, Erik had intended to accept Gustaf's But then he gave up and remembered his mother's from school. After returning to the room, Pierre invited In the battle arena, Otto and Gustaf had been he never showed up, Otto thought that Erik by his minions' cheers. The next day, Otto calls the names of students from members of the intra-school student organization, After being in the courtroom, Otto, as the a full month's imprisonment and he was also the school area. Erik digs trenches until late, so he has to done after dinner. When Erik was eating alone, a canteen employee Marja, who seems interested in Erik, says Marja then said that Erik's attitude was somewhat not want to submit to the arbitrariness in As usual, Erik often smokes briefly after When he was smoking alone, Marja suddenly Marja tells Erik that smoking is not good of Erik's breath. Marja then kissed and hugged him tightly. In fact, both Erik and Marja know that the romantic relationships with school staff. The punishment is unmitigated. They will be expelled from school and the But apparently that night Erik and Marja didn't During the Christmas holidays, Erik returned His mother welcomes him but not so with his His stepfather immediately questioned why of being suspended. Erik answered honestly.He had disobeyed the son of a noble and powerful in the school. His stepfather even replied that a noble's Because Erik's report cards are bad and he another caning from his stepfather. His mother, who knew her child's suffering, The Christmas holidays are over and Erik is Erik rushed to meet Marja because he really Erik and Marja then let go of longing under Knowing that Erik has returned to school, him. This time they intend to splash dirt while Their plans, of course, never failed. Erik and Pierre immediately woke up and cleaned But Erik did not remain silent. He intended to avenge Otto and Gustaf's actions. He took the remnants of dirt, then sneaked Otto was sleeping soundly. The following day while in the dining hall, students to hear. He said 'do you guys smell this awful poop?' then deliberately sniffed here and there, was eating his breakfast. Erik then tells everyone that the smell of Hearing this, Otto immediately became furious He punched Erik in the face until he was battered, because he promised his mother. Marja, knowing this, immediately told Otto Unable to subdue Erik, Otto and Gustaf then They are now targeting Pierre, who is Erik's Otto called Pierre while they were in the But Pierre turned it down because he felt Otto wasn't at his wits end. He then challenges Pierre to a fight after Otto threatens to punish him. Otto and Gustaf deliberately aim for Pierre Erik certainly wouldn't stand by watching and his minions. After that, they would gang up on Erik, and Otto and Gustaf. That evening, Pierre is forced to accept Otto's The youth had come to the battlefield alone, followers. Pierre tried to fight Otto. But their body postures are quite different. Pierre fell to the ground with just a few Erik's whereabouts are unknown. Even though his best friend was wincing in When Pierre had completely fallen, Erik had it was too late. Erik then took Pierre to the room and treated He then let Pierre rest and came out of the He meets Marja and they make love until morning In the morning, Erik, worried about Pierre's room. To Erik's surprise, his room was empty and Pierre even took his belongings with him, school again. Pierre only left a letter apologizing for Pierre said that Erik was a good friend of to fight the arbitrariness of Otto and his occur in this school. Erik got up and revealed his true identity. He was determined to avenge Otto and his henchmen the other students. He goes to Gustaf in the dining hall and challenges Erik, who is alone, fights Gustaf and von than him. But the two young delinquents just talked Erik, who was also a delinquent, was able Erik then threatens Otto who is in shock because Erik tells Otto that he is Erik's next target. However, before replying to Otto, Erik goes A female employee tells Erik that Marja has She then handed a letter from Marja to him. Erik was devastated by the sudden departure One of Otto's henchmen catches Erik getting He immediately reported it to Otto. He then raided Erik's room and ordered his They then found a letter from Marja. Otto then reads it and finally he finds out Obviously, Otto used the letter to kick Erik He immediately handed over the evidence of The principal called Erik, who then kicked because he had committed a serious offense Erik accepts his punishment gracefully. However, he asked the principal to return memory of her. The principal refused, and then put it in Erik then intends to avenge Otto for all the Stjarnsberg. After all, he has also been expelled from So he could do whatever he wanted to Otto. He then looks for Otto and finds him walking He immediately confronted Otto and threatened He made Otto kneel down. Unexpectedly, Otto immediately obeyed his Otto, who looked panicked, then offered Erik him. But Erik refused.When Erik prepares to hit to spare his life, then vomits. Erik then cupped Otto's face and said he would Otto who liked to oppress the weak. Erik then returned to school to pack things. Then he remembered Gunnar who said Erik could Erik immediately called Gunnar and not long After telling Gunnar his problem, Erik came teaching staff in his room. Erik pleads not to be expelled from school to him. At first the principal refuses, but then Gunnar the caste and bullying culture among the students and other staff members at the school. The principal also has no other choice but the student council led by Otto. Long story short, Erik is very grateful to overthrow the authoritarian rule of Otto and Erik spends his days at school peacefully, His mother is very proud and happy with all in Stjarnsberg. Even so, his stepfather is still unhappy because at school. As his stepfather prepares to flog him, Erik there will be violence in this house. Then Erik kicked him out of his house. Sometime later, Erik finally met Pierre who They then promise to meet again someday. If you enjoyed this video, don't be shy to hit the dislike button twice, just to be sure. It would be best if you watched the whole Thank you very much for watching. Please subscribe for more videos like this.