- All right, you have $1,300 to spend on an Android slab phone in 2024. Why would you get any other phone? No, seriously, why would This S 24 Ultra has taken the best things from every other ultra high-end phone and stuffed them into one place, so anything that you could possibly value, it has pushed to the max. And there's just multiple cherries on top, just sprinkled all over the place. This phone sets the tone for 2024. (soft upbeat music) So the formula for Samsung's Ultra phones has evolved a little bit over the years. At first, it was just the most numbers, the biggest megapixel count, Then it added the S Pen and got a little more refined Now it's just everything. It's just everything in one place. It's all the best hardware, all the best software I can So on the outside, like I this phone looks almost the but if you think this as last year's phone, turns So the more you use this phone, the more you look for weaknesses, the more impressive it gets. So maybe what? You're a screen snob, right? You like to pixel peep, maybe you were thinking about getting one of the ultra just for an amazing screen. All right, well, look no further. Literally one of the best S24 Ultra has dropped in a class leading 6.8 inch quad HD AMOLED These ultra phones have and they've been this really sharp quad HD for a while now too. But now on top of that, two new things, one is it's completely flat So there's been this whole new batch of like 2,500 plus nit phones in the past couple months that I've seen. This I think is the best looking So now it's up to a max 2,600 nits, which is awesome outdoors or anywhere. But it also gets extremely without any of the weird banding I've seen in some other phones. And they flattened the display completely and brought the display with some of the thinnest all the way around. Plus there's also this new on this Gorilla Glass Armor that makes a noticeable difference with certain light hitting And then there is a crazy fast underneath to top it all off. And you know, maybe I was a little bit bigger, Honestly, if you're a screen snob, it doesn't really get better This is the phone you should get. Okay, so what if your primary Well, you could always that we saw at CES at one time, but as far as reasonably it doesn't get much better than this. Again, they're keeping a 5,000mAh battery in one of the best from the past two years, despite making it thinner So you might as well get this one. Still got 45 watt wired charging, you still have 25 watt wireless charging and just battery life-wise, I was able to have long with six hours plus screen on time. I was able to baby it into that's at 1440p, at 120Hz So yeah, Why get anything else? So okay, what if then is the main thing that you care about. Okay, so we're seeing all these phones with the Snapdragon 8 Gen and they're looking really good. Great high-end performance, there's efficiency gains plus this phone pairs and it is a multitasking champ. And if it's a stylus you aren't really the S Pen is basically still going in slab smartphones. It's really good for note-taking, all that stuff. But if you're like me and there's still the gaming performance and the everyday performance. There's the newly added rate tracing plus a 90% larger vapor for much longer stuff. Turns out it's an A plus. Now you could always get a gaming phone and squeeze five to 10% more frames out of a Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 with some huge badass cooling but then you also have to that come with said And do you really want Depends on who you ask. Okay, cameras, there's a lot that you could buy if your 1,300 bucks specifically has to go You know the Pixel just Sony has the best manual mode, like there's other great camera systems. But here's a way to simplify it, I think in evaluating smartphone cameras, there's basically two ways to review them. There's the utility, the and the aesthetics, the art And I think utility-wise, this camera's got it all. Like you've seen this camera array before, there's four cameras on Turns out, they're as last year's S23 Ultra except for one. So there's a primary camera, an ultra wide and a pair of two different The primary camera is still the ridiculous 200 megapixel sensor with It's consistent and It has great dynamic range. It's a quick shooter with quick auto focus and it's also always bending and you should almost never switch it to the 200 megapixel mode unless you have incredible lighting. It has an ultra wide with a bit of distortion near the edges, but it's actually meaningfully wider than the primary camera, so Even though the automatic looks like trash and you anytime it turns your pictures And then it has a medium that kicks in smoothly and from the main camera really well. And so the one new thing is they've gone from a to a 50 megapixel 5X camera. So technically, shorter but I would say with the extra resolution, it is actually more powerful. It means all the photos in look sharper than last year. And then you can literally put from the S23 Ultra and the S24 Ultra and the new 5X cropped Plus you can still zoom all the way in and shoot at a 100X if ultra stable pictures of far But basically what I'm this camera system It has everything. So from there you get into the more which you could always I think, I mean, looking at these photos, they're still very much Samsung's slightly extra process-looking, a little bit extra contrasty, a little brighter colors, that still happens with these photos. So you could still convince yourself to lean Pixel or even iPhone, but if you just wanna be able why look anywhere else? Honestly, the changes that you notice more aside from the actual camera quality are just like features using it. Like the S24 Ultra shoots it's actually in Google's So when you have specular highlights or big dynamic range it will tastefully crank up that stuff for a more dramatic looking similar to what Pixel And this passes through all the to viewing it in the gallery, to actually publishing it on social media. So Samsung has worked with for native quality photo and because at the end of the what are you 99% of the Share it. And I think this is important one of the reasons I have is one of the things is the photos and videos are going to look just as good as if they were captured And now you can actually about photos and videos from this phone, at least in Instagram and Snapchat. All right, maybe you're a software person, maybe the top of your list is you want the smartest smartphone. It's gotta have all the And honestly, it should have a of on-time software updates, sounds like I'm describing a Pixel but turns out, this phone now has a ton, a ton of helpful AI features built-in that are actually good, they make a meaningful Now the funny part about a lot of this is a lot of these features are made in partnership with Google, as you'll see. And I can't help but keep thinking like it feels like Samsung needs Google to have all of these to compete especially against the iPhone. But then Google, now their own phones are a but it's probably worth the trade off because now technically against the iPhone. It's this weird like thing I think it's fascinating and probably worth its own separate video, maybe let me know with a comment or by subscribing if But that's all the So we were just talking the second you're done taking a photo and opening it up in there's a ton of useful AI driven stuff that you can do with it. And it's kinda all based it auto detects that you've taken. So lots of photos just end where you click it and then and brighten things up and gives you a solid before and after. But if your photo has it'll show you an Erase Reflections button and then you can literally go in and circle the reflections and it'll generative fill what should actually be in the glass. And it works pretty well. Now with this photo, I didn't but it's recognized that there's a subject and so it'll offer to add background blur. And even without a bunch it analyzes the subject and or a lot of background blur with a pretty good cutout, if you ask me, to just create a portrait But if you ever really, there's a whole separate Magic Editor that feels exactly like what minus any restrictions, it's never told me it can't do something. So you open any photo, and then there's this little blue green button with the stars, that's Samsung's new Magic Editor. And once you're here, You can move the subject around a photo and have a generative Or you can have it remove things entirely from the foreground or like photo bombers or just I actually found this super useful. But probably actually my you know how normally when like fix the horizon, and losing some of the You can still do that but you can open it up and tilt the horizon to whatever angle you want, it will literally generative of the photo, which works very well because usually the outside of the photo is the least important part of the photo. You can get away with generative fill. And by the way, literally all you download to the phone too, not just photos you've but photos you just get Now I also find it hilarious that if you use the Magic on this phone, it'll to the bottom corner so that you know that this which is good, that's a good especially if you're gonna But then you can also with a built-in object removal tool in Samsung's Photo Editor app. There's a nice little where Samsung's tucked all of It's called Advanced Intelligence, instead of artificial intelligence. Still AI though. That's where you get stuff like the live phone call translation feature or the new Voice Recorder app getting much improved speaker labels and summaries and transcriptions. The Samsung Browser will now This might all sound very familiar, but the best new one in my Now Google Lens has been in my opinion, one of Google's So people might have already known that you could basically do this already, but it would take several steps. Circle to Search, just makes it one step. It's much faster, it's pretty awesome. You literally just hold or the gesture bar at the whatever on your screen and it just immediately Googles over the top of whatever you were doing without leaving that Just, even during the week I've searched pictures, it almost always works, just like uploading it to Google Lens. I've searched objects right in front of me through the camera view finder. I've searched random landmarks. You can also search text and you can even append And I was just constantly and it basically works as The one fidgety part is gets a little weird. Using the S Pen can to just get a more precise selection. But yeah, once you do it, it's much faster than if having to like take a screenshot and then upload it through Lens and then maybe have to crop This is just fast. Now real OGs will know that on Pixels called Now on Tap. It was like the same exact and it would just Google and help you out but that and they kinda ended up wrapping This is just so much Also, Pixels are gonna get But then bonus points, if Samsung is now promising seven and seven generations of on this phone, on this S24 lineup. I assume seven generations is basically seven years. That means this phone will Loving that. So we know the common wisdom five, six plus years of software updates or if you want every single you basically had to go iPhone or Pixel. But now that this phone also has that, why get anything else? But speaking of the iPhone, Now I know I said in the $1,300 slab Android phone, so was never really on the table, Samsung has never been shy against the iPhone, so why not take some of the They weren't being subtle about it. So they've got this shiny with titanium rails on the S24 They have flatten the screen and the sides and made boxier corners all just like the iPhone. They have moved to a max 5X telephoto lens like I talked about earlier, They also have this new always on display that doesn't just show the time but shows your whole wallpaper now, kinda like it's half awake Thankfully, you can also turn that off and save some battery, You can also now long press that automatically cuts it you can use in other apps, And there's even these new that look exactly like the iPhones, like copy my homework but don't even worry if These two are gonna till the end of time, none it's just at the end of the because they're making each other a little bit better bit by bit. But at the end of the day, S24 Ultra, I really do feel like, it feels like peak slab phone. And there's also a whole bunch of stuff I didn't even really The haptics are really nice, Now there's AI generated wallpapers, a whole section for 'em, And it's nice that the AI stuff in ways where you don't if you don't want to, but if you notice it bam, turn it on, could Really the only things that I miss, from the Pixel specifically, are Call Screening and Now Playing. So really the best argument is the fact that it's a $1,300 phone. And the truth is you for much less money. You can see it in Samsung's own lineup. Samsung's own S24 Plus instead of a 5,000. It has a 6.7 inch display instead of 6.8 and it drops the S Pen and for $300 off. And you know you can get the regular S24, again, for much less money So you don't have to spend But if you are going to, and you put the word Ultra in the name and you stuff as much stuff in one phone as you possibly can, this is This has all the things; it's reliable, it's it checks all the boxes, it sounds great. It kinda feels like an ad when I just say all these positive things Until right now, this video The Ridge Wallet is iconic at this point. It's a minimalist, modern wallets like the opposite of It's got the patented dual to hold one to 12 cards while And at this point, there's and styles including carbon and forged ember. This one is the forged ember, so it's got these little red You can also get accessories for it, so if you wanna carry cash, or this one has the cash strap. Or if you want the Air Tag holder, you can get one that so you never lose your wallet. And on top of all that, if you get one and you don't like it, you can return it within 99 So if you wanna grab one, you can get 10% off using code MKBHD or go to ridge.com/mkbhd. Tell 'em I sent you. Either way, that's been Thanks for watching. Catch you guys on the next one, peace. (soft upbeat music)