- When you detach your energy and you don't care about the outcome or you're not attached to the outcome or what people think of you and you don't need anything from them, they will attach themselves to you. And in this video, I'm gonna show you one of the most powerful magnetic how you can detach from outcome to then have things attach And that's exactly what how to do it and why it's Now, the first thing to is that attracting love, that is all about becoming and feeling in a vibrational state or that which you desire. Now, here's the thing about this. Magnetic energy is Non-neediness is the Now, non-neediness, what that means is that the person that or that is being the most unapologetic they do not need someone They do not need someone else's approval. They do not need someone for them to feel safe and for them to give themselves permission to be their most authentic selves. Now, you could also say that the degree to which is the degree to which On the other side of that, the degree to which is the degree to which and repel people to them. I've seen this work like Literally, the more needy I am, the more I want someone to like me, and also, the more I change that is something that the person I was either in to feel safe. I remember when I first of the unapologetic version of me, I started to express the real me. I started to express what And as I did that, it had way more attraction than me being like a people pleaser, I remember with an I'd be like, we would, she was vegan, and I was like eating fish. And I remember, this is like what happened was, I &quot;Okay, we're always going to no matter what,&quot; and I to whatever she wanted. And I became aware that my own masculine presence like centered in my own body, I started to ask myself, &quot;Okay, sometimes we can go but sometimes I wanna go And I would then be like where maybe they also had vegan food, but then what ended up happening is I could tell that and I started saying, &quot;I wanna go here. I'm sure they have some great vegan food, but I wanna go here because there was such a different than before when I was like, &quot;Oh, are you sure you want this? Or like how can I make you happy? I just wanna do what you wanna do.&quot; It was such a different energy. But basically what I did is, I detached from needing and I started to detach from that and all the sudden, the Now, one of the reasons being is because, one of the most common forms especially in the spiritual community, people that are empathic, that can feel other people's energy, is a people pleasing mentality, of wanting to please someone else. Now, understand this about pleasing. Pleasing is a manipulative energy. It's manipulation. It's saying, &quot;I'm going to please you so that I get from you validation. I get from you the approval. I get from you love.&quot; It's an exchange. And the thing is, is a the people pleasing is a of parent pleasing. It's from having a sense &quot;I'm not good enough the way that I am, so if I can please someone else, then maybe I'll be enough. Maybe I'll get their or their support.&quot; So, detaching from needing to please is one of the most And one of the most attractive, because the more you let go is the more that you will find that that attractive energy is there. Now, why is that? Because when you let go of when you let go of trying through someone else, that is energetically very energy giving. When you don't need validation, or them to meet your needs, it's coming from a full cup. It's coming from an energy that says, &quot;I'm good the way that I am.&quot; And what ends up happening and other people can feel it. Remember, people in your life back to you that you are emanating out. And if you're emanating &quot;I need something from you,&quot; they feel that and they will When I used to sell women's shoes, I could clearly see and my goal is to sell shoes, and I need customers 'cause I wanna make my day, they would feel that. And it would repel them. But when I went in and I think about this too, the magnetic energy of non-neediness and being detached means that I think'll change your When you are manipulative or to please them, to get you are doing things that I'm going to do this to get this. I'm going to please you to get your love, validation, and support and attract love or whatever. I'm gonna do this for that. On the other side of that, it is this to get that. If I was making this video because it has to get a lot of views and I need everyone to and you felt that, you'd be like, &quot;Ooh, that's needy energy.&quot; And those videos also generally But when I'm making a video to the moment and I'm passionate about what I'm talking because I'm in the moment. So when you detach from outcome, it means you're detaching to respond to you in a certain way. You're detaching from a means to an end, and you're more so focusing Now, what this means is, if you go out on a date with someone and you find yourself attached to outcome, it's because you want something from them. It's because you are trying approval, love, your needs met, whatever. And they feel that. The key is actually to show One of the most magnetic things and the magnetic energies you can have is present-moment energy, is being present to the to the outcome. And to be present to the moment means you're doing and you are a certain way because it's who you choose If I made a video to get views, If I make a video because I'm passionate about making videos and I wanna talk about a certain concept, those If I was going on a I have a girlfriend, but and be like, &quot;Okay, I'm and I'm gonna get from approval, they're gonna wanna that's manipulative energy. That's attachment to the outcome. Then, they feel that. &quot;Like what does this person want from me? Why are they being a certain way?&quot; And a lotta times, people will then move And instead, if you go on the date 'cause you wanna have fun, if you wanna go on the date that's a present-moment thing. If you wanna go on the date that's a present-moment thing. That's in the present moment. That's not to get somewhere else. It's a very different energy. I know this as well like I have like these I have this membership that'll be out soon, if by the time this video goes out. But I have to make a sales video for it. And the sales videos just means like, &quot;Hey, this is what the And like we're gonna be doing weekly coaching calls, we're There's a tribe of people Now, if when I made this video, I was really attached to the outcome and I was trying to get I want you to buy this freakin' course, I want you to buy this thing, you're gonna feel that. You're gonna feel an attachment to that. But instead, if I'm expressing but also inviting you in on to join, that's a very different energy. You'll be like, &quot;Oh, there's Like I wanna be a part of this thing.&quot; And that's how energy works. Energy follows value. And you being the most is the most, is you adding value. It's you adding value and It's not adding value because It's adding value You being the most is the most valuable thing. Now, the other aspect that is understanding being in your own frame, being present inside of your body, which as we are talking about, is the most magnetic But being in your own in your life. Leading in your life in the and if you don't know what but you're moving towards like, you are being the most authentic magnetic version of yourself. And what this means is, like in my own life, what I as the people pleaser nice like two years ago, three years ago, is I had to start tuning I had to tune and realize, how am I showing up in my life? Am I passionate about what I'm doing? Am I, do I have my own vision for life, and am I being this and then letting other people join that, but me not tuning to them? So being in your own frame means, what is your frame of reality? What is your frame of presence? What is important to you? Frame is also included into Because whoever you wanna if you're tuning to them, you're losing and abandoning yourself. And this is really what this is about. Because what we do is we attach because we're trying to get our needs met, and we're hoping they can meet our needs because we most likely felt We call that abandonment. And when our parents detached from us, they were either emotionally guess what happened? We decided there's I must be different in Maybe if I could make everyone happy, then I would be good enough. And the thing with this is that we then lose we're not in our own frame, we're tuning to everybody &quot;Who the hell am I?&quot; It's hard to set boundaries. Why? Because we've already abandoned ourselves. So the key to not abandoning is to actually make the to be leading in our life, to be in our own frame, to ask ourselves different questions. If you will go on a date with &quot;Do they like me? I hope they like me. Do they or are they interested in me? How can I be a little bit You are tuning to them, tuning and changing your own to try to make someone, to please someone. If you go on a date and you &quot;Do I have anything in If you're curious about their energy, &quot;I wonder if we resonate with each other. I wonder if we have similar values. I wonder if I'm going to like this person. I wonder if I'm going to I wonder if I'm actually That is different energy. That is coming from a So, the questions you ask how you're showing up. And I will tell you from experience and from seeing it in that I've coached in my programs, detachment, when people detach from an ex, when people detach from an outcome, when people detach from the magic happens, and the way that you detach is by not abandoning the self and being present in your own body and not doing things that making things an end of itself, deciding who you are, Every moment you're a new version of you. Every moment you're a new version of you. Literally, what quantum physics shows us is that every moment, our cells The only thing that keeps and attached to the past is the about who we are. And what we can begin to do is, since I'm new every moment, I this version of me that is to what's important to me, to recognize my own sense of self-worth, to stop abandoning myself, start tuning to what I want. And I promise you, the more the more you tune to to enjoying the process of dating, enjoy the process if whatever it is, the more you you will find that you are more magnetic than you can possibly ever imagine. Now, the thing I was mentioning earlier, it's a community of people It is a community of people. It's called the Magnetic Every single week, what we This is interactive. There's group work that's done. Two of the calls, I'm doing live coaching. Two of the calls, we're where we get into groups and Because I find to create permanent shift and to create that kind of identify shift from the inside, out, And that's why what we normally did in our 21-day challenges, which I've had over we are now doing this And you can join that by or clicking the link below. Check that out. I'll have this video go The only people that will be coming in is people that watch this from my other challenges. So if you wanna be a founding join at the lowest price that of the community, the membership. And you'll also be connected that are sharing this and we're focused on more magnetic than ever. Now, also, there's a video about how you can let them miss you and how this completely Watch this video right When we're attached, what we do is we create resistance. And this resistance is is responding or not Now, one of the most is to actually bring your...