The Universe is incredibly big and seems full planets. If an advanced civilization had the technology of the speed of light, It could colonize our Which is not that long given the billions in principle any spacefaring civilization sectors of the galaxy. And yet we see nothing, hear nothing, the Devoid of others. This is the Fermi Paradox, which we have discussed Confronted with the seemingly empty universe, We desperately want to know if we are alone We want to call out and reveal ourselves to thing we ever do. Because maybe the universe is not empty. Maybe it's full of civilizations but they Maybe the civilizations that attracted attention This is the Dark Forest solution to the Fermi The Way Of Life The hunter awakes in his hiding place and the thick undergrowth before he gets up. Another night has passed without incident. The forest is dark and full of fog. He considers calling out to others to end moment. What if they are like him? All living things seek to survive, secure Their greatest obstacle are other living things Competition between species favored the survival Our ancestors were inventive, competitive, led to them winning the competition for our Today, most other animals are so utterly at a day, just as an unintentional byproduct But humans are more than individuals. From us cultures emerge, that also compete Competitive and expansionary cultures spread or destroy others. If we look at our history it becomes clear: Not just to others but also to ourselves. Our human nature has driven us to take over look to the stars, both to expand our domain And then we might stumble upon others trying It is likely that the competition of life is logical to assume that an alien civilization in some regards similar to us. But if they are similar to us, they, too, The Implication As the hunter sneaks through the dark forest like him. He can't know their intentions, if they The hunter knows he would kill to ensure his would too. And it might be that if he stumbles upon another None of this means that conflict is unavoidable. So far the progress of the modern world seems Maybe this is true for other civilizations not more. Different alien civilizations also should and militaristic. The existential problem we are facing is that have no way of telling who is peaceful or are. Similarly, they might not understand or trust are peaceful. On top of that, if we did discover another light years between us would mean years of Both sides would be in a state of uncertainty, because there's another serious issue: technological We do not know where the limits of technology progress matters in war. A few hundred or thousand years can turn conflict Caesar's legions would stand no chance against Which would be eradicated by artillery from Which would not stand a chance against today's So the power level of different civilizations the time it takes us to detect another civilization hopelessly behind on the tech tree. Which is bad enough, but the nature of interstellar If your opponent is light years away, sending time it arrives it might be hopelessly obsolete. So, war between civilizations might be just threat to yourself. Someone else who might be so scared of you In this environment, the only way to guarantee that the target has no chance of survival revenge later. The stakes are the highest possible with no If we assume that the majority of civilizations - all you need to do is throw something So the ultimate interplanetary annihilation Kill Vehicle - a missile shot at a planet light. For example, a missile the size of a person as all nuclear bombs on earth. If you shot a few dozen at the civilization certain - even a single hit would suffice. This is not that absurd of an idea - a civilization would have enough energy to send multiple harboring life. What makes these weapons so sinister is how would be so fast that it might be impossible once they're launched. Conflict between civilizations may not be situations, where the first one to shoot wins. This makes any civilization an existential And if every civilization is an existential kinds of civilizations out there: quiet ones So what should we do? So, should we worry? It is unlikely that anybody has noticed humanity The radio signals we've transmitted in the distance and have long decayed into unreadable At our technological stage, if we don't specifically looks at our pretty unremarkable But one day we will venture into space in of questions again. We don't know if there are others or if But we have no way of knowing for sure. For the time being, it seems the best we can And even if we see others step into a clearing right away but carefully watch them from the Perhaps we are also thinking about this all evolved in the context of the gruesome competition all around us. Maybe the fact that we are looking at the grown up yet as a species. There could be a friendly, welcoming community us when we are ready. As for now, the good news is there is actually We just need to be thoughtful about the signals the sky and learn more about our galaxy, our Because whatever the nature of our forest at all, only careful observation can tell. So let's do that. At last the hunter reaches a clearing and Slowly the sun melts the fog away, lost in - he is eye to eye with another hunter, His mind is racing, considering all the different The hunter takes a deep breath and makes a