A Woman Ate Dark Web Bought Tapeworm Eggs To TE is a 21 year old woman, presenting bloating, and severe abdominal pain. She tells the admitting physician that weren't there before. And that a few and the next thing she could remember TE often browsed magazines. She'd look at the the one in the picture? In her mind, these "oh what's wrong? Why don't YOU look like do anything so that she could look like that. she'd immediately start on an ultra-intense tried extreme exercise, but to her, One evening TE was on a picture sharing platform. said that someone had messaged them about a said that they reported the message because method to lose weight that it should never even give this any attention because someone replied that dangerous is irrelevant, because they wanted to try it. This suspicious what appeared to be a manufactured disagreement but, TE was intrigued. A "forbidden" and so powerful, that it's the one She dug a little deeper and was directed On the suspicious onion website, TE was getting We must work together to survive on a world that's anemone. The fish gets shelter from the anemone, is kinda like tapeworms and humans. The worms take they eat our extras, helping us lose weight. anything bad. Clearly this "win win" situation for all parties involved, as this website spoke At first, she was repulsed. But she read about and became convinced, this was not only the best cost-effective path, because everything else she's people on a server and they instructed her how eggs. She paid, and a VIP package from a special, And when the small, nondescript box Looking at the capsules, she started getting on in the bottle, but she wasnt sure what of these capsules was the true path to soon to be hatched friends, who she will living rent free with all meals paid for. She put As the days passed, TE felt... nothing. feel a weird cramping in her stomach that would she started noticing that number was going down, go out all to eat more than she normally would, weight loss was totally unlike anything she One evening, TE went to the bathroom. This time feel something flapping and slapping around her about to flush, she looked back and saw some tan, creeping out of the bulk mass. They kinda but, she hadn't eaten any sushi recently. TE but she was able convince herself that all Eventually, TE noticed that her weight she had plateaued, she looked back to and she committed herself-- it was time Immediately after swallowing a third tapeworm some more weight, she thought. And everything was One evening, TE felt that there were bumps the next thing she could remember floor. And when she got up, she could feel like something was pushing The next day, TE woke up with a the hurt would pulsate, each time more the pain was too much as she's brought At examination, TE physically looked ok. they thought it looked normal. Maybe a higher but TE declined. She didn't want to wait could tell them nothing, so she asked if there The brain is protected by something called the Fluid, CSF, sits between 2 meningeal layers, flow for the brain. CSF flows into the brain. TE has a headache, then it's possible that swelling into her brain, or, it's 2) really the medical team put a needle into her spine collect it so they can analyze it in the lab. and when they look, it was more than Well, it's in a closed space, so if things get they'll take up space. That increases One of them could be sugar. The is that wherever it is, water will flow possibly be a diabetic having a crisis, getting in to her CSF. But when the medical Sometimes white blood cells can get in and a bacterial or fungal infection. But they The exception is sometimes, a viral infection at first, and figuring out a virus they weren't able to really But, the pressure was high no matter what. fluid. This liquid, draws water out of the brain headache because it decreased the pressure this fixed everything. The doctors never asked taken in the past, and she wasnt going to tell worms would only take shelter in her gut. and she was sent home and feeling ok. But, At home, no matter how much TE would feel bloated. Her head would randomly pain came battering into her skull, her she'd huddle over the toilet, scared that the nothing ended up happening. As weeks turned her head and her neck. Most of them weren't She would have periods in time where she'd unsure if she had lost consciousness or something remember anything from the last few hours, as There's no shortcut to meaningfully lose taking the prescription reptile saliva extract and exercise. For the exercise part, Trainwell, and they're the sponsor of this video. It is who tailors a training program for you, that is several times weekly, and a system that tracks stay on track, and they teach you how to be in here's how it works. First, they ask you for and what you're looking for in context of fitness. I started with Trainwell in late 2023, I matched you can also change your Coach anytime. I I matched with Coach Adam, and we talk training to make sure we're on track. Your Coach tailors ties in to the App. I go to the gym, the App you're monitored. To track progress. Heart rate, how to do each exercise. Your Coach plans your keeping you accountable. Exercise and fitness function that you have. Trainwell helps me realize context of exercise, whether or not you have sign up with my trainwell (formerly CoPilot) 14-days FREE + $25 off on their 1st At examination this time, doctors them that during the day she'd wake up and couldn't remember the last few hours. never really went away. All of these prompted An MRI revealed multiple lesions all over over her neck, face, and tongue. More spots her spine. All of this was coupled with TE's tapeworms should still be in her can grow to 4 to 12 meters in length, dots on a brain scan aren't several meters Doctors asked TE what she had been eating. She her hygiene, but she gave no indications that TE had a suspicion that her problems felt embarrassed about it. But after she finally showed doctors the When the doctor looked at the bottle, it was labeled "saginata," and this gives Saginata refers to Taenia saginata, also together on farms. Cows eat vegetation, but like that vegetation might have been touched Cows have multiple stomachs, and the Taenia environment. The oncospheres hatch. They migrate where they can live for years. And when humans enter the human gut, where they develop into an Taenia tapeworms are made of segments called the proglottids can become gravid, from Latin meaning loaded, in this case, pregnant, with of its lifecycle. These gravid proglottids rip "sushi ginger" that TE thought she saw in the And the flapping and slapping she felt were these make their way into the environment, and back This infection is called Taeniasis. It explains loss, but, those aren't why she presented to the something is in her brain, and it's in her body. They're not worms, rather, they Well, cows aren't the only farm animals. be an intermediate host to tapeworms. Pigs given that pig guts are very different a tapeworm were to spend formative parts of then there could be 2 different species not only slightly different in not only how lifecycle as well. And the pork tapeworm known of its lifecycle causes more than Taeniasis, Well, when humans eat undercooked pork they eat the oncospheres that and this is what becomes the worm in the in the human's stool. And it's here where The eggs released into the environment completing the cycle. But, these Taenia solium into the gut. They don't become mature worms, around in the body and embed themselves into soft and the brain. This blocks flow and disrupts When TE took the first 2 tapeworm capsules, minus some abdominal symptoms. During ate her food. It caused her abdominal pain and Taenia saginata eggs. But given her seizures and and knowing that Solium and not Saginata causes more than just "Saginata" in this bottle. And this her high Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure? Well, they can crawl their way into the subarachnoid because the extra space taken up increases could happen without triggering increases in why the medical team didnt find anything when headaches. And the cysts may have still been Involvement of the brain makes this that TE would randomly regain consciousness When someone suddenly loses consciousness or hit their head. If no one is around This brings us to the idea of weighing risk to can be achieved by diet and exercise together. The with the benefit being, weight loss. So, this end special. However, sometimes that cost is too high something special to get the benefit. And this A long term study followed patients who had like weakness on one side of the body, because Tapeworm cysts were all over would solve their problem. No more brain even decades would go by, and they would slowly personality changes, diminished cognitive cysts degenerated. The medicine did do went away. None of this would have happened body in the first place. But these cases were and the benefit of losing some weight, doesn't When the medical team asked TE when she is something that happened recently, Taenia saginata AND Taenia solium tapeworms in her brain and the rest of her body were very probably wouldn't be cost effective, because TE was given praziquantel. This medicine Because muscle contractions use loading a huge amount of calcium into the And it can't stop contracting. This forces the albendazole was given . This starves the parasite Because dead worms would be in her brain, steroids reaction. These are the same medicines that this treatment's goals are to eliminate the cysts, eliminate them, leaving calcified masses to even decades later, despite TE not having any As the days and weeks pass for treatment, TE started to get better. The seizures that cysts were no longer in her brain. After TE learned her lesson about tapeworm eggs for something like this is always going to be way more risk than benefit, especially given that to lose weight. In an able-bodied human, weight and that has much less risk than letting of you to accomplish that goal. At follow up had not taken any more tapeworm eggs and was all on her own accord, as she Thanks so much for watching. Take checkout Trainwell link in the description below.