Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, is completely evil. 1. High Tolerance for Evil person and an evil person, pay attention to how if they haven't done anything terrible, an evil unfold in the world around them. In other but they are exceptionally tolerant of words and Let's say you see a person physically them. For good people, this usually triggers an or sadness. But someone with a high tolerance for know someone who sees terrible things happen and genuinely evil person under the surface. Evil people feel a sense of superiority putting people down and asserting their that no one is as important as they are. day. In traffic, you see people cutting to the time of the people waiting behind them. You supervisors bully their subordinates and One careless act doesn't make someone evil, but it If you know someone who looks down on the rest of 3. Animal Cruelty evil people are likely to commit acts of cruelty among violent and psychopathic personalities get some thrill or satisfaction in teasing it makes them feel powerful and superior, many On the other hand, good people feel a built into our psychology to care when pleasure from hurting living creatures, that is 4. Arguing with Reality when things don't go their way. They get upset they spend more time arguing with reality than Some evil people blatantly deny the truth, even care what's factual and what's not. All they care illogical their argument may be. Do you know someone with two completely known to alter their character traits to Around a person of power, for example, they act and pretend to be a model human being. their personality changes in the blink of an eye. no problem being cruel to the people around them. you may wonder how one person can be so just inconsistent. They're completely evil. Everyone lies once in a while. When it happens, had said something differently or thought more But an evil person lies with reckless the lies they tell. In fact, they lie with such trouble differentiating fact from fiction. In some persuade people to follow in their footsteps. And dangerous and completely evil. Evil people aren't satisfied with just bending to new heights, going so far as to twist the people's mouths. Some toxic personalities even to make someone else look bad. If you know someone were willing to distort the truth once, so 8. Reveling in Misfortune you know has a stroke of bad luck? Let's say job. Do you feel sympathy for them and show Or do you revel in their misfortunate, gaining The latter is a major sign of a completely experience misfortune. It probably makes them Of course, they'll never it out loud. To your but behind your back, they're hoping to see anyone who revels in misfortune is 9. Zero Moral Compass yet most people underestimate the lengths an evil example, when an evil person makes a mistake, it's dump their problems on the people around them. they pretend they had nothing to do with it. reality if only to preserve their reputation. emphatically passes the blame onto others. They their failures because they have no shame, 10. Stacking the Deck Truly terrible people use every piece of of us want our lives to be orderly and fair, these For example, when an evil person hears a valuable away. Instead, they'll sit on this knowledge and only then will they break the news and 11. The Limits of Personal Gain thinking in terms of personal gain? There's self-interested person. In many ways, we're our lives. But there's usually a limit to how On the other hand, for an evil person, nothing betray friends, and put other people at risk To an evil person, personal gain is priority needs fall by the wayside. Toxic, unempathetic people think it's their If you know someone who is completely evil, they and everyone else in your life. They refuse and when they do, evil people immediately make In the same way, evil people shamelessly coworkers. They'll say whatever they need to climb Even if it ruins your life, a thoroughly evil 13. Truly Evil Intentions evil into the world. Some evil people follow the their minds are swirling with bad intentions. They sense of pleasure when life lives up to their poor deeds, but they still think evil thoughts. Why? 14. Psychological Entitlement more than everyone else. They are convinced and as a result, they deserve special treatment. a favor, and they waste no time shutting you and when you say no, they become angry with you This behavior is evidence of extreme by some of the most narcissistic personalities. as much as they do. That's what makes these lousy 15. That Strange Feeling a feeling than a specific behavior. When you come like a bad feeling you just can't explain. you can't shake the feeling that they are of their intentions or perhaps you've Either way, this person makes you feel strange, tendencies may be subtle and well-hidden, but if they are probably more evil than you realize. sure to subscribe because more