- Today we're gonna talk We're gonna go through the in getting your ground coffee ready for optimal brewing And today we're gonna talk about techniques that whether you've got a that you've just started with. Whether you've got a very expensive, high-end espresso machine, everything I talk about today should be applicable to what you do. Now, the goal of espresso puck prep is basically to get that so that when the water flows through it, it flows through as evenly as possible. That's it, that's the goal. We want it to flow through we want to control how much but those are kind of outside of the prep piece of this thing. Now, I come from the the cafe world, where there little puck prep in most They seem to dose the coffee, maybe distribute it, tamp it, brew it, and it's good. And we're gonna do a lot more than that because I think we can And again, our goals Cafes wanna make good espresso as quickly and easily We wanna make incredible espresso every time we make espresso. What I'm gonna do is go through each of the stages of puck prep and talk through some of and some of the techniques the impact that they have, and give you what is ultimately my opinion about how important they are. Is it worth doing? Now, as you'll see in front There's a lot of stuff and I'm aware that maybe of spending other people's money Please, please, please before you think about upgrading. You're definitely gonna have or a kind of desire Try and keep that in check until you're sure it's gonna To end this video, I'll share I'll make a kind of real-time espresso starting from the beans everything in between, because I don't do every single thing that when I make espresso. So first step is kind and I'm gonna recommend for many people, especially when they're starting and getting to know their grinder, weighing both the input and So you're gonna weigh your coffee beans, and then you're gonna weigh the grounds once they're in the portafilter as well. Not every grinder is a or a low retention grinder, that you're getting out So for me here, I'm gonna and I'm gonna grind it, in the portafilter to see how we've done. Now, this is maybe but it's kind of part I'm gonna use what's called You can either, I think the I would get a teaspoon wet, just run it under a tap More commonly now, you're and just spray a single spray If you're doing this once or twice a day, I think it's fine to If you're making a lot of espresso, you'll find that your weighing and you don't need to spray. If your manufacturer of your grinder recommends you don't do this, then maybe you just use the But for most grinders, a little spray of water on It reduces static and reduces retention, and that makes it a good thing. The last little thing into my portafilter, I'm gonna make sure my I like to use a little Nice and dry and clean. Dosing into a wet basket can sort of encourage water to flow where water's already been, and you get a kind of additional flow around the edges of the or so goes the theory. Anyway, to grind. (beans rattle) So on the scale, we've got That's kind of what we wanted, and so we can move into the next phase, which is ultimately the most and that is distribution. Things are gonna get a but first I'm gonna talk which is a dosing funnel. They look like this, and they sit on top of your portafilter. This one, I particularly so it sticks really nicely on there so it's just a little bit more reassuring, but it's not by any stretch essential. This is useful in the next phase with different kinds of distribution because it will prevent spillage and mess. Because if we take it off and we've got this mound of and around the edges, we've got some coffee sort of If I just compress this I will not have an even bed of coffee. The thinner parts of the bed will be much easier for and so more water will and that won't taste great. So what we need to do evenly around the basket. There's a number of ways to do that. Additionally, you'll see that where as part of the grinding process, the grounds have almost been and they will stay as clumps and there'll be a more compared to the pocket around them. Again, they promote uneven extraction. We wanna get rid of the clumps. So, as I said, there's kind of four And that brings us back to tools. This one here is my favorite. It's by a company called Sworkdesign It's a bit more expensive, I confess. You can make these yourself You can get a cork from a wine bottle and some acupuncture needles, and be on your way to or you can buy a kind of finished tool, or there's kind of option's in between. They don't have to be expensive, but I think they are a very good tool. You can get this style, which These for me, I don't really recommend, I don't particularly like I prefer a finer needle. In a kind of more commercial sense where you might wanna go a bit faster, you do have things like this. So this was a sort of cheap This sits on top of the portafilter, it has a spring inside, (tamper rings) and then you twist it to essentially rake the This particular one I don't recommend 'cause the needles don't go deep enough. The one I do recommend of this It's called DUOMO The Eight but its build is very nice. This sort of sits on top. You spin it and it does some distribution. It breaks up clumps. It comes on a little stand that cleans it, and if I was trying to do this in a cafe, this would make sense. At home, I'm just not you spend this much money. Back to the job in hand. What we're gonna do is and start deep, start right and essentially stir and move We're looking to make sure that the coffee's evenly Any clumps in the bottom then work up a little bit higher until you're just sort of and you should have afterwards a very nice, even looking bed of coffee. This for me is sort of prepped and ready to tamp and move on with. Now, I would recommend it. I like it, but there are other ways to distribute coffee before tamping, and so let's talk about the next one, which is wedge distributors. So in the world of wedge distributors, there's a few different styles. I think most people are familiar with the one from Ona that was known I think the Ona Coffee Distributor. There's also something which again works in And the idea is that this thing is gonna go and do kind of two jobs. As you move it around, it's gonna smooth the coffee around inside the basket to help distribute it. It's also in that process to the point that some people recommend just distributing and not tamping. So it goes in and you rotate and you smooth it around, and you end up with what looks very nice. It looks very even, it's quite satisfying, it You've done a good job, so to speak. One thing you can do is get something like this. This is a 58 millimeter glass jar. Yes, you do a reasonable job of kind of moving coffee around but I think with wedge distributors, they're just not really touching the stuff in the bottom half and so for me, I'm just I don't think they're necessarily but I just say, I just prefer and the style of espresso that I drink. The third style of distribution is one that has pretty but is very much how I learned, which is what I would or just using your hands. When I started in coffee, coffee grinder technology and grinders did not produce a fixed dose of coffee for Instead, you had to use your basket as a kind of volumetric fill. That meant you had to be very consistent in the way that you to make sure that you and why to this day I hate volumetric measurements in cooking. There were really two If you bought David Schomer's you'll have seen he kind of did a north, south, east, west distribution, where you kind of push the coffee around with a flat finger like so to try and get it to be all over the bed. If you were into espresso around the, I don't know, early 2000s, you'd have seen what was called the Stockfleth's distribution method that used the sort of and you would smooth it and then it looked, you know, okay. It's a really easy technique to mess up and be inconsistent with. The last one on the distribution front that I wanna talk about because I think a lot of people are curious if this is a good idea or not. In fact, you can buy a vibration This is the Nurri, and Your portafilter would sit in here, and then you run it and it would vibrate your bed of coffee. And in theory, you'd that would help sort of I'll show you how it works. (Nurri vibrates) It's kind of fun and you get It doesn't really break And the interesting thing about this, and I think this was tested using sort of ultrasonics as well, is that you seemingly get some down to the bottom of the basket. Flow with this is slower than with sort of needle distribution as a kind of comparison point, so it seems to be that you There's lots of fines that sort of sit at and that for me isn't a great thing, though it is a fun and interesting Now, one other piece of puck prep kit that I think is notable is also from Sworkdesign, They make the PorcuPress, which is really interesting. This is another collection of designed to sit on top of your prepped but not yet tamped bed. And then you're supposed to press it down, rotate it a little bit, press it down, rotate and press it down. And in doing so, you have produced an across the bed of coffee. Now, the idea is that you'll have kind of seeded pathways for water throughout the puck. It's interesting. It's another expensive tool. There is an impact from it. I think Sprometheus did a good video about this particular thing. I'll leave a link to that down below, but it is just an interesting thing to see people experimenting for what I think are incremental gains, but I'm never gonna be So next up is an interesting one, and I would say it's the thing that was the biggest surprise in testing. It was definitely something that kind of caught me despite the fact that I've for a good long while, and that is using a little bit of paper at the bottom of your espresso basket. Now this started I think originally with people concerned about the quantities of some of the lipids in There have been some papers linking consumption of to blood cholesterol and I'm not saying that's a thing and I don't really wanna but that's what started Now, a bit of paper will filter out any fine and that means you'll get no flecking, no tiger stripes on top It will filter out some some of the oils, and but noticeable impact on but it's actually not It does have another In testing, it caused to increase quite dramatically. Shots that we're pulling were suddenly pulling at 23 seconds. And in doing so, it also increased their The frustrating thing is to get a food safe bit of paper that fits the bottom of the basket. Some people have been They are not rated as kind of food safe. I don't think there's a huge risk there, but you should be aware of the risks of kind of non-food safe papers. Here I'm using a Pullman basket because it fits a So you can buy hole punches very easily on the internet. I'll leave a link down below, and then you can just like a Chemex filter paper a and they fit some baskets very well. Some people like to wet just to make sure that of the WDT or the needle I haven't seen any inconsistency or issues with the dry paper. Obviously you don't wanna get the sides of the basket too damp. You wanna keep those nice and dry, but yeah, the bottom can That's okay. (espresso machine buzzes) Now, as you can see, it has There's plenty of the if that's what you like. That's a tasty, clean, balanced espresso. I sort of hate the fact It's more work, it's more but I like what a paper filter at the bottom of an espresso to the extraction, to the whole process. I don't think it's essential, but I do think it's though I wish there was just an easier way to get filter papers for these things that fit espresso baskets because VST baskets are a different size. You'll see the Aeropress so it absolutely will And some people have been doing a kind of sandwich of these things, so one at the bottom though that has become less common with the advent of the which are puck screens. These are puck screens. These are sort of thick designed to sit exactly edge to edge inside your basket, and do a couple of things. Firstly, they should act as an additional water distribution aid. They should help the water spread more evenly over Secondly, the theory is that they prevent sort of excessive expansion of which helps create a more Do they work? Well, in testing, I think they do, yes. I saw an increase in It wasn't an enormous increase, but it was consistent and it was consistent which was good to know. They are, however, frustrating They're irritating and difficult to clean. Some people have resorted to Steaming them with some Cafiza isn't a bad option either, but they are a little bit of faff, and so whether they are in terms of the cost of buying one, the sort of pain of how obsessed you are with squeezing every last single drop out All of this leads us to the last stage of espresso puck prep, which is tamping. Now, obviously you'll tamp and if you're gonna do that, but I figured this was to talk about. If you wanna use a traditional tamper, then the ergonomics are important in terms of looking after your body. You wanna hold it kind of like a doorknob, thumb pointing down the whole tamper. And when you tamp, you wanna have your elbow as if you're about to that might be sticking You've got a screwdriver in your hand and you would get right over it so you could drive down Now here, you don't need to twist. You're just looking to press until the coffee stops feeling squishy. That's it, and you're out of the coffee as you can to make sure that the bed is even, there's no air pockets left behind. I like to rotate the tamper very slightly so that with my fingertips I If I'm not level, I'll feel Twisting, polishing, that kinda stuff, I learned to do it and no We've mostly stopped doing it. It feels nice. It feels a little bit flashy. It does nothing for your That's a traditional tamp. On the tamping front, there You can use a wedge distributor. You do have things like this, which is a very expensive Now, when it comes to tamping pressure, it's kind of a binary thing. You've either pushed hard enough to get rid of the air Pushing harder than hard enough makes no difference to extraction or flow rate or anything like that, so it's not a a complexity of or of puck prep, but something like this at a certain pressure. You'll hear a kind of click (tamper clicks) where you've crossed a and you've definitely pressed hard enough and it won't press any harder. Additionally, the sort of design of this means that it sits on and it should tamp These are expensive. They're very nice and they that some people worry about, and they sort of strip some So for some, it is a good For others, it doesn't really make a good return on their investment. If they're comfortable, in their manual tamping, then they may enjoy using And there a lot of I made a video about that once. Now I'm aware we've gotten to this point and we've covered a lot of ground. And in doing it this kind of way, I feel like I've thrown a which is why at the end of this thing, I kind of want to just go so you can see what it looks is this seemingly too much or actually, is it pretty simple and easy and probably worth the But before we do that, we do need to have a quick which is Surfshark. Surfshark is a VPN that is fast, easy to use, easy to install, and with one account, you can install it on unlimited devices. Now you might ask, why do you need a VPN? And I think there's a couple in the real world for using a VPN and having it be part of your life. Firstly, it lets you You wanna explore content in other countries, well, you can log in to one of their 3200 different servers, find something in the and unlock the content that you couldn't otherwise access. And secondly, a VPN and anonymity to your online browsing. It might be that you are in an online environment, or it might be that you just wanna get the best possible deals, and VPNs can help you georestricting prices or based on where you are. So for more information, click the link in the You can get 83% off and Go to surfshark.deal/jameshoffmann, click the link in the Thank you to Surfshark Now let's make some espresso. (beans tinkle) (bottle spritzes) (beans rattle) (beans clatter) (machine buzzes) (funnel magnet pings) (needle distributor stirs) (basket taps) (tamper clicks) (Cup and scales put in place) (machine buzzes) (espresso drips) (machine clicks) (spoon stirs) (spoon taps) (James slurps) One last thing before we close out: This t-shirt, that print over there, is the Coffee is an Act of Kindness design that we've had actually and we've just launched it now. All proceeds, all profits will go to four different charities all operating and helping with the crisis, with the war in Ukraine being, I think, grotesquely It's horrifying to see and so we wanna support it in some way, so these are now available. The t-shirts are limited run. The poster will be around If you like it, click the link down the description below. But now I wanna turn the Tell me about your puck prep. Tell me what you've changed recently. What has made a big impact to the espresso that you drink every day? Does this all seem too a sign of obsession? Let me know down in the comments below, but for now, I'll say thank and I hope you have a great day.