Last week on The Next Layer: X1-Carbon, but finds that there All right, where were we? Oh, that's right. It takes forever to get going. Okay, great. So a week has passed since the last video. The filament is on a plastic spool. It's loaded up. We press print on this, beautiful A lot. This is another one that came as a Stefan at CNC Kitchen talk about it This thing takes a long time Stefan say that, I thought he I mean, I'm no stranger to danger when I mean, my Voron 2.4 up there has a and that's pretty big, and it can take but this thing literally takes seven to Ten minutes. That's insane. I guess I don't criticize them for does start printing, the first layer And yeah, Bambu Lab listened to user the start of every print to opt out of And in all fairness and honesty, I guess print to start knowing that it will work have to monitor the print for the first percentage of my prints fail on the first It's just seven to ten minutes. It's smart. Like really smart. Okay, okay, I know we're already into this haven't even gotten this thing printing. Now you know how that startup sequence get this thing printing, I immediately I just had to share with all of you. It was the kind of experience that dealing with a higher and significant you look into an animal's eyes and Here's what happened. As you know, the Bambu Lab printers that they generate a lot of force. They do, after all, have 20 meter force equals mass times acceleration. As you may also know, I work in a least until my Patreon hopefully gains move out of here, and that means that Now, after setting up the Bambu Lab how much it was shaking the table. And so in the middle of the print, and propped it under the table Within seconds, a notification popped the Y axis, the very axis that I had had change resonance frequency and that I should calibrate it at What? This thing is so smart, it literally is frequencies for all of its axes, I Dude. And this is just a small taste of If you use Bambu brand filament, it rollers in the AMS, it knows which if it's installed correctly, and it the one that you said in the slicer. I'm pretty sure it knows The point is this printer is a far and it uses all the information it and make your printing experience And aside from all the hype about fast experience, the ability to print all kinds relative to other machines of its class that is one of the lesser known sleeper difference in the user experience. The filter isn't what you think. Now, one little thing that did that the carbon filter in there Bambu is pushing the The printer capable of printing anything And so when you read that, one of the X1 is the activated carbon filter, which organic compounds, you tend to assume that But what I discovered, which you really on their website and checked under that this isn't for filtering the air filtering the exhaust from the printer. And I mean, that's fine as long But in the default profiles for things as I said before is really clever about to use the right build surface, does In fact, even if you dig into the sorts of cooling settings, there's In fact, the only way that I've found manually while the printer is printing the screen or manually in the software, that are printing internal third party without actually venting it out. Now honestly, I really don't like it goes against the entire ethos of with their rigorously tested, And I definitely don't think that stuff into the printer with warnings Fortunately, this is one thing that Bambu And one more idea, an area where I promise I'm going to get to in Because you see, Bambu slicer is really printers and a handful of other ones which they know the exact specs of. And that means that if they want to, into the profiles for things like ABS. They could, for example, set it up another material with a lot of VOCs, minute filtration stage to the end remind you in bright red not to open the VOCs through the carbon filter. Or given that Bambu Lab only offers this do a bunch of tests in-house to determine chamber fan is able to operate without Though, I guess, of course it's gonna But then they could simply put those Now, I'm sure Bambu will improve why they send review units out to But for us end users out there, just to actually use the carbon filter, you in the software or on the touchscreen. Which brings us to my final and It's a walled garden. Look, I get it. Bambu Lab has created what I honestly You've heard this from every other This thing is light years ahead of the like Apple, would argue that this complete ecosystem from soup to nuts. They make the printer, they make switcher, they make the software, replacement parts, at least for now. And just like Apple, with Apple Silicon significantly better performance because to work in perfect harmony without needing for many different models or edge cases like user upgrades or tons of like something like Android. Now, I fully appreciate that, but it also a hundred percent dependent on them for at the expense of repairability, as many So if for example, you want to use or Cura, or you want to use different your prints and doing time lapses and And don't expect to see any CHT or any of that stuff come out In fact, even the build plates have so companies like Wham Bam have but it has limited the amount of printer despite how popular it is. But it doesn't necessarily I mean, Bambu Lab could still their product and ecosystem, but open certain parts of it up to how Apple has the Made For iPhone of course the App store for software. Personally, I'd love to see CHT build plates on the hardware side. I'd love to see my favorite filament awesome RFID chips that are Bambu on the filament side, and I'd be thrilled approved third party plugins, like Exclude And yet, at the end of the day, this I mean, this would be a They would get to maintain the top that gives them this tremendous edge, and they would also benefit from After all, it does seem to be working valuable technology company and smartphone manufacturer in the world. Apple's products from iPad to highest consumer satisfaction in And I mean, I love Apple products, iPhone, Apple TV, and just about Personally, I've been living happily in So unless and until Bambu Lab opens up for third parties to play ball, I How much do you really care about things hardware, and user customizability product's performance and quality? Which is really the same question Oh, hey. Editing Jonathan here. So last week I said that the thing was the cool plate and needing to use was no textured surface provided. Well, fortunately, the good folks at that they had already developed a PEX which works with the LiDAR, works with upgrade that people are raving about. So Wham Bam was kind enough to sponsor about their awesome build plate system line of flexible PEX build plates for Wham Bam is unique in that they have is designed to work with every single layer adhesion without any need for a well to PETG, so you will need glue People rave about Wham Bam's products. I'm really excited to be using Wham Bam for helping me invest in a future studio so that I can make Check them out in the link and thanks again to Wham Bam. All right, let's get back into the video. So what's my conclusion? For me personally, I'll definitely a lot more in the future. I really love this printer, and tweaks, it's only going to get better. Plus, as I noted in last week's responsive about actually doing so I'm optimistic that those are And while I'm definitely not letting feel that the X1C has replaced my Prusa So let me know in the comments below between any of the printers that I have such as the Voron or the Sovol me, have pretty much just decided By the way, I want to take a quick new and old, who among other perks, like a weekly newsletter of my top 3d prints, and early ad-free viewing of my this video and last week's video all managed to keep it a secret. So thanks to all of you for your in the bag so this video would Thanks as always to all of you for subscribing, and all of that because I'll see you in the next