[music playing] [chattering] What progress have Votruba, in recruiting your You know the Fuhrer Yes, but it's Our peasants and workers sympathetic to the Russians. Perhaps production would were allowed since their food allowance resulting in exhaustion. You led me to believe be underpaid as workers, but they are highly overpaid. Give them higher wages, you of this underground propaganda? They distribute this in the Skoda plants. Every department [speaking german] [speaking german] His excellency, wishes to say that the reports The stinking swine at [speaking german] What did he say? He said shooting only 50 He demands at least 500 lives. He says 50 mean nothing at all. [shouting in german] [speaking german] If I may, your excellence. I feel like it is any better [speaking german] [chattering] For those gentlemen who failed last remarks, the entire Czech transferred to my authority. Under the Gestapo, himself will the necessary executions Skoda! Mrs. Dvorak. Good morning, Miss Novotny. Good morning. I hope I can have two I'm sorry, Miss Novotny, The turnips are nice. Well, I guess it'll And a nice head of cabbage. GESTAPO OFFICER: Why Just waiting for my fare. You know that there is Yeah, but my It won't start up again. Stop the motor. Stop the motor! Now, start it up again. Ah ha. I-- I guess it must So you carry on this to use up our fuel supply. I don't know. I can't understand it. I had to crank it this morning. Drive to the police precinct. -Yeah, but it never charged up-- Forwards! Vanya's arrested. Get going. Quick. Pardon me, miss. Did you see a taxi cab waiting? Yes, a few minutes ago, but with the occupational police. They drove off with him. Thank you. [whistle blowing] [speaking german] Hey miss. A man running out from that Yes. [whistle blowing] In which direction did he run? [speaking german] You'd better go home now. I'll put it on the book. Thank you, Mrs. Dvorak. Identification cards. One please. [music playing] [whispering] Heydrich. Heydrich. The Hangman's been shot. Heydrich was shot. [all whispering] [applause] Stop! Stop the film! Lights on. Stop the film. Who started this applause? Who started it? Answer me. No one here applauded. I demand, who The unknown soldier. GESTAPO OFFICER: Get out No one permitted to leave! You stay here! No one's permitted to Mister? What? Just a minute, now. What's the hurry? Bohemian Herald. New rate decree. Read all about it! Bohemian Herald. New rate decree. Who cares? We got the Hangman. GESTAPO OFFICER: Loitering forbidden. Close all doors and windows. No loitering. State of emergency. [doorbell ringing] No, no. -But I am to stay here. You can't. But why? Because of the taxi I don't know. Orders. But I can't go home. Someone may have recognized me. Go to a hotel. But they'll check Where shall I go? I can't take you. I always dreamed of the most beautiful trousseau. But with these Germans, all the But Mother. I can't imagine And it was yours. All it needs is a Cutting down. Now, look Aunt Milly, months ago and every day since. Now there's only two weeks. STEPHEN: Hello girls. MASCHA: Hello father. Hello Stephen. Milly. Nothing wrong, No, no. Nothing wrong. Someone shot Heydrich. Shot Heydrich. Where? At noon on Kladno Avenue, must call Ludendorf Strasse. It's all in the paper there. MASCHA: Father. Yes? I think I must have seen Close the door. I'm sure I saw him. You haven't seen anyone. But I'm certain I have. You haven't seen anyone. Father, you don't Oh, no, monkey, hardly. I'm completely disconnected It's simply that in such Example. You tell it to A. A entrusts C reposes the secret from D. to F, F whispers it to G. Yes, I understand. But to you, father. No. Come here. Here, look. Here. Look. Definition of no one. Not any. Not one. Not a single one. None. Not me, not your mother, not even your fiance Jan. No one is no one! Look, I've had that old Sometimes it works. Sometimes it don't. It's full of quirks. Tags have some quirks too. According to the Gestapo, they last October. Is that the late paper? Yup. Can I look at it? Yup. Your cab was the getaway car! I don't know nothing about it. You will talk to the Gestapo. [glass breaking] Attention. By order of the all restaurants, cafes, to close immediately. Curfew, 7 o'clock sharp. After this hour, any will be shot on sight. He must have gotten There are no borders anymore. The trains are all stopped. Frontier's closed. Listen, if he only got out CUSTOMER: Looks like CUSTOMER: You bet. [chuckles]. Excuse me. We have to close now. Thank you, sir. There must be some other What'll be the result? More terror and more bloodshed. It'll be like the student But Jan, those 120 to tell all the world that we'll always be Czechs. Yes, I agree on that. At least. Shush, Boda. Say, what's the specific future brother-in-law? I haven't the faintest idea. You've got me there, Boda. But you're a chemist. You ought to know it by heart. Oh yeah? Yeah. Yeah, let me see now, uh. Specific, uh-- ah. As a chemist, I only have You have to know it by Jan, you have to hurry if you Boda, run into the Auntie to wrap up something With all the restaurants closed Oh, well, thank you I'll say goodnight, then. Goodnight, Jan. Goodnight. Come. Tomorrow? Tomorrow, tomorrow, Goodnight, darling. Goodnight. [doorbell ringing] I got your name from the LUDMILLA: Mascha, There's nowhere else I can go. LUDMILLA: Mascha? Yes, Auntie. N-- no, no. No, there's no one. You helped me once Yes, but-- LUDMILLA: Mascha! Coming, Auntie. Come in. Quick. In here. Put your book away, Boda. It's almost dinnertime. BODA: Yes, Mother. Uh. Hello. What beautiful roses. Oh, Mascha. Ar-- aren't you going Yes, of course. Mister, uh-- Karel Vanek. HELLIE: Won't you please Uh, come. Uh, Stephen. I-- Father. I want you to meet Your daughter and I met-- At the symphony. My father, Professor Novotny. How do you do? How do you do? I had the honor of being at intermission. I have the score of HELLIE: Oh, are you a KAREL VANEK: No, I, uh, happen to I almost went along with only at the last minute Oh, that's too bad. But then, again, I wouldn't have your daughter home. Oh. Then you live in this No. No, I just happened to Thought I'd drop by Young man, do you realize that I have 6:30. The correct time is 7:15. Your watch must be And tonight, that Yes, I suppose I'd If you're on the they shoot you on sight. My brother. Dinner's ready, Hellie. Oh, you mustn't Uh, Milly, set Yes. Luckily, Mr. Vanek, we prepared You will join us at Well, hardly know what to say. Don't say anything, Mr. Vanek. It's quite unnecessary, Don't be deceived by Turnips again. And cabbage. My husband likes me just to retain the memory Ha. Let me correct you, Hellie. Not in memory of the good old That is a meat platter. It contains cabbage. It should contain meat. That's why I insist that it I agree with you, What do you think of It was completely Rather inevitable, don't Yes. We're all very glad [doorbell ringing] Excuse me. I'll-- I'll see who it is. It was Mrs. Sasha. Our janitoress. All males over the age of 13 before tomorrow night. Anyone without a police That lets you out, Boda. Apparently, they don't think All right. Let them think that. There may be some Possibly. Boda, you can take a and turn on the radio. Yes, sir. Thanks. [music playing] Boda, you haven't Uh, I prefer bread. Be careful. That's an ersatz. It mustn't be-- Ouch! Oh, I knew it. [interposing voices] Oh, poor Boda. I warned you about that. Let go. Ouch! Fight on, my merry men, all. I'm a little wounded, It's nothing. I'm all right. I'll be all right, Mother. It's deep. May I see it, Boda? Come out in the kitchen It's all right, Auntie. I don't think it'll need Do you have a bit of bandage, a MASCHA: It's bleeding so. I think we can stop that. Boda. Can you hold that please? Twist it. RADIO ANNOUNCER: We to give you the latest order Any person aiding the or providing him with All relatives of are subject to the The population is any information leading Anyone withholding must reckon with the blood debt upon the entire Czech nation. Those geniuses can intimidate these mule-headed Dopes. They'll need something to surrender their something to make them jump. Czaka! Uh, what? RITTER: Are you I-- I-- I beg your pardon? What are you doing there? Nothing. File C. Yes, that's right. Czaka is spelt with a C. [chuckles] Curious, aren't you? Curious in what the file on the Well, I'll tell you. His beer is good. Toast. But he himself rather stinks. [speaking german] Don't talk German to me. We're going to police your I've got to learn your crazy Here's the first Mhm. Hm. Editor. Railway worker. [mumbling] Clergyman. That's good. Priests are always good. They do us more harm offending in every sermon. Listen. I have a good suggestion. Nykvar, the poet. Nykvar? What for? He is not political. Writes only folk ballads, But Herr Gruber, if to Germanize the protectorate, begin-- with the children. You're an extraordinary [chuckles] [clock chimes] I'm sorry. Professor, do you think I if there's an available I might stay over? I happen to know There is an available that I personally can assure It's already being made up. You're welcome to it. That's very kind of you, but-- There's hardly any alternative, I hope those chimes The Wenceslas hymn? I should be used to it. I hear it every morning. Funny times. A man meets my daughter at The next week, he moves in. You think the What of Jan? I can't see why the neighbors Well, the janitoress knows. She does? Yes. Who told her? We have our breakfast Since it is forbidden to lecture some of my former students come Goodnight, monkey. Professor, I must You'll have to excuse me. It's rather late, and can't quite keep men, as much as he'd like to. Goodnight, Mr. Vanek. I hope you rest well. Goodnight monkey. Goodnight Father. You don't need to He knows. You told him? I tried to tell him, Father's an old revolutionary. He was an exile with [radio static] RADIO ANNOUNCER: The Czech government reports that the daring Heydrich is expected by a nationwide bloodbath, the Nazi barbarians can be. --who sent our she must have bought many times before. Maybe, but I don't know. The name. Pick it up again. There. Put it back in place. Good. You say you never learned No. Here's the coffee, Herr RItter. Thank you. Real coffee. Now, Mrs. Dvorak, let's Now, don't be I'm prepared to devote Even longer, if necessary. Well? That's the girl. I want you to listen to me Do you realize where you are? Yes. And exactly where are you? Gestapo. And you actually believe without telling us the truth? Now, this girl who sent she must have bought many times before, hm? RADIO ANNOUNCER: Last night, the performed an extremely on the spinal cord the Reich Protector, removing Hm. Anything? No. Nothing yet. Here. Several people It is reliably reported have a definite clue that will The taxi driver. No, no. But who else? I don't know. I must leave at once. RADIO ANNOUNCER: There will Wait. RADIO ANNOUNCER: --from Taking personal charge, Chief of has ordered instant the insufficient collaboration Most severe measures They know nothing. If they did, they Miss Novotny-- [doorbell ringing] [heavy banging] Open up! Open up! [speaking german] Who are you? What's your name? Karel Vanek. Live in this house? Who are you? I am Professor Novotny. Whom are you looking for? For you. No! Quiet. No interference. On what grounds? For the loathsome, committed against the And what appears GESTAPO OFFICER: If I understand and for the benefit of my the loathsome, abominable against his excellency, the correctly, the behavior of my countrymen, wholeheartedly with compels you to hold me hostage? Together with numerous others, has surrendered? And our lives becoming I believe that is correct? Correct. Father, no. They can't. Oh, yes, they can. They can arrest me. They can arrest 100 more. Indeed, they can as they have on their lists. But I don't believe they'll find Nor in all the Czech nation. Who are you and these others? Some of my former students. I give them private tutoring. Or is that forbidden too? Keep your mouth shut, or Make yourself ready. How can you take my he knows nothing about? No interruptions. Ludmilla? Yes? Will you get some of my for the night? Yes. No razors permitted. I trust you will all Don't let yourselves be Father. Good luck. Thank you. Now, please go. All of you. Stephen, I'm frightened. I know. I know. [whimpering] Monkey. Thank you, sister. Goodbye, son. Remember all this well. I will. I'm ready. [sobbing] Vystyd, priest. Votruba, general. Pravotka, Jew. Necval, writer. Schyler, clerk. Matouseck, worker. Attention! Which of you here the oldest? All those over 50, You. Your name. Professor Stephen Novotny. Stand at attention Novotny. You take charge of this barrack. You'll be solely responsible of all camp regulations. Strict cleanliness No spittle or All shoelaces, and belts must be turned office in one hour. Understood? Don't shake your head. Speak! Father should have He'll be damp and He must give himself If I knew who he was, I'd Anyone in Prague should. Now, Milly, it's no longer Why not? Whoever helped him after last night's broadcast. Why, it would be like signing and that of his own family. Anyone who knows and helps him Mascha. Jan, look after Mascha. Mascha, is there There's only one hope-- Yes, I'm afraid so. Oh, darling, I'm I have to get back to the lab. Yes. Funny. When I left you last night, upstairs with some red roses. Oh. Oh, yes. The florist sent She's one of his old customers. [doorbell ringing] Oh. I'll see who it is. Boda. They closed up the They said on but I heard they're using from the Russian battles. How about Father? Nothing yet. Mascha, if you hear anything, I will, and goodbye darling. Goodbye. Goodbye now. Oh, Boda. Your bandage is all filthy. It isn't filthy. It's just a little tangled. I'll fix it. Come with me. You oughta take He's an expert at bandaging. [church bells chiming] You're next, Mr. Dedic. Good afternoon, Doctor. SVOBODA: Good afternoon. The case history, Doctor. How's everything going? Yesterday, I was but today it feels pretty good. -Here are the bandages, Doctor. That's all. I took two sedatives. Look at that. Naturally, anyone who'd been Yesterday, when it looked really serious, and I understood. Well, you did a Now they let loose Yes. They've already seized We anticipated hostages. Yes. Yes, we did, didn't we? Last night I spent with Novotny, the historian. No, no previous acquaintance. His daughter helped me. She directed the This morning-- Dedic, I've Svoboda. No, I'm not trying to or become a heroic martyr. 400 lives. 400. Dedic, I'm only one-- only one. Have you thought of the Germans are driven out? You'll be needed, Svoboda. You've no right to surrender. Don't worry. They won't torture any All they will get is my dead and the evidence. The bullets they'll remove from The gun will be absolute proof. No, the underground But it has, Svoboda. Listen. You are a physician. If a man showing your symptoms couldn't you diagnosis his hysteria caused by exhaustion? Would you advise a patient an irrevocable decision? You would not. Svoboda, you were chosen of the Czech people. The Czech people have 400 lives, yes, Svoboda. What is 400 lives? This is a war of millions. And this execution of Heydrich but a most important one. And if you surrender the Czech people will Every Czech will say to The Nazi terror is Svoboda, three years We stood on the streets who watched it surrender. And so we built a new one-- them til their blood runs cold. Now, you'll have this And what about I take it you were They know nothing of me. I used the name of Vanek. Told them I was an architect. I'm sure you left no clues no possible connecting link. None. I'm sure. Dedic, what about He jumped out of the They'll get nothing from him. I never met the man. I wish I had. You better let You have a foolproof alibi, but they'd shoot it apart. Just a moment. You forgot your prescription. [buzzer] Miss Novotny. Dr. Svoboda, may I Nurse. Please. What are you going to do? How did you happen to find me? That's not important. It was Boda, your bandage, you must be a physician. You said you hear the So when I noticed this hospital I-- but-- what are Nothing. Nothing? Last night you spoke it was your life in danger. Now you think you're safe. Now it's nothing? Nothing to be done? Dr. Svoboda, you're the only What are you going to do? I cannot surrender if that's what you mean. But they'll kill Let me explain. All right, explain. Explain why you let you be taken away to his death But don't think I'll keep I won't let you kill my father. I tell you, I won't. Miss Novotny, consider do your father, for whom I if you denounced me? You would involve You were counting You think you have us because we helped you. This is not a It's a simple statement of fact, You have it all nicely If I tell them, then all If I keep silent, only In other words, your is we are lost in any case to save your life. You're just a You're no better than Even the Gestapo couldn't [door slams] Petschek Bank. Gestapo headquartesr? Yes, quickly. Yes, ma'am. Hurry, please. Driver! Driver! Driver! Driver, can't you hear me? You're going the wrong way. Stop! Who are you? Miss Novotny, you must You know what Stop, driver, stop! I've no time now to on political principles, any idea what's going on here? This is war, and you're in it. Who are you? Don't be frightened. We're not taking you anywhere. We just want to explain to you-- [glass breaking] Help! Let me out! Whoa! What's going on here? This driver took I told him that he-- Where do you want to go, Miss. To the Gestapo. Gestapo? But he drove the other way and-- Strange man? Where is he? Well, I don't know what she's I didn't hear the lady at all. I'm a little hard of hearing. I'm getting pushed All right. You're blocking traffic. Better keep moving. [laughter] Why did you want to Did they send for you? Come on, baby. Tell us. Come on, out with it. No. They-- Well, if they what business have you What should a decent Czech girl Who are you squealing on, you What did he do to you, huh? Yeah! [laughter] Ah! [whistle blowing] [shouting] No, don't let them! You needn't be afraid, miss. You wanted to be Yes. Have you received you wish to make a statement? I haven't received any summons. All right, miss. You'll be taken to the Mascha Novotny for Here's your pass, Miss Novotny. Heil, Hitler. Miss Novotny, it'll Oh. Then perhaps I might My cheek is bleeding again. Right across the corridor. First door to the left. Your pass, miss. Over there. Your pass. You have been to Herr Yes. And you already have Yes. That's strange. That pass should be There must have We don't make mistakes here! My father had nothing to do He was doing research You can easily get proof. And this is the statement Yes. Uh-huh. But I understood only you wanted to leave us the benefit of this [chuckles] We are very grateful Just wait a minute. First, she tried to break Now she wants us to to have her father released. Bunk. What does she look like? Young, quite attractive. Brown eyes. About 22, I would say. Green hat? 5 feet, 4? Yes. Hm. I am sorry to keep you It's too bad for us, you see. Before you explained I honestly hoped of the one million mark reward. Can you appreciate [buzzer] Come here, Mrs. Dvorak. Come, come, come, come. Wait over here. Is this the girl who sent So you don't know her at all? Yes, I know her. She is Miss Novotny. Didn't Miss Novotny around noon yesterday? No. You know what will Yes. [german] Marvelous Stubborn to the end, to the Get me Inspector Gruber. I'm glad you were not involved Hello? No, Gruber. Don't question her anymore. Make her feel safe. She's our only good lead so far. Tell her you will let her go. But hold her here, up the record or something-- [clock chiming] [shouting german] Barrack leader Form two straight lines. Go on, stand up, all of you. Go on. Stand. Faster. On your feet. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. What's your name? Vasily. Vasily. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-- What? GESTAPO OFFICER: 8, 9, 10. What does he mean? GESTAPO OFFICER: Santroch. GESTAPO OFFICER: 1-- No, Herr Inspector. [german] Here is your report. We record your statement and Sign it. Very good. 5:30. In exactly 30 minutes, the first Sign all four copies By not among the 40, this morning. You are free to leave Ah, Heil, Hitler. Mascha, I didn't lose they found out about your before last. Aunt Milly. Oh, don't worry. I stopped all chance of gossip. Nipped it in the bud. I told them it was your Jan. Jan. Jan, darling, I I must talk to you too. Where have you been? We better go inside. I'll tell you where I've been. I've been at the Gestapo What did they ask They wanted to know And? I told them I was Of course. Mascha, what's this all about? Who is this man? What did they ask about him? An Inspector Gruber He wanted to know if I knew him. How did he happen to He dropped in just What, to see your father? Was it something political? No. No, nothing political. He-- he came to see me. You? You see, we met at and yesterday, he-- he dropped And stayed for the night. It was curfew hour. He had to stay over. Charming coincidence. He was the man who brought Yes. No, the florist sent That was a lie too. Jan. You don't think I-- I had Mascha, I always thought that be above board-- open, clean. Darling, you know I love you. Please try to Mascha, why don't you tell me? Don't ask me why. If you love me, Jan, You're all I have to believe in. You know that. Don't let me down. Jan, I'll never forget Miss Novotny. Gestapo. You're under arrest. We checked your In all of Prague, no You're lying. Where did you say At Symphony Hall. You said you met him No, he had the And he told you Yes, Vanek. Karel Vanek. What's his real name? I don't know. What illegal organizations None at all, not This Karel Vanek, isn't former colleagues your fellow teacher? Professor Novotny never Where does this man live? How should I know? He didn't tell me. Is it usual for your strange gentlemen at night? No. How many times did he sleep Only that night, and Why did he come that I don't know. Answer properly. You know we have means Maybe you have heard What was his exact A formal call. To pay his respects And why did your it was your daughter's fiancee? Because I was would gossip about a stranger. What was this Mr. Vanek. You're lying. I'm not lying. No? We'll soon find out. Do you know where your sister She's where everybody ends up Mrs. Dvorak. The whole family sticks but I don't believe that This letter arrived at the go by special messenger from a Mr. Karel Vanek. Vanek? Interesting. But this is ridiculous. You told me the Interesting. He doesn't exist, You're not going been through all this trouble Looks that way. Well, what do you That we leave the girl. GESTAPO OFFICER: What? What else can we do? Are we supposed to interfere [knock on door] Miss Mascha. I had to come and offer all and you for your I haven't been able to get that Ever since yesterday been in the depths of despair I came to offer my help. Help? You're talking of help, the we've been through? You spent the night with your We spent it with the Gestapo. My whole family is still there. You're the one You killed-- any-- any feelings To think that all we've been spent a night here, Mr. Vanek. Mascha. I can't tell you how sorry that my thoughtlessness Whatever you think of Tell me the truth. All right, Mascha, I will. I gave you a false name. My name is not Karel Vanek I am Dr. Franticek at St. Pantcrazio Hospital. MASCHA (ON RADIO): Why didn't SVOBODA: Maybe we'd better Out here, we might be overheard. Mascha, I must I-- I love you. I did take advantage to stay here seems that my silly little and I've fallen head over That's my only excuse for all I think I understand you And you do forgive me? MASCHA (ON RADIO): I really After all, I-- That's useless. Shut it down. Well, this puts us right There's something Why can't admit You've wasted your time Release the family and start comes down on our necks. They are lovers. I remember exactly because heard his excellency were shot. And you're sure of the time? I have the operation Dr. Svoboda assisted me while I During the operation, he pump apparatus as usual. Dr. Kesselbach, also function as official number 34. [german] And Dr. Svoboda was there that Yes, for fully two hours. He stood only a few You understand, Herr Inspector, require continuous control-- I understand, Dr. Kesselbach. Thank you. That's all I wanted to know. Thank you, professor. Heil, Hitler. Heil, Hitler. [chuckling] Frankly, I dislike by our most distinguished poet. You know, Mr. wanted to meet you personally. And now at last-- I always hoped to meet and now at last-- Excuse me, Mr. Necval, I-- I Yes? I happened to scribble a few lines for a song, maybe. And I thought you being if you had the time, it over and fix it up a bit. My friend, I have all here, until these who'eses-- Here, you-- you Fellow patriots, Fellow patriots, Raise the invisible Keep it burning. Keep it burning forward on Die if you must for but shout to the Ever onward, no returning, will be learning that till the last battle's done. Carry on when we are gone. No surrender! Of course you could No, my friend. Let's have it just as it stands. How does it go, again? Fellow patriots-- The time has come. Fellow patriots, there Raise the invisible Keep it burning. Keep it burning forward on Die if you must for but shout to the RADIO ANNOUNCER: And so is the murder of hostages. Ours is the slowing down By the end of the week, must be lowered a full 25%. I work in the office of now making parts A few days ago, a to stop immediately manufacture parts because of new model making for the Russian fronts. Luckily, I saw the else saw it, so I tore it up Well, what will happen? Well, we'll go on making but when we send they won't fit the new tanks. [laughter] [banging gavel] Emil? I think you all know for this group in the has been too great for me. And yet I-- I tremble before so many innocent victims. 850 hostages have More than 250 are already dead. The very flower of faces systematic annihilation. Scientists, leaders of even priests of God. And so I ask, can our nation afford the loss I say to myself again whoever he is who executed the a hero. But still, I can't help myself. I-- I keep thinking, if this if he would say, here I am, but spare the innocent, better for our beloved country? So I ask our group here, to move to submit my proposal at Already, people are saying that hundreds of lives for one. Emil, where did you hear All over Prague. I've even heard people this new wave of German terror. Not where I work, and Right. I have listened to many wives and mothers of hostages. Not one of them spoke a I'm absolutely I must ask to be excused My older brother was one of the All those in favor, And now the nays? I think the nays have it. We have to adjourn now. It's getting near curfew. Leave one by one at [whispering] Dr. Pillar, does anyone in your except your first name? Only the leader, Bartos. Well, anyway, you better not You're the only one in the Heydrich affair. Anyone who took part should have severed Oh, I understand. [knocking] Bartos, I just not to attend any until further notice. Dr. Pillar, use I think, Bartos, to be dissolved immediately. I know exactly what you're Do you know this man well? Certainly. He's been with us two years, How does he function He uses beer wagons to He's the big brewer, Do you remember, Bartos, in Pilsen, when that to the Gestapo, 12 executed? The Pilsen raid. Yes, I know. Czaka was suspected was established that the And a very thorough doesn't speak a bit of German. You think I put In all probability, you talked But you suggested it. I suggested you feel out the I didn't suggest you climb out Hm. Take some cheese. It's good. Oh, no, I-- I've Maybe-- maybe it'd be Sorry, sir. Once you work for Gestapo, Then I insist that you I will not do You'll do everything, But Herr Gruber, how can I've done so much for you all And why did you do Because as a-- as a I realize our entire on unconditional collaboration And I thought you did Tsk, tsk, tsk. For certain favors, for certain contracts. Oh, may I? Nice gold lighter. You like it? You wouldn't think of bribing Czaka, Czaka, Czaka. Suppose I pay you Oh, just like life insurance. Yeah. How much of a premium would How much do you want? 2000 marks. 2000 marks per week? Per day. 2000 marks per day? Only a few days til we Then you just drop Say, five days, 10,000 marks. Suppose it lasts a month. So what? Another 50,000 marks. Why, Czaka, you are Just another drop in the barrel. [inaudible] Make that check payable to the Police Fund. That's it, Czaka. I am the treasurer. I know. [phone ringing] Yes? Your father will be executed You will be allowed to see In half an hour, him and take you to the camp. You have 10 minutes, no more. [sobbing] Monkey. Yesterday, I was questioned who visited us. We too, but everything He came back to apologize we might need. That's good. How is mother and Ludmilla? And Boda, how is he? Mother tried to see you. I was permitted to I think the censor It was only personal. I-- I also started a I was sure it would not pass. I'll tell it to you, Mascha, What I now want to is meant for when The now mighty been thrown out of our Quite some time. I hope you will be where the people are truly and for themselves. Those will be Those will be In a land where all the men enough good food to read and to think, to another for their own good. When such great forget that freedom one possesses like a The real thing is And you might remember have been your also died in this great fight. Because I also died [motor rumbling] Time is up, Novotny. [shouting in german] You still have his Who was the man you you sent our men the wrong way? I tell you, I sat on that And Czaka was entirely cleared Because the traitor spoke Yes. Yes, when he came to Prague he paid with a check in Berlin, according to a Maybe Czaka does Listen. I've got an idea. Might work now after I don't know, but we can try. What? We can use Rudy for this. Hello Boda. Father was shot this morning. Shot? But I-- Mascha. Jan. Will you come with me, please? I'm going to the camp But Mascha, here's who were executed this morning. Your father's name See here? Here, under the N's. Only four. Navitol, Napitol, But I saw him on the Yes, Miss Novotny. Oh, your father. No. That list is correct. No, just a little mistake. You were right, Jan. Mother! Mother! They play with human beings I don't care. I don't care. As long as he's alive. [phone ringing] Yes? Bartos just called me a sort of informal meeting. What shall I do? Go. What? Listen. I'll arrest him when What about those two? You still only know CYAKA (ON PHONE): What? But they will kill me! All right. You will have your police car. Where do you want Back room. Cafe Kramer. [laughter] Mr. Emil. -Well, Emil. Hello Emil. I want you to meet my uncle, You're having lunch with us? Yes. But I only have time before I catch my I'm passing through. I thought I'd say Well, my pleasure, sir. Uh, won't be seated? Uncle. Matushka. Emil. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't recommend the goulash. But the parica liver, And speaking of food, I heard the most wonderful You understand German? Yeah, yeah. You'll excuse me. I can only tell it in German, Well, I know a little That is, if you Oh, miss. Oh, sure. You'll translate it [laughter] Now. Goebbels comes to Hitler. Adolf, [speaking german] [laughter] I-- I happened to remember Hitler says to-- to uh, I forget how it goes. Yesterday, you showed for the teaching of when you tried to convince the man who shot Heydrich. No! So you don't understand I-- I don't. I swear! [groaning] Take him back. Keep him quiet. [shouting in german] Take it outside. Through the window. [shouting in german] Go ahead! We'll cover you. [gunshots] [speaking german] Friends, I am Jan of the Prague Evening News. And I have been requested At 5 o'clock, we given the opportunity to for a full hours broadcast. Each barrack will be represented will speak on the necessity of the assassin. Volunteer speakers must Attention! It's clear as daylight. They're trying to to get the assassin for them. I say let the Czech our lives or the assassin. I hope there will be no Well, what else is there to do? It's not only a question still alive, but after There'll be another There'll be no end until There'll be no end anyway. And they never They slaughtered thousands Just for breathing Czech air. Has it ever occurred that our heroic assassin is while he goes scot free? He and his underground pals. I don't intend to waste What we want is the Aldrich Krapke, engineer, huh? Yes. As an educated intelligent enough to visualize ahead of you. You understand, Aldrich, when he's merely being polite. What's he doing here? He belongs here. Gestapo informer. I don't get it. You'll get it soon enough. Right through your head Well, you're a stinking You shut your filthy You saboteur! Stop it! You don't have to prove to us Katerina Honiga, You sabotaged your Perhaps you're also clever to our vault downstairs. Perhaps you'd prefer to No, I can tell you right here Yes, you better not let her or she'll scratch your eyes you fascist blood hound. Big talk. 10 minutes down below and Your mothers were slimy rats! Their milk was sewer water! Take them to the Tell them I want to Tell them that! Down there. Are these all the Commandant, failed to produce Herr Commandant, in our they also tried to prevent us-- Quiet. We'll be ready to begin your Yes, sir. I just have another idea That's not necessary. Here are your speeches. HOSTAGE (ON RADIO): to loyal collaboration. And our very first step must Just plain common sense. I was always HOSTAGE (ON RADIO): would hesitate to die for the But people of Prague, we perish for the vicious Stop that grisly! HOSTAGE (ON RADIO): Easy for you to talk. You're not going to be shot. Shut up or sit down! Keep quiet! The Germans have succeeded the unity of the city. Many people are assassin, whereas of him only as the executioner. If I may suggest, perhaps what Dedic wants you to do. He's at my apartment now. His condition is really Look, why did he go, That was a terrible He took every He changed taxis went through buildings until he was dead certain Well, he could have and we would have to treat him without He did not come to me just What else? To give me in detail Instructions? Where do you come into this? What instructions? As Dedic sees it, we are each dependent upon the other. If we could find a way of saving hostages, or as we would at the same time It would be a But in the end, it's We can't save both. I don't see any possible these two birds with one stone. As Dedic sees it, What about those blood Myself, I never would have but the car washer and tells me he found of my cab drops of blood. Just then I was Not interested in your soup. What makes you think I'm some passenger maybe But Herr Gruber, he recognized from tonight's papers as Where did you drop Well, that's the trouble. I-- I don't remember. Maybe he was the one I took to [speaking german] We got a write-up of every We could put on an to every one of these places. Listen. You tell me at 11:30 at night a sometime this afternoon. And you really think will kindly wait for on him to pay our respects? Get him out of here! Go home and finish your soup. [inaudible] Arnold. Hey! Hey, you, with the soup! What was that address you Czerny Street. 61 Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street. 61 Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street. Czerny Street 21. From 21 to 61 is 20 houses. Dr. Svoboda? Yes. Gestapo. Do you live here alone? Yes. You didn't, by any from a gentleman No. You can't go in there. Stop this nonsense. [speaking german] Open! [woman screams] Well, the situation tend to exclude the presence Sorry. But you see, we're of a certain Mr. Bartos, his last farewell in person. Muller, check the whole to roof, every room and closet. Come in, Doctor, come. No, no, no, no, Miss Remain just as you are. I'm only staying a little and smoke a cigarette. If I may, Doctor? Well, well, my young friend. I don't mind admitting You see, Doctor, been fully convinced success with Miss Novotny. And you, Miss Novotny, After all, you're engaged to But I suppose in wartime, Inspector, there's a Of course, Doctor. My humble apologies, Why don't you leave me alone? Just a few more puffs. You see? I had no idea I'd find you In my stupid way, a certain gentleman me find that other gentleman. You remember, whom you That's all very But if you insist on perhaps you'd like a glass of Well, well, Doctor. I'd be delighted. You have no beer? Of course you haven't beer. Beer wouldn't be quite a thing Sorry, Inspector, You better be careful when you My boys here got a [speaking german] Horak, I thought you might be Svoboda, surgeon at the same gentleman who visited under the name of Karel Vanek. JAN HORAK: Inspector, why Horak, I felt we both had the You ought to know what and of course I should too. Well, I guess all this matter now between you three. [german] I think I'll leave you alone. Goodnight. Jan, you must-- well, Do you think you own me? You were lying to me all along. Yes, I was. I just fell in love that's all there is to it. Can't you understand that? JAN HORAK: I can. MASCHA: I'm sorry, Franto, Horak. Looks like both of us, Find something, Mueller? Nothing at all, Herr Inspector. Am I free to leave now? Not yet. What do you say to That's an order. Mueller, I want you to If those three in there try MUELLER: [speaking german] I'll have Schirmer My small leather case on Come on, sweetheart. Get it off your chest. Take it from me. No woman should be Ain't it the truth? Don't be a sucker, big boy. Lots more where she came from. Well, 6 o'clock already. What do you say, girls? Let's go over to his place. That's an order too. You shouldn't talk. This wound is serious. I haven't much time. I must finish telling you. Miss Novotny, all our things. You're a good fighter. [coughs] depends on you. It will be very I believe that the people of Gruber come in yet? No. Uh, his office can't seem He was out all last night. [snoring] That must be the little cutie Now, the German if we could pump something before. It was like pulling teeth. I couldn't even get Why does that flat foot about this dame's love life? All he told me was they caught Myself, I figured it must politics because could a nice girl like this her father is one going to be killed any minute? Come on, fatty, wake up. Let me sleep. You'll get your money tonight. So long, big boy. Just pretend you never knew her. Too-da-loo! [church bells chiming] MASCHA: Is it possible SVOBODA: No, but his name One day, the schoolchildren In retaliation for this Protector, it is ordered that executions will be carried out unless the assassin [music playing] Pardon me. Good morning, Mr. Czaka. Well, this is absured. But I tell you, I'm sure. You're mistaking me No, I am sure of it! Please, miss. Everyone is looking at us. I tell you, you're I'm not wrong. Please, miss. Please. You must meet you. I have to talk to you alone. Miss, what do you want It is nothing. Absolutely nothing. What do you mean by that? Such impertinence. I-- I-- Gestapo. [german] Well, of course, that-- But no, I don't I've never seen her before. Miss Novotny. We'll clear up the I think you better take the right now. But this is absurd. I'll report you two to All right. All right. I-- I will not go. Orders is orders. I'll see that you're And, uh, where is Here. I recognize you. Must talk to you Well? What does it mean? Miss Novotny. This time, you're going to talk. You recognize Mr. Czaka as whom? What did you want that was so important, huh? Let me tell you, Herr Ritter. It's very simple. She says she recognizes she helped escape from the blackshirts. The young lady insists I'm [laughs] Me, of all people! [laughter] That is perfectly ridiculous, But, uh, just wait The following three persons No, no. You can't take me. I won't go! I won't go! I have to get the assassin. I want to see the commandant! I want to see the commandant! I want to see the commandant! [gunfire] The following three Necval. Skalda. Votruba. My name shouldn't That was the arrangement when Shut up! All three of you, forward march. Miss Novotny. Perhaps you are afraid But if you tell the truth now, Remember, we won't until we have the assassin. In a few hours, in any case, will have been shot. The odds for your father are This is your last I was on the You saw the assassin Yes. It was the man I saw The brewer Czaka. Yes. In what direction did he Around the corner just where I told the officer. Did you see him running No. There was a passing cab For your sake, Miss Novotny, I It confirms exactly with the from the same cab driver. Ritter, bring in Czaka. And the horse cab driver. That's him, all right. I've never seen You picked up on the corner Yes, sir. And he said, drive Where did he ask to be taken? Uh, someplace with furnished like I had told But I-- that's ridiculous. Ridiculous. The man's got me mixed Herr Standartenfuhrer, during of his excellency, the at that very time, I was having where I always eat, You can Czech it quite easily. Do you remember the day the Naturally. What Czech doesn't? It was last Wednesday at noon. Exactly. And on that day at that have lunch in your restaurant? Now, you-- WAITER: No, your excellency. No, Mr. Czaka didn't I remember it like I held his usual table I even said to Albert is sick at home or something. But Novak, I was there! No, Mr. Czaka. I know because I put on the the old Riesling, but when you didn't show up. No, you're all mixed up. You-- how can you Please try to remember. I was there. Freddy, you brought me I-- I dropped them on No, Mr. Czaka. That was the day Pauline, didn't you check Didn't I even pinch your no, Mr. Czaka. And didn't I tip you You always do, Mr. Czaka. But not that day. You didn't come that day. You're crazy! You're all of you, crazy! What's going on here anyway? What is the meaning of all this? I demand an explanation. Stop shouting at me, Mr. Czaka. We demand an explanation. Where were you at the I told you. I told you exactly. In the Golden Quail eating. And after lunch, conference with the bearing manufacturer. Yes, in his own How do you remember Because at 6 o'clock, I right here in the Gestapo I was him until helping him to prepare the list Brodavka. Vystyd. Pescacek. [german] Goodbye Pescacek. Goodbye. Come on. Come on. Come on. Pass the invisible torch! [all singing] I pass it along. Keep it burning. Keep it burning. Forward on the road Die if you must for and shout to the Silence! [all singing] Ever Silence! Till the filthy butcher [shouting in german] [all singing] For his war isn't won until Carry on when we're gone. No surrender. No surrender! I regret that I must inform you manufacturer Pulta was one at 2 o'clock this afternoon. Pulta? Shot? But how did he get on the list. I had business with him. I-- I didn't suggest his name. I suppose I ought to apologize In any case, his testifies you never appeared What? But here is another lady who I don't know this woman. Mrs. Nimitz, last on the day of the brought a certain well-dressed Yes, this man here. Will you repeat your just as you gave it last night? Well, he came at exactly I showed him a room He told me he was and if I wouldn't mind. And I said, well, if you who cares? So then he gave me five marks. Lies! All lies! Why do you listen to How can you take their I protest. You know I'm loyal. For years, I kept you Only yesterday you got Seven only yesterday! How can you be so unfair? Will you kindly permit Uninterrupted. Will you go on, Well, no lady showed Just heard him walking And after a while, he comes out somebody if I got a phone. And I says, even if I I wouldn't have one more trouble than it's worth. Then about half past Wants to see the all about the shooting Reich Protector Heydrich. Then he just put on But this morning, after I I remembered something I left over in the room. Here. I brought it with me, even E-C. It has your I-- I don't understand. I had it this morning. I'm sure. I must have left it This is a frame-up, Don't be preposterous. Are you trying to say that is conspiring against you? None of these people A minute ago, you said you Yes. All right. Now I will prove that was a filthy, dirty lie, but a criminal conspiracy. She said I was in her rooming Very well. She also said that she Then how was it that to somebody on the telephone? And who was that somebody? Gestapo Inspector Gruber. I demand that Inspector immediately to confirm this. And I also demand the of every single one of Call Inspector Gruber. We have been unable to contact His office is still Just want a pick-me-up. No more beer around? No more beer. What's so funny I like that lipstick. What lipstick? All over your face. I see. Yeah. That lipstick on the doctor's not like this, all smeared up. You're right, Jan, my boy. Your girl is still all yours. They staged it! But a little too perfectly. Thanks for the assassin. What do you mean? If they staged then that uncle must and your little girl put And why? Because one or the other Dr. Svoboda or Uncle Dedic. And your little sweetheart, of same assassin. But this time, she's going [groans] Miss Novotny, your seems to have a perfect alibi. No less, the Gestapo Yes, Miss Novotny. Inspector Gruber. You just wait till he gets here. But what about all the The executions will is finished, not before. But if Gruber confirms then every one of these first-- go to the wall Well? Now, we'll go look into this It's really worth Now, you take care of you You'll excuse me, Mr. Horak, Just relax. Can you tell me where He's in operating, Thanks. [doorbell ringing] [glass breaking] Close the door, Boda. Plenty lucky for you, Mother and sent me to ask you. GESTAPO OFFICER: Attention. Gestapo Inspector Gruber. Wait. GESTAPO OFFICER: Attention. Gestapo Inspector Gruber. Inspector Gruber, report Boda. Boda, go over there and wait. See if the Gestapo If Mascha shows up, don't I won't, future brother-in-law. St. Pancazio Hospital, Dr. Svoboda? That's Dr. Svoboda. Oh. Inspector Gruber. You're looking for me? Yes. Just a few questions, Doctor. Where can we talk undisturbed? Here. In the locker room. Tell me, Doctor. When you fellas operate, Naturally, against infection. I thought you said we It's all the same. My colleague, Dr. Pillar. Inspector Alois Gruber, Gestapo. You were the other one he shot Heydrich. Exactly, Inspector. Dr. Pillar, as you that day, with the mask. Very clever. May I use your PILLAR: No. You'd better not use that phone. You'd better put I'm going to put If you think you're going that I can get only then you're going to be I can shoot this gun a lot can jump. Not bad, Doctor. That was close. But stand right where you are, I was at the the radio call for so of course I came immediately. You say you were with him Yes. You see, the Inspector and together last night. And, uh, well, he stayed Uh, when did he leave you? Oh, I should say about Did he happen to say Yes, I believe he did. I think he mentioned something with a Mr. Czaka at his house. Where? At Czaka's house. [speaking german] Thank you, Mr. Horak. I'm sorry, but we have to hold until all this is settled. [speaking german] Now, Mr. Czaka, where did Uh, yesterday afternoon, And where were you this At home until noon. And then two of Gruber's to the Golden Quail. Gruber was with No. I told you. I-- I haven't seen [buzzer] Excuse me. Yeah? Czaka. Between 10:00 and 12:00 this was with you at your home. No, Herr Haas. Who said that? Your butler. Why, Herr Haas, The man can be insane. I demand you see At 10 o'clock this morning, I showed him into the study. Then Mr. Czaka sent station for a timetable. Josef, where did you Haven't I always paid you well? Why do you tell such lies? Will you kindly keep Go on, please. And when I returned, Where is the study? Right there, sir, After Mr. Czaka left, the but we couldn't find Break the lock. You can't do that! It's genuine antiq-- [gunfire] HAAS: There's Someone put them there. [speaking german] Timetable. Timetable? Switzerland. You said your butler had Your excellency, I assure you. I-- My desk, uh-- [glass breaking] I protest! Checkbook. HAAS: Czaka this check Who did you give it to? To the occupational I'm not interested in for what but to whom you gave it. To Inspector Gruber. [speaking german] Yours, Mr. Czaka? No. I never had a gun. Herr Standartenfuhrer, this It's got exactly the same killed the Reich Protector. [speaking german] All this Your excellency, if all these lies will be The whole thing is a frame-up! [speaking german] I'm innocent! I swear I am! The underground They want to pin the Haas! Where's Haas? Herr Standartenfuhrer. What? Schirmer, downstairs! Miss Novotny, you Czaka was the assassin. We even found the gun with The remaining hostages will Have you any way of telling No. This scum must have been all the time, you know? Looks like Gruber got onto Not Gruber. So Czaka had to get rid of him. [laughing maniacally] Go around the corner. Czaka, get out of here. You're free, Czaka. Free? Free. Sure. Go on. Schirmer, I'll never I'll never forget you. Go on, run. [gunshot] [laughter] Run! [laughter] [music playing] [gunshot] [gunfire] (SINGING) And pass it along. Heil, Hitler. Excellence, the Eastern [music playing] (SINGING) Raise the invisible Keep it burning. Keep it burning. Keep it on the road Die if you must for and shout to the Ever onward, no returning will be learning. For this war isn't won until Carry on when we're gone. No surrender! No surrender! No surrender!