Hello, my name is Ann Pelham, and I'm honored to be here today and important leader for Duke University Our conversation is taking place as Duke So, David, you've had many roles at Duke on campus back in 1966 as a freshman. You served as a trustee for 12 years, from 2013 to 2017. And in 2019, for Distinguished Meritorious Service, You've also been an exceptional donor million to support facilities and programs the arts, financial aid, academics, And your philanthropy extends Thank you. Well, It's my pleasure to be here Well, I'd like to focus a little bit Your initial connection with Duke. How did a smart young man from Baltimore decide to attend college down in Durham, You didn't go north. You went south. You didn't go down the street to Johns You came to Duke. So how did you hear about it? And what got you in this direction? I can't honestly say that I surveyed Duke was the perfect university for me. That wouldn't be honest. What actually happened There were 1,500 people in my class. One guidance counselor. So you got about ten minutes of his time, So I didn't really get I bought some books about colleges, somebody from Baltimore would probably get Some Ivy League schools, and Amherst and Wesleyan, The University of Chicago. Places But the night before I was filling out a neighbor of mine said that but that he decided not to fill out He didn't want to go So he said he had an extra application. He said, &quot;Why don't you fill it out?&quot; I didn't think I'd get in. I didn't think I'd get into any schools, I didn't have a typewriter, so I had to I wasn't sure people could read it. So I applied to Duke And then I heard back that they accepted And I was an equal opportunity Whoever gave me the biggest scholarship, So Duke gave me the biggest scholarship, [Laughs] You ran through your description but it was an exam-driven high school. You had to get in from all over the city. It was an all-boys school. It was an all-boys all-city merit school. And I was in one of their special programs, and I had skipped They had an unfortunate program where if you did well in the sixth grade I got in it, and I didn't realize Because I graduated from high school Duke when I was just barely 17, if I had to do it all over again, But you know, So this is what I did. I'm asking partly because I imagine that gave you some confidence if you had already gotten Well, but there were people far smarter than me. And in recent years, I've obsessed over very smart people. And as I've gone through the internet I found that many of these people So many people who were superstars not to be so great later on. I wrote a book on leadership not long ago, in my observation there were three types The first third, second third, And many times people in the first third, The Rhodes Scholars, the Supreme Court But if you go back second and third third of their life, Many times people just peter out. If you look at people who were president In the last 100 years, only one person who became president was somebody who maybe was predicted That was Bill Clinton. He was an all-state leader But most of the other people to speak of, or and they certainly weren't thought they would wind up So I've come up with this theory that People in the second third who are like the tortoise [in They can come along I've done that maybe to rationalize in the second third of life, and I wasn't such a great person [Laughs] Okay, I think in your third third, I'm doing well, but in third third -- the problem with the third third is you There is that problem. So when I was young, my parents used to read the obituaries And I would say, &quot;What And now I read the obituaries. Now I know why my parents read [them]. Because you want to see who died that And I always look and say, &quot;How and I'm still around?&quot; So when you get you don't know whether you're going Who really knows who's going to get to 95 Well, if I'm correct, I had a birthday. I turned 75. However, I'm I was born, the hospital, to see a new birth certificate Maybe I was born a couple years later Maybe they don't know you skipped I don't know, but if I can't get that certificate, An age which, you know, When I was working in the White House &quot;You have no chance of losing to Ronald He's 69 years old. Nobody that old can get I looked up President Eisenhower, who had looked to me And he left the presidency when he was 70. And then when I started practicing law, and was the grand old man of the practice Wharton &amp; Garrison. This is Judge Rifkin. He came in [inaudible] in to give a speech And I said, &quot;Wow, this guy's so old. I don't know [if] he can really make it So I'm amazed that at 75, I think you're really busy for a person Well. You're still working But you're not doing 70 countries I'm not flying around the world I do fly a lot, and I used to fly, at the peak I was honestly flying about 800 hours I'm now at about 350 hours a year. But that's I'm not running my firm And most of my nonprofit So I do speeches and some fundraising nonprofit work outside the United States. But it's not as much as it used to be. But you're traveling all over for shows to interview people. My television shows do take me places, and most of those are done Some are done outside. But yes, I do do a lot of TV Just like you are, right? So remind us where they are. You have two on Bloomberg. Go ahead. I'll let you talk. Ok, here's But I have a show on Bloomberg [where] I interview prominent people. And that can be almost anybody that I can get to do an interview Usually, I know them. Then I have one called Wealth It's about finance. I have one on PBS on history. It's called History with David Rubenstein. I'm starting a new show on longevity, which is my new famous topic And it's about health So I'm going to do Alzheimer's, cancer, and things like that, in the United States about [those topics]. And that show will debut Is your audience the baby boomers for whom I hope so. Or the second third people? Well, usually people in the ages of 20 because when you're 20 or 30 As I did. When you get to be 75, And I've also thought about doing a book on a subject It's about and what did they start doing about it? So at what age do people start thinking better, they ought to do a will or redo their will, or do other things And when do people actually God.&quot; And &quot;Yes or something like that.&quot; I'm trying to figure out what age that is, or 40s, But now, my friends who are my age are talking to me and redoing their wills, So it's clearly a subject on my mind. But my publisher said, &quot;If you put death So I say the title is When You People . .it wonit sell. So I have to come up with a different title Okay. I'm looking forward You've written a lot of books, too, And they've sold well. They've been well-received by critics. I've just finished my fifth book, as soon as we're done. It was a little difficult because I wanted I interviewed President Bush, I interviewed I interviewed Donald Trump. But because the election was changing the end of the nominating period I had to redo it and write Because at the time that I wrote the book, that Biden would be challenging Trump. But that book is out. It's called The Highest Calling. You may recall that I once used to say the highest I now have to admit that the presidency So it's called The Highest Calling. It's about my observations on the great presidents, and also [includes] And that's my fifth book. The other four sold They sell roughly about 80,000 Which is not great You know, if you're James Patterson, you're probably selling a million copies Or Doris Kearns My copies are not quite at their level. But to be on the Best Seller List probably need to sell about 20,000 copies So you've written bestsellers. By that standard, yes. And I don't think So it's working out well. Well, I give away all the proceeds to hospitals So I do it because I enjoy doing it, So, we'll get back to Duke in a second. But I really feel like you're having a stimulating and interesting third third of your life. And I'll just say, with some fun in there. You took the Oriole [mascot] American University's business school You recently worked to go in the attic and you helped create a new Rubenstein It opened this summer, I think. And I mean, that's just two of -- that you're doing. You've got fresh ideas, and And you have connections It feels like fun to me. Well, I chair a lot of nonprofit boards. And in the nonprofit world, you probably can stay on the boards So, I still chair I'm going to give that up But I still chair and I chair the Council on Foreign Relations, And that takes some time. And then I was just on a corporate board which was the company I've just had my first meeting Did they give you an orientation Well, I just had orientation So they really did. Yes, I just had orientation this week. And I now realize So there's a new what they call a combo shot. It's RSV as well as COVID-19. You get a booster, That's what grandparents have to do. You never know what you're going to get. You have three grandchildren, I have three grandchildren. And they're young, And they probably never But they're still fun to hang out with. Yes. I never thought I'd be a grandfather, So, let me just go back to the books When you were at Duke I think I remember a story that you told about [your early life] [that] you would spend your Saturdays could you talk about libraries Well, libraries are very important to me And I guess early on I realized that if that was far different than the world And so my parents did not graduate And I wanted to do more they were very good as parents. And so when you were six years old which enabled you to take out I would take them out on a Saturday. And then I would read the books that whole day, and then I had to wait So I realized I really love reading, And so I still try to read And the reason I'm able to do that But [also] I interview authors a lot, and by interviewing authors, So we just finished the Library of I've been the co-chair and I typically interview And then somebody interviewed me And I have to prepare for that. So I love reading, the mind more than reading a magazine It's a very important part of my life. When I came to Duke, It was a grant, a loan and a job. And the job was working in the library. But it had the advantage of this. In those days at Duke, it was a closed stack library, couldn't go into the library They had to go to somebody at the front Well, since I had the ability to go through the stacks all the time I could get all the books I needed So anytime I needed a book, So that was an advantage Yes. So that was your main role, If you wanted a book from the library, you had to go to the front desk and then I would be one of the runners if it was there. At that time It was still the main original library. And then while I was there, I think in the latter two years Because I'm thinking -- we were both at Duke in 1970, and I was coming And I remember going in the stacks near the one you were looking for, Well, what class were you? 1974. Okay, so I think when Perkins opened the closed stacks, Because there was more space. But I did this my freshman And I love libraries. I like reading. Is there an experience or on campus that you remember I mean, it's half a century now. Although nobody at Duke was celebrating Well, from my professors, and go to the back of the stacks myself So I could get an advantage and I could probably get books [Laughs] Okay. You mean there weren't lots of copies? They didn't have many copies, So sometimes you'd be reading a book and I could get to the book quickly There was an advantage. Maybe that helped me get through Duke. I don't know. You got through Duke, but you also were Phi Beta Kappa So you didn't just get through Duke. You did very well. I did okay. But, you know, In those days, Duke University was a good school, When I applied to Duke, in the South, called by many &quot;the those days was called &quot;the It wasn't as if they were but they were &quot;the Harvard of the West.&quot; Obviously, Stanford's a great university, maybe one of the greatest universities And Duke has now risen to be in the top in the United States And you think back on it. In the segregated South, Rice, Duke, Emory, Tulane, among others. And Vanderbilt. None of them, other than Duke, is now ten universities in the United States. Only one school that was previously ten in the United States. And only one southern school And that's Duke. So Duke did something not only &quot;the Harvard of the South&quot;, for students with Harvard. And it's a big change. When I spoke to my 50th anniversary class it was a little delayed because of COVID our Admission's Office and said, &quot;Just give me the statistics How did these people get in?&quot; Now, Duke is probably [at] a 5% In those days, we had in my class, I think 5,200 people applied. 43% got in. 43%. So I said to my fellow classmates, &quot;You You've done great. But, none of you and you only got in the Duke before almost half the people.&quot; It was a different the change in Duke's standing to? Duke has risen up as much as any school in the last 50 years that I can think of, Stanford has also risen up dramatically. I think in Duke's case, We had some outstanding presidents wanted to make Duke a national university In addition [to] Kind of [a] So I think people here they're as good as their brethren Third, I think, is [that] the athletic has given Duke a visibility that's attracted students that might not Emory is a very good school too, but because it doesn't have Division it hasn't attracted Duke also has benefited from having a really great medical complex as well as a law school So it's been not just a college, but a real university. It has all the things you want It has an interdisciplinary spirit and camaraderie in the university But also it's the fact here are very loyal and they've come back or in other alumni ways. They've done a lot of things that maybe So it's a combination of things to now be consistently in the top So what role does the Board of Trustees Well, if you ask the Board of Trustees, that the university does is have But the truth is that Duke trustees, Duke's situation is a little different Duke had, when I chaired it, there were And, I would say about 90% Some universities have 55, 60, 70, [or] 80 And it gives an attitude that it doesn't university if you show up or not. People showed up [here]. People take it very seriously. The Board of Trustees has also been And obviously everybody recognizes nonprofit boards that people expect you There's if you go on a board Give money, And I wouldn't say Duke has that attitude, on the board able to give very much, And as I like to remind people the most valuable thing a nonprofit You can make And so when you're giving your time, When [Alexis] de Tocqueville came here in the 1830s he said he had a hard time getting people to interview with him Because this is a tradition Volunteering. Giving back. And we continue that today. So I'm upset at times in the country are the people that give X, when you should really measure how much time somebody put into something, they might have given. I get the impression that you are not just You're very engaged in the programs I've tried to get engaged. And so many of the times when I've Which maybe reflects or they couldn't find anybody else Or you make a suggestion, and they finally say, &quot;Fine, you do it. You be the chair.&quot; There is that. But in the end, being the Board chair at Duke was -- I was the first person who was Jewish who And Dan Blue, I think he was the first African American When I came here, Duke had a Jewish quota. It was a 5% quota. It was a quota but there was an informal When Terry Sanford became he heard about it and changed it. Got rid of it. There was, you know, but in my class there were only 12 And that's because Duke [had] just desegregated And so when I started in 1966, [they were] just So, it's a different world. The university, it reflects the country. The country has changed dramatically. But in those days, Duke was just Right. As a South Carolinian, I'm Well, the bestselling book.. Go ahead. The bestselling book in the United States right now, number one New York Times Best and how Fort Sumter was the heart And there was a man from South Carolina who led the effort And it was an effort that no other state Obviously the world changed, South great things that the country's doing. But in those days movement. Yes, that's for sure. You're a higher education expert, of] Chicago You were on the Harvard Corporation. You were a fellow in that, which is only Harvard Corporation used to be six Now it's 12. University of Chicago is 55. So that's a bigger. . . That's a big board. And Chicago has a different model. Their motto is, &quot;Look, and you don't have time to show up, You don't have to show up So there are some people on that Board among the richest in the United States, And in fact, for a long time, I got a pass, too, because their meetings And so I said, &quot;Look, So I'm going to go to the Duke meetings. And when I finish with Duke, then I'll try to come to Chicago So I didn't go to a lot of meetings There are a lot of challenges now facing universities. Public perception The Supreme Court is making it student population And collegiate athletics is basically in turmoil. How do you see all I mean, is there one of Well, sure. In any generation, people always will say, now, and the world is falling apart, to get through the next generation.&quot; So, yes. The affirmative action opportunities before are now outlawed There are ways you can legally circumvent You can figure out how to do some things with the Supreme Court decision So ever since the Supreme Court ruled, universities, they're still having classes I believe, we don't know for certain, Secondly, athletics. Athletics is going through a change That not only are universities of money on athletics, I mean, they're paying their students now. They're paying -- the student athletes And this is something that nobody would And then not only are the universities paying them, but So just recently, as we talk, New Balance million contract to Cooper Flagg, who's And who would have thought that while he's in college? But the world has changed. And he hasn't even played a game yet. Hasn't played a game yet. And so maybe he shouldn't play a game, you know, he's doing so well But actually he's a pretty good player, But the world has changed. Duke initially resisted the &quot;ones Coach K [Michael But then it wasn't competitive So we did go to the &quot;ones and dones.&quot; It's complicated, these students are not likely to graduate Yeah. It will be rare. In the old days... [crosstalk] -- one year early, a lot of students who did that their undergraduate degree. Now, if you only completed one year at a university, Now, you could say Bill Gates Mark Zuckerberg did okay So you can say, yes, [that] it's And if you're Cooper Flagg who can make it in the NBA But a lot of people or other good schools, they think they're going to be an NBA And they've given up and they wind up playing overseas And then if they get injured, They don't have a college degree. they've really hurt themselves It's hard to imagine how it's But I will keep your advice in mind that everyone always thinks Well, civilization will go forward, It'll work out, but it'll be different adjusted to accommodate You know, right now we're experimenting with &quot;ones and dones&quot; Maybe in ten or 15 or 20 years I think what may happen equity firms like mine coming in and buying a piece of the ACC and sharing in the And in ways And someday you may find a basketball team purchased by a private equity So the private equity firm might own 49%, the university might own 51%, But based on the numbers it's not a profit-making enterprise, Today, as the universities have run it, virtually nothing makes money Even at Duke, basketball is not really So, yes. But things may change. Maybe TV contracts Who knows. [Maybe] betting will get involved, I don't know how to predict But correct. Today, all of college And if you don't have a football team you're subsidizing all the sports At Duke, I suspect that the university if I recall the numbers, Duke or $15 million a year into the university The rest was paid for by the profits Though the profits from football were much And they don't play as many games. Doesn't make sense. Well, the contracts in football are just And basketball -- at Duke For a lot of historic reasons, If you had a 20,000 seat arena at Duke, But we don't have that. And I think if you were looking at it you might wonder whether you would be because you just don't really know I mean, maybe Duke can't compete in this new world It's hard to know. Obviously Duke used to be one of the best schools But I'd say in the 1960s we went to a couple bowl games, and it's without a gigantic budget and without recruiting a lot of really, In basketball, you only need to recruit 2 or 3 Football is much more challenging. It is. It feels like there's a lot of new energy and enthusiasm So perhaps that will help Duke Well, it may happen. I think in football there you have injury possibilities You have to worry about concussions And I wouldn't be surprised got out of football completely -- for concussion and health Yeah, there are an awful lot of parents who don't think football Well, you know, about in LA coming up with and having.. Flag football, right. Maybe flag football will be the future. Who knows. So, let me just switch gears a little bit. I've got the impression that you, you're doing, I was thinking of the Economic Club you found out that you were actually You had to put together a program I think it was Vernon Jordan And you host dinners regularly Your bipartisan dinners. Am I right, to get people together Am I reading your interest right? You do enjoy that? I do. You know, I didn't consider myself What happened was [that] gigantic investment conferences And to have a draw at those conferences, presidents of the United States, and former speakers of the House, And they were boring sometimes. So I went to the speaking and make it maybe more humorous, They said, &quot;Is the speaking fee it will be the same.&quot; They said, &quot;As they don't care if they're interviewed So I started interviewing them, and I made I made [former Federal Reserve Chair] Ben kind of person. and so. . . I thought that I could do this. And then when Vernon Jordan asked me to be the head he said, &quot;Just get four business That's all you're doing. Let them speak, for the members come in, And that's it.&quot; So I started doing it, were falling asleep and the questions from So I started pretending from the members, I was making up humorous questions. I decided to junk the format And then Bloomberg saw it, and eventually So it isn't a skill that I thought I had, that you're going to get to heaven But it's something in things, and I'll tell you why Now, not only does it get me the chance sometimes I wouldn't but if they want to be on a show and I'm So that's it. But also, when you get to be is maybe going to atrophy a little bit, And they say you should, if you're worried I have no foreign language skills. Take up a musical instrument. I can't play an instrument. Or do crossword puzzles. I can't do that. So I've thought that my interviewing the equivalent So I have to prepare for the interviews, You have to, you know, do some research, and then be in a dialog with people, So it's my way of kind of keeping Alzheimer's as far away Alright. Well, . . [Crosstalk] That's why I do it. And we'll see. I'll find out in time And how's it going Well, let me explain what that is. About ten years ago, I thought that members of Congress never really meeting because we don't have conference The congressional delegations They don't have very much So I decided what I would do is I'd host I would say to members, &quot;Please come, You can get there easily for the passageways in the Congress There are no traffic problems No rain. &quot;No weather problems. And then I will have a great person I'll interview her or Ken Burns, And you can learn but I want you to sit with people in the opposite House.&quot; And they do. And, we've had maybe The members really say, sometimes sadly, they're doing in Because that shouldn't be But many members of Congress And so I'll keep doing it We get about 250 [members] every time. Is it really once a month, off? Well, we do it once a month So we try to do about ten of them So, I'm still going to stick to my theory And giving them opportunities with each other and build a community. I enjoy it. I think it's fun to bring people together so that's good. And nobody's usually criticizing me for And the members of Congress have told me from the opposite party that they wouldn't have otherwise met. And they think that's a good thing. It is a good thing. I think with Duke, what I'm remembering you were very positive about the idea Not just the people with big bank accounts. And why is that? Why was that? Well, invention of the 20th century, Universities didn't have capital campaigns and then they kind of invented these And now they're gigantic affairs, And they tend to bring a university I think it's a bonding thing and others who all participate in it. So I think it's a good thing. And obviously it helps raise money for our And I should say that one of the reasons I've been connected and I enjoy it, is that great national treasures that we have Because people from all over the world from American universities. American universities from a modest background like mine that get them a different And so I think these are treasures. I think sometimes -- you've stayed connected with Often with alumni, You know, life gets in the way, And I was wondering as I looked at all the things that you've done for Duke, was that your experience? It certainly was mine. I wasn't engaged for a while, Did that happen to you, Absolutely. I graduated from Duke in 1970. I don't think I set foot I was building my career. There was no benefit for me I wasn't really that engaged And then Joel Fleishman, with the Sanford School [of Public he came to see me and asked me for some money to help I said okay, and I got engaged. And that was the first time the first time And so that was 1995. So for 25 years I did nothing at Duke. So I tell people, you can do other things if you don't want to do it right away. That's what I did. Since that time, though, And then they asked me to go on the Board of Duke, And then I got more involved with Duke, and you could stay on the Board, I don't know if it's still 12 years. It's still 12 years. You served your time and we appreciate it. So, if I look at what you've done at Duke, my assumption -- and you can correct me as much as follow You wouldn't have made that gift unless Well, in that case, I was interested in public policy And I like public policy. But I also felt I owed something to Duke. I hadn't really repaid the student I mean, I had paid the student loans back, for the gift and the scholarship So I felt the same They gave me a large scholarship there for law school. So, I've tried to do that. I think in the end, if you try to be buried having all your money I'm not sure that you're going or be happier All the money I have in my bank account. Is that going to make me happier? Well, in the context of Duke, which we know that was dear to your heart. And I think you've also been very engaged Financial Aid as well. You came through for a program to help low-income first generation Well, I was a first generation student. So as I was finishing up my term, [Duke if I would put up some money to help first And now we've changed the program a bit. The arts is something I've been involved at the Kennedy Center [and] And Duke didn't have an arts building that So I asked if they would support about half the money to get it done. And then I've supported because they had no place to entertain, And then I supported the library, And then I've supported some other programs at Duke I wish I had as much money so I could do everything But, you know, I try to be supportive And thank you for that. I understand that you're okay with the arts building They called me about that [laughs] to have an officially called And I said, &quot;I don't care.&quot; It didn't bother me. And I think the building has served I've talked to them about the need to have but they seem to be happy So I think the building has done I think it's a lovely space. I've been to some performances there. They're slightly more informal like it was dancers, And it was amazing just to see their and you don't really get that So I think it brings a lot to the campus. And now that the house has moved and you've got the art museum right It's been a good addition. This building that we're now in that came about as a result when we took Stanford University I went on the tour. So we took a tour of Stanford, and did a retreat there. And then we came up with some ideas. One was to have a visitor center, And so we came back and ultimately And Bruce Karsh's family helped It turned out really well. So far it's worked out, I think. So I'm happy with it. And look, I'm happy with things that occurred And, you know, the highlight to give the commencement speech it was a bittersweet but she passed away And it was actually on Mother's Day. So we talked about it. But I enjoyed giving that commencement and Duke has been something And if my neighbor hadn't given me I would have been at some other school. Who knows? We're glad you came here. What about Duke makes you most proud? Well, many things. One is [that] So now, many of my friends whose kids once thought they wanted to go to Harvard, Duke has built a combination of good athletics I'm proud of the fact that Duke turmoil of universities It's a university And no university is perfect. Duke can always do some things better. But as a general rule of thumb, educating people, which is the most it does a good job of world-class keeping alumni informed As you may have heard me say, somewhat an interest in how a university does Because if that university gets better and better and better and better, then people think you're smarter and If the university goes this way people think you're not as smart. So I have an incentive, and all alums look better and better. Because people You must be really smart.&quot; Whereas when It wasn't so hard, [you didn't have] to be So, tongue in cheek, I like to say that everybody in their university But the truth is universities attract people to give them money because they're proud of the university They maybe in some cases go there, I don't know that it does. And then I think people just take pride that kind of nurtured them It's an important phase of life. Right. So, your children go to Duke? One. Our daughter. And your daughter is happy? Yeah. So my two daughters went to Harvard. My son-- he got into Harvard -- he said, He went to Duke. And I remember saying, &quot;Andrew, I'm going to be the chairman of the Board It's not a good idea Because it doesn't look good.&quot; Nobody knows who the chairman [Not a lot of] students care. Last question. What are your hopes Well, Duke is in its second century Duke -- depending on your point of view I know. But if you get past that, And then we get to the second century. I hope that Duke will remain one of I think we have to be realistic in that Yale, Princeton, and Stanford do. So competing with schools Not impossible. But I think I want it to be a place that's a southern school, it's a national school It's a national school that the parents of the kids who go here And the students who go here are happy. You know, the most elusive thing in life Very hard to get, But students who graduate from Duke And that's good. And if their kids are personally happy, So Duke produces a lot of happiness, I also hope we win in the beginning of the second century. And I hope we win And you hope you're there watching it. I expect to be there. I hope to be there. I went to the last game. [During] Coach K's last season, was looking favorably upon him I went down there in New Orleans, I can't remember the name of it, Well, And, thank you very much I know that time Thanks for doing this. And thanks for your service at Duke when I was on the board. And thanks for taking the time to do this. It's not easy, you're obviously prepared. So you're giving the most valuable thing Alright. Good enough. Thank you.