Trying to advance the ball. Dude Perfect. In today's battle, we're from EA play and Xbox Game Pass showdown. Last man standing wins. Hi, I'm Kevin Sparkman alongside the Hall of Famer. Nice to be alongside you, Doris. Little starstruck for the hybrid sports Give us the rules, Doris. A little combination Guys are in pads, We've got 15 yards deep. They've got to across get a shot opportunity. Garrett is up first. All right, Garrett. Lowest point guy is eliminated. So he doesn't even in the next challenge. How many points you What are you going for here? That's one. We're going to let Corey get 0. Yeah. Purple Hoser starting us off. I'm Sparky Sparkman, and is under way. Good right hand! And he goes down. Getting even in the first the twin who packs a punch. A little tie up situation. The right leg gathered up. Garrett's going to The ultra-aggressive Garrett who gets So a lot of pressure here Now Cor, the other twin. And steals the ball! I've seen longer That was a quick one. That was about two Dr. Gaddison, I know my foot for another six weeks. Not going to happen. See you in surgery. Cody gets his chance at glory. Only needs a bucket here, Doris. Now he's got to overpower him. What a take down! Now Cody, deliberate Tried doing the old drop around. And look at Ty. Come on, Cody! Come on, Cody. Go Cody! Yes! Cody keeps his I have totally of shots we're going I think we all have, Doris. All right, down to his gets him through. Trying to bulldoze Look at this. Yes! There's my man! I'm feeling like a Derrick Henry level hit. I really did. I think I absorbed Unbelievable. What do you think, Spark? How do you feel about my man? I like Coby's chances. Coby trying to use Oh and he threw up a desperation Oh man, he's hurting. He got stuck hard. I'm totally fine. See if he can deliver Oh, he tried getting Smart, smart kid. Shot on goal. All checked in. A little stutter step Thank you. What's the rule? What? No! That's not down! Ruling on the I'd like to review this Looking back at the does manage to keep that right Plus, I am a big team Coby guy, And obviously a lot of gray Rules can be made but after review, we've In terms of competitive that's really maybe slightly Thank you, Doris. I don't think you're far Go get 'em. Thank you. Two-one team, battle Look at the speed! He threw it hard off the glass. Check the scouting report! And he shot from distance! Let's go! Ty, good move. Uses the boundary, a layup. It's good. This is a matchup here, Doris. Expect much of the same, and he showboats it. He showboated it. The stiff arm is a very as I've learned today. So Cory, how's your It's kind of like with a prescription We're trying to break him down. No sirry. That's an easy takedown. That's his brother, he Tail to tape says this would be This is a tough made-up sport. All right, we're in So we're going to a playoff. So how we're going to do this wherefore progress is stopped, Uncontested shots. We need them. We need them bad. The playoff to go into Garrett using aggressiveness. He gets pulled Yeah well done, Gar! Cor playing for his sports Here good wrap That's a bucket. If Cory misses this shot of the competition. Here we go! Get out of here. Here we go! Absolutely devastating loss. On the bright side, I guess That's a good point. I don't think you could No, I'm not sure I And don't worry, Cory will He's going to make a He's got work to do. Good to know. Headed to round two! Back at it for round two of Go-kart paintball. If you can believe that. Two will be eliminated. Two will be eliminated, Two will advance. We'll find out who they are. You want to survive and No, no, no, really Um, I think just aim down Think Ty's my threat Tyler's the threat. I'm looking for Driving and shooting at the same Wouldn't be the first. Oh no! Keep reminding people you are I can just say thank God. Absolutely I am coming off win in our recent fishing video. Back-to-back victories. That's what's at stake today. Right. If I survive and advance, Good luck. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1-- About to get you Codes! Aggressive move by Coby. I got two, I got two. Look out, Gary. I'm coming for ya! Easy. He got fired on fast. Tyler is in a great position Right now he is-- there it is. And you're done! Dang it! He took out two, See ya. And we have two with Yes. Great driving by Tyler to get Coby sticking to his game plan Fun fact he didn't actually until the age of 19. I got Gar. Garrett is down to one. Fired on by Ty. And Ty just-- Ty just took Garrett out. Wow. He got behind Garrett and was Boom boom, takes out two Now two left and boom! Tyler! Oh my gosh! Tyler just crushed it. So it's Tyler and Coby through. Tyler will get the to go first or second Impressive driving and Let's go! Finale Bros! So Coby, he's got an Well. Your strategy was brilliant. Tell me again you-- Drive to survive. Luckily we're in 'ale Bros. We've been there many times. He's come out on I would almost say you're in the finale. I agree with that. You know? I agree with that. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Ty and Coby. Well congrats. You're off to the final. UFC Golf. Back at it for the final Doris. We have UFC golf. It's Ty, it's Coby. I don't know how often these but you love Coby's Obviously you've got how do you overcome it? Well, I wouldn't say obviously I had a pretty big breakfast. I mean you can't go I would say I am a little bit. But the competitive spirit of How do you avoid Well, I think you just got Somebody's going to Happy OK. Minute rounds. What if they get sparring? I'm going to give him a good you and if we're still then I guess I will stand and we'll go back at it. Listen you be careful because I might have it come-- Easy, Doris, easy. Just like Doris said, I was appearance in round three. I'm now the ring It's show time the finale gets under way in three, A good block early on, And now they're off. Oh Coby lost his shoe he blew Ty! Grippin and rippin! Oh goodness my conditioning And a wipe out! Ty loses his shoe. Ty trucking. Changes direction And now there's a Coby down. A little kicking, Now off to the races. Ty! 5 seconds left in round! 3, 2, 1-- I'll get him with Piped it. I'm exhausted. Round two. He's got a good If he can get a step on Coby. We'll see how round two All right off, seven iron. And he chips it along. Coby trying to fend him off, a take down. Coby again, with the aggressive Under size, but don't Ty. Kicking and screaming. He's got him in an arm bar. Ty trying to advance the ball. He's a yard out and can't Three Mississ-- Here we go. He's got separation. Ty, a good chip up to the green. He's on the green! I need oxygen. He's got about a Coby making a late push. Now they're on the green. Now they're on the green. Five seconds. Three, two, one. Ty did get it off! Oh! A good roll, Ty In a search for oxygen, All fours, fetal position. He lost his shoe here. I got you. Here. Hey, we're good. Smelling salts? Oh it's too strong. We forgot the water, but here You don't got the Don't got any water! Cory gives us the card. It's round three to post a really good time here. Ty. He shorted it. He got a little quick with it. They're battling. Ty taking shots on the green. With the putt, that Boy, the back end twice A strong effort with Coby a He's just got to tap it in. Knocks him down and he puts A beautiful finish. What a play. Ty officially in with the time And now Coby's got to He's got 150 or to gather your breath. Any way I could Maybe just hitch a ride? Come right on. My gosh, thank you, Doris. Can I get one? The second participant Coby, time to beat Coby goes in three, two, one-- and they're off. Coby gets a ground ball. He takes a shot. Right to the back. Gets up on his feet, a and now he's off to the Thinking about his-- Oh! A lethal shot! Half shoulder He is just pummeling Stand him up, stand Here we go. Coby back up, takes a And now he's reassessing, want to make this final?&quot; He's trapped. He can't get to his ball. It's right here on the He tries to go low, A rib shot, a rib Tried the leg-wrapper. Doesn't work. Oh and an additional shot. Let's break this up. Coby gets trampled, As he gets stampeded. The golfer's only hope of the ball with enough time to Otherwise I think Coby is toast. A little stumble And a big shot from behind. Coby keeps his balance. And now with some he'll make a run at it. Round two carries on. In the fetal position Go figure. And that's the end of round two. Oh and Ty letting The physicality is legit. Stamina is low with that man. Coby's going to have to muster as he's 24.66 seconds and watching its finale Pulling one right Gone but not forgotten. Thank you for your work, Round three got to get about 170 yards out. Here we go live in 3, 2, 1. Thank you guys. Thanks for watching. Appreciate it. Ty. Ty staying back. Coby you've got a shot here. Tough to watch. Appreciate it. You guys can bring You're by yourself, He lines up a 7 iron, smokes it, Oh! He's going to be a little And that is it. Thank you. Coby he absolutely pummeled you.