This is the image that Gucci would like to project. Gucci doesn't belong in a mall. It belongs in a museum. I could have my Gucci on With your Gucci bag crew Gucci, Gucci, Gucci, please Gucci, Gucci, please Gucci is that brand they wanna live larger than life, and be sexy, and be adventurous, But behind the scenes, things have been a bit less glamorous. Still in shock from Gucci sales falling 20% in Asia. A steep drop in sales at Clearly, Gucci isn't So how did Gucci and the $50 billion fall from high fashion While Gucci is an icon of Italian fashion, it's been owned by the for the past two decades. Kering is a luxury conglomerate that is controlled by the Pinault family. Even though it is an established They have other storied brands and Bottega Veneta, and Balenciaga. Gucci is really the Kering was founded by Francois Pinault, who built the company through acquisitions over several decades. He's now 87. And his son, Francois-Henri, He's well known because he hangs out quite a lot on the red carpets. His wife is Salma Hayek, Now Kering's big rival is LVMH, the owner of Louis Vuitton and That company is run by Bernard Arnault. So there's a duopoly in with LVMH under Arnault on one side, and Kering under Pinault on the other. That rivalry really came when Arnault had set his sights on acquiring Gucci for LVMH. And that was the point when Tom Ford and Domenico de Sole were running And they didn't want And they ended up signing an agreement with Francois Pinault, the father, who was the white knight who came in. So initially, they bought And eventually they bought the rest of it after a lot of acrimonious During that era, Kering was about the same size as LVMH. In the years since, they've With savvy deal making and management, LVMH's value has soared to 450 billion. While Kering's hasn't LVMH's market cap nowadays is about 10 times bigger than Kering's. Kering is very dependent on Gucci. Basically, about 50% of but more than 2/3 of operating So when Gucci is suffering, the whole company is suffering. At LVMH, it's slightly different. Louis Vuitton generates about but it's about half of The fact that LVMH is less provides more stability. Even so, Gucci and therefore Kering, has had a few successful years. And that was largely down to In the years that followed the nomination of Alessandro Michele as in 2015, the label did They kept putting out hit products. There was the Marmont bag in 2016, for instance, and the Dionysus bag. And the Princetown The furry slippers really They really resonated well They were bohemian, they were maximalist, and they were chic. And during that time, the market cap of Kering actually quadrupled. Sales at Gucci more than tripled. But being a top fashion brand comes with problems. Finding that right balance to stay on top, and yet it's very difficult to hit. And it's very difficult to The fashion retail Lyst publishes rankings on the And Gucci has fallen down the rankings. Since 2022, the performance at Gucci, and therefore Kering, has really suffered. Sales have missed a number of times, and the stock price has really tumbled. The success of Louis Vuitton has meanwhile helped turn Bernard Arnault into, at times, the richest And his was a very different strategy. So I mean, in some ways Louis Vuitton has a more classic image and positioning. LVMH has been at this longer. They are really total pros in this game. There's a difference In fashion, for instance, Whereas in luxury, you rely on timeless, on heritage products that basically stand the test of time. That's what differentiates top tier luxury brands such as A typical luxury product, for instance, is the Birkin bag by Hermes, And that is still very much sought after. You know, one single bag can With some of Michele's products, Gucci may have missed an opportunity. According to company insiders, these products like the furry or the Dionysus, they could have become one of those heritage, timeless products. But they didn't. And the mistake was that many variations of these products. They were overexposed somehow. This was a reflection of basically trying to maximize sales and profits in the short term. This is reflected in the For every dollar of profit investors give it about $24 of value. For every dollar of profit at Kering, they only give it about $15. That's because they're LVMH's future business prospects, because it isn't quite as vulnerable to the whims of fashion. So Pinault knows that to play more in the most So in February, at the annual results, he says they're trying to and put it in the same category as some of its peers, like But the thing is, he's been Some observers place the blame on Pinault himself. At LVMH, for the most critical and most important decisions, they're taken by Bernard Arnault himself. At Kering, the management People have described as being a little bit more laissez faire, and as giving the brands more autonomy. Critics cite the 2022 Balenciaga scandal as evidence of this. The brand had to apologize was accused of sexualizing children. Still, in 2023, Pinault found In 2023, the Pinault family in Creative Artist Agency. According to some luxury observers, that was seen as a distraction Gucci parted ways with Michele in 2022 over a difference in creative vision. And a few months later, in early 2023, they named a new He was a relatively unknown At first, his designs seemed more staid than Michele's, playing to elevate the brand. So Pinault wants Gucci basically to become a true luxury player. However, making that pivot takes time. It's a marathon, at the end of the day. It's not a sprint.