I'm going to give you I'm going to cover at the end about how a company called Silk how an artist named Jeff Koons to making a whole bunch of money to how Frank Gehry redefined And one of my biggest failures a record label I started Before I can do that and a guy named Otto Rohwedder. Now, before sliced bread I wonder what they said? Like the greatest invention But this guy named Otto Rohwedder and he focused, like most inventors did, And the thing about the invention that for the first 15 years no one bought it; no one knew about it; it was a complete and total failure. And the reason and figured out how to spread no one wanted it. That the success of sliced bread, like the success of almost everything is not always about what the patent it's about can you get And I think that the way or cause the change that you want is to figure out a way And it doesn't matter to me or you're an intellectual, or you're flying hot air balloons. I think that all this stuff applies That what we are living in That people who can spread ideas, When I talk about it because they make the best pictures and because it's the easiest But I want you to forgive me because I'm talking about anything At the heart of spreading ideas TV and mass media made it really easy I call it the &quot;TV-industrial complex.&quot; The way the TV-industrial complex works, interrupt some people, You use the distribution you get You take the profit And it goes around and around and around, the same way that the military-industrial That model of, if we could only get if we could only figure out or grab that person by the throat, and tell them about what we want to do. If we did that then everyone would pay Well, this TV-industrial complex informed I mean, all of these products succeeded how to touch people in a way in a way they didn't over and over again until they bought it. And the thing that's happened is, That just over the last few years, what anybody who markets is that it's not working This picture is really fuzzy, I apologize; (Laughter) But the product in the blue box I go to the deli; I'm sick; The brand manager for that blue product trying to interrupt me in one year. 100 million dollars interrupting me and magazine ads and Spam and coupons and shelving all so I could ignore And I ignored every message because I don't have I buy the stuff in the yellow box And I'm not going to invest a minute because I don't care. Here's a magazine called &quot;Hydrate.&quot; (Laughter) Articles about water, ads about water. Imagine what the world with just the Saturday Evening Post Now there are magazines about water. New product from Coke Japan: water salad. (Laughter) Coke Japan comes out because they have no idea I couldn't have written It came out four days ago -- I circled the important parts They've come out... Arby's is going to spend with the voice of Tom Arnold, hoping that that will get people to go (Laughter) Now, I had tried to imagine what could featuring Tom Arnold, drive across town (Laughter) Now, this is Copernicus, and he was right, when he was talking to anyone &quot;The world revolves around me.&quot; Me, me, me, me. My favorite person -- me. I don't want to get email (Laughter) So consumers, and I don't just mean I mean people at the Defense Department or people at, you know, the New Yorker Consumers don't care about you Part of the reason is -- they've got and way less time. And in a world where we have the obvious thing to do And my parable here and you see a cow, and you keep driving Cows are invisible. Cows are boring. Who's going to stop and pull over Nobody. (Laughter) But if the cow was purple -- I could do that again if you want. If the cow was purple, I mean, if all cows were purple The thing that's going to decide what gets done, what gets changed, what gets purchased, what gets built, is: &quot;Is it remarkable?&quot; And &quot;remarkable&quot; is a really cool word, because we think it just means &quot;neat,&quot; but it also means And that is the essence That two of the hottest cars is a 55,000-dollar giant car, big enough to hold a Mini in its trunk. People are paying full price for both, and the only thing they have in common is that they don't have (Laughter) Every week, the number one It's never &quot;The Godfather,&quot; it's always some third-rate movie But the reason it's number one Because it's new, because it's fresh. People saw it and said and they noticed it. Two of the big success stories one sells things that are and one sells things that are The only thing they have in common We're now in the fashion business, we're in the fashion business. And people in the fashion business know what it's like to be in the fashion The rest of us have to figure out How to understand that it's not about interrupting or insisting on meetings with people. But it's a totally different that determines which ideas spread, They sold a billion dollars' by reinventing They turned a chair from something to something that was a status symbol This guy, Lionel Poilane, he died two and a half months ago, and he was a hero of mine He lived in Paris. Last year, he sold 10 million dollars' Every loaf baked in a bakery he owned, by one baker at a time, And when Lionel started his bakery, They didn't want to buy his bread. It didn't look like &quot;French bread.&quot; It wasn't what they expected. It was neat; it was remarkable; and slowly, it spread until finally, it became the official Now he's in London, and he ships What marketers used to do is make That's what mass marketing is. Smooth out the edges; go for the center; They would ignore the geeks, It was all about going for the center. But in a world where I don't think that's a strategy I think the strategy we want to use because they're really good But market to these These are the people And when you talk to them, they'll listen, because they like listening -- And if you're lucky, they'll tell and it'll spread. It'll spread to the entire curve. They have something I call &quot;otaku&quot; -- It describes the desire drive across Tokyo to try because that's what they do: To make a product, to market an idea, to come up with any problem that doesn't have is almost impossible. Instead, you have to find about what it is you have to say. Talk to them and make it easy There's a hot sauce otaku, That's why there's lots and lots and not so many kinds of mustard. Not because it's hard you could make interesting mustard -- but people don't, and thus no one tells their friends. Krispy Kreme has figured It has a strategy, and what they do is, they enter a city, they talk and then they spread through the city to the people who've just This yoyo right here cost 112 dollars, Not everybody wants it They want to talk to the people These guys make the loudest (Laughter) It's as loud as a 747 jet. You can't get in, because it'll blow out But the fact remains that when someone wants to put if they've got the otaku they go ahead and they pick this. It's really simple -- you sell and just maybe, So when Steve Jobs talks who are all tuned in from 130 countries watching his two-hour commercial -- that's the only thing keeping it's that those 50,000 people to watch a two-hour commercial, Pearl Jam, 96 albums released Every one made a profit. How? They only sell them on their website. Those people who buy them have the otaku, and then they tell their friends, This hospital crib cost 10,000 dollars, But hospitals are buying it Hard Candy nail polish, but to the people who love it, This paint can right here saved making them a fortune. It costs 35 percent more because Dutch Boy made a can that people They didn't just slap they changed what it meant AmIhotornot.com -- everyday run by two volunteers, and I can (Laughter) They didn't get this way They got this way by being remarkable, sometimes a little too remarkable. And this picture frame and you plug it into the wall. My father has this on his desk, and he sees his grandchildren And every single person hears the whole story And one person at a time, These are not diamonds, not really. They're made from &quot;cremains.&quot; After you're cremated you can (Laughter) Oh, you like my ring? It's my grandmother. (Laughter) Fastest-growing business But you don't have to be Ozzie Osborne -- you don't have to be What you have to do is figure out what people A couple of quick rules to wrap up. The first one is: Design The people who come up more often than not figure out Number two: The riskiest thing Proctor and Gamble knows this, right? The whole model of being is always about average products That's risky. The safe thing to do now be remarkable. And being very good is one Very good is boring. Very good is average. It doesn't matter whether or you're an architect, If it's very good, it's not going to work, So my three stories. Silk put a product that does not need next to the milk Sales tripled. Why? Milk, milk, milk, milk, milk -- not milk. For the people who were there it was remarkable. They didn't triple their sales they tripled it by doing That is a remarkable piece of art. You don't have to like it, but a 40-foot tall dog made out of bushes is remarkable. (Laughter) Frank Gehry didn't just change a museum; he changed an entire city's economy by designing one building that people Now, at countless meetings at, you know, the Portland City Council, they said, we need an architect -- Because he did something And my big failure? (Music) A record album and hopefully in SACD, this remarkable new format -- and I marketed it straight to people People with 20,000-dollar stereos (Laughter) So what you need to do Who is going to raise their hand and say, &quot;I want to hear what you're doing next,&quot; and sell something to them. The last example I want to give you. This is a map of Soap Lake, Washington. As you can see, if that's nowhere, (Laughter) But they do have a lake. And people used to come from miles They don't anymore. So the founding fathers said, What can we build here?&quot; And like most committees, they were going to build And then an artist came to them -- he wants to build a 55-foot tall That's a purple cow; I don't know about you, but if they build it, Thank you very much for your attention.