narrator: Have you ever looked at the sky with a fluffy, white cloud thing Well, that thing And they're actually responsible of global warming. So the question is, can we get rid of them? Contrails, short for condensation trails, because they're created by planes flying typically at least five miles Carl: When the plane flies through areas that are known the soot from the exhaust can sometimes and form ice. Juliet: Most of these contrails dissipate But for a very small fraction of flights, And when they spread out, especially they trap heat So surprisingly, for about 35% of the environmental impact But planes don't necessarily have Erica: You can't fly without burning fuel. But you can fly Just avoid the super humid regions narrator: who are seemingly obsessed with contrails, they're researchers which looks for ways that AI tackle climate change. Juliet: Carl on our team read a paper and said, is there something narrator: Carl? Carl: Yeah, yeah, that's me. I'm the one who's making So the paper basically said, all you really have to do of a small fraction of all flights away from regions And I read this, and I said, okay, This can potentially get done. But it was soon realized, this is a bigger We're not aviation experts. We're going to need help. Steven: Contrails have been In my own case, I've been working I'm really excited about the potential for machine learning Integrating these new much more rapid progress Scott: There's the weather database, There's the flight database, There's the satellites' data. But getting big databases together is Contrail prediction is actually because weather forecasts don't do predicting humidity that high up. So we're taking using image recognition Erica: but we now have the compute ability and make sense of this incredible dataset. Kind of like machine learning algorithms or pick out a cappuccino in your photos. Carl: But detecting contrails is harder because they look So before we could train the algorithm, we had to teach ourselves And then we basically put together [pensive music] Kevin: It's quite difficult Erica: It takes a little bit of practice. Scott: Kevin: Natural cirrus kind of looks narrator: The team and other people tracing the outlines of thousands all to create a dataset so the machine learning algorithm could Carl: So right now, we've built a demo where contrails are going to be. Scott: look, planes flying at this altitude will so let's not fly any planes through there. Dinesh: but to really prove you just need to do it in the real world, actually moving real planes, So that's when we actually reached out in the world. John: When Google approached us my first thought was, we're gonna do what? But after looking at we decided, let's go ahead and fly. For our demonstration flights, and then we can determine or descend a little bit lower. Deborah: The contrail avoidance, We already change altitudes pretty often so this is completely similar. In the future, it could change and I think that is incredible. Dinesh: are really the first step. But there are gonna be like, can we do this at scale? How do we work with air traffic control? And the new science has shown by a nighttime contrail can be than daytime contrails, so how do we target the ones Juliet: As we continue it will take so many people's efforts Steven: we really want to just move Scott: The great thing about which you can roll out now. You know, you could change You could change the way But that's gonna take a really long time. No one's gonna throw out Steven: The longer we wait, We have a duty to future generations I think there is now emerging Kevin: I see contrails all the time now. Erica: I see them everywhere. Steven: It's one of those things that, you can't unsee them. Carl: Now I see them all the time, &quot;Dad, there's a contrail! Get rid of it!&quot;