Humans arrived in modern-day Korea tens of thousands of years ago. Numerous Paleolithic sites had emerged throughout central and southern Korea by 30,000 BCE. The inhabitants of these cultures lived in small villages of wooden huts and pithouses, and were semi-sedentary. About 10,000 years ago, the Neolithic Jeulmun pottery culture emerged on Jeju Island and southeastern Korea. The culture is named after its pottery, characterized by cord markings. The Jeulmun culture features some of the oldest pottery in the world, along with China, Japan, and Siberia. The Jeulmun pottery culture continued to spread along the southern Korean coast, entering its Early phase by 6000 BCE. Its inhabitants were fishers and hunter-gatherers, as evidenced by the abundance of middens, and lived in semi-permanent settlements of pithouses. Millet agriculture was introduced from China in 3500 BCE, but Jeulmun society remained primarily hunter-gatherer. Linguists Robbeets et al. (2017, 21) argue that millet was introduced by proto-Koreanic speakers from Northeast China, a heavily criticized conclusion (Kim 2020, Ting et al. 2022). By 2000 BCE, the Jeulmun pottery culture had spread inland to cover all of southern Korea. Agriculture became more important as settlements moved away from the coast. Meanwhile, legend holds that Gojoseon, the first Korean kingdom, was founded in 2333 BCE further north. Rice-farming migrants from Northeast China took over Korea circa 1300 BCE. These Mumun people made patternless pottery, after which they are named, and built megalithic burials called dolmens. The Mumuns likely spoke the proto-Japonic language (Whitman, 2011). The Liaoning bronze dagger culture emerged in Northeast China and North Korea circa 1000 BCE. This culture was likely populated by speakers of the proto-Koreanic language (Whitman, 2011). One of the centers of this culture, near Chaoyang, is sometimes identified with Gojoseon. In the middle of the 9th century BCE, the Mumuns of the southwest took advantage of the marshy local landscape to develop wet-rice agriculture, forming a distinct Songgukri culture. Wet-rice agriculture took longer to take root in the rest of Korea due to its mountainous terrain (Kim, 2020). Southern Korea began to produce its own bronze by the end of the 7th century BCE. In the north, the political center of Gojoseon appears to have shifted eastward, near the modern-day city of Shenyang. Gojoseon traded with the Chinese state of Qi across the Bohai Strait. Meanwhile, the Mumuns of Songgukri migrated to Japan, where they intermixed with the indigenous Jomon people to give rise to the Yayoi and, eventually, Yamato (Japanese) peoples (de Boer et al., 2020). The migration began between 950 and 600 BCE, and ended circa 400 BCE. By the 4th century BCE, Gojoseon had become a confederation of many Koreanic tribes across northern Korea and Northeast China. Its leader used the Chinese title of hou, equivalent to marquess. To the south were Jinbeon, Imdun, and the mysterious Jin State. Circa 300 BCE, the Chinese state of Yan invaded and defeated Gojoseon. Gojoseon was pushed to the south of the Chongchon River, relocating its capital to Wanggeom Fortress, just south of modern Pyongyang. Many Korean speakers migrated into Jin, bringing slender bronze daggers. By the mid-3rd century BCE, the Koreanic Yemaek people had emerged in northern and central Korea, as well as Northeast China. The Yemaek were made up of the Ye and Maek branches. Records also tell of a mysterious kingdom named Gori by the Songhua River up north. Gojoseon later recovered some of its former lands thanks to unrest in China; China was unified under the imperial Qin dynasty in 221 BCE, only to fracture again in 206 BCE before being reunified by the Han dynasty in 202 BCE. In 195 BCE, general Wi Man of Yan led 1,000 refugees into Gojoseon. King Jun of Gojoseon welcomed Wi Man and had him guard the western frontier. In the following year, however, Wi Man staged a coup and established a new dynasty, known to historians as Wiman Joseon. Traditional accounts state that Jun fled south and founded the state of Mahan. Wi Man adopted local customs, such as putting his hair up in a sangtu bun, and used iron technology to defeat neighbors and strengthen royal authority. Meanwhile, King Jun's Mahan state is sometimes identified with the southern statelet of Geonma, which would later become part of the historical Mahan. Gojoseon became a center of commerce between Han China and the people of Jin under the Wiman dynasty. Han grew worried of Gojoseon's position when Gojoseon prevented Jin from directly sending tribute to Han, especially with the looming threat of the nomadic Xiongnu of the north. The Han dynasty under Emperor Wu invaded Gojoseon in 109 BCE; the kingdom collapsed in the following year in part due to infighting, and the Four Commanderies of Han were established in their place. The geopolitical unrest led to the establishment of Mahan, Jinhan, and Byeonhan in the south. Collectively known as Samhan, or the Three Hans, the southern entities ranged from confederacies to mere cultural groupings. Mahan was led by the powerful Mokji State, while Jinhan and Byeonhan were more loosely organized. The latter two were also virtually identical in language and custom. Traditional accounts state that Gojoseon refugees became the Six Tribes of Jinhan in the southeast, eventually forming Saro State under King Hyeokgeose in 57 BCE. Though Saro, also known as Silla, was probably established much later, there is archaeological evidence for a Gojoseon origin. Meanwhile, in the north, a confederation of local tribes known as Goguryeo emerged in 37 BCE. Goguryeo's first king, Dongmyeong, was allegedly an exiled prince of Buyeo. Archaeological evidence shows a continuity between the burial practices of Buyeo and Goguryeo, suggesting a real connection. Onjo, a son of Dongmyeong and his second wife Soseono, is said to have established Baekje near modern-day Seoul in 18 BCE. However, there is little archaeological support for this account; Baekje was probably founded in the 3rd century by a Goguryoan elite who subjugated local Mahanese. Besides Goguryeo, Baekje, and Silla, which comprise the traditional Three Kingdoms of Korea, the maritime states of Juho and Usan occupied Jeju and Ulleung Islands respectively. Meanwhile, Byeonhan slowly transitioned into Gaya under the leadership of Guya State, located in modern-day Gimhae. Iron became crucial in Korea after the fall of Gojoseon. The name of Silla's capital city, Seorabeol, likely meant "iron field." Gaya also grew wealthy by exporting iron to its neighbors, including Wa Japan. In fact, Japanese records suggest that Guya called itself the "land of iron," or soe-nara. The early history of Goguryeo can be discussed with a greater degree of certainty than those of the southern states. By the early 2nd century, Goguryeo had grown from a mere confederation of its initial Five Tribes to a hereditary monarchy. Still, the nobility retained significant power. Each of Goguryeo's Five Tribes were represented in the Jega council; the suffix -ga is found in Goguryeo and Buyeo noble titles. As Goguryeo absorbed neighboring statelets, their leaders were integrated into the nobility, with some even joining the royal family with the high title of gochuga. By the 3rd century, the last vestiges of the old tribal system were fading. The Five Tribes became administrative divisions rather than political groups, and members of the Jega became noble government officials in service of the king. The council was disbanded entirely during the 4th century. On the other hand, Baekje's existence can be verified by the early 3rd century due to the appearance of Goguryeo-style burials near Seoul. King Goi came to power in 234. Goi took the leadership of Mahan from Mokji State by unifying the Han River Valley and attacking China's Daifang Commandery. Meanwhile, Goguryeo was nearly destroyed by the Chinese Cao Wei dynasty in the 240s. While Goguryeo reeled from the sacking of its capital, Buyeo was overrun by the Murong Xianbei, a para-Mongolic clan from the west. This event led to the splitting of Buyeo into North and East. Goguryeo fully recovered from its defeat by Wei under King Micheon, who conquered all of the Chinese outposts in Korea by 314. With this, Goguryeo gained the important city of Pyongyang, the old capital of Gojoseon. At the same time, the loss of contact with China was an economic blow to Gaya. The 4th century saw an increasing rivalry between Goguryeo and Baekje. They both accepted Buddhism and increased royal power via various reforms. King Geunchogo of Baekje defeated Goguryeo in 371; King Sosurim of Goguryeo then stabilized his kingdom with a new legal system. Baekje also formed a strong alliance with Wa Japan, but this did little to help when Goguryeo, under King Gwanggaeto, invaded in 396. When Baekje broke the terms of surrender and invaded Silla with Gaya and Wa in 400, Goguryeo crushed the alliance and made Silla its protectorate. Goguryeo grew greatly in size under Gwanggaeto, gaining the important Liaodong Peninsula from the Murong Xianbei. Meanwhile, Guya State, already on the decline since Goguryeo destroyed the Chinese outposts, lost its leadership of Gaya to Banpa State after the failed invasion of Silla. Under Banpa, Gaya grew into more of a true confederacy as opposed to the loose alliance it had been under Guya. Banpa's economy was also more agrarian. Its main threat was still Goguryeo, which expressed its intent for southward expansion by moving its capital south to Taesong, in modern-day Pyongyang. Goguryeo reached the height of its power in the 5th century under King Jangsu, who took the Han River Valley from Baekje and forced Baekje to relocate south. The Baekje court struggled to limit the power of local nobles, as many of the old Mahan institutions remained in place. Baekje slowly rebuilt its power in the late 5th and early 6th centuries, subjugating the kingdom of Tamna on Jeju Island. Under King Seong, Baekje moved its capital, fully unified Mahan, and caused the decline of Banpa. Anna State, the new leader of Gaya, fell under the Baekje sphere of influence. King Seong renamed his kingdom Southern Buyeo and sought revenge against Goguryeo through an alliance with Silla. The Baekje-Silla alliance managed to recover the Han River Valley, but Seong was betrayed and killed by King Jinheung of Silla, who absorbed Baekje's gains and destroyed Gaya. The Han River offered more agricultural production and easier access to China for Silla, which had quickly developed in the early 6th century. Like Goguryeo, Silla had adopted Buddhism and a uniform legal system. Meanwhile, China was reunified by the Sui dynasty in 589 after centuries of division. Sui's multiple failed invasions of Goguryeo led to its bankruptcy and collapse, but the subsequent Tang dynasty was far more formidable. Silla, which had been training a group of elite noble warriors called Hwarang, forged an alliance with Tang as it weathered attacks by Baekje's aggressive King Uija. In 642, Goguryeo general Yeon Gaesomun staged a coup and gained control via a puppet king. Yeon viewed Tang as a serious threat, and his rise to power provoked war. After repelling Tang twice, Goguryeo finally fell in 668, eight years after Tang and Silla had already destroyed Baekje. Tang had ambitions to also conquer the new Unified Silla, but was forced out of Korea by Silla in 676. Then, in 698, Goguryoan refugees and some Tungusic Mohe, who were allies and subjects of Goguryeo, formed the new kingdom of Balhae. This ushered in the North and South States period. Silla enjoyed an unprecedented degree of stability and prosperity in the century following unification. Its Buddhist culture flourished, its ports became centers of commerce in the East China Sea, and it perfected the idu system of using Chinese characters to accurately transcribe Old Korean. By the late 8th century, however, Silla showed signs of decline. Its class system had always been heavily stratified due to the process of integrating various Jinhan leaders, and this rigid bone-rank system caused much discontent among lower-ranking nobles. Royal authority was threatened. Similarly, though its territory was larger, Balhae was never able to replicate the strength and stability of its predecessor, Goguryeo. Not only was the Goguryoan elite a small minority compared to the Mohe population, the Mohe themselves were divided into many tribes and clans. Both kingdoms underwent a revival in the early 9th century, but it was not enough to prevent their eventual collapse. Balhae reached its maximum territorial extent under King Seon, while the warlord Jang Bogo protected Silla's maritime interests against piracy from his base in Cheonghaejin. Jang was of a humble background, and thus in defiance of the bone-rank system. Though he ultimately perished in conflict with the court and traditional nobles, his rise offered a hint of what was to come. By the mid-9th century, regional noble clans known as hojok emerged; they soon openly rebelled. The time of hojok rebellion in Silla is now known as the Later Three Kingdoms period, as the two most powerful hojok forces, Later Baekje and Taebong, claimed to succeed Baekje and Goguryeo respectively. Taebong was overthrown in 918 by the hojok Wang Geon, who established Goryeo. Goryeo had been the most common name for Goguryeo since the mid-5th century, so Wang saw his new kingdom as a continuation of the old. In 926, the Khitans, descendants of the Xianbei, destroyed Balhae, and Goryeo welcomed its refugees as relatives. Goryeo then reunified Korea in 936. In order to reunify Korea in such a short amount of time, Goryeo had to collaborate with many hojok and allow them to remain in power locally. This threatened Goryeo's overall stability. King Gwangjong attempted to strengthen royal authority by purging hojok and freeing some nobi, or serfs. Gwangjong's reforms suppressed the traditional hojok, but a new class of powerful nobles soon replaced them. In the mid-10th century, Goryeo adopted China's civil service examination system to allow all free men to enter the government, and thus become nobles, by merit. Although it was encouraged that each new generation pass the examination, noble status was largely hereditary. Those who passed the literary exam (munban) were far more respected than those who passed the martial exam (muban); thus, a new class of civilian nobles was born. The 11th century was a time of prosperity for the Goryeo dynasty. Militarily, Goryeo repelled the Khitans and subjugated the Eastern Jurchens, perhaps descendants of a Mohe tribe. Buddhism continued to flourish: the first Tripitaka Koreana, a monumental Buddhist compilation, was finished in 1087. The 12th century saw the maturation of Goryeo's elegant celadon porcelain tradition. In 1145, Samguk Sagi, the oldest surviving chronicle of Korean history, was completed. It was a compilation of older, now-lost texts, mainly about the Three Kingdoms. The kingdom also grew rich from commerce. However, Goryeo's apparent prosperity was not without consequences. A Report on Goryeo, a 1123 travel report by a Chinese Song dynasty official, suggests that there was an extreme gap in wealth between the rich and poor. The military nobles also grew discontent with the civilian nobles' dominance. In 1170, a group of military nobles led by Yi Go, Yi Ui-bang, and Jeong Jung-bu seized control of the government in a coup. They ousted the literary nobles and established a military government. After years of bloody infighting, the regime was stabilized, for a time, under the Choe dynasty. The Choe dictators reduced the king to their puppet and imposed brutal rule through the Directory of Corrections. Enormous plots of land, at the prefecture or commandery levels, were seized by military nobles. This semi-feudal practice triggered large and frequent peasant and nobi revolts. In 1231, the rapidly-expanding Mongol Empire invaded Goryeo. The military regime relocated from the capital of Kaegyong to Ganghwa Island and resisted the invasion, but Goryeo was already bankrupt due to decades of incompetent and corrupt rule. Goryeo capitulated in 1270. The Mongols made Goryeo their vassal, restored the royal family, and brought the capital back to Kaegyong. The last of the military regime was crushed with the failed Sambyeolcho rebellion of 1270-1273. In 1271, the Mongols established the Yuan dynasty, claiming legitimacy in China. Goryeo was subject to severe exploitation under Yuan rule. Precious metals, herbs, and captives were routinely taken by Yuan as tribute, while Mongol customs, including Mongolian personal names, were imposed. Meanwhile, some military nobles returned to power as the gwonmun sejok. While the gwonmun sejok were once thought to have been Yuan collaborators, this is now controversial. Regardless, they were just as corrupt and ruthless as their predecessors. In 1356, King Gongmin overthrew the Mongols and attempted sweeping reforms, including suppressing the gwonmun sejok. However, resistance from the gwonmun sejok, as well as invasions by China's Red Turbans and Japanese pirates, halted these reforms. Goryeo appeared to be beyond repair. In 1388, general Yi Seong-gye seized control of the government in a coup, and ultimately decided to found a new dynasty in 1392. The new Joseon dynasty criticized Buddhism's afterlife as a distraction and the corruption of its monasteries, adopting Neo-Confucianism as its state ideology. Joseon also moved the capital down to Hanseong, today's Seoul. Yi's friend and adviser Jeong Do-jeon was the new regime's chief architect. Jeong wanted Joseon to be led by a qualified chancellor, while Yi's fifth son Bang-won wanted an absolute monarchy. Bang-won became King Taejong through two coups in 1400 and carried out his vision. His son Sejong invented Hangul, the Korean alphabet, and completed Korea's modern territory. In Joseon, the munban and muban were combined into the yangban, who would lose their status if they failed the civil examination for three generations. While anyone could become a yangban, the system was hereditary in practice, as only established yangban had the resources to prepare for the exam. Buddhist monks lost their high status from the Goryeo period, as did merchants as Joseon abandoned commerce for agriculture. The nobi serfs remained in place, while dispossessed peasants from the late Goryeo period became a new class of baekjeong untouchables. Still, some social developments allowed for fluidity. The invention of Hangul, for example, allowed women, who had previously had little access to learning Chinese characters, to write. Cookbooks written in Hangul by Joseon women provide crucial insight into the language and culinary culture of the time. Joseon enjoyed a long period of relative peace for its first two centuries. This changed in 1592, when a newly reunified Japan invaded. A million Koreans died in this seven-year Imjin War before Ming Chinese aid and the exploits of admiral Yi Sun-sin pushed back the Japanese. Joseon had scarcely had time to recover from this disaster when it was crushed by the Manchus, a subgroup of the Jurchens. The Manchus' Qing dynasty went on to conquer Ming, similarly weakened by the war. This was shocking to the Koreans, who had considered the Jurchens to be "barbarians." The kingdom was also undergoing internal changes. Early Joseon had been dominated by the Gwanhak faction, who sought a balance between royal and bureaucrat authority. In 1455, the Hungu faction, who supported King Sejo's absolutism, seized power. Hungu remained in power until 1575. A new faction, Sarim, came to power. It descended from Confucian scholars who had opposed Yi Seong-gye's revolution. Once in power, its members tried to realize an ideal neo-Confucian society. However, debates over neo-Confucian doctrine immediately split Sarim into subfactions, or bungdang. While the bungdang initially produced healthy political debate, the focus soon shifted away from actual governance. King Yeongjo's policy of factional neutrality saw some success, but his cruel and controversial execution of his mentally ill son Sado in 1762 split the court once again. Prince Sado's second son became King Jeongjo in 1776. Jeongjo broke from his grandfather's neutrality policy and tried to upend the bungdang paradigm by prioritizing his own policy preferences. However, he needed to enlist help from powerful yangban families, namely the Pungsan Hongs, to do this. Following Jeongjo's death, several yangban clans, such as the Andong Kims and Pungyang Chos, married into the royal family and ushered in the era of corrupt Sedo politics. The Andong Kims even managed to install a long-lost royal living as a farmer as their puppet, King Cheoljong, in 1849. Seowons, or Sarim institutions for Confucian learning, also posed a problem by the 19th century. They had become but tools for tax exemption and producers of corrupt politicians. The Heungseon Daewongun, who came to power in 1864 as a regent for his young son King Gojong, shut down all but a few. While pursuing isolationism and refusing contact with the West, the Daewongun attempted to remove the Andong Kims from government. However, they were merely replaced by the Yeoheung Mins, one of whom married Gojong. When Gojong came to power in 1873, he faced massive popular discontent. Gojong resisted calls for a constitutional monarchy and asked China for help in crushing the Donghak Peasant Revolution of 1894. This triggered the First Sino-Japanese War, during and after which Japan overcame both China and Russia to eventually colonize Gojong's Korean Empire in 1910. Japanese colonial rule in Korea was brutal and met with much resistance. After the national March 1st Movement of 1919, many resistance organizations, including a republican government-in-exile, emerged in China. Korea regained independence in 1945 in the wake of the Japanese defeat in World War II. Korea's troubles did not end there, however. Occupying U.S. and Soviet forces suppressed and co-opted local leadership, leading to the separation of North and South Korea. The two states have maintained an uneasy truce since the Korean War of 1950 ended in a stalemate in 1953. Both Koreas started out as low-income autocracies, though the North was communist and the South capitalist. The two states' fortunes diverged in the 1960s and 70s when the South rapidly developed during the Miracle on the Han River. The South democratized in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The so-called miracle was not without its dark side, however. It came at the expense of suppression of civil rights, especially those of workers', and the rise of the dynastical chaebol conglomerates. Still, South Korea has since become one of the world's cultural, economic, and technological leaders. Meanwhile, North Korea has moved in a highly militaristic and totalitarian direction under the Juche ideology, which emphasizes national self-reliance. Since the fall of the Soviet Union, North Korea has become increasingly isolationist and one of the poorest countries in the world.