When it comes to making it seems like there are so and scams, people not on how to do this. So in today's video, I wanna give you the two best online businesses if you are just getting Now before we get too far into this video, I just wanna give you my credibility, and my proof so you know that and I can back it up with proof. My name is Greg Gottfried, and I have been building online businesses for just about 10 years now. In the process, I have tried to make money online, and I figured out which Now in the time that I've been doing this, I've made over $3 from online businesses, and I'm trying to give you of what actually works or any of the selling snake oil that people are doing nowadays. So with that being said, this video is going to I'll show you on screen recording, and I'm also going to explain two really good business models that you can get into in 2024 as a beginner in online business. Now the first of these businesses is going to be the very easy one. So if you're just getting into this, and you want something that you can really just get started today and start making some profit from, the first one's going to be that one. Now the second online business is going to be the business model that I really, really like It's one where artificial intelligence can't really compete with, and if you get into this business model, and you really invest into it, you are going to make So the first online business for you if you wanna get started the easiest way is called Print on demand. Now essentially what print on demand is, is you create designs, and you upload them to and they create basically a of what that design would or a coffee mug or a hoodie or something similar that that company could And then it gets listed on that print on demand And when people come and and they see that design on the product, and they're like, hey, I wanna buy that, they can choose what size shirt and then once that order is placed, the Print on Demand website onto that specific product and ships it out to them, and us as the print on demand seller, we just get a split of the profit. So let's come over to the computer and let me show you a real example of this so you can kind of connect the dots of what this really looks like. So starting out with the biggest website that does print on demand, there are several others out there, but this is just amazon.com. So when you go to Amazon, and you search for so in this case it is you're going to find different ones that are kind of like funny shirts. So you can tell it was So to give you an example, I'm going to point these out for you. So this one right here, this is something that someone created. This is another one that someone created. You're basically looking for things that have designs on them as opposed to things that are kind of like a performance shirt. Now as you keep scrolling through here, you can see all of these Now when you click on any of these, I'll show you what this looks like, and how you can tell that it's Now when you come into this listing, you can see that this same design is offered on multiple and the image over here as if it was photoshopped. So you can tell that it's just And then you can choose that this is printed on, and then different sizes. Now you can select any and then when you add this to your cart, you can actually have it just like you were purchasing Now the key here is that whether that's you or hasn't done anything but create the design and upload it to Amazon. Amazon is doing everything else. That's what makes this business You just have to create the designs and upload them to the Now as far as Amazon is concerned, if you see any listing that that is Amazon's version So that means that this listing is going to be print on demand created. Now with that being said, a couple pointers for you if you do want to get into the Print on Demand business model. If this sounds like in your part-time, creating the designs is going to be probably the hardest part of this entire business model. But there are tools that you can use to create designs based on So you're not creating all You don't need to be a graphic designer. So let me show you one of those tools. This is the tool that I I just typed in fishing designs, and all of these are going to be customizable T-shirt designs You can change the graphics. You can change what it says. You can change the font, and and you can upload these to And just like that, You upload them to the They do everything else for you. So with that being said, if you want to get into Print on demand, I have a full step-by-step totally for free here on YouTube. I will link it down in the description. It goes through everything from the idea that you to how to get your first sales. So that will be down in the description if you wanna try out this business model. That's where I would refer you to. So moving on from this and getting into the second business model that I've alluded to is the one that I really, This one is called affiliate marketing done specifically with videos. Now if you haven't heard of essentially what affiliate marketing means is it's a fancy way to say a So if you've ever purchased and they send you an if you refer a friend or you refer someone who also we will give you a $25 gift card or we'll give you a whether that is an amount of money or a credit to buy more things from them. That is essentially a referral program. So with the power of if you know what you are doing, with affiliate marketing by creating videos about those companies with your unique referral Now before I get any further let me show you a real example of this, so you can see exactly and how easy this actually could be to do if you know what you're doing. So coming into the computer, I searched here just for best This is just a basic to explain what this looks like. If you come down to one of these videos, this is &quot;Top Five Rods for Bass Fishing, &quot;Beginner and Advanced.&quot; So if you click on this video, this video is a video what would be their best for someone who is a beginner, maybe an intermediate, maybe an advanced, and why they recommend Now when you come down if you click more, you're going to find all of his affiliate links. So these are all his referral links to these specific fishing So let's say that you and you said, hey, I'm a beginner. I really like that first one He says, hey, go look in the description. The links directly to You come down and you say, okay, this is the one You click on it. It's going to send you that he's talking about, You don't have to Google it and you can purchase this rod right here. You can put it in your cart. However, the kicker here a little bit here and you that you are actually on, now the website stays exactly the same. The price stays exactly the same, but at the end of this website link is a little thing that says Now if we go back to YouTube, and we look at the name of the channel, it is Tactical Bassin. So when he created his he just shortened it to TBassin. So now anything that I after I've clicked his link from YouTube and come over to the website, he is going to get paid a commission on from this website that sells this rod. That is the power of affiliate marketing is that you can create a YouTube video or you can create a piece of content that can reach tons of and then when they click on your link, and they go to the website, anything that they you are going to get a commission for. Now the kicker to all of this, and the reason that this and you can make so much money is that the guy who created this video created it back in 2021, and the video has and it's still ranking So when we were back here looking for best fishing rods for beginners, his video was uploaded two years ago, and it's ranking the second This video above it was and it's ranking as the number This is an ad up here, so This is the true organic So I could literally talk all day long telling you why it is such a good business model. I've been doing this one on YouTube with multiple different niche that people don't even know that I own. It's just me behind the scenes and in the last couple years I've already made over a I know not a lot of people are sharing the good business models that and they are working really well, and they're actually set up to work even better in the future. A lot of people on YouTube that used to work several years ago, and since they've already done it, and they've already gotten in that space, now they're sharing that content. This is a business model that I am in with you guys. I'm personally doing it every day, and I can assure you that it works extremely well. Now I have been creating videos and uploading them to this YouTube channel totally for free on how However, for the first to create a private community where you can learn how to Everything I know about this topic, everything I've learned is all in this course. So if you decide that this business model is a better fit for you than the one that we print on demand, then to the full YouTube Affiliate down in the description below. If you guys choose either of I think you're going to be compared to all of the out there. All right, guys, that Hopefully that has brought If you don't mind, just That's all that I ask, and I will see you guys