The Sun is a giant, bright celestial object It unleashes billions of tons of electromagnetically These violent eruptions, called Coronal Mass causing what we know as solar storms. These highly charged plasma particles race an hour, and one might think that with the should all head for the bunkers when they However, the Earth has natural protections from hitting us. One such protection is the Earth's powerful around the planet and to its poles. Particles that do hit the atmosphere are absorbed on our planet. In fact, the Sun is crucial to life on Earth. For example, it provides just the right amount the Sun's energy to usable carbohydrates. This energy makes its way down the food chain We eat and convert food to give us energy Almost all food energy can be traced back of our food chain. But could the solar system's giant also create How big can these CMEs get? What if the largest solar storm of all time Could the Sun actually damage or destroy humanity? For a star, our Sun is relatively stable, dwarf. It is middle aged and has not changed dramatically We can be glad our Sun is as stable as it it emits is fairly constant. If you were to look at footage of the Sun however, you would quickly realise that even landscape of activity. Sunspots, solar flares and coronal loops are The surface almost appears to be fluid, but It is rather a giant, nearly perfect sphere It is composed of mainly hydrogen and helium, mass, nuclear fusion takes place. The at Sun's core, hydrogen atoms are fused helium. The Sun itself, I mean, I tend to think of So, in the core the very centre of the Sun, You have to think, essentially the sun is ions, atoms, electrons, sort of everything On average, it takes a photon to travel through years. I mean, yeh, I mean it's basically that dense. And from that, it then hits the convective So everybody knows that hot air rises and So what then happens is that material is very and then it expands and it rises to the surface. And that is the main transfer of heat from Obviously then glowing from the surface like Plasma is an extremely good conductor of electricity fields. So sunspots are actually the surface representation Magnetic fields actually get very tangled zone and the convective zone, the magnetic They tend to appear in pairs, in groups. I mean, if you think of a magnet, it has positive I mean, that's normally what we see in sunspot the other would be negative. So normally the strongest magnetic fields The sunspots can be anywhere from 15km in the size of the Earth. Sunspots can often be seen at the base of rings in the Sun's atmosphere. Prominences - large, bright, gaseous features reaching into space for thousands of kilometers. And solar flares - a sharp increase in the Solar flares tend to happen over active regions. So an active region are essentially sunspot So these are the locations where we definitely A reconnection event is essentially what produces Because the convective zone is essentially show that most of the magnetic field as it being destroyed, or diffused around. It's more complicated magnetic structures survive. And so you can imagine, especially over a magnetic field configurations. Magnetic fields that are twisted, basically epilogical structures. And it's within these structures that magnetic And what happens during a reconnection event: magnetic field as a rubber band. So you twist it and you turn it and basically it breaks. And that is essentially what we have in a And what happens during a reconnection event, the magnetic field lines reconnect. And when that happens, you get a lot of energy Of the order of millions of nuclear weapons, And that energy will produce both solar flares released and also potentially lead to large the prominences, both towards the Sun and When that reconnection event happens, then those magnetic fields normally will move one A lot of it will move back towards the Sun, and moving to the footprints, for instance are. Equally, in the middle of those magnetic fields, ejected away from the Sun. So what you will end up having is millions the Sun relatively fast. Of the order of hundreds of kilometers per And those are what we call CMEs or coronal These CMEs come in contact with the planets Venus, when faced with a CME, has its lighter of its atmosphere by the force of the ejection. This leaves the planet with just the heavier as we know - sustain life. Earth would face a similar fate, if it wasn't Particles from a CME aimed at Earth are redirected Some particles get redirected to the Earth's Earth's ionosphere, causing beautiful aurorae. Thanks to a combination of the Earth's magnetosphere all sorts of particles space likes to throw Or are we? When the Earth is hit by a CME, this is called When a solar storm hits us, Earth's magnetic of the CME for the duration of storm. Normally, this wouldn't and hasn't been be on land. But what would happen if the most powerful today? To find out what is believed to be the most to go back to 1859, to a solar storm known From the 28th August to 2nd September, 1859, On the 29th August, southern auroras were which implies a solar storm was occurring. Before midday on the 1st September, amateur was named after) and Richard Hodgson separately flare. Carrington and Hodgson wrote reports independently, journals. The flare was connected to a major coronal Earth, taking 17.6 hours to make the 150-million-kilometer CMEs. Typically, CMEs take several days to reach It is thought that the high speed of this the cause of the large aurora event on the wind plasma for the Carrington event, like With the slipstream in place, the way was On the 1st - 2nd September, 1859, the largest Auroras were seen around the world, all across the Caribbean. The aurorae over the Rocky Mountains in the local gold miners, who began making breakfast It was reported that because the aurora was States could still read a newspaper. The aurora was visible as far from the poles in Mexico, Queensland, Cuba, Hawaii, and even such as in Colombia. This is unprecedented as typically, aurorae By the 3rd of September, the aurora in the brilliant it ever had been. However, although beautiful, this storm also A consequence of the geomagnetic storm was the Sun surged telegraph systems all over to fail, even in some cases giving the people shocks. Telegraph pylons threw sparks from the charged Amazingly, some telegraph operators could even though they had disconnected their power The storm was comparable to a hemisphere wide bad for electronics. The force of the CME in magnetic field of Earth all the way down into Due to the fact that North America and Europe of the world were most affected from the initial Looking back at geomagnetic storms since the but not devastating. For example, in March 1989, a CME hit Earth, hours and jamming radio stations in Europe. Power in Quebec was knocked out for about Some people there incorrectly thought the sky was the result of nuclear bombs. Thankfully though, this solar storm and many Today, if a CME of the size of the Carrington would be far more disastrous than they were Technology was only just picking up back then, computers, telecommunications, powerplants in such an event. Due to the range of a solar storm, it would the most susceptible technologies being the have cables stretched out over a large distance. Without proper safeguards in place, transformers upon millions would be without power for a If transformers did get damaged, for example, take years to manufacture. Often these transformers are tailor made for produced. Without power, refrigerators would not be transport system would also be down as fuel that food would be problematic. Payment systems that rely on credit cards People would not have access to the internet powered devices would run out quickly. Radio and TV stations would be disrupted. Hospitals would struggle when the backup generators We would be completely cut off from the outside The world is simply so dependent on technology we have lost the ability to function as a And worryingly, it is our power grid that An independent thinktank recently put the trillion, ultimately destroying the economy. Unfortunately, that does not cover the social As is often the case in natural disasters, primeval instincts, with attitudes such as Chaos, looting and disregard for the law could This would only get worse the longer the population or organisation of authority. Hopefully, in such a situation, the good of scenario. The thinktank placed the estimated recovery years, and estimated that two-thirds of the and chaos during this time. We only need to look at a couple of examples In 1989, Quebec experienced a large solar 90 seconds. This problem was exasperated by the fact it well into the minuses, which left vulnerable It took nine hours to restore power, and total be around C$2 billion. From the social aspect, we only need to look for 40% of its population from the time of That means it has been without power for 140 50,000 utility poles and 10,000km of electricity If a solar storm hits, it wouldn't just be be an entire hemisphere. Earth has had some very near misses. A Carrington size event could have been a from the Sun. This was the biggest CME that has been recorded one of the STEREO satellites that was observing It is the charged particles that caused this flare. Had this hit Earth, this hypothetical disaster Due to a lack of historical evidence, we have hit Earth. As far as we know, a CME even bigger than or the next one could be in a few thousand But what mitigation plans does the world have Since 1995, NASA have placed a space telescope Sun for CMEs. As light travels much faster than the speed hours warning before the CME hit Earth. If everyone was acting fast enough, this might thus protecting the electricity grids. This is called the 'solar shield' program, only country to have such a program in place. Countries are also working on temporary transformers Additionally, countries throughout the western upgrades to the power grids that would not storm to destroy the network. This process however is slow and bogged down It seems countries are in no rush to foot These measures to protect the power grid are It also seems that most people in the world less likely scenarios like asteroids hitting Mankind as a whole is shockingly unprepared storm. George H. Baker Professor Emeritus, James Committee on National Security in the United progress it not getting made: &quot;To a major our most critical infrastructure to [solar There is no single point of responsibility plan. Nobody is in charge. When I asked the North American Electrical they informed me, "we don't do EMP, that's The Department of Defense tells me, "EMP is a DHS responsibility." DHS explained to me that the responsibility within DOE since they are the designated Sector And this is sadly from one of the most progressive And until mankind is prepared for a CME, we star.