So my name is Matthew Rosenblum. I live in Hazel Park, Michigan, with my girlfriend, Natalie, and our pug, Monique. I haven't you know, because of the nature of my illness, I haven't had a job in like three years. But in a in a former life, I was finishing a Ph.D., I was going to be in academia. The thing about pancreatic cancer is that, you know, probably the most popular narrative surrounding the disease is that it is not only very lethal, but very difficult to diagnose. And there are a number of reasons why it's very difficult to diagnose. The pancreas is all the way in the, you know, deep in the body. And the symptoms are very nuanced. I was diagnosed with Crohn's disease when I was 25. Have never had an unproblematic stomach. So gastrointestinal distress, you know, some of the more perceptible sort symptoms of pancreatic cancer. They were just kind of par for the course for me. You know, it's I'm I'm not a stranger to eating something. You know, having heartburn or, you know, something like that. In general. They're not I mean, even even if I hadn't had Crohn's disease, I probably wouldn't have noticed them. You know, I lost some weight over the, you know, the the months. But it wasn't until I guess it was January, late January of 2021, when I really started to experience symptoms that I noticed. And it really is a stark distinction. The earlier symptoms are very nuanced, can go unnoticed, can also go, you know, misdiagnosed as a multitude of other things, gallstones, whatever other kinds of cancer. And there's a, you know, such a stark difference between that and when you really get the symptoms. And, you know, conventional wisdom is that by the time you're experiencing the symptoms, you notice, generally speaking, the cancer has spread outside of the pancreas, which means that by the time you have these crazy symptoms, which I'll describe in a second, it's basically I mean, I don't want to say it's too late, but that is you know, that's what conventional wisdom is. So it was late January of 2021. I had really dark urine, my stool was like bone white, like the wall behind me, light. And at first, you know, it was COVID. It was COVID. I had I had lost my job. I had moved to a strange city to, you know, as a place to land to help my friend with his business. And then his business closed that closed down and he moved away. And I was alone when this started happening. So at first, you know, I, I thought I was hung over, honestly. And I had had a few beers the night before, and I just went to the gas station, got some Gatorade laid in bed, drank my Gatorade, and the urine did not get lighter. I didn't even notice that stool color for a while until really my skin started to itch. That is, you know, the the bathroom symptoms. They are they're pretty jarring just to see urine that dark and poop that that pale. But the itching was probably the worst. And it was my skin itched. It was the bottoms of my hands and the bottoms of my feet. And it was somehow the itching symptoms are related to your circadian rhythms. I'm not a doctor, I don't know. But it is true that the itching was worse at night. So when you're trying to sleep, your hands, the bottoms of your hands and the bottoms of your feet are itching. So, you know, excruciating lay that. I'd never felt anything like it before. And it's a hard place to scratch. You know, Finally, after a night of this, I took my hands and my feet and I would hold them under the the tub under the spigot, as hot as it would go. And I would just leave my hands and feet under there to skull to the flash and numb the sensation, because I you know, it's the middle of the night. You're itching on your hands and feet for seemingly no reason. It's you know, it's jarring. It's jarring in retrospect to think about, like burning my hands and feet to alleviate the pain. But it was it was that significant. And I know not everyone gets the itchiness. And I think there is some kind of there seems to be some kind of controversy about the itchiness, because not every pancreatic cancer awareness campaign includes the itchiness. I don't know. I definitely experienced it and it was horrible. So when something started to happen that I knew was like, whoa, I've never I've never itched uncontrollably before. I kind of sat on it for, I don't know, 48 hours, not the most responsible, but in retrospect, I really, you know, not not that bad at all. And yeah, it was about two or three days, I can't remember. And I finally I was in a long distance relationship at this point with a woman I knew from graduate school. And I told her and she was like, Yeah, you should go to the doctor. And sort of intuitive. But for, for someone with such, you know, anxiety about doctors and hospitals, then I needed someone to actually tell me. In any case, I had just moved to Durham and I hadn't gotten in, you know, I hadn't I didn't even have health insurance at this point. So I went to an urgent care in Durham, North Carolina, and I I'll never forget this interaction. I'm pretty terrified. And the nurse practitioner and I love nurses and nurse practitioner, they are the best and navigating very serious illness with oncologists alone would be crazy because it's like, you know, sometimes your oncologist is like they're raised in a cage by, you know, they've never met people before. They're a little sciencey sometimes. And nurses, I think, just contribute such a humanistic element to your care. But in this moment I was irritated because I remember she. So we get my blood results back and my bilirubin is really high. That is the I get. I think it's an enzyme that, you know, is produced by your liver. And she was like, when your bilirubin is high, you start to get jaundiced. And she very like out loud is having this dialog with herself. She's shining a bright light in my eyes about whether or not my eyes are yellowing or not. And then finally she looks at me. She's like, Do you think your eyes are yellow? And I was like, Honestly, I you have a flashlight in my eyes. I have no idea. No idea. And we get some more tests back. And at one point she was like, you know, because I joked that I thought it was a hangover. And when you make a joke like that and you have symptoms like this, sometimes people are like, well, you know, maybe he is maybe he has a drinking problem. And so finally, like I, I finally we, we eliminated that as a as a cause. And she was just like, you know, you don't have a doctor here yet. These test results are, you know, troubling. And you should go to the E.R.. So I actually I, I went home and I slept that night. I was so tired. I hadn't slept in, like, three nights that even with the itching, I passed out. And at like 6:00 the next morning and I'm going to say, this is February of 2021, at this point, I show up to the E.R. and that is the beginning of the journey in earnest. They admit me to the hospital. They run some more blood tests to see what's going on with liver enzymes. I think I have a c t. No, I don't have a CT yet. They give me an ultrasound. Eventually they give me an endoscopic ultrasound. But yeah, they they found that there was a stricture in my bile duct. So I feel like this whole story has been leading to a short science lesson. Your liver produces bile. It's a digestive enzyme. It goes through, you know, gets stored in your gallbladder and then released into your small intestine to digest fats and other foods. And that that the tube that, you know, brings the bile down goes through the head of your pancreas. So that tube had a stricture in. It means that it was closed off when bile can't be distributed in the regular fashion, you know, as your body normally does in your digestive tract, it you're you end up depositing it in your blood, in your flesh. And that is the cause of the jaundice and the elevated liver enzymes. There was no there was no sense of urgency. This was like I was an otherwise healthy person with a history of colitis. They were not thinking that this was anything scary. They told me to come back in a few weeks and I would have another endoscopy and they would remove the stent. And that happened and they removed the stent and the symptoms came back and then they decided that it was my gallbladder. And this is common. It's very common for pancreatic cancer to be for for people to assume that it's a gallbladder issue. So they decide that I'm going to have my gallbladder out. It was late April and I went to my guy's office. She is the endoscopies. She basically was like, I don't know what's happening here, but you for sure don't have cancer. We have done so many washings and and they had at this point she said to me, you definitely don't have cancer. If you have cancer, I will roll over in my grave. So I left the guy's office feeling pretty confident. And then 3 hours later, I got an automatic notification on my phone from my chart that said that I was I had tested, you know, that one of my cytology reports had come back and it said, add no carcinoma on it. And I didn't know what that meant. But my my line is that scary cancer words sound like the bad guy from Star Wars. Like they have like you don't know exactly what adenocarcinoma meant, but I didn't at least. But I knew it wasn't good. And I sat with that for about 2 hours. And then the surgical oncologist who did my gallbladder surgery, he called me on the phone. And to his credit, like he got this case referred back to him, He was, you know, when it came when they saw those results, they just automatically referred it back to him. He was at a conference or something out of town, and he called me on his personal cell phone and apologized to me because he knew, like I told him, Yeah, this lady, she told me I definitely did not have cancer earlier and now I do. And, you know, I was freaked out. He my my surgeon is really the salt of the earth. He he calmed me down. He told me, you know, I don't know if he remembers it this way, but I'll never forget this conversation. He said, if this is cancer, you know, it's a very small tumor and will be able I should be able to get this. I'm confident the area that they found the adenocarcinoma in is called the Antilla Evader. Everything in the body in this part of the body is pretty small and overlapping. And so pancreatic cancer could be an explanation. But given my age and let's face it, the taboo around death, no one was talking about that. The doctor told me he. But when pressed he was like he told me amp Hillary cancer which has a higher survival rate and it's still incredibly rare for someone my age but is less rare than pancreatic cancer in the same age category. In any case, because of this part of the body, you know, the the the size and the layout of this part of the body, they do the same surgery. The Whipple, the pancreatic connectome for AMP Hillary cancer as they do for pancreatic cancer. So basically they remove the plan you know and this was five days after the phone call I was in his office and he was like, okay, I'm going to remove part of your pancreas, part of your small intestine. I had just come out of surgery. I'm a little stoned, so I wasn't like freaking out or anything. But I was mindful that, you know, this is weird. I don't think it's late enough. And the, you know, you know, after a while, my surgeon comes in and he gives me the news. He tells me that contrary to what they thought, they cut me open and they found a tumor on the head of my pancreas that had spread outside of the pancreas. So metastatic pancreatic cancer is considered inoperable. And so when they saw that, they closed me up. And yeah, when he told me that I was stoned, but I knew enough to know what he was telling me, but he told me he was like, Well, because of your age and because they suspect that I'm a rocket at this point, a BRCA2 mutation carrier, because my sister is for sure. And my mother had died of breast cancer, although she was not a Bracha person. In any case, the the surgeon was like, I'm pretty sure, you know, we have to confirm with genetic tests, but I'm pretty sure you have you have this particular genetic abnormality. And if that is the case, then there are targeted therapies that work that that should that might work for you. He said this is a mean cancer. I always like how thoughtful and judicious people apply metaphors to cancer, he said. Mean I like mean I like difficult. Those are, I think, good metaphors, he said. It's a mean cancer. But I think because of your particular situation, we after treatment we might be able in a year to, you know, try the surgery again because for pancreatic cancer, the surgery is the only long term solution. You know, that's the only long term survival solution. Chemotherapy, radiation are not curative. They are life extending. So he was but he was pretty confident, at least, you know, in the context of a lethal diagnosis. He introduced me later that day to my oncologist. And my oncologist was not as not as confident. But when pressed, he was like, with treatment, you might have one, two, three good years left, but that's really it. And they put me up. I started this was the beginning of May 2021. My wound had to heal all but like three weeks later, the end of I think it was May 27, 2021, I started chemotherapy. I started, you know, like a lot of other people with metastatic pancreatic cancer. I was given something, a cocktail called full year. KNOX Which is like five different things. And it's awful. It is. It's it having done other chemo cocktails, I mean, it's all awful, right? It all sucks. But fourth year, Knox was really, really abrasive. And it you know, my first scan after three months of full Fiora Knox, the oncologist said, well, your your tumor shrank a little bit. But you can tell from the way he's telling me that, you know, it could just be imaging error, right? Like it's such a mind Newt retreat that it's like barely perceptible. And then three months later, my next scan, my next CT and MRI, it had actually grown. It had metastasized to my liver. So things were not looking good. I was not at this point, I was not confident that I would be some special case, some kind of miracle. I just thought, you know, this is this is it. But my oncologist switched me to a different a different chemotherapy cocktail. And I should say I was very I was honestly relieved because after almost six months on, full fear not. In fact, it was that day that the neuropathy had gotten so bad that I couldn't get out of a chair by myself, like I needed my friend to hoist me up. And I was I was pretty thin at this point. And yeah, it was it was miserable. So when he told me, it's not working, you don't have to do it today, I was honestly, I was very thankful. He told me that there I can't remember how he my oncologist phrased that, but he he told me that there was a cocktail that some doctors or researchers had found was promising for people in my situation. So I think it was young people like a.k.a folks, but it may have also been folks with pancreatic cancer who also are the mutation carriers. And it was a cocktail of gemcitabine, ABRAXANE and Cisplatin. And honestly it was like, I mean my quality of life was improved dramatically, I'm happy to say by the time my first set of scans came around three months in some of the spots on my liver had started to disappear. So I do three more, three more months of chemo. And it's honestly like I, I made it through team, like I didn't lose my hair and I maintained a pretty like I'm six feet tall. I was 215 when I was diagnosed. I maintained a healthy weight through through this cocktail. Miraculously, I and very thankful for it because it made you know, at this point I thought I was still dying, you know, sooner rather rather than later. So I was trying to have fun. But in March of 2021, you know, three months later, they he looked at my scans and he was like, yeah, I, I can't like outside of the tumor. They were not if, if memory serves they could not identify my cancer outside of the tumor. So almost a year to the day in fact, they attempted another Whipple and this time it was successful. And it was not just like it was not a little successful. It was not like, we bought him, you know, there's some cancer over here. But like, we bought him some time, like all of my gosh, I'm I'm not a doctor. So the medical parlance kind of escapes me. But there was I when Dr. Allen came into my hospital room to tell me, he said it's it was all dead. The tumor, I believe, is how he described it. He said and again, I was, you know, on Dilaudid. So take this with for what it's worth. But he said that the tumor, I think he said dead and that, you know, all of my margins were good and all of the lymph nodes they tested were negative. So I got a, you know, really something I did not expect at this point. They, you know, before this, they couldn't see any cancer on the C.T. or MRI. But that didn't mean that like my peritoneum wasn't, you know, covered in cancer. That just meant that like they wouldn't be able to tell until they got in there. And when they got in there, they were pleasantly surprised that things had worked. You know, this last scan was a lot a lot smoother than others have been. But it's incredibly difficult. But for those of you watching at home, the chances of me living out those six years are astronomically small. Pancreatic cancer has a remarkably low five year survival rate. And I mean, gosh, the I mean, there was news this year that the survival rate of p C pancreatic adenocarcinoma increased to 13% or something like that. So it's it's unlikely that I will see all of that time, at least on paper. I think it's important to remember that if you can take anything from my story, it's that you are not the statistic, you really are not. And you know, I, I was diagnosed with something I wasn't supposed to have at my age, very unlikely. And then when I got had that unlikely thing, it was supposed to kill me and I didn't die. And so in a sense, like, I beat the odds not once, but twice. And so if you're going to believe someone on that, you are not your statistics front. It should be me. I'm just going to I'm just going to lay that claim. I've been without evidence of recurrent metastatic disease in my body for 18 months. It's important to remember that you are not the statistic. I think that's one takeaway. Another takeaway is that treatment is not linear. Pancreatic cancer is often thought of in linear terms as a quick short trajectory to death. And our assumption is that if treatment is going to work it, it works immediately and that, you know, you don't take one step back and one step forward. And that's just, in my experience, not true. Sometimes things get worse before they get better, and it's not reason to lose heart. Half of the drink in the cheeseburger live your life, you know, to the extent that you can. That's how I lived.