Hey, YouTube world. It's me, Evelyn. In this video, I'm gonna teach you how to [lo-fi hip hop music] I was inspired by this perfume from Urban And after looking at the ingredients, I realized: All we'll need are some fragrant essential flowers for that artisanal Etsy touch. These perfume oils are completely customizable, or for birthdays, or for any occasion. Bonus: if you're ingredient-conscious, this what's going into your fragrances. Here's what you'll need. Carrier oils are vegetable and nut oils that oils in our fragrance. I've chosen almond and apricot seed oil. So, be sure to do your research to make sure Glass roll-on bottles of various sizes, the and dried flowers. And now that we've sourced all our supplies, In this video, I'll show you two of the fragrances Feel free to purchase the essential oils that What I usually do is I go to Whole Foods, hour, take notes, and then go buy them online. So, remember, all those links will be in the The first essential oil combination, I like I use sweet orange oil as the top note. It's sweet, it's bright, it's a little tangy, when you put this perfume oil on your body. But, it's also the first fragrance that will Next, I'll add Roman Chamomile essential oil, known as the heart note. Chamomile reminds me of that Sleepytime tea. It's calming, and it's soothing. And as my base note, I will use vanilla essential Vanilla is warm, rich, inviting. It is my base note. Meaning, it's the foundation of the fragrance. It's the last smell to evaporate, and because This next part isn't really required. It's just something that I like to do. I like to put one drop of each essential oil my face. Just to make sure that the fragrance combination good in real life. So, here's what you'll need if you want to affectionately titled, Bearded Bae. I'm using lime essential oil as my top note. It's fresh, bright, tangy, citrus-y obviously. As my middle, or heart note, I'm gonna be It is a citrus essential oil, but it does the perfect transition and segue from the sandalwood. Sandalwood is rich, it's dark, smells like Bearded Bae. Alright, now that I've shown you some examples actually make our fragrance oils, which requires [Whispering] I know, just stick-- I know. Don't run! Where you going?-- As a general rule, one milliliter The larger roll-on container with the black roll-on container that you see with the gold So, just multiply the size of your container you about the total number of drops that can We need to calculate how many drops should be your carrier oil. If you're just starting out like I am, I've out with 20% essential oil and the rest, 80%, That creates a mild fragrance that you probably So, 20% of the 200 drops that can fit in my For the larger roll-on bottle that was about So, 20% of those 600 drops equals 120. So, 120 drops will be your essential oil fragrance oils. And now that we've determined how many drops to determine how many drops of each of the 20%. Alright. So, remember this ratio: two parts base to top note. Why are we using this ratio? Because Pinterest told me so. So, for example, I will use the smaller 10 Calming Creamsicle. So, a two, to one, to two ratio of 40 total our base, vanilla, eight of those drops will 16 drops will be our top note, sweet orange. 16 plus 8 plus 16 is 40. And 40 is 20% of the 200 total drops that You wit me? Have you left yet? Let's try it again with fragrance number two, Two parts base, to one part heart, to two will be our base, sandalwood, 24 of those bergamot, and then 48 drops will be our top 48 plus 24 plus 48 equals 120. Got it?! Girl, if you don't remember how to do ratios, You can Google it. I had to Google it. I haven't done ratios since I was, like, in No shame at all if have to Google, if you Do what you gotta do. Alright! Now that we've calculated how many drops of we can begin to mix the oils. Start with your base note. Base, foundation, get it? Should be the first, should be the first layer. Next, add your middle or heart note. Stop ... and swirl. This is just to let those two essential oils add our top note. After you're done with that, go ahead and Stop ... and swirl. Ay, yay, yay. Sniff ... and then add drops here and there, And then fill the rest of your container with I don't have any measurements for the carrier I just put them in there however I want, making Now stop, put the cap on ... and shake. Now your essential oils are mixing and mashing They're getting diluted, and everything is Add a couple dried flower petals to the mixture, Pop the roll-on on top and you're done! You can apply this perfume anywhere, but as to your pulse points. Right under your earlobe, the inside of your fold of your elbow, so that every time your life's blood intensifies the scent. I hope this video was helpful. Don't forget to check out the video description these supplies. In the comments below, let me know if you them. And also let me know what your favorite scents And I will see you on the internet somewhere. Bye! [lo-fi hip hop music]