We're about to fly on an Airbus A380, the biggest It's so big that most airports can't accommodate That's actually why you can't see it in the shot it's blocking the view of the plane. People stop and stare when the plane is taking off how does this thing get in the air and stay It really is a showstopper of a plane. The size alone makes it special and just the engineering done to achieve such a The Airbus A380 was designed for long haul It has four engines, is a full length double seating, which can carry over 800 people. Its tail is as high as a six story building. Its wingspan is just over 261ft, which is longer It has a range of 8,000 nautical miles and a Technically, it was, it was a sort of adventure full length double deck aircraft was was never And from the early discussions to the freeze of about ten years. When it debuted, the A380 overtook the long widebody airliner, but demand for such big four The executives at Airbus may have watched Field of because I think they had a and if you build it, A380. In 2019, one A380 was priced at $445 million. Airbus sold 251 planes to 14 airlines, but biggest customer. We are a major airline when it comes to the hub played a major role in carrying as much our network. So the A380 has been quite crucial. Orders peaked in the early 2010's, then started to It was one of the most heavily impacted fleets with the near halt to international long haul I believe at one point, about 90% of the A380 grounded. Airbus manufactured the plane for 14 years until Many thought it was the end for the Superjumbos, several airlines pulling planes out of CNBC explores how the A380 became the biggest looks like for the massive jet. The idea for a double decker passenger plane developed. In fact, one of Boeing's original was a full double decker. But as we know, the 747 ended up with its iconic Before Airbus designed the A380, it actually had Boeing, and the two of them began working jointly an ultra high capacity aircraft, an airplane that larger than the Boeing 747 and designed to fly distances as the 747 did. That cooperation dissolved when Boeing concluded wasn't demand for this large of an airplane. Airbus proceeded with the venture on its own. It launched the A380 program in 2000 and entered We had challenges everywhere, even in terms of jigs and tools. Everything is huge for the A380, design this tool and manufacture the plane. Designing a new plane is a huge undertaking and a It's estimated that Airbus has invested perhaps maybe more, maybe a little less on the A380, and money back. The company ran into lots of issues and delays, 26% at one point. But it needed a plane that could ferry lots of over 400 people. Our product line was kind of limited in terms of Therefore, competing with Boeing were in this aircraft segment was a kind of a matter of Airbus also estimated strong demand for the large In the 90s, we were anticipating a very therefore connecting megacities with,with a very that would allow to carry a big number of The time it takes for a commercial airplane to be leaving Boeing and Airbus to base designs on If you looked at the way Boeing was looking at the systems that form the foundation of a lot of air But Boeing's bet was that these networks would more scattered, and there would be more point to in. The hub and spoke model. Passengers are funneled destinations. The point to point model moves without routing them through a central hub. That led to their product decisions on wide body 1990s, and then the 787 and the late 2000, and serves those types of networks. Twin engine aircraft like the Boeing 787 and passengers than a 747 or A380, but can now travel Airbus, on the other hand, was betting on a world airports like London Heathrow that are really to have to up gauge to serve the same number of We're about to board this A380 and look at the here. The plane that we're flying on is Emirates So the A380 is so big it has three different It's actually a full double decker with the economy, which is where we're sitting. It's quieter. It feels bigger. You know, it's it just, you know, that it's a big It's a beautiful aircraft. It has two sets of stairs, one in the front and throughout the aircraft. The A380 first operated by Singapore Airlines. The A380 is definitely a passenger friendly plane, definitely also not for every airline and not for operate. Emirates is the largest customer and operator of Out of the 251 planes ordered, Emirates took The A380 is a beautiful product. We've trusted the brand, we've trusted the If you look in the cabin. It kind of looks like any other widebody, but the makes the A380 so massive. The double decker plane has allowed airlines like flight, like full suites with lie flat beds, Airlines have made their A380s very pleasant for Even in economy. It's quiet, which is important. There are high ceilings, there's plenty of And when you fly on an Emirates A380. You can have your Polaroid taken. While its big size does allow for more on board airports. So when the A380 came out, a lot of airports were And, you know, some large hubs had to modify ready. The amount of infrastructure work that airports the A380 is quite substantial. There are really only a handful of airports that to handle the A380 on an everyday basis. The A380 doesn't take up any more runway to take 747, but they did have to make sure that they had between taxiways and runways, because the a380's large and thus so wide. The size and economics did limit the marketing While many of the US airlines did have seven, So the U.S. Airlines certainly gave the A380 But they concluded that the A380 just wasn't For airlines with ultra long haul flights like good fit. We need to acknowledge that this aircraft is there cities, highly congested airports with. Other carriers not seeing the importance of that That's absolutely depending on their network. But for us, we believe in the A380 and we still What we've generally heard from airlines is that unit costs as in the cost per seat are very But of course, you know, consistently filling 550 than consistently filling 350 seat widebody. In the early 2000, when the A380 was being main competitor, the Boeing 747. The economics of four engine aircraft in general You can fly A777 or 787 or A350 over, you know, bodies of water because those engines have become And in many cases, airlines don't want to have to day if they can get the same capability with two Comparing the A380 with a newer technology would The better option would always be that every now is a bit is definitely more technologically Same thing goes with the engines. Airbus made the decision to stop production in line in 2021. Little by little, the order went down, and then we there was no no case to continue producing this The economic lifespan of a widebody passenger jet and so far, the average retirement age of an A380 11.5 years. When the pandemic hit, the A380's future looked The pandemic forced all airlines to reexamine businesses, including their fleets and route wanted to continue to operate the A380, they their cabins, which they weren't sure they would You know, that's why some carriers opted not to Despite all the challenges, there's still a long That aircraft has probably a little longer future some time ago. Passengers love it. The crews love it, and we will now very soon, also upgrade the product in the A380 in business do if we expect the airplane to be grounded soon. Post-pandemic travel returned at a rapid pace airlines turning back to their A380 fleet when We have our retrofit program that we're currently spending on retrofitting our 120 aircrafts. 67 of them will be the A380. Congested airports and ultra long haul travel Many of them selected this plane because it's a passengers between mega cities, and it's still seat. And the plane is still popular among enthusiasts. The A380 has been a crowd puller, and it still is. While it was no longer viable to keep producing success and will continue to support the aircraft Many things that we learned from the A380 were many innovation that were decided at the time of part of the A350. Dna and foundations. Airbus expects the A380 to be flying for the next operated by ten airlines including Emirates, A majority of Boeing 747 are now cargo planes, A380. There were cargo versions proposed, and both and UPS had expressed interest. The conclusion was that the added strengthening floors would be way too much and reduce the of the aircraft. So we just landed and the flight was super smooth. Take off landing, cruising, not too many bumps, deboarding did take a long time, but um, besides everything went well. There are certainly people that think that Airbus aircraft, and others will say that it may have We could maybe be facing the type of constrained hypothesized, where an A380 could fit really Its impressive engineering. A lot of credit deserves to be given to the at Airbus that helped bring this airplane to It's unfortunate. It just wasn't more of a