- Dude, Ben, have you seen this video? Casey Neistat 21 thousand dollar-- what? There's a shower here? - Yeah, nah, I have seen this. It's unreal. It's the OG suite video. Why don't you just do that? Why don't you do a planes one? Isn't that how Worth It works? You just see cool shit on the internet, and you're like, &quot;Buzzfeed, - Maybe, is that how this works? - You tell me. Isn't this your show? Wait, are we on your show right now? - Are we? - You know what I hate is the flush sound. (imitation toilet flushing) - Today, on Worth It Lifestyle, we're gonna try three different airlines at three drastically to find out which one is the - Worth it! I'm all about vacation, traveling, I love it more than anything. My least favorite part of it is the plane. - I do have a treat for you today. Not gonna be flying on Isn't that crazy how Airplane! Alex, look at the airplane. It's gone now. It's too (jazzy music) - My name is Jamie Perry, I'm the Vice President You're gonna be flying from LAX in Los Angeles JetBlue's been around We were founded with the intention of bringing humanity back to travel. Bit more space, free Tvs, free Wi-Fi now, snacks and beverages for just being a bit more human - What happens if the Mile High Club on JetBlue Airlines? - Well, that doesn't happen but it's something we discourage. Have a look in the lavatory, why it's not as easy as some When you design the interior of aircraft, you notice that there is very little that you can actually change. We have made a lot of little tweaks to our aircraft over the years that are designed to improve It's a little thing here, but it all aggregates up. - Can you tell me about JetBlue's pricing? - We try to be the cheapest or We certainly intend to offer than anybody else does at a better price. - You know what I actually And this sounds kinda - You just wanna be - Yes. - You need a nice little pacifier. Have someone tuck you in. (upbeat music) So these look brand new. They even have like the - [Steven] They have (moaning) - I think I'm gonna with this seat right here. Your first thoughts. Go. - It seems like I've never but I just can't believe - It's the things you take Also, Alex is freaking out Cup-holders. - It's the little things - [Steven] This is truly - [Ben] We're in coach. - Buckle up, soldier. It's (seatbelt clicking) Wait, this isn't-- this (drums rolling) Do they have my game on? - [Ben] Yes, they do. - [Steven] What? Usually 'cause you get disconnected but we stayed plugged in. Can I get cookies and Cheez-Its? Thank you very much. - [Flight Attendant] You're welcome. - I'll just get Cheez-Its, please. I asked for one, he gave me two. That's a good guy right there. - Doesn't get better. (drum rolls) - [Ben] Welcome to Ben's Bathroom Pretty close quarters, very clean. (toilet flushing) Clean, small, functional. One thumb up. Let's get the meals going here. - I got the Soba with - I got the grilled chicken The chicken is delicious, The bread could be a little bit fresher. - This one was really good. People are sleeping so I'm - I say you just let it out there. - Did you know that when you're flying, you actually taste things differently than when you're on land. Your senses are dulled - So you're saying if I it wouldn't tasted impossibly better. Maybe that's why all - So we've been flying for four hours now. As comfortable as these seats are, sitting in one place for - I'm just ready to get out of this seat. - [Flight Attendant] And fasten seatbelt sign. - Do not like bumping. (beeping) - I don't mind it. What's - [Ben] I'm ready to check this one off. I'm in a cab on my way who has no idea that I'm Hi! (child laughing) - Apple. Apple. - I stole some snacks Wait, how's your baby? - I don't have a baby. - I have two baby sisters, and they really made the trip worthwhile. - You mean worth it? - Damn it. - Alright, so we're on our way to Surf Air which is our second airline. We're going to the nice - Just try not to die. - Hey, hey, hey, stop saying that. Alex, can you knock on Ben? - Hi, I'm Sudhin Shahani, the We're at the Hawthorne Hanger, and you guys are gonna be - Oh yeah. And what is Surf Air? - Surf Air is a membership based airline. What that means is members that pay 1,950 a month, and they get to fly unlimited that go between LA, San various other California destinations. - What is like the benefit - Primarily time. It's really easy, you pull out your phone, you book in less than 30 seconds, You come up to 15 Our valet will take your car, one of our club hosts You'll board the plane-- - Wait, no security? - Everyone's been background and you're a registered member. Very comfortable business class seat. You're in the air two to three minutes after the door closes. - [Steven] Boom boom boom. - Whole new way of flying. - Can I bring liquids on the plane? - You can bring liquids on the plane, yes. - So I don't have to before walking in? - You don't have to dump out - That's huge. So when what should we expect? - [Sudhin] Our concierge will greet you, give you the keys to which is a Tesla that you - Yes. - Can I drive? Or should - Alex, you wanna drive? (laughing) - [Steven] Let's go fly. Whoo! (luxurious music) - Let's check out these seats. - Here we go! - Why would you-- I'm going back. - If it's just us in here, Check this out. - Oh, help me out here. Yeah. - If one was to join the there is more than enough room to do it. - Welcome aboard. My name's Austin. Josh and I will be taking you from LA to Santa Barbara today. If you have any questions, - I think I'm mostly happy about the fact that I don't have to feel your this type of flight like we did last time. - Here we go, buckle up. I thought there was gonna knock on wood, but so far, so good. Much better recline This is a very comfortable - Let me grab that for a second. I wanna show you the leg room that Alex and Ben share right now. Way lot of space. - And, we can have a casual Alright, everything checks out. The company's yours. - I have this headset, I can use it to communicate with the pilot. Here we go, let us hear. - What's up, guys? What? Hold up, they're telling me that I gotta go fly the plane. - Are you serious? - Do not let him fly the plane. Many flights, especially the longer ones, have a special compartment, which is built to contain people if they die while on board. - Promise me one thing, you won't abandon my - I'll like probably just (drums rolling) It's time for another segment Alright, so we're in here. It's like-- Oh my God, there's a hand. It's like a little makeshift It's a nice toilet, but I'm For a plane this small, this works. Alright, I take that back. If Steven Lim can put his hand in while I'm using the bathroom, it's gotta get a thumbs down for me. (whimsical music) - We just landed in Santa Barbara. And we got a hold of their Tesla. We got Alex on the wheel, - So how was the flight? - Point A, point B, done in the It eliminated all the lines, It's been the least that I can recall. - I'm not leaving Santa Barbara so take me to the nearest wine stop. (whimsical music) - Cheers. - So we're back in New York, we're gonna check out the most but before that-- (imitating airplane engine noises) Airplane Fact! In the 1980s, the head of from every salad that That saved the company What could you give up in life that would save you 40 grand a year? - Food. - Alright, the last airplane to see. Singapore Airlines 24 - Dude, I have-- my whole life, I've wanted to fly in one of these crazy-- - Wait, I'll do you one better. Singapore Airlines has to the entire aircraft, - We can run around like - And they're gonna serve us everything that they would normally and no turbulence! - I wonder if anyone has - Oh, like before takeoff. - Yeah, I bet pilots have - Oh my gosh. (luxurious classical music) - My name's James Boyd, I'm spokesman for the Americas and today, you're gonna be checking out Singapore Airlines exclusive double suite. It's aboard the A380 aircraft. It's the largest passenger aircraft. We've developed an We called it the Singapore Airlines Suite. If you're traveling by but if you're traveling with someone, we have something that and that is the double suite. We're looking at hotels, we're looking at the and our goal is to reach beyond aviation to create the world's - I've been waiting a - [James] The first thing you experience is a welcome from our crew members. - [Steven] Awesome. Thank you. - [Both] Ooh! - [Steven] This one's mine? Oh my go-- (laughing) What am I gonna do with all that space? - Dude, talk about leg room. - Whoa. This is bigger than my - This is bigger than my TV at home. Oh look at this! Little cubby-hold for my feet! - What's the reline-ability? - [Both] Ooh! - [Steven] What is happening to my feet? Wait a second! - I'm going all the way in. - I feel like I'm being - Then, the presentation of amenities. - Thank you so much. This is cologne. Oh my God. (Steven laughing) Can we actually keep this? - Yes! - Oh yeah. - I missed. - We also give you a fantastic - [Steven] Sleeper suit. - When you're up in the sky, and you're getting all these treats, you're basically in heaven, Let's go change in our PJs. - Okay, let's go. (drums rolling) - Ready for Ben's Bathroom Breakdown? I'm changing my PJs. See you on the other side. Alright, definitely most We've got lights, we've got paper towels, we've got a bench? This is a pretty fancy sink. What? We got a good looking toilet here. Let's test the flush. Oh my God. That is the quietest Oh wait, what? We got a comb drawer? First comb on Ben's Bathroom Breakdown. It gets one, two, three I gotta get Steven in here. - Ooh. Alright, gimme the camera, - Alright, get in your jammies. - Jammy time. What is this, cotton? Wow, these are comfy. Boom! Look at this pants. See that? There is a piece of wood on the drawstring to hold it together. Now that's quality. We get to play with the whole airplane. Money can't buy what - [Ben] No. - [James] Well, if you've at these prices, you - Ooh, man! - I wish I could go to work Can you invite me to dinner on your side? - Yeah, let's-- join me for dinner. - Alright. - We like to present our passengers with a choice of beverage, and for many of our passengers, that really comes down to having that fantastic glass of champagne. The choice of Dom Perignon - I've been hearing rappers since as far as I can remember. I gotta try the DP. Thank you for bringing me on this voyage. It's been worth it so far. - [Steven] Cheers. (whimsical classical music) That's like biting an alcoholic apple picked from the vineyard. - I would never forget about the Krug. - Ooh, that's heaven. Yeah, That is the best champagne in the world. (laughing) You know what we're doing next? We're gonna have champagne with caviar. - Yes, we are. - [Ben] Caviar, champagne, Steven Lim? What more can ask for? I don't know any different, I didn't think it could get any better. - I'm just going all in on this. - Eat that whole-- wow. (laughs) Cheers! (ascending climatic flute notes) Damn, that is good! - It's fresh! It is really fresh lobster! - [Steven] And we're in an airplane! We're in the opposite Alex, you gotta try this, man. That's good. This is not airplane food. - No, we're having like a five We've done it. - Food coma turned into bed time. - Wanna take a little nap? How do we sleep in this thing? - Your seat transformed Best night's sleep you've (intense classical music) - Whoa, dude! The bed is huge! - It's enormous. I never into bed with you on an airplane. - [Steven] Oh my gosh. Ooh! Is that memory foam? Look at this space. Oh. - Quality sheets. - I just have to check real quick, how easy is it to roll over to your side? - Alright, too close for comfort. - Wait, hold up, we Like we can close the shades. - Now, let's get private. This is it. Good night. This has been Worth It See you in the morning. (popping music) - What word can you use to describe that? - Exclusive. We just got to do something very few people ever get the chance to do. 24 thousand dollar airplane seat? - That's what Worth It is. - You get to play in Which one is your Worth It winner? - Every one has so many Surf Air was amazing where you get to pay a monthly fee, but go all up and down the coast. That being said, my Worth It winner has gotta be JetBlue. Affordable tickets, quality seats, it allows me to fly from the back and forth, see my - If you need to go from here to China, what're you gonna do? You can't even take JetBlue. You can't even take Surf Air there. Just for that reason Singapore Airlines is my - Whoa! 24k? - Here's the thing, okay, I have a lot of family in Malaysia. The trip always sucks. Alex, who's your Worth It winner? Put my mic here for you. - This has been awesome-- Who knows, but-- Peace. Can you imagine if everyday tasks, or like, going to the airport-- let's say you gonna take a dump, right? And you gotta wait an hour and and do all that just That's a problem.