Well, it's finally happened. The weird old a time machine. Time to take a time traveling how about throwing on a cowboy hat and visiting was never your thing. Lights flash, gears time. But instead of a futuristic adventure, you misery and poor hygiene. In today's we'll tell you why you wouldn't even Let's start with the most common threat people back then were violent! Whether you're bar brawl, you're going to have to watch yourself or look at them the wrong way, and you'll be But that's ok, the Dark Ages had some kind of exercised at all, and innocence or guilt alive after a fight. It's less all for one and protecting what little land, cattle According to a lot of medieval records, day to it was assault and murder, accidental homicide, the medieval period', we hear you cry. 'What about Ages are scarce, so it's a pretty safe assumption then as it was in the rest of the medieval period. historians, some even use the term 'Dark Ages' between the fifth and fifteenth centuries! But a fellow peasant draws a knife on you? contributed to a lot of violence, not just rulers.Throughout the multiple centuries that the like one long rebellion that lasted carried out by the peasants of Flanders, the And that's not to mention the number of some that lasted for generations. Take Wales, for rival, that person could find themselves just to settle a dispute over land or money, or Throughout the Dark Ages, much of Europe who held any beliefs that went against those included members of other religions like Jewish killed as heretics. Numerous kings, missionaries those who didn't share the beliefs of Christendom, that sought to capture Jerusalem. Over in anti Semitism was so bad that many Jewish people and even outright banished from the And if you're thinking 'well, I'm an atheist, so you'd likely still be punished for and by 'punished', we don't mean scolded by a range from being excommunicated from your Most commonly, those accused of heresy received and gruesome punishments imaginable: being a Roman Catholic priest named Jan de Bakker heresy. He was held in place and had to feel the Surely if you're too much at risk in your new leave! Hop on a horse and head to where the road during the Dark Ages was as dangerous as staying of infrastructure. Travelling across the country walk. One that was fraught with all manner of For one, crossing rivers. Sure, you might few bridges constructed at the time, but more flowing water on foot. Even the Holy safe from an accident while making a dangerous Frederick would drown in the Saleph river, now modern day Turkey. And if the Holy Roman Emperor Even with the early bridges available during the in the year 1450, tragedy struck when been crossing the bridge of Sant'Angelo, falling to their deaths in the river below. hopping on a boat and travelling stepping onto a boat carried with it just as medieval ships travelled through the water either many rowers, sometimes a combination of both. become a lot harder to sail if you end up hitting easily make navigation even harder; what, did you clouds obscuring the sky, how do you expect travel and trade via sea faring ships in the Dark Ages, you'd probably live only with no coin to pay for passage, you'd have Of course, assuming you even managed to get to place to sleep isn't going to be easy. Like we olde taverns near me', and see what the reviews offer lodgings was practically a pipe dream, and open. Not so bad in the summer, but you try that to death. On top of that, while on the road, could be fatal. If you found yourself falling sick telling if you'd be able to receive decent So, maybe you might try befriending some of the about any groups planning a pilgrimage out of Ages were willing to oblige you, strange traveller smart play. After all, there's safety in numbers, group would still leave you open to being robbed provided one of your new travelling companions On a long trek on foot, you're not going to get either isn't likely unless you're able to find journey. Even then, running out of food and water probably inciting an altercation in the process. come on, that's risky enough even in the present though that might be a mercy in itself too. exactly sanitary and safe for consumption? hands on any food at all. Famine still posed Dark Ages. Reliance on farming for food meant that to shortages, and with dwindling supplies of on successful harvests of wheat, which could be crops. You could always try surviving on scraps berries, mildew damaged wheat and tree bark. to malnutrition, your new best friend in the Dark famines were often followed by outbreaks of all smallpox, typhoid, influenza and mumps, infections and dysentery. Take your pick, any one standards, but back in the Dark Ages these But okay, say you make it wherever you're going, you, a person from the present day, definitely stay on good terms with your fellow travellers, stains on his tunic. And you take extra time to safe. It's hard, but it's definitely possible. expect to cover between 15 to 25 miles on foot... looking at covering slightly more ground, roughly take you anywhere between 75 to 125 miles But here's the thing; when you arrive in a new Travellers in the Dark Ages and medieval period or even roped into fighting in regional wars - for causing another fight when you arrived. medieval European regional dialect, how else And even if you made it this far, you're able to you avoid getting into scrapes, you keep and even manage to never get sick... you could sudden premature deaths were a very real, very even those who were wealthy weren't exempt from be caused by nearly anything, from the poor catching tuberculosis or the plague, malnutrition or even just getting unlucky. What are you going start a fire? Can you tell if your unfiltered The fact is, you really wouldn't Now go watch Why You Wouldn't Survive