- Today I'm gonna show you And I'm hungry and craving biscuits, so let's get started. (drum roll) (chuckles) I'm gonna go get the butter. (cheerful music) The most important thing is to make sure your Start by dicing a stick of butter, and put it back into the You'll need eight tablespoons Also, make sure to preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit. You wanna ensure your for your biscuits to have Once the butter is diced up, You'll also see I already have and chilling in the refrigerator. Now, in a large mixing bowl, we're gonna combine the dry ingredients. You'll need some all-purpose And it may seem like a Just trust me on this. And make sure it's Also, add sugar and salt Once that's well-combined, we're gonna get the butter Add all of the diced butter at once, and lightly stir to coat Use a pastry blender to cut A pastry blender is an inexpensive but really useful tool for baking. I will leave a link to my If you don't have a pastry blender, you can also put this and pulse until you see rough crumbs form. Once you see pea-sized it's ready. Now, pour in all of your cold and stir just until the and looks moistened. Do not overmix. You should have a shaggy Transfer that to a clean work If your dough feels too sticky to handle, dust the top with a little more flour. Now shape it into a rectangle, fold the dough in half, and shape it into another rectangle. Fold it in half once more. And layering it this tallest, and fluffiest I like to dust my surface to make sure my biscuits don't stick when I cut through the dough. And shape your dough Your dough should be about with a 3/4 inch thickness. Using a 2 1/2 inch round cutter, we're gonna cut out eight biscuits. To keep the cutter from I find it helps to dip it in flour first, then cut it through the dough. Here's another very When you're cutting through the dough, make sure you cut straight down without any kind of This will preserve those that you work to make and will ensure the best Dip your cutter into and continue until you Cut the biscuits as close Some of them will probably And just continue until you're done. To save the scraps, and because I like to get as many biscuits out of this as possible, pull those scraps together Now you can cut an extra two biscuits using pretty much all of the dough. And trust me, no one will complain that those last two biscuits because they sure are delicious. Transfer your prepared biscuits onto a parchment-lined baking sheet, keeping them at least an inch apart. You wanna give them some And if you're not ready to bake quite yet, or if you're prepping ahead and want fresh, hot you can cover and refrigerate these until you're ready to bake them off. Our oven is fully preheated, so we're gonna bake these for about 12 to 13 minutes or until the tops are golden and the biscuits are baked through. As soon as the biscuits and while they're still hot, brush them with some melted butter. The butter adds a little and makes the tops look prettier. All right, generously get And seriously, like, how They're amazing biscuits. Even the ugly ones, the, like, scraggly-looking ones that we threw together here, they're still so delicious. Oh my goodness. And there never is any biscuits Cute or not, these taste so good, especially when they're warm Oh, yummy. And there are so many Everything from serving them It makes a really special breakfast when you have 'em with sausage And then, also, you if you wanted to make the little mini strawberry shortcakes, which we have a really Or if you just want to enjoy them with your coffee for breakfast, with either jam or honey I mean, there are so, literally like a hundred Or you can even make them into sliders, because when you separate them, they actually kind of into, like, a little sandwich bun. It's awesome. And I'm totally craving biscuits. My house smells like biscuits now. I gotta get me some biscuits, so I'm gonna jump right First, I wanna show you what's inside. You guys have to see the texture on these. They are amazing. Check this out. Oh, they're still warm. They're still a little steamy (chuckles). Look at that texture. Oh (chuckles). And they are moist too. These are such a treat. And seriously, like the You can use these instead of dinner rolls. They are so special. All right, how am I gonna serve these? Options, options. I think butter and honey. I think that's like a really tasty, really classic combination. Just get a little slather of Oh my gosh, look at that. It's melting a little bit. Yummy. And some honey. And this honey is straight It's so lovely. I love honey. It's like one of my favorite things, food things in life, is honey. Look at that, oh my gosh. Does it get any better than this? Nope. Does it get any fresher? Nope. Homemade warm biscuits, ahh. You don't even have to 'cause, literally, they Okay, I'm diving right into this. (cheerful music) Oh, mm, mm, mm, mm. The best biscuits I ever, ever... (chuckles) My daughter says that. That's where I picked that up. That means they're really good. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. The other thing that I love is you can make them ahead. If you're not ready to bake them or you want fresh biscuits in the morning, just cover 'em up, pop 'em in the fridge, and bake 'em off the next morning. Just as easy as can be. All right, let me know in the comments how you guys love to serve your biscuits. What's your go-to combination? And we have tons and tons of amazing recipes in our new cookbook. If you haven't already I'll leave a link to this in the comments. And I spent a lot of time on (imitates crying) It really is just like I think you guys are Thank you so much if Let me know if you have any Let me know where you spotted Sharky. And I'm gonna go enjoy and maybe a few more. We'll see you on the next Honey, biscuits. (giggles) (cheerful music)