Welcome to Java. One of Indonesia's most fascinating and diverse islands. From volcanic mountain landscapes to charming fishing villages. From bustling megacities to historic temples, Home to more than half of all Indonesians, the island And also boasts some of the most spectacular natural I traveled through Asia for a number of years, And in this video, I want to share with you my personal top 10 places to visit. We begin our journey in Jakarta, the political Over 10 million people live here, making it one of Asia's largest cities. At firsth sight, the nation's capital can feel overwhelming, But when you spend some time here, you'll discover A good place to start exploring Jakarta, is Merdaka Square, It's filled with monuments and museums, and provides a Not far from here is the impressive Istiqlal mosque, an important place of worship that can hold up to 200,000 people. For a different side of Jakarta, travel to the old city Batavia, This was the hub of Dutch colonial Indonesia. Don't miss out on the nearby historic port, called Sunda Kelapa, to catch a glimpse of traditional wooden cargo vessels. And for some contrast, head to one of the modern Where you will find countless stores, and perhaps more On Sundays, parts of Jakarta ban traffic, and crowds of people fill the streets. Some go for a walk, others organize events, It symbolized what was the highlight of my visit to Jakarta, the positive and dynamic attitude of the people. After the hustle and bustle of the capital, we travel to Yogyakarta, by many considered as the cultural heartland of Java island. The most fascinating place to visit here is the 'kraton', Yogyakarta is ruled by a sultan, and the region is considered The 'kraton' is more like a walled city, and the compound is home to around 25,000 Come here to stroll around, or listen to a performance of Gamelan can also be heard during a show of 'wayang', Yogyakarta is located in one of Java's most fertile regions. Agriculture is an integral part of daily life here, and visiting the surrounding countryside is a great way Most are growing rice, the main staple in Indonesia, and an important source of livelihood for millions of people. For our next destination we stay in the same region, visiting two of the most spectacular temples in Indonesia. Set in a beautiful green landscape, with volcanoes as backdrop, Borobudur is a stunning Buddhist temple complex, Borobudur is beautiful from afar, but equally impressive from up close, with its many detailed statues and sculptures. Unlike Borobudur, the remarkable temples of Prambanan They were built in the same period when both Buddhist Both temples were restored multiples times, and became We continue our journey through Java visiting Mount Bromo, one of Indonesia's most iconic volcanoes. It is located in a massive crater, and contrasts Appreciating the breathtaking landscape from a distance is one thing, but hiking the active volcano is really another, A clear pathway leads people to the ridge of Bromo, from where you get a peek into its crater, with billowing It's an exhilarating experience, with surreal views all around. The next spot on my list, the tranquil seaside village Pangandaran, The town's location is spectacular, on a narrow peninsula, and a beautiful national park at the very tip. People come here mostly to relax, to sail a classic fishing boat, Or even to visit the sunken vessel right off the coast. This shipwreck was sunk by the authorities, and kept While peaceful during weekdays, the town gets as it's an easy trip from some of Java's major cities. Our next destination is Semarang, a bustling city in the North of Java. Some of the main attractions here are the historic especially in the Dutch colonial quarter. Many are in a state of decay, but some are well preserved and open to visit. The beautiful 'Geraja Blenduk', an elegant church built 2,5 centuries ago, is still used as a place of worship for the Christian community in Semarang. Also impressive is the 'Lawang Sewu' building, the old railway headquarters, located on one of Semarang's busiest intersections. For a blend of traditional and modern architecture, head straight to the 'Great Mosque of Central Java', After Semarang, we travel to Kawah Ijen, a volcanic lake offering some of Indonesia's This acidic lake is located at an altitude of over 2,000 meters, With sulfurous smoke some billowing from the edges this is definitely not a place to go for a swim. It's quite a hike up here, but nothing compared to the extreme Several hundred collectors come here to cut rocks often without meaningful protection against the toxic smoke. They can carry loads between 60 and 90 kilograms, Tourists are advised against going down the actual crater, as they lack local experience and are usually overwhelmed by the smoke. Ijen is best reached via Banyuwangi. Located in the very east of Java, and our next destination. It's a pleasant and friendly town to walk around. You can visit some of the local markets, and admire Try to come here when some of the fishermen come in from sea, to deliver their catch. Thanks to its location near the volcanic Ijen, the region around Banyuwangi is well suited for agriculture, But probably the most well known product is the Java coffee, which was first cultivated at the turn of the 18th century. Some of Java's finest coffees, both arabica and It's possible to visit one of the plantations, a great way to get a If you're more of a tea person and interested to see how Located in Central Java, the town is surrounded by lush green Indonesia has historically been a major tea producer, even if It is possible to visit one of the tea plantations here, and get a look at the factory, where batches of Wonosobo is also the gateway to the Dieng plateau, but I advise to go here only if weather permits. We finish this journey in Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city, It may not be on top of most travelers' itineraries, but The city holds a special place in the hearts of many Indonesians, as a fierce battle was fought here during the independence Visit the Heroes Monument, stroll around the Arab neighborhood, or have a look in the sizeable Chinatown. Perhaps the most impressive building in Surabaya Indonesia has the largest Muslim population in the world, and Islam is part of every day life for many people. The beautiful mosque is open to visitors, and caretakers are happy to show you around. And on Friday, after the main prayer, the area around with street food sellers offering their finest dishes. And that concludes my personal top 10 places to visit on Java, one of Indonesia's most beautiful and diverse islands. I hope this video gave you some travel inspiration, or at least If you enjoyed watching, feel free to give a like or leave a comment below. Thanks for your support and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely!