The term "capsule computers" may not mean most enduring and beloved developers. That's the term from which Capcom took its company called its earliest arcade machines. And we don't mean video games; we mean prize been all but lost to history. It wasn't until 1983 that the company actually Vulgus. It wasn't half bad, and its visuals wouldn't today, but it gave little indication of just the company would introduce to the world. Today, we're taking a look at every last from worst to best. The rules are simple, which is good, because We are calculating the overall critical reception to determine, with absolutely no room for of each in terms of quality. We are only counting franchises that have later remakes, remasters, or collections into We are also not counting spinoffs. Pretty clear, right? Not clear at all, no! Capcom has a habit of remaking its games in whether or not the remake should be considered game with the same premise. Nor is it clear about what's a spinoff and a series. Additionally, Capcom loves releasing its games making it less clear what qualifies as a "port." We've done our best to untangle these things, you don't agree with. That's okay, because you didn't make this I promise. We won't be counting original arcade releases but we will count their first home ports. And finally, standard exclusions in the form games, and anything else that deserves universal Let's rank 'em. I'm Ben and I'm Peter from Triple Jump, from Worst to Best. #35: Gun Survivor - 54.8% The series that was only really a series in of that banner. We're counting it anyway, mainly because list, and it might as well be something nobody Three Gun Survivor games are Resident Evil Crisis-themed entry called Dino Stalker. Review scores were atrocious, somewhere below On the bright side, the averages did increase On the less-bright side, the highest-scoring They are basically light-gun shooters, though Only playable with standard controllers, in from the first game in North America. Resident Evil and Dino Crisis fans enjoyed resources and emphases on puzzle solving. Gun Survivor took away those things, replacing I think I might have found the problem. Either series can work as a light-gun experience. The Chronicles games for the Wii were good, it rather clear that blasting terrible thunder It's not that Gun Survivor couldn't work, That's what makes it all the more frustrating. #34: Mega Man Star Force - 57.61% The seventh - and so far final - full Mega Man Star Force attempted to capture the making it accessible to newcomers. Was it successful? Would you be hearing about it already if it The series made no secret about patterning The first game came in "Pegasus,""Leo," exclusive content, meaning that at least one a game they didn't like. It earned an embarrassing series high of just The second game came in two versions: "Zerker meant something to somebody. It's the best-selling game in the series Fans and critics alike agreed that Star Force and nostalgia stripped out. The wireless multiplayer available on the for many critics to recommend it. The third game was also available in two versions: It earned 58.5% and Capcom quietly cancelled Both fans were heartbroken. #33: Commando - 63.22% As an arcade game, Commando had its merits. It popularized the run-and-gun genre, and Commando was the story of "Super Joe," He's on a mission to shoot...basically anyone, It was among the top-grossing arcade games only one thing: appalling home ports! The best-known of these is the NES port, and not disappoint. It's...not great, but it earned an average Mega Drive version of its sequel, Mercs, at Mercs is the better game in reality, if only is trying to pass a bowel obstruction. The series high goes to Wolf of the Battlefield: With such a long gap between releases, you Whatever you might expect Commando 3 to do, Critics awarded it 66%, citing simplistic that seems like the developers played their is the future." Only time will tell if we'll ever get another will ride in on. #32: Steel Battalion - 63.67% Sometimes Capcom's risks perform exceptionally Sometimes they crash and burn. In the case of Steel Battalion, they do one The first game was an expensive gamble, requiring consisting of buttons, sticks, dials, and This was in 2002, by the way, before Guitar use again" aselling point. Well, that's not entirely true; you could Line of Contact. You controlled an enormous mech that was as If you wanted to wield the power of your towering on that control panel did and how to use it. The first game scored 83% and the second scored Which means that the average of 63.67% must game, right? Right indeed, as Heavy Armor was a Kinect requiring complexity and precision, the best Critics saddled it with 38% and made Capcom it again. So far, at least, they've honored the agreement. #31: SNK vs. Capcom: Card Fighters - 64.5% This isn't the first attempt we've seen fans, but it's probably the most blatant. Card Fighters was a collaboration with SNK, and imagery to the digital card game, but Since there's no guarantee we'll get around putting it here. The first game was released for the Neo Geo and Capcom Version. The main difference between them - Pokemon-style, cards that could be traded by linking with The game averaged 74.9%, because if you hit pretend you were playing Pokemon. The second game added more cards and card For the third game, SVC: Card Fighters DS, that people actually owned. This backfired, because it exposed the series only 48%. Also, it included a game-breaking bug that in the first place. This resulted in a costly cartridge replacement We're sure that didn't kill the series #30: Breath of Fire - 66.98% Released in 1993, Breath of Fire looked and was a 16-bit game by Capcom. Its genre was a bit less expected, though: To be honest, it shows. The story is weak and the combat is dull, When the game came West, Capcom teamed up who localized all-time-greats The Secret of From there, the series found its footing. The sequel refined and expanded upon the original, PlayStation. The story didn't get much deeper - you RPG combat - but the environments and characters The fifth game implemented sweeping changes fans, but it earned a respectable 78% and That was in 2002, though, and fans didn't What did those fans get for their patience? Well...it's probably best if I just read of Fire 6 was a free-to-play online, web-based It was what precisely nobody wanted, and it burst testicle. It scored a scathing 20.8% and was shuttered #29: Strider - 67.19% The arcade game Strider is...right, listen, after playing it. It's some kind of futuristic sci-fi beat-'em-up...although Russia...and... I can try to make sense of this, but we'd Strider is a game about flash, and it's like a neutron bomb. The Mega Drive got a faithful port, but that The NES had that honor, but it was a different It's also the second-worst-regarded game The worst regarded? Why, that would be Strider II, released by fewer childhoods if it simply went door to It scored 49.17%. In 2000, 10 years later, Capcom released another one would ever mention the previous one again, It scored 69%, which we can all agree is nice. In 2014 we got the final game in the series, the best score overall: 75.4%. It also leaves a mess of names for future distinct games called Strider and two distinct Hopefully if Strider ever returns it will toes. #28: Final Fight - 67.39% What does your mayor do when the city is in If the answer is anything other than "strip of street toughs," you may want to consider one civic leader who isn't held back by In fact, I think he uses it to strangle people. Final Fight was among the best arcade ports banging soundtrack, and crunchy fisticuffs You lost two-player co-op, but on the bright meaning you didn't have to press the D-pad It scored 71.23% on average. The next two sequels were received with similar cartoony reimagining for the NES - scored reliable Capcom classic. So what's it doing down here? Well, Final Fight lost its final fight. Streetwise for the PS2 is by far the worst-received and you're already looking up the price Ever. Critics conceded that Streetwise was playable disease, but couldn't find much positive #27: 194X - 68.53% One of Capcom's earliest arcade hits was that the company released on the NES. Some sources claim it was the very first, Regardless, the arcade game was huge, giving overnight, and launching the career of Yoshiki You may not know his name, but you definitely Final Fight, and Street Fighter II, and he I am told has led to a decently popular series The NES version paled in comparison to the arcade-to-NES ports usually did. The controls were stiff, the music was indistinguishable at the framerate of its own box art. Still, it scored 61.6% on average. Not great, but higher than it deserved. Ports of the later games in the series fared 73.6%. A passing grade, but one you'd probably Scoring slightly worse was 1943: The Battle Midway's game, 3491: The Battle of Capcom. The series went dormant until 2008, when the a followup in the form of 1942: Joint Strike. More like 19-420, amiright my dudes? It scored 68.5%, and you'd be forgiven for Instead, it took elements from various games a flavorless broth that most people forgot But hey, at least the arcade games are still #26: Lost Planet - 69% Capcom has done a good job of hooking themselves When Microsoft made an unexpectedly large refused to let the 360 pass them by. Capcom came up with Lost Planet: Extreme Condition, which was already developing a reputation Sure enough, it was a commercial success, That does count its eventual ports to other It ends more or less the moment they've It was a welcome new IP, which could have in a sequel. We got the sequel, but not the ironing.Lost Planet 2 dropped to 68%. Capcom also released a Blackberry version good use of the company's resources. The series died with Lost Planet 3. It earned 60% on average, but that's high, reviewers had for it. The Digital Fix could only find two nice things as bad as Aliens: Colonial Marines." I've played Aliens: Colonial Marines, and work without anesthetic. #25: Ghosts 'n Goblins - 69.01% Have you ever wanted to fight evil in your Of course you have; that's one of the inherent Arthur understands the appeal as well; that's game doing. That suit of armor might as well be made out Ghosts 'n Goblins is known as Makaimura Admittedly, I don't know what it means, Here the games are usually called Ghosts 'n 'n Ghosts. Also, if the title is meant to imply ghosts each side of the n. The way it's written, it seems more like which suggests a different kind of game entirely. Nearly all of them have the same premise: where she's whisked away by Satan before What follows is a brutalgauntlet of horror, establishing Capcom itself as the true evil. The similarity of the games has led to largely territory. The lowest dip came with Makaimura for WonderSwan, harsh. We can only assume that the critics were unnerved intro. And now you probably are as well. #24: Mega Man Battle Network - 72.21% With the main Mega Man series featuring so it might have seemed like a waste to scrap Enter Mega Man Battle Network, which reinterprets a quite good one. The first game scored 79%, which is a higher Reviewers praised it for its unique spin on system. It was by no means perfect; exploration in for instance. But it was a great start, and it was improved That was the peak of the series, though. Perhaps not coincidentally, it was also the From there, games came in two iterations, Sun" for Battle Network 4 and "CybeastFalzar" 6, probably because Capcom really wanted to gifts. The series never got truly bad - the lowest-rated it did wear out its welcome rather quickly, while the iron was hot rather than creating #23: Mega Man X - 72.83% Mega Man X was released for the SNES in 1993, to get games, this was where Capcom focused For the first few games at least, that attention X and X2were met with acclaim, with the original Not every Mega Man fan was on board with the design, gorgeous spritework, and the increased Until Mega Man X6, that is. That's when - critically at least - the weight. It retained the appearance and gameplay of X5 but, for the first time, the design felt Critics gave it 65% and a note that said "see Then X7 smashed through the bottom of the garnering a far-too-generous 58% along the This was the series' attempt to bring itself hurting them. We got one final entry with X8, which scored Notably better, but not enough for Capcom We can't blame them. We still have nightmares about X7 ourselves. #22: Dino Crisis - 73.53% We've already ranked Every Jurassic Park can agree that the best Jurassic Park game The game sees you touching down on a remote that has brought dinosaurs back to life...through Whew, that was close; they were one strand Crichton's lawyers. "Survival horror with dinosaurs" is a most compelling summary of anything in history. It was a commercial success and critics loved as uniformly beloved by fans. The deliberate pace and tricky puzzles of action-oriented experience. Critics rated it higher, however, with 86%. The overall average in the low 70s is entirely the fanbase. It united them in anger, but, still...unity. The series jumped to the Xbox, but no Sony anything to do with it. A terrible camera, empty level design, and things critics were able to say politely, it and declare it to be "one big pile of #21: Sengoku Basara- 73.8% Sengoku Basara is a huge series for Capcom, presence in the West. Japanese fans received not only more of the TV show, novels, stage shows, and more. Sengoku Basura takes place in an alternate-history using real-life warlords and skirmishes as Being an action-packed retelling of one particular was not convinced that the rest of the world The company reworked the first game as Devil and packaging it as a work of fantasy instead. While the original game performed well with by it, awarding it only 64%. Perhaps burned by the poor reception, Capcom which is a shame, because that one earned Instead, they were dedicated to providing giving them Sengoku Basara: Samurai Heroes, Next came Sengoku Basara 4, which achieved going to share it with us.The company's in the West somehow did not win over critics. Weird, that! #20: Mega Man - 73.92% Mega Man was a labor of love by Capcom employees They proposed a non-linear experience that based on the path a player would take through Visually, it took more than a little inspiration of comic-book supervillain flair. Also, it was tough as nails, because the developers It became an unexpected success, not least that was available at the time. After the NES, though, the series faltered on the Super Famicom - and one on the PlayStation. It then sunk into a long absence that was everyone why they loved the robot in blue beats. Critically, the series peaked with Mega Man It's a pair of PC games bringing up the The lowest rated non-PC title is Rockman &amp; Forte: with a much-more-respectable 67.2%. We did think about not counting the PC games, They are official Capcom products. They were not developed by Capcom, but neither best-reviewed games in the series. Ultimately, the only reason to not count the once we start discounting games for being of these lists entirely. Sorry, Mega Man. #19: Mega Man World - 74.32% Western fans might be a bit confused about Man World" branding - or "Rock Man World" about this - when they were localized. That led many to assume that these were Game actually completely different. Each one took elements of two NES games, remixed original stages around them. This pattern continued until the fifth and adventure, packed with unique content that in terms of quality. In fact, it scored better than all but two Impressive, for the fifth game in an often-overlooked Mega Man V earned a well-deserved average Strangely, the worst-performing game is the I say "strangely" not because it's great, and sounding like its code is held together Still, it performed a bit better with an undeservedly We will complain about it, but we will respect #18: x- 74.33% In 2005's Namco x Capcom - released only collided, and with them entire histories of It was fan service of the best kind. Classic Namco characters from the Tales series, classic Capcom characters, such as...the guy Point is, fans loved it and it scored an 80% until its 3DS successor, Project x Zone. This time, Sega characters worked their way Chronicles, Sakura Wars, and Space Channel quite been able to make sense of the story a focus instead on a surprisingly engaging many franchises come together. It's the low-point of the series, critically, The third game, Project x Zone 2, did a bit to loan out a few characters, namely Chrom Welcome additions, to be sure, but anyone pairing up to battle the supernatural, or Donkey Kong, was bound to be disappointed. #17: Street Fighter EX - 74.49% The Street Fighter series more or less single-handedly games, but, over time, it lost ground to other In those games, 3D models had a lot to do developers weren't confident enough to take They decided to test the waters with a spinoff And they farmed it out to Arika, a developer It looks like Street Fighter EX was their Excellent choice, Capcom! Street Fighter EX was popular, but the only which is baffling because I think we can all the 2D games.The PlayStation port, Street to confuse literally everybody about what tends to feature on lists of the best PlayStation The sequel, Street Fighter EX2 Plus, earned was a good but unnecessary follow-up. The low point of the series was Street Fighter rather than in the arcade. Reviewers complained that it didn't take way, awarding it a 64% average. At least the title made sense, though. #16: Mega Man Legends - 76.55% When it launched on the PlayStation in 1997, especially by existing Mega Man fans who were Legends lifted some elements from The Legend to boot, giving gamers what is still one of in the overall Mega Man franchise. It received 76% from critics. It was followed by a direct sequel in 2000, the improvements and hailing it an exciting Sadly, there wasn't any more to come. Between those two games we got a prequel, an anti-heroic sky pirate who carries off with her army of Lego men who are absolutely It's worth noting that we did almost get Development was announced in 2010, just in Wait, did I say Capcom? Sorry about that; according to Capcom UK, get a third numbered game. And they're right. Did you put even the slightest bit of effort I thought not. For shame. #15: Bionic Commando - 76.61% In 1983, Tokuro Fujiwara designed Roc'n was the first of what we'd now call "grapple Fujiwara later left Konami and joined Capcom, more memorable game using the same ideas. This gave the world Bionic Commando, or Toppu about this. It's probably the best-known game in the That would be Umihara Kawase and don't you Bionic Commando was the story of "Rad Spencer," It involved navigating tricky platforms and to jump, relying instead on a grappling hook It also involved literally blowing the face in the West, where we called him Mr. Badd. Got 'im. The NES version earned 76.4%, and the series Commando Rearmed, a faithful reinterpretation It earned 86% and pleased fans and critics Which is why it's perhaps surprising that Commando Rearmed 2, which seemed to answer game if it didn't work?" The answer was no, not really, but thank you #14: Darkstalkers- 76.68% Two of Capcom's most notable franchises Combining the two was a logical step, and Night Warriors. Originally released for arcades and eventually of fighters based on classic monsters, such There was also a woman in a cat suit, which nobody complained... Darkstalkers found an immediate audience. Its score of 71.6% is the series low, which things only got better from there.The highest-rated Matching Service, which is exactly what I It released in Japan on the Dreamcast, though the PSP. It earned 79.2%. As with any series of fighting games, fans upon the roster. The over-the-top mixture of horror iconography fighters to stand out even more than most, even though they haven't gotten a new game They had their blood thirst at least briefly a remake of the first two games. It doesn't count for this list, but it had At least we can count on that much; when Capcom do it for a good reason. #13: Street Fighter - 77.09% Capcom owes much of its legacy to Street Fighter.The Not Street Fighter the game, because boy oh Two players could fight head to head, but The game was instead built around gradually opponents, something that would be present focus. It did have innovative controls, though; the force with which you struck them would determine Many home ports of the game were similar to buttons and determining strength based on Considering just how frantic fighting games choice, but it did the job. And that job was allowing people to play an of their own homes. Really, the series didn't become popular improved the experience to an almost miraculous fighters, and a formula that would define In fact, if you're wondering why I spent because there really isn't much I can add They're legendary, and you already know Street Fighter is not Capcom's highest-rated it may be the most famous, and it's almost The series is one of gaming's crown jewels Just not the first one, though; that one is #12: Magical Quest - 78.53% Early on, Capcom established itself as one games, with their Disney releases still being DuckTales, Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers, games on the NES. What do they have to do with Magical Quest? Not much, but it wouldn't feel right if list. Fortunately, we do get to cover the Magical shows that the company kept its...erm...magic The first game, The Magical Quest Starring a critical average of 87%. It also upsets me greatly that they didn't The pun was right there, Capcom. The second game - which introduced some became a direct sequel in retrospect; it was Starring Mickey &amp; Minnie, but later rereleases The third game, Disney's Magical Quest 3 Donald. No points for guessing that before I got there. And this game is why I specified the Super Quest 3 didn't leave Japan until 2004, nine to the Game Boy Advance. Maybe we'll get a remake of the trilogy Remastered? That would be magical. #11: Rival Schools - 78.7% Fighting games are an important part of Capcom's in keeping them alive. The most notable example of this is Power but which I will be drawn and quartered if Not far behind is Rival Schools, which had a forgotten gem. Not too often, though...otherwise it wouldn't The first game was released in 1997 for arcades, visuals, stylish combat, and team-up moves opponents. Ganging up on the weak had never been so much A good PlayStation port on its own would have extra disc, containing new games, modes, and One of them allowed you to guide a custom Your decisions and interactions shaped relationships for use in fighting. Sorry, did you say something? You don't remember any of this? Oh, right, Capcom decided not to translate The second game never left Japan at all. It was called Shiritsu Justice Gakuen: NekketsuSeisyun But the third game, Project Justice, did come The well-received character creation life In Japan. The rest of the world just got a slip of paper #10: Dead Rising - 78.75% KeijiInafunewill always be best known for that? Mighty who? Never heard of it. You probably dreamed it. Anyway, his creation of Dead Rising is something just about anyone else's C.V. Dead Rising took the basic plot of Dawn of there. "Dead Rising took the basic plot of Dawn My god, Capcom's lawyers must be set for Still, it's a great game. It centers on a zombie outbreak in the fictional Photojournalist Frank West copters in to cover seven shades of shambles out of zombies with At least, if you're good at the game, that's In my experience, he spends a panicky few alive by the horde. Still fun, though. That first game remains the series highlight, from there. It never got truly bad - Dead Rising 4, still scored 73% - but it seems that fans as they did the first outing. #9: Mega Man Zero - 79.25% Speaking ofInafune, the man himself intended with Mega Man Zero serving as the ultimate Then Capcom made X6 and X7 without his involvement, anyone who had ever enjoyed anything in life. That's unfortunate, because the Mega Man true chapter in the long-running saga. All four games were released for the Game degrees of great. Controlling Zero requires grace and precision, with his totally-not-a-lightsaber-please-don't-sue-us any Mega Man game has ever had. Critically, the series peaked with the first Things really should have gone up from there, for the sequels, with fewer blind jumps and Instead, the games decreased just slightly a still-respectable 77%. Regardless of which game you end up liking Zero 3 and won't shut up about it - it's of high quality. It even has a clear storyline that unfolds That's something Mega Man had never had #8: Gargoyle's Quest - 79.54% Hey, remember the Red Arremer? Of course you do; he's the reason you still 'n Goblins. (I won't tell anyone.) But have you ever wished you could spend more If so, check out Gargoyle's Quest! The original game was released for the Game That's not bad for a spinoff, especially Goblins and therefore unlikely to appeal to The controls are a bit stiff, but that's Gargoyles are usually made of stone, right? Anyway, you fly around and absorb abilities You're basically Kirby if he lived in Hell. Its NES sequel - technically a prequel- And, indeed, it's a tossup as to which of screen size and...y'know...colors certainly Then came Demon's Crest for the SNES, which the previous two games. The graphics finally conveyed the gritty darkness The soundtrack was moody and memorable. Also, the overworld became a Mode-7 showcase rather than walk everywhere, as though Capcom But that was the last of the games. It scored a well-deserved 86.7%, so it went little disappointing that we haven't seen #7: Ace Attorney - 79.68% Ace Attorney was the brainchild of Shu Takumi, games and composed music for the series. On top of that, he directed Dino Crisis 2 Detective. Am I the only one who hadn't heard of this Why are we not all talking about Shu Takumi? Anyway, Ace Attorney debuted on the Game Boy flair for cartoonish graphics and vivid color anyway. Prior to that you might as well have been Wright himself is not the protagonist of the well-known of them. Even so, the highest-rated game, critically What, surely you've heard of Gyakuten Kenji Oh, probably not, actually, as Capcom thought This was the sequel to Ace Attorney Investigations: and is, mercifully, available in English. The lowest-rated game in the series is The 75.6% average, there shouldn't be any "Objection!" Did I get that right? It's the only thing I know about Ace Attorney. #6: Capcom vs. - 80.46% Capcom's clout in the fighting-game space their characters clash with various properties, Tatsunoko. The Capcom vs. series is sometimes considered Atom and Marvel Super Heroes, but we think series, so we're starting with X-Men vs. This game combined many of the characters square off against fighters from Street Fighter reason to which nobody paid any attention. SNK got the crossover treatment next, with of Fighting getting in on the action. SNK vs. Capcom: The Match of the Millennium SNK vs. Capcom: SVC Chaos brings up the rear of the entire Capcom vs. series. Not too shabby. Finally, there was Tatsunoko vs. Capcom: Cross from Gyakuten! Ippatsuman, Science Ninja Team Gatchaman, pretend to understand. It earned 81.2% on Metacritic, probably because people are in order to enjoy kicking their #5: Devil May Cry - 83.56% Devil May Cry? More like, Dante May Kiss Me Any Time He Likes! I'm joking of course but the guy is a total know...I'm not saying I would but I'm Erm, right, the games. Devil May Cry can trace its lineage to its it sprung from ideas for the fourth numbered a glitch allowed players to juggle enemies. Two very different sources of inspiration, most-loved franchises. And heroes. (Call me, Dante.) The game was a massive success and it soared Capcom, with a brand-new hit on their hands, memorable as a sequel, and so they released as Devil May Cry 2. Neither critics nor fans were satisfied. The difficulty was toned down, Dante's attitude less refined. It earned 68% on average, and honestly probably Since then, however, Capcom has done much 2019's Devil May Cry 5 has won accolades special edition for the PlayStation 5 and hoping Capcom keeps that combo going for a #4: Monster Hunter- 83.83% If you've never played a Monster Hunter like this: You're a hunter. You see a monster. You hunt the monster, because you are a monster Several hours later, after your remains have digestive tract, you wonder what went wrong. The series is a complicated beast, full of...complicated While many games distill the act of "hunting" "shooting," Monster Hunter makes you learn You observe their habits from a distance. You learn where they live, where they forage, You track them and understand them. And when you are finally ready to attack them, doing, lest the next adventurer end up having of their shoe. It's not a series for everybody, and the but those willing to take the time will find few others. And if you have like-minded friends who are beat a Megalosaurus into submission, so much The first game, released for the PlayStation That's probably because neither critics difficulty and complete lack of margin for As the series continued and people realized it reviewed better. But if it weren't for that first game getting been Capcom's highest-rated franchise overall. #2: tie: Viewtiful Joe - 84% It's a tie this far up the list, and both over the fact that they won't be getting Maybe combining them here is a mercy. It's best to just rip the plaster off, right? First up is Onimusha, which was intended to 2 that Resident Evil scratched on Sony's And it scratched that itch with big honking It kept the fixed camera angles, pre-rendered It was even referred to as Sengoku Biohazard to be an actual spinoff. Also, the far-better wordplay would have been You're welcome, Capcom! Critically, the games were all well received, The first game, Warlords, peaked at 86%, but still held the not-poor-at-all score of 81%. Then there's cel-shaded beat-'em-up Viewtiful its own.Critics loved it, giving it 93% on and its addictive, reaction-based combat. It was followed by a sequel, in which the partner to the hero in the second. That's a pattern more series should look It was rated a little less highly than the Capcom had an exciting new series under its Which, of course, means that we didn't get Double Trouble stands as the final proper The series didn't last long, but it was In fact, you could say that it came together...viewtifully.[booing] joke. You would have boo-ed louder if I didn't #1: Resident Evil- 85.03% It's difficult to remember just how fresh So many games - and its own sequels - have forget the fact that, at some point, there It borrowed elements of Sweet Home and, more safe to say that most gamers had never had And, once they did have it, they were hooked. We can point and laugh at the writing and so! - but the tension, the atmosphere, and clearly in a class of its own. The game landed with an average of 87.23%, Capcom could have tried to repeat its success mansion, but from the first sequel onwards, that has paid off in spades. And, yes, I know, you're already typing but even that game scored 70%. Not at all a bad low point for a series that There will always be purists who can't abide the size of the console itself, and there earlier than Resident Evil 4, when you could that your next bullet was hours away. And yet, the series is somehow keeping gamers what "more" ends up looking like. Its highest-rated game is Resident Evil 4 little bum-bum. You might have predicted that, but less-expected comes in second place, with 94%. Resident Evil is also Capcom's best-selling and commercial success that more or less assures even better news for zombies, who won't between sequels. Good for them. It can't be easy to get regular work when Especially in this economy!