Welcome to Mumbai, India Whatever you think about India, it is true.. This It's the most populous country in the world India's population is estimated to be 1,450,500,000 India's population is 4.5 times that of the USA, 410 times Uruguay, Today we will explore Bhendi Bazaar. near Minara Masjid, in South Mumbai. This is what the butcher shops here look like: no refrigerators, meat that smells bad and fat flies everywhere. Similar to what I saw time ago in Cuba and Egypt. They love it when you make jokes--they're not used to it, and they laugh their heads off! Weather is terrible. Temperature is around 102.2degF (39.5degC) and 88% humidity Even this little mouse suffers from the heat! Here's wha Indian Rupee looks like, India is an exaggeration of beauty, poverty, spices, noise, colors, and weird smells. Crossing a street is practically impossible; traffic has no rules, and everyone goes wherever they want. Locals usually eat with their hands. They rarely use cutlery. Time for a Mango Lassi, a delicious and creamy blend of mangoes and yogurt with a touch of cardamom.. Extreme poverty and extreme wealth coexist in a peace that seems impossible for the West. Which is the most famous street food in India? In Mumbai, the most popular are Vada Pav, Samosa, Pav Bhaji, Kanda Bhaji, Bhel Puri and Pani Puri Would you dare to try street food in India? In favor, I tell you that the prices are super cheap. With a dollar you can eat and a lot. But I will respectfully say that hygiene measures are not the best. Be careful! Everyone honks their horn as if possessed, but never argues.. Time for Masala Chai, a 5,000+ year old drink, popular in South Asia Masala chai is made with black tea, milk, sugar, cloves, cinnamon, cardamom, nutmeg, black pepper and ginger. On the channel you'll find videos of Brazil, UK, Spain, Turkey, Morocco, Italy, Argentina, Greece, Cuba, Paraguay &amp; more! Be sure to subscribe to Wanna Walk Locals are friendly and curious and they love the camera too.. Always a good time for a nap Indian women dress in a colorful and spectacular manner. The dot on forehead means she is married.. What's your India story? Been to Mumbai? Want to visit someday? Let me know in the comments! Four out of ten people live below the poverty line. Many survive on just $1.50 a day.. Millions earn barely $35 a month, but theft is rare. Thousands of religions: India is home to thousands of different religions and beliefs.. Mumbai is the financial capital of India and is home to the Bombay Stock Exchange Why do Indians bob their heads? It's known as the Indian Nod, a gesture similar to saying &quot;uh-huh,&quot; &quot;ok,&quot; or &quot;I see.&quot;, etc. I'm not entirely sure but I think this is juice in a bag. Beautiful colors! India has 22 official languages. TV shows Hindi, politicians use local dialects, and English has a strong accent Somehow, India is not a country, it is a continent, and there is so much diversity.. Each Indian state has its own local language, sometimes two, and even three. In the upper classes, English is the family language.. This looks yummy 80% of the population considers itself Hindu India is not a melting pot, but a thali -- a platter with many different dishes.. Indian hospitality turns strangers into friends within minutes.. With almost 22 million people living in Mumbai, traffic can be difficult In India, time seems to be the only luxury that's not taken seriously.. Maximum average temperatures is about 32 degC (90 degF) in summer and 30 degC (86 degF) in winter In India, everyone smiles, even though they often don't completely understand each other.. India is surrounded by the Bay of Bengal in the east, the Arabian Sea in the west, and the Indian Ocean to the south. India it's the most interesting country I've visited and also the strangest.. Families live together in harmony, in homes that seem crowded but cozy.. The beauty of India is that there is no one India India lying entirely in the Northern Hemisphere. Be sure to follow me on Instagram and Facebook: For these who wants to support the channel, please use the 'Super Thanks' or join 'Wanna Walk' To support the channel with PayPal: The streets are alive with surprises at every corner. Even the simplest food can be a cultural shock.. People are incredibly kind and curious about Westerners. The concept of zero as a number was invented in India India produces more films each year than any other country, with Bollywood being the largest film industry. Bollywood movies are quite strange for a Westerner. Many are exaggerated copies of famous Hollywood movies. I went to a movie theater and locals were standing up singing and dancing in their seats! Totally crazy experience! What do you think of India? Share your thoughts in the comments--I reply to everyone, so don't be shy! India has the largest vegetarian population in the world, with around 40% of the population avoiding meat. India has the largest postal network in the world, with over 150,000 post offices! Unfortunately I don't understand what they're saying. If you do, tell me in the comments! The Indian Railways is one of the world's largest rail networks, covering over 67,000 kilometers.or 42.000 milles My name is Pablo and I hope you have enjoed this walking tour around Mumbai.Thank you for joining me