The content is published for the purpose of informing viewers. Some of the footage in this video may shock you. Mustafa. Mikayil. Tikhon. Sergey, Krasnodar Region. From Dagestan. They mostly take it from there. I live in St. Petersburg. Stavropol Region. Theft. What kind of punishment did they give you? Ten years. Why? Marijuana. I crashed two cars. A Skoda Octavia and a Volkswagen Polo. If the guys had waited, I would have gradually repaid the debt, but they urgently needed the money. Uh-huh. The military arrived at the penal colony. They offered the opportunity to anyone who was interested. They stated that I would be in Ukraine for six months, then take a vacation, followed by another three months in Ukraine, after which my contract would conclude. Eighteen of us went. All were from a penal colony, and it was everyone's first time there. I took note of this. A fire. Sight. Stay in the shelter. Then, when I was lying in the trench, the bombardment slightly subsided. I made a noise, that is, I started calling out to see if anyone was alive. Our platoon was split into two parts. The commander of the first division responded to me. I crawled up to him. He was lying down, his legs were severely injured. His legs were paralyzed, and he applied tourniquets. Before my eyes, a shrapnel round struck the commander. Yes, they are alive. Perhaps something else will arrive. Watch him tip the box over. Perhaps you have something combustible inside, and the box could ignite. I don't have any explosives, but I do have shrapnel and a landmine. Let's throw these boxes back at them. He contacted command, and they instructed us to evacuate the wounded and retreat to the evacuation site. How was I supposed to know what to do? I was clueless. There was just a field, darkness, and silence. I had no idea who had survived. Then we reported our location. Our drone approached us, and we were informed that there was no one around and there was no need to worry. Yes, they deceived us. We held out until morning. Two men arrived. We understood that they were no longer our soldiers. We decided that surrendering would be a better option than staying here. The very next day, the remnants of this enemy infantry surrendered. In the morning, we received an order to transport the boys who were apprehended. After the storm, they had to be evacuated. That's it, we accepted these guys. Essentially, there were no problems with them. And in about an hour or an hour and a half, we brought them to the destination. The commanders spoke with them and collected their documents. And when we were on our way back, we received an order to take additional prisoners. Zayats had already done this. We received an order to investigate the situation and to secure the lines that were previously established before the assault. How did you do it? First, we approach the shelter and see if anything has changed since we left it. We then meticulously inspected for any cracks. If suspicions arose, we would first throw a grenade, and then proceed to investigate. We heard someone talking near the trench. We started shouting: &quot;Don't shoot, don't shoot!&quot; When we heard the screams, we decided to surrender. We were instructed to leave. We exited unarmed. How many people? There were four of us. We instructed them to depart unarmed. One of them emerged without any armor, simply clad in a jacket. We escorted him out, and he prostrated himself on the ground. Behind him, one of our own was managing him. The second one emerged. The next one came out wearing a helmet and armor, and removed it in front of me. Everyone was unarmed. And the last one was limping because his leg was broken. The commander was also with us, but he did not show up. We repeatedly told him to come out. He remained silent. Then, we launched grenades at the dugout. Well, he died. After all this commotion, we began to retreat. &quot;The Hare&quot; gave me the first prisoner, as I was at the very start. &quot;And &quot;Malyi&quot; was leading the other prisoners out. They were assisting the wounded to move around.&quot; Your men instructed us to take our injured comrade and drag him along with us. We complied, descending into the trench facing Robotyne. Afterward, they directed us elsewhere. There was a stretcher there. They placed the injured man on the stretcher and carried him away. Then the FPV drones began to attack. Theirs? Yes. It hit the man we were carrying. They say it was your drone. Yes. That is, they intentionally killed him. They must have done it on purpose. It's more probable that it was our drone, given that your soldiers were guiding us, and they wouldn't attack their own troops with drones. The drone killed the man we were pursuing. We, the two captives, were shocked, and the one who was injured died, he was simply torn to shreds. They struck their injured man and our soldier. He sustained a shrapnel injury to the head and died instantly. We signed the contract. They arrived on November 25, and by December 15, we were already packing up. At six in the morning, we had to report to the duty station with the items we had gathered. I asked him why he came to my house. I wanted to go home quickly. I wanted to tidy up my biography before starting a family, as I'm already twenty-five years old and it's something I've been considering. I wanted to stay clean in the eyes of the law so that it wouldn't affect my children. His motives are clear, he simply wanted to lessen his sentence. I'm not sure how long the offer was, six months or a year. We were promised six months on the front line. They train us there and then send us into battle. Including training, it lasts six months. After that, they are supposed to give us a fifteen-day leave to go home. And then serve in a support role. Perhaps as an instructor, I'm not sure, or maybe in the security forces. I asked him how many were there and what they were planning. He said that there was an attack in the morning, and they are preparing for the next one. Yes, I know who he is. What could he possibly know? What sense could he make of it? I spoke with him because we were in a dark, desolate place. There was artillery fire around us, and I didn't want to sit in silence. I conversed with him to pass the time. They told us something completely different. For example, that eggs are sliced here. He was crying in that trench because he thought I was going to kill him. My weapon was on safety so that I wouldn't accidentally fire it while crossing the swamp. And then I heard this drone, and if it had fallen, it could have killed us. But we could have attempted to shoot it down. I disengaged the safety. The man was merely sitting beside me. I glanced at him. He thought I wanted to shoot him, and he said, &quot;Don't shoot, brother, don't shoot.&quot; I replied: &quot;Why would I?&quot; There are a lot of untruths, to be honest. I've seen how your people treat us. There is nothing here that we see on TV. When I was in the penal colony, I often watched &quot;Ren-TV&quot;, all sorts of programs. This is all a complete lie. Your soldiers led us into a trench. We waited until the bombardment ceased. As soon as it grew quiet, we were promptly brought out. And then I gradually handed the prisoners over to the guys, with one remaining with me. And then we continued our duty. I was scared, but the work had to be done. Did you advance through the trenches or across the field? It was an open road, unobstructed terrain. Did you use Robotino? Throughout the entire village. So. Today, only the name of the territory where the village of Robotyne was located remains. As we walked and found some shelter, we immediately thought of the next refuge so we could take cover in case of danger. If the shelter was distant, we quickened our pace to reach it promptly. You can't linger in the middle of the road. It's an easy target for an FPV drone. This could be termed as suicide. They transported us to different locations. Initially to one place, then to another. Eventually, we found ourselves in a third location. There, medical workers treated our wounds and bandaged them. Why are you crying? Because I'm tired of it all. When I looked at them, I felt pity for them. Did you feel like it was the enemy? No. I felt that way about those who were hiding when we apprehended them. In such a situation, it is, of course, the adversary. And these are just kids. They should always be regarded as adversaries, because this child could potentially harm you. It should always be taken into account. They are repulsive. Their behavior is somehow off. I don't know, they were apprehended. I don't feel sorry for them. This is the enemy. They knew where they were headed. They could have explored other options, but they came here from prison. It wasn't Ivan from the factory. They signed the contract with their own hands. Why should I feel sorry for them if they wanted to lessen their sentence and earn a medal? We were taught how to properly use grenade launchers. Why are you crying? I don't know, it's just emotions. I don't want to make anyone feel sorry for me. These are just human emotions. I saw the Ukrainian army just yesterday, I haven't seen the Ukrainian army since then. Four people and drones almost wiped out two platoons. That's why I can call it professionalism. And we defend our land. That's why your people are so resilient.