(gentle music) - [Rory] Lace has always been a way to make a garment feel special. (dramatic music) - It was about status and wealth. It was about royalty and the church. - Any high-end fashion house Christian Dior, Gucci, Burberry. - The peak is we did some lace for the Princess of Wales's wedding dress. - Leavers lace is the closest you can get to the look of handmade lace while still being made on a machine. It's essentially a material but it's kind of a dying art. - Cluny Lace is the last standing Leavers lace factory in England. - That knowledge and those - It's quite sad, really, that there's nobody to It's been a huge industry in this country, especially in this area. - I do really hope that the that really important heritage because once it's gone, it's gone, and you'll never get it back again. (machine whirring) - People come to buy lace from us because we make some unique styles that no one else really does. - British Leavers lace, by Cluny these days, is more geometric. - [Charles] No one else in the world has a range of patterns in the way we do. - [Rory] The crazy thing - We can't make any brand new patterns. Those skills have gone. The technical drafts - [Tim] The draftsman's made this. From the draft come the figure sheets. The figure sheets go to the puncher who then punches the cards, and then the cards go onto the machine, which then produces the lace. - So the pattern for the lace comes from the Jacquard cards. It's basically like an - When the cards are on the machine, they are the computer telling Without the cards, the machines won't run. - Since the cards are they do wear out, and that's why you need At this point, there's who can do that. - I've been doing this I've only got a limited number I struggle with arthritis It's a repetitive stress. As I pedal along on this seat like this, my four fingers control keys at the back, and my thumb controls I put two cards in, The first two numbers so I'm gonna punch 14. I leave out eight, four, and two, and 12. I leave eight and four and then I read across When it's completed, it and the twisthands will tie those cards on to form a complete loop. (machine clattering) - Now what Clooney has is of thousands of Jacquard cards, which are the DNA of from over 100 years. - [Charles] We must have up there in this archive. - I mean, if you had a fire in here and they were all in here, that would be Cluny finished. (gentle music) - When you see the lace it always stands out. I think it photographs brilliantly. It's really quite three - You've got far more working into a smaller area so you're getting a higher (chair clatters) - When you're initially that can take up to a month, but at every step, you need - It's the style of that we specialize in. It's known as independent - There are over 8,000 beam and then over 3,000 bobbins that twist the lace into patterns. - The first step in lacemaking is to fill the empty bobbins with yarn. The bobbins are threaded - We mainly use Egyptian - Leavers machines don't really like synthetic fabrics at all, particularly things that for Leavers machines to deal with. - One of the most important things with lace is that it's uniform. So with a Leavers lace and fine tune and check every to make sure there's no nothing that's out of the ordinary. - A slack bobbin would make and that would make the lace useless. When the bobbins are done, 3,360 of them, to make the pattern, which will make about 50 yards of lace. (machine clattering) (dramatic music) The machine can only run at The best we can make is something like 40 or 50 meters in a week. - It's not super fast by of super fast. It's like walking back in time. - The noise can be hypnotic, and you kind of zone out, just to the regular rhythmic - All the machines are and there's no new machine There aren't very many people who can repair the machines at all. (machine clattering) - It is a completely niche product. The lace is made by twisting If you cut our lace, it will It won't fall apart, whereas made on different they literally fall to pieces. Our style of lace is the best of the best. - The trouble with lace is It's based on holes. - What that means with Leavers lace is that humans need to and check every inch of the lace. Cluny's lace costs about 40 to $50 a yard. Mass-produced lace can These days, Leavers There's less and less and in today's fashion industry. - Cluny are reliant on picking up their fabrics and using them for a new season's collection. - There are contemporary designers that kind of rethink lace, so it does have a place but there's something and vintage feeling about it - At the beginning of the 20th century, there were about 40,000 people working in Nottingham on lacemaking, and today there's probably - Over the years, I have to do the job, and I've It's a dirty job. I mean, look at me, I'm grubby. The black lead, the graphite gets all over you, you know. (scissors clatter) - In a way, it's nice to It's also quite lonely. - The state of the Leavers is total decline, unfortunately. There are so many problems facing it, from spare parts to skill shortages, to everything in the production chain, really, is a problem and an issue, really, and I'm not sure the modern (machine clattering) - Maybe one day it'll only be in museums. It makes me very sad that it's going the way it has, you know? It makes me very sad. (gentle music) (machine clattering)