Pets are some of the most universally loved The first one was the cat, released in 2003 the player's love before 2006 - when the Which - let's be honest, is just a new skin Of course, you could consider the pet rock not the kind of pet that follows you around In 2008, however, the pet game changed drastically of pets into the game in one fell swoop. And it just kept on increasing. Pets from minigames and D&amp;D's, boss drops for to show either their luck, dedication Pets from shops. Seasonal exclusive pets. In 2012 we saw Squeal of Fortune pets. Solomon's store was released, also releasing Did you know that the Shadow Drake; RuneScape's players? Twice as many bought the Fire Drake, a whole That's enough Drakes to cover the entire Combat pets and skilling pets were released, best updates of 2015 and 2016 - underlining In fact, from having a total of 2 follower-pets to the game following the RuneScape Wiki. Over 70,000 players had obtained the Fishing Only 720 had obtained Vorago's child over In the ocean of alternatives there's always than others; or some that you simply won't or very specific requirements. So I took it upon myself to scour the pet game today. Some which you're still able to obtain - if It's worth mentioning that when I published forgot the Clue scroll titles, which are like... some of the rarest ones in the game. Awkward. That was a mistake I'm aiming not to make into this. Keep in mind there are no official numbers us a very rough idea. What I was aiming for were pets with likely eliminates some pets you'd think would be had been obtained by nearly 2000 players, I've also chosen not to include some of Dragon or Squoggoth (or however you say that I don't think there's less than 1000 owners The PvM community has over the years shown drop rates. Especially Squoggoth, which is a drop from in the game, being the Shadow Reef, and looking I'm quite confident there have been over And with that out of the way, let's take RuneFest dragonling. This pet was designed by player artist Legend item code received in RuneFest gift bags upon Only about 1000 tickets were sold in 2015, Seeing not everyone claimed the code or collected in the game today. RuneFest Honourable Foo Lion. Not to be mixed with the gray version which Similar to the dragonling, the Foo lion was The Runefest that year was considerably larger been more attending players and thus more Though there are no official numbers released had that year, based on our previous experience potential owners here as well, if not a few Shaun. This was intended to be the rarest pet in it was announced as the reward for coming Damned event in 2017. However, due to the disaster that occurred to award the pet to all 1000 players who were The Golden Gnome. This pet was released in 2014 together with Every winner of any of the exclusive awards account of their choice. When right-clicking the pet, the name displays Since the first Golden Gnome awards ceremony won by 128 winners - plus one pet sold during In addition to a video award in 2014 where the RealScaperz, this means there are up to today. Of course, this assumes the people who've to additional accounts, seeing the winner account due to the way they're coded - and were to play the main game, which most don't, 173; probably making it the rarest pet in And finally - Vinny. This innocent little creature was released reward for completing the Wisps of the Grove The D&amp;D consists of collecting a set of wisps Upon completion, there is a 1 in 100 chance However, you only get one attempt per week. The Wisps of the Grove is an extremely isolated It's located in a place people only visit gloves; it gives you no RuneScore, there is ever visit the D&amp;D to get the trimmed completionist And with the XP being very disappointing, players to ever try it out. Maybe except for a chance to get the pet. I tweeted out to see if I could get in touch replies from some with extreme luck, a few - some took up to three years of weekly attempts. Knowing this, I think it's fair to assume the tedious and unnecessary process of obtaining the few hundreds. Though of course, without Jagex' input, many owners there are. Thank you so much for watching. Let me know in the comments below if the rarity choosing one. I've always wondered why people really select is it just that they look cool? I wanna know, because when I was following telling me I wasn't cool enough, so I kinda kept telling me I'm special. Anyway. My name is Will Miss It and I'll see you