- I am very, very excited This, the idea for this workshop when Adam Frank and Evan at the Institute for here at Dartmouth, and we and decided that we're and we also decided it'd be with colleagues from different areas that have similar interests To kind of discuss, you about the notion of of our search for truth. And so, here we are. It worked, and we actually weather we've had since October, which is kind of unfortunate but still, I hope you enjoyed the morning, those of you who are not from here. So, if you do not know me, I'm a professor of physics and and I direct this Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement, which has generous funding And so what we're going to do two days, we are going of experience from There'll be people talking perspective, from a Buddhist perspective, from a cognitive neuroscience perspective, and I think we're all going to which is really what I am here for. So I'm very excited about this idea. Now, also, happy Earth Day, everyone. Because it is Earth Day, after all. And it's also the discovery of Brazil day, the 22nd of April, when the to destroy the country. (laughing) It was quite amazing Anyway, so we kind of celebrate in Brazil. So, let me just say by So, Pythagoras was a from about 150 BCE, and for having said something like: man is the measure of all things. And you know, the problem is that we don't have the We only have fragments of what they said, and commentary that was to 200 years after the towards what they said. So we don't quite know he said that, but he has including Plato in his Dialog, Pythagoras, as the father of relativism. You know, and because he agree on anything with somebody, and somebody's cold and that's their choice; we You know, even though the But I would like to invert and say instead that men of all things but there and humanity is, is that we are And the fact that we can with nature in ways that depend what we perceive of nature Which is really the first of what we would call the But then we expand that, with all the tools and across thousands of years of the skies and the of subatomic particles and very far away, colliding black holes, So a lot of what we do as and our place in it, and is really dependent on how through our instruments and through the instruments. And so the instruments are, in a sense, a bridge between what we unless you're doing an fMRI and us here, having the So everything that we do, towards this connection and the outside reality, there are a couple of One of them is that our instruments, even though they are wonderful, a whole history of science, you of instrumentation and how I mean, for people that in the audience, I have that this is supposed in the sense that there will not from, necessarily, from academia here. So a very typical example of that is, that I like to use, is So there was a very specific worldview that was very (muttering) pointed the telescope that and because of that, he about the skies that And that, of course, prompted in his Sidereus Nuncius which made us revisit, you really is like, much more than I mean, because poor Copernicus, you know, he wrote his book in this historian of science, he has a book about Copernicus, ah, a book that says: this And very few people actually by Copernicus, and the guys who did, who are the true Copernicans, and a lot of what has been done, both from Galileo's well, Tycho Brahe's measurements. So the role of measurement really is a way in which physical reality to amplify I think plays a very important this world; so the discussion and this is just, I'm a little bit of context can we take ourselves out And create a narrative of on how we experience it, right? And the point that Adam we made on that essay that we wrote for Ion was that you just cannot. And because of that, there that come up when we deal with issues in which you really can't or the person or the experience from what is being observed, right? And we'll talk a lot about of days and I'm very excited And I'm going to introduce So remember that the talks are slated for about 40 minutes if you could do it in 35 so we have at least five minutes for Q&amp;A. Also, the other thing that we did is, we have a big break tomorrow And I have reserved a room where people can hang out Because, or they can also walk around, whatever is, but if you need a blackboard and a coffee machine, it Okay, very good. I am going to introduce our first speaker. So Evan Thompson, right of philosophy at the and a fellow of the His research and teaching the philosophy of mind, and especially Asian philosophy in dialog with Eastern philosophy and science. He's the author of Self-Unconsciousness in Neuroscience, Meditation and Philosophy, that was published by Columbia and many other volumes, Cognitive Science and Human Experience, which is an incredibly important book, in co-authorship with Francisco Varela. And he has a new book that (muttering) January 2020, which is going conversation, called: Coming from a real aspect in Buddhism, that'll be quite fabulous. Okay, Evan, please. (applauding) - Is this good here for the mic position? This good, yeah? Okay. Well, thanks to Marcelo for It should be lots of fun. The title of our workshop And the idea came from an and Marcelo Gleiser and I wrote for Ion, about science and human experience. And Michel Bitbol also uses in his work. We argue that science has a blind spot. There's something that lies that makes science possible, or typically doesn't see. This is lived experience. Everything that life is Science presupposes direct experience, but overlooks its primacy in knowledge. So to kick off the workshop, this idea and a few of and I don't expect agreement at all. I'm hoping to provoke discussion. Okay, so let's start with There's a blind spot in each You can find your own blind that you should have, that I handed out. The blind spot corresponds where the optic nerve leaves the retina, and there are no photo-receptors. We're usually not aware of the blind spot. But notice what happens when The dot on the page disappears, You see a uniform expanse, the The area of the dot now brightness and color of what's outside it. Vision scientists call or perceptual completion. We fill in or complete the blind spot with the color and So we don't see our blind spot. We don't know anything is missing. We just fill it in with more of the same. We don't see that we don't see. Now, it's this idea that we that carries over to scientific knowledge and direct experience. The contention, this was the for Ion is that we lose when we're doing science, as though it were an object. But lived experience is It's that by which For this reason, experience can't be exhaustively objectified. When we treat it as an as the condition of objects And we don't see that we don't see. We can make this more concrete For science, the body is an object. Anatomy, physiology, biomedicine, these sciences treat the in the world. Cognitive science looks at the But the body of our lived experience, the lived body, is never just an object. It's first and foremost a subject. We come upon our bodies as objects, only because they show up as bodily subjects. Another way to think about fully appears in our egocentric space, the individual's egocentric space, because it's that by which By analogy, lived experience in any scientific that by which we have and that by which they are meaningful. Science is a powerful Indeed, it's the best method But it leaves something out. Namely, the direct Now, by itself, this doesn't Science is a method, and any The problem comes when we and set it up as the best of knowledge; the one that reveals things as they are in themselves. This way of thinking conflates a method of investigation with being. The scientific method discloses as an object, but objectivity It's one way of thinking about things, rather than the one way things are. The problem is that we This forgetful tendency in the science of I do a lot of work in This year, a commentary was published in Nature Human Behavior, and Challenges for a Maturing Many prominent philosophers It began with the section heading: From Mystery to Maturing Science. The alliteration is good, Our science of consciousness but not because it's left the mystery of consciousness behind. There's no question that scientific, impressive scientific progress, is being made on consciousness. We're getting a better as a complex system; we're dynamical neural networks attention, memory, metacognition All of the mental processes that make up our conscious awareness. As the Nature commentary the widespread adoption of using subjective reports, as being outside the realm of science, has paved the way for new areas of inquiry within neuroscience. End quote. Consciousness science is to clinical research on pain, of vegetative and psychiatric disorders such as anxiety, and mental illnesses I am as enthusiastic about Nevertheless, the fundamental problem of what consciousness is in nature, this so-called mystery, remains present as ever before. The Nature commentary to develop the science End quote. But it doesn't confront the subjective experience as such. Instead, it surreptitiously into the domain of the objective. This is the blind spot. Let me zoom out now to the philosophical framework blind spot, and one interesting is how much actually the with not science as such, about science that's So I'm going to call that way of thinking: physicalistic objectivism. Physicalism is the thesis Or, if you rule out abstract and propositions, then spatiotemporal and concrete is physical. This is a metaphysical thesis. Objectivism is the thesis that understand the world can be This is an epistemological thesis. Putting them together, we scientific materialism. Physicalistic objectivism The first one concerns physicalism. When we try to say exactly it turns out to be either false or empty. On the one hand, if physical as physics today describes because physics today will be superseded. Furthermore, physical science today, including biology and doesn't include an account of This isn't to say that or supernatural; the point is doesn't include an account of experience. But we know that experience exists, so the claim that the are what physical science On the other hand, if according to some future then the claim that there is nothing else but physical reality is what such a future physics will look like, especially in relation Now, this problem for physicalism, or empty is known as Hempel's Dilemma. Named after the philosopher of The formulation I gave is a but it amounts to Some philosophers try to get that we need to define the concept of the physical in advance. They argue that no of the physical stretch, That the physical can't So we should define physicalism radical emergentism, the thesis that life and the mind are lawfully emergent from, but irreducible to physical reality. Physicalism should also be understood, according to this way of the thesis that mind is including at the micro-physical level. This philosophical move of has the benefit of giving which can be either true or false, but it comes at the cost in advance what physical can mean. It amounts to philosophers hand over all authority to the physicists to say what physical means. Now that strikes me as It flies in the face of Let's remember that the has changed dramatically Matter was once thought to be and subject only to deterministic Today we know that this is We accept that there are particles that have no and non-local relations. So we should expect in our concept of physical For these reasons, we what the term physical can of Hempel's Dilemma. Whatever physical means should and not by armchair reflection. So, so much for physicalism. What about objectivism? This takes us back to the blind spot. Objectivism is the thesis to try to obtain a subject-free are sufficient for understanding Since these methods are away from subjectivity, turning can't help but objectify it. This is like filling in the and not seeing that we don't see. Now, these thoughts between subjective and And here I want to make and for philosophers out points from Thomas Nagel and the phenomenological We can start with the point perspective would be incomplete in leaving out the subjective. This is the main idea of What is it Like to be a Bat? A maximally objective would leave out the bat's subjectivity: how the world appears to the bat. The general point is a certain unique way for and this appearing can't be because the whole point is to remove the phenomenal. That's not to say we can't between physical parameters relying again, in our It's that they can't be identified. So that's the first point. The second point is that of cognitive perspective, presupposes a subject That entails that a completely objective, viewer-less view, is The third point concerns how We shouldn't think of it as a to use Husserl's expression. In other words we shouldn't either a mental thing or a physical thing, because again, that Rather, the subject is of the possibility of or being intelligible. To turn a condition of sense is a confusion and a reification. The subject is a condition of any perspective on the world, however objective that perspective may be. The fourth point is that and essential a feature of This suggests that somehow depend on each and neither one can be They are necessary Now, subjective and objective but we can make them more lived experience and life world. Lived experience is firsthand experience, the immediacy of perception and action. And the life world is the everyday world. The experiential realm of our Classical science is built on the dream of escaping from the life world to attain a god's eye point of view. This is very explicit In his writings. But the scientist is always As the physicist analyzes her data, she takes for granted the at her fingertips and her on the screen; she's she's sitting on, the and the larger setting of the lab. Extending outwards, her the sense of being in a immersed in a here and now, belonging to and embracing space and flowing time. This tacit awareness of the world frames whatever occupies her focus of attention. And it serves as the constant backdrop for everything she does. Now, of course, these facts But the less obvious point of the life world isn't It's a necessary truth. The life world is a necessary for science, so the to step outside the life Now, it's tempting to isn't the real world. The real world is the But the life world is to perception and action, we enlarge our perception and scientific instruments. Scientific models, however, that we arrive at through They're mathematical images, analogies, Galileo's the Bohr model of the of isolated populations, these exist in the scientist's mind, not in nature. This is why phenomenologists and say that the life Phenomenologists like Husserl aren't literally true in how the world is, in of our perception and action, including its enlargement of Instead, scientific theories in the sense of agreeing Data that exists in the life world. In this respect, phenomenologists empiricists in the philosophy of science, like Bas van Fraassen. There are disagreements, I think they're agreed. From this perspective, when we do science, we set aside aspects of human experience on which we can't always agree. Ones that depend on and vary and its sense organs, Using mathematics and formal models of invariant of what we perceive, what we can measure. We treat these as stable We intervene in the course and controlling things that we And we use our abstract models to calculate future events. We then check these predicted events against our perceptions. We iterate this whole process Now, at every step of this procedure, subjectivity, understood or meaning, is present. It's present as the condition of the sense of any observation or measurement. It's present as a condition and propositions. Theories and models depend for their sense and intelligibility on the or rather the inter-subjectivity and the structural and dynamical are purified extracts, this purified extracts of our of the life world. These thoughts give us another way to formulate the blind spot. The blind spot of science It's the life world. More precisely, it's the of the lived world, and lived experience, has to be understood in not just subjectivity. Physicalistic objectivism overlooks the primacy of the life world. The life world is the and practices by which we live, including when we're doing science. Although the life world is so it's by no means a so it's not an absolute foundation, it's, in Husserl's expression, of the scientifically true world. The life world supplies required for abstract scientific theories. Life world observations of appeal when rival Especially during times of Science enlarges the life but never steps outside it. Husserl's metaphor for this is a horizon, another visual metaphor. The life world is the everything is disclosed to us. Including when we're doing science. The creativity of science or outside the horizon of the life world, which is impossible, but the horizon and opening up new vistas. Think about the horizon metaphor. On the one hand, the horizon the eye can see before the beneath our view. On the other hand, the horizon not something that exists It's an apparent line and travels with us. So to say that the life is to say both that it's out there, and that it's a structure Now here we come upon an odd reversal. As scientists, we have the whole cosmos, all of The world of human of the much vaster universe of nature. And that's true, of course. But here's another truth: the life world contains the universe. We get this reversal once in the philosophical sense within which anything is intelligible. The universe is always the life world; the life within which anything is This isn't an empirical It's a philosophical truth about meaning. The world as the space in the order of inquiry over the universe as represented All right, so let me I've said that science is a and thereby occludes the subjective. We can put this idea in different ways. Science occludes the lived body, it occludes direct experience, and so on. The most abstract way to doesn't see the ultimate of its own intelligibility. That is its blind spot. Okay, so now coming to the a challenge to this way of thinking. And it has to do with about nature before Before there was any subjectivity. This includes, for example, The French philosopher to these kinds of statements correlationism. Correlationism is the idea that, this is a quotation from his book: we only ever have access between thinking and being, considered apart from the other. Meillassoux rejects this correlationism, and instead defends the especially when it's understood is absolute; by which he from thought and from our access to it. He calls physical reality, The Great Outdoors. (speaking French) Now, he calls statements before subjectivity existed He also uses the term: arche-fossil. Which means a thing that Science produces statements of affairs and arche-fossils. Meillassoux describes the to subjectivity, by which he and temporally before subjectivity. The question, he asks, is of possibility of ancestral statements? How is it that they can be meaningful? He claims that correlationist a satisfactory answer to this question. So phenomenology, the and lived experience and that's an example for him So he claims that that way of thinking can't give a satisfactory of how ancestral statements In other words, it can't do realist meaning of ancestral statements. Okay, so I'm not So there are a number First, phenomenologists like scientific statements about unobservables according to a kind of So the idea is-- (phone ringing) I was worried that that was my time. Adam! (laughing) Okay, so phenomenologists like scientific statements about to a counterfactual analysis. So the idea is that if a member were suitably located, then the to conscious observation. Or to put it more strongly, we about objects only if it is to become present within the subject and the world, allows for the counterfactual reading. If the subject were suitably located, then she could observe the object. Now, Meillassoux would likely for ancestral phenomena, So it wasn't possible for But matters aren't so simple. We can and do already Because of the interrelations What's long ago and far away Our super powerful telescopes over 10 billion light years back in time; and if we in the universe, this is the we could observe events before the emergence of life. So the counterfactual and Meillassoux's argument partly for empirical reasons. A more general point though on a problematic conception of science. He assumes that the statements have to be understood according of metaphysical realism. That the statements the mathematical structure of apart from the observer. But the development of this kind of realism, into serious question. Other kinds of realism may be possible, but they may actually affirm For example, quantum Bayesianism, because maybe I don't but I'm going to go out on a limb anyway, quantum Bayesianism treats quantum theory as a tool agents use to in their interactions with that they can manipulate and measure. This kind of realism is said I believe that's your term, right? But participatory seems That what we have access to and we act on it. Okay, so the last point about the ancestrality argument is that it takes time for granted. Ancestral statements are about the past, before the But what secures the Cosmology doesn't explain Nor can it do so, nor On the contrary, it takes experience of time in the life world. The point here is that can't just help itself to the without begging the question, of the conditions of the or intelligibility of or the concept of time more generally. The phenomenologist argues that the sense and intelligibility of any concept of time derives from and presupposes And this was essentially Bergson's point in his debate with Einstein. Okay, so coming into the end now, it's very important between two very different claims. One is that nothing exists outside of or apart from experience. That's not the claim I'm making. That's a first order It amounts to what philosophers that everything exists inside the mind, or that everything that exists But the claim I'm making It's about meaning or The claim is that how things appear to us, how they show up for us in the life world, in our perception and action, of the possibility of things So in philosophical jargon, in Kant's sense of transcendental. It's about the conditions of possibility of the intelligibility of or time, given that they So there's no problem with understood as statements before there was subjectivity. Rather, the point is that or intelligibility once In that case, the statements presupposition failure, and They're neither true nor false. They don't refer at all. Okay, so I want to conclude two problems that arise from One problem has to do with of paradox: David Carr, on transcendental he calls it the Paradox of Subjectivity. This is the title of his in the transcendental tradition. The paradox is that the of world experience and a As a condition of world experience, in the sense of the condition of anything that is a in that sense the subject It's not a thing in the world. But at the same time, the and is always experienced All of our experience is the experience of being embodied and situated. With the bodies and So the question is how to One way to go is to try to of the two sides, and this collapsing everything into or objectivism, collapsing Another way to go is to see the paradox as an important truth, as fundamental about our existence. There are different ways that Phenomenologists, at see the paradox as it's both subject and condition of the world. Merleau Ponty also of the very phenomenon Other philosophers see it A dialetheia is a statement, a sentence, that's a true contradiction. These philosophers see for a paraconsistent of non-contradiction doesn't hold, or you don't have the any statement from a contradiction, as you do in classical logic. Now, I don't have time and it raises all sorts of other things that some of the other I just want to flag this as an important philosophical issue. So that's one problem. Second problem is the a new metaphysics of, let's to use William James's term. This often follows on the heels of thinking about the paradox. The idea is that the paradox in terms of a subject/object dualism, and once we drop this to us a new ontology of pure And it's at this point that of thought in Buddhism, but certain lines of thought, this is one entry point Okay, so speaking for myself, Or sometimes it moves me, but Or let's say I'm ambivalent. In any case, I don't doubt free of subject/object structure. But I don't see good as the basis of a new metaphysics. In my view, that path veers and disconnects itself from science. So in conclusion, for me, the is a kind of epistemological critique that is carried out or abstention from those kinds of metaphysical considerations Their critique is meant to and what we know as It's meant to remind us that, scientific knowledge is a made from the world and evolving together. Thank you. (applauding) (muttering) - We do have time for Let's start with Bob, please. - That was great; thank you. And there was one point like you were becoming somewhat dogmatic. - Uh-oh. (laughing) - In claiming that talk of a is sort of fundamentally unintelligible. And then you invoke the What you said is we But it seems to me question begging, because when the horizon expands, is it not expanding in that lies beyond the horizon, and if there ain't nothing then what does it mean to talk of, then the entire metaphor - Right, so this is the intentionality in a phenomenological Is that the life world So it already contains or intelligibility, transcendence. But that transcendence is So it's just another if you want to go straight It's the same as To be a subject is to intend an object, but to intend an object transcendent of the subject, only because its condition is the presence of the subject. It's the same point for the life world, and how it opens out So I hope that's not Whose hand, whose, should I-- - [Marcelo] Michel, Michel - Okay, go ahead. - [Michel] Yeah, thank As ever, I agree with - 99.9, and then there's - So, the point is that you criticized by Quentin Meillassoux is an argument that he to defend science against especially of continental And in fact, what he it's the naive view of that you know, they just and so on, and they don't So, in fact, what we tried that in order to understand science, to make science intelligible, we have to withdraw complete (muttering) to this kind of naive realism. So one way to do that, and and I will rephrase this my way, is to say, for instance, this condition of possibility namely essentially, you in the life world, and yet it is not supernatural. I would call that, in agreement, I think, with the spirit of or sub-natural; namely, something that is, since it is a condition for it's below the level of nature. It's something that is so to speak. Would you agree with this phrasing? - Yeah, I recognize that line of thought. I mean, I'm hesitant to do nature over to the objectivist conception, and I would rather not do that. So, it makes naturalism I think I would like there to be a space for a naturalism that isn't So when you do it that way, of what I was calling the Like, you haven't gone all that way yet, but that's like the first I'd need to be persuaded - Just to continue this our conversation last night right, I mean, there's in our discussions, that is in some sense realistic. It's what we directly encounter, and we take science on as a project, and we build and we do theory building, but the problem with realism as a, ah, especially the naive comes sort of, especially that oh, this theory just is the world. That, when it gets, with quantum mechanics, more and more strained and again, this is, we'd to nature, and in some sense, perhaps, is what is sort of strained sense of realism. And I think maybe that's of the blind spot, is what we talked about is also to be realistic, not in ever, ever higher and saying those abstractions - Yeah, I mean, these terms like realism, idealism, I mean, they're very problematic, I think. You know, they're like and every philosopher and author uses them in different ways, and then that happen, and it's I think, and rethink things without those, you know, terms impeding one way to put it, that there is a, a realism about the that I think, you know, It's the metaphysical isms that make things much more difficult. - [Marcelo] One more, oh, Peter, yes. - So I didn't hear you but one of science's goals is to portray a complete picture of causation. Now, problems arise with that because it's problematic to have, you of causation, both of which are true. So, you know, a concrete example. Someone goes to the dentist Now, if you assume the in the neural activity, or supervenes upon things, of this level. Well, if the pretense of description of the and this is Jaegwon Kim's argument, then all causation seeps Okay, so if his argument is incorrect, then the question is how it is so. How can consciousness or strings or whatever's and yet also influence will turn out otherwise than - Yeah, I mean, there's to what you just said, there's a levels of reality being more fundamental than others, and the more fundamental and I mean, there's a whole about science and the that I would want to step before we even got to the which is hard enough as it is. But I mean, causation is, again, a case where I would say that, ah, causation has a lot to do for our explanatory ends. And so that means that, I mean, there's good ways to do it and bad ways, but we're fundamentally part of the story. It's very different from an outside picture on the of things as they are in themselves. - [Marcelo] Okay, we got to wrap up. Thanks, Evan, very much. (applauding)