In this video I take on building the A passion project of mine that has taken up What started out as a simple three-month build of failures, breakdowns, and rewrites. So close. And I think we have to cut We even made three entirely different in favour of this video that Do I ever have a story for you. It all started when I came across a which was capable of orienting to stand up and maneuver. So what stops more legs lifting As I was working on Power Loader and this is doable like we could do this. All right guys, the plan is simple. Weld together six excavators, wire all I think we can do it in three months. The first month went great. We partnered with Princess Auto for this project. They provided us with six excavators Without them this project wouldn't be possible. When I first envisioned this thing Like the plan was literally cut the throw a few welds on it. Each leg could just do the exact same motion, the only difference is what But then the frame was way too large the legs were way too close to each other which so we were like okay we have And that just brought so many extra complexities. The joints and all the angles the motion of the legs was no longer going Every leg had to have a specific motion profile and that just instantly it was like In SolidWorks everything lines up perfectly. You get to the real world and honestly Started chopping these frames apart we shoved in and we're like what is going on? Like one side is longer than none of these legs are where Obviously, they're mass manufactured. So like we should have known this. If the frame is going to be that far out then like the motion of each leg is and our stress analysis that we did in Like something is going to break. That required us to start chopping the frames apart that we're you know we're now being completely cut off and re-welded and we basically had to We had to make jigs we had to make like brackets to over a week of just like trying to Once we were ready to start attaching the legs I was like if I've had this many problems We started attaching the legs and Each leg was attaching properly, everything was moving smoothly. It was looking epic and I was starting I knew this thing was going to be large but Like this is going really we're gonna get to the test relatively soon. A lot of anticipation. A lot of like please work please work I had you know a lot of doubts I You know, what if the frame is slightly and this whole thing just Honestly I told everyone this and I was surprised that anyone even volunteered Holy crap! All this work is finally paying off. So we need some computerized control because right now it's a little hard Well we know the system can lift its weight. Let's take a minute to talk about hexapod feet. As you can tell I've replaced the bucket on this The buckets, well they're great for digging but unfortunately they don't With a new design we have lots of ground contact have more motion with this Ideally we'd like to be able to drive To do this we need a computerized control system. The whole control system starts It's responsible for calculating how to move That data is then sent over It's responsible for taking data in and figuring It does this by first calculating the position of each individual joint based It then compares that value It then sends signals to our servos to Unfortunately the Kunbus system does not It outputs 24 volt signals and so we've created a PCB using Altium to act as a translator between By the way you can try Altium for free and Ben jumped into to this project and began As you would imagine there's a lot of code. In order to test this without needing to use This simulation takes the CAD data combines it into one to give us We were feeling confident, as we were about to enter integration hell. The design of this project is critical and just SolidWorks is our favourite powerful design software which empowers us to refine our ideas into manufacturable For the first time ever SolidWorks as the 3D Experience SolidWorks for Makers offer. This is actually a huge deal because SolidWorks that was normally only available to big companies. But with the Makers offer anyone can get access at a super affordable price of only Plus we have negotiated to get our viewers This is like getting SolidWorks for 99% off! Which is unheard of in our industry. You can get the world's best design tools and turn your ideas into reality or Join the global community of creative makers today Big thanks to SolidWorks for sponsoring After countless hours of troubleshooting we finally have all the hardware for the first test of a Megahex leg. As you see behind me is the The black leg is the real-time transparent legs are where Megahex wants to move. So if you can see me moving these So theoretically once we get this engine started up the Mega hex leg should move into And once we give it a command to walk hopefully Starting up in three, two... Well it didn't explode and catch It looks like it was trying to move and I just don't think it was trying hard enough. We have a bit of tuning to do on the joints and I think we need to slow down the simulation. So hopefully it has a better chance of keeping up. I'm trying to figure out what I actually need Add another 50% to the PID values? Yeah. Still not responsive enough. Not on the tibia tarsus or femur.. Turn them up? I think the femur is what I trippled the leg lift Okay double the femur? Heck just go like three times more. That's walking! So what we're doing is we're turning up twice as hard as it did The concern with this is if we go too high because they'll start oscillating. As it sees an error it'll try to and that gets worse and worse and worse. Up until the leg is basically going full speed forward, full speed back and doing nothing of what Hey Bogdan I think I see an issue over here. So the reason we have all of these is so we can diagnose weird issues like this. We tried looking through the code trying to figure out like what do we change you know we still having the same issue Like why is this one joint just not moving at all? So all three of these joints seem to be I think there might be an issue with the servo. Oh the freaking servo. Oh yeah these are toasty. That one on the bottom especially. In the middle, oh yeah that thing See the other ones comparatively are These windings are supposed to that black coil states that this motor is toast. Replacing a single servo like oh great another servo We obviously know we have to replace all the which ended up being changing different springs. When the bigger spring was installed every time the servo moves it has to With the smaller spring the servo as hard therefore generating less heat. The second thing I did was I added air moving across the servos to keep And with different springs all week was just out the door. Completely useless. And that was just like a huge hit to our progress. With testing this whole thing I was starting up So we're like right we need new engines that have a remote start but also were which meant we can use bigger pumps and get a lot more flow hopefully increasing our So we spent like two weeks just like pulling all the old engines off pulling all the old Luckily mostly everything was you know drop-in to rewire all the engine starters together. We wire all the stops together, we had so it would actually shut all the The exhaust, honestly we could have but even just having one engine running and trying to like get a vent over top was just really annoying. And I was like there's six of these loud like right around me but and I was really worried about my health or I got Mike to actually take proper exhausts as well as some proper And you know exhausted out the back This point was like five months, in like we still have not seen a With all the new engines and the the replacement servos that you know didn't burn out the new springs, the budget.. We spent the entire sponsorship budget we're just like this is coming out of our pockets. This was the day.. actually not the first day. We tried it the first day and then We tried the second day we're Try the third day some of our So we're gonna fire up all six engines This is without people on it, so we should be able to just hit a should rise more or less evenly off the ground. Safely right? As long as there's Firing up! I'm trying to stand this whole thing and this whole thing like five feet in the Me and Ben are just like looking at each I don't have the controller I'm not doing this. And so like I slam on the confused as hell we're like how do we fix that? It could have been any number of things. It could have been hydraulic issues, it could have been software issues, it could have just been you know mechanical Luckily we look over all the data and it Our leg was actually trying to go past its limit. Two lines of code, upload Restarting. And this thing just perfectly rises into the air. All the legs on the ground. It was a sight to behold. Now the legs lifted up and moved around so we need to figure out how because there was no room in the shop to test it. We spent the last eight months and now we're just dragging We were obviously optimistic because Starting robots. And like this thing just like just like drags it across the ground and just like slowly stumbles over just like dropping the Once there's a lot of load on It brings the leg over but much force to actually push its own body forward but overall it's not on fire and we so, good first test. And we're looking at this data we're looking at this thing walk. We changed a lot of tuning values, we And every test following that thing out it would like stand up take two steps, one leg would fumble, the position would be off, It was just so frustrating.. It was really upsetting just to see this Yeah Bogdan we left some paint behind. Wore it all the way. We just lost our alternator. Do we have enough fluid in the reservoir? Why are we having issues all of a sudden? Should I just bump the starting The issue of it dropping as it's That sensor is gone. Yeah, I don't think it's going. I haven't changed anything. One more try? Why are the servos...their We've killed the starter on this motor right here. It's out of regular interval. Oh yeah we [ __ ] that wheel off. Break them in half a second we're so [ __ ] close. Everything is set up right now to work and now with the engines are being problematic. It's ready. It's good to go. We've got everything.. it's tuned. Six legs that were working. The efficiency of the testing it's not like oh make a simple code change run it again No like if something goes wrong if one sensor Right now our femur which is our main when we're lifting three legs at a time. So what's happening is when we're giving so after two or three steps the actual frame which was four or five feet above the ground So we want to make sure that when it's and it's got enough flow to sustain that height. Daryl take a look at this data. All right all right um if you want to zoom in or whatever take a look. Okay based off of that right there.. yeah Right there.. yeah awesome. I think I think I know exactly what he means.. Should be done in a couple days. Maybe the femur needs more work.. that's That's what I was going to say.. Femur..100% oh we just need to double ..Double it. So whatever the screw is set to and It's called the pressure relief. If we just turn it a little bit Still not perfect but it When we were seeing it walk backwards the body and we didn't blow off any hydraulic So..I kind of want to ride it. I don't think this thing will kill me. Worst case scenario just mild injuries. That first rise up off the ground, like when you're all the way up when it starts dropping off it it really loses a lot but honestly We need to max out all the increase that step over distance definitely yep. Because when it's loaded it's not moving If we can get the legs off the ground So let's bring it back inside for now. Lucky for us Princess Auto sold which were almost perfect drop in replacements. We decided to try smaller cylinders on the We made the cylinder bigger because this joint was and it wasn't quite standing up My grandfather. Six months ago. I'm not kidding. Hey Daryl, you know how many days I Cool..we sprung a leak. We killed the cylinder. Well that answered that question very quickly. Covered the whole thing in After a spectacular cylinder explosion on but the femur cylinders.. they worked! Get back out there the next day try it out again. Every test that we ran it was just a little bit better just a little bit better and like the only thing that kept us going was We could see we're like oh maybe if like next test is gonna work, next test And we're like months into testing making marginal improvements but it was We've upgraded our feed lines from full flow that the pumps can We changed over the step over We changed how fast it's moving. There's a lot of changes so we're kind of give us a better idea of Finally we get this thing powered up at this point we have like no hope. We're like all right one more And it took one step. And it took the next step. And it took the next step. Three steps in a row like this is a and it just kept going and going. The platform was staying above the ground. Nothing was failing like all the and just like one step after was mud all over the ground and it Like, yes! Like this thing just walked across the Turn this thing around bring it back around. And this thing starts turning around and and the thing just like steps on our trailer. And we're like uhhh. I'm willing to bed that..we lost One of our wires ended up coming unplugged but We had a couple of YouTuber friends Nigel from Nile Red, and Allen Pan I think. As long as we keep the fatalities to Driving around the power loader having fun. I looked at Ben and I'm like do you And like get to show it off to them? Power this thing up and just just like the I think they were blown away. Dude!! Here we goooo! The following week later we just got to work and Dragged it all the way out Walked around the dirt you know threw up some Stepped on the pumpkin, the fog in the background. And then I'm walking I'm turning I'm turning and What's going on? Get ready to hit the e-stop and look over and the I could not believe my eyes. The thing is.. these excavators.. we were I'm surprised it didn't fail But yeah the excavator frame just This is why companies go I'd probably have a better return on investment put a bunch of cash inside and light it on fire. Brought it back in the shop, Next day we take it back outside And same leg, different spot I go over to look and the frame This was a main part of the frame. This one's going to require chopping new bushings, new body tubes, welding This was probably another two weeks to fix All right well for better or for Frame that the leg is connected If a single wire corroding a single connection And I think we have to cut our losses with it's doing us no returns. There is no way that we could keep just allocating just to have it you know take five You know we got our goal, it was walking, that was our goal. We reached it and You know what without the support of you was no way that this is going to be sustainable. Like this project was so much time, so much But really like completely honesty with you we This project should not have happened. It was way more complicated than we anticipated, we had way more issues than we thought. The the timing and the difficulty literally the only thing that Every one of these failures was content. It was going to teach us something, And we really hope that This project is the reason we haven't been and to make sure we show this journey in the best way possible we initially but we felt like it didn't tell the whole story. We do think there's a lot of interesting detail in those videos and so we've made each of I do not know if we're gonna ever be able If you'd like to see us try hopefully do so without coming near bankruptcy, please please just subscribe like this video share it to anyone and consider becoming a member. Because this was really expensive but the amount of labour that went into this, all the engineering time all the after work hours, we could not have done it So thank you so much for watching this video, we'll see you guys back here with some