Yellows, for God's sake, look at this, my manager, my manager, look, Ciler, welcome to our new video. Hello friends, welcome. Hello friends, welcome. Friends, we are in a perfect area again and we have started to investigate the area. Hasan brother will take a look now, with the area scan in his hand. This is a point from a very historical region, yes, it is a grave area, like this. Let me show you. Look, it starts from this point . There is a point like a safe on the other side. There is a place like a cave. Now we will look at it together. Go here in a way, opposite. Let's see which way it is . Let's go back and let's go back. Yes, friends, we are shaking our heads and going, but there are a few points here. We'll see if he doesn't shake his head so much , then look here. Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, I say, Hasan, when I look at it like this, it looks like something. Do you know what it looks like? Look, its head looks like it's facing forward. Isn't it like the job of someone looking up ? Isn't it exactly? Exactly . And there is a bur drawing, it is made at the point. Look, there is a bur drawing, let me show it here exactly like this. Hasan, look at this relief thing. Isn't it like an eye? Close up. When we look at it, it looks like an eye. Doesn't this place look like an eye? My son is looking this way, the head is here, it is here. M It's a head, not a head. But when you look at it like this, it looks like it's upside down. Now, let it go, look at it with a detector. It's not what you said. It's not the back. It's like stuffing. Look at it like this. Yes, we'll look at something. Now we'll try to lay it on its side. What do you say? Let's see, it's underground. Take a look at the imaging, come and take a look at the underground imaging, we have made the connections on the devices, as you can see, our device works like this, let's show it like this, there is nothing at any other point of our device, there is already a brand here, I am showing this for friends who ask, now our device is connected and its connections to the phone. You see, the connection is connected because it is green. Now what are we saying here? Let's make a search like 6 by 6. Let's start from here. For example , show the point where we will start from this point. Like this: 1 2 Yes, it gave a redness here, I go down to the bottom. Yes, the redness here is down. It continues on the side right at this point, friends, if you can see it, it is more negative. Normally, when I use this, I have to come and go sequentially like this, but when I catch the red dot, I prefer to look at it because I am trying to determine how big the red dot is, friends, you wrote in the comments, you can too. Normally, we know how the device is used, but we use it this way to show you the red dot more clearly. Look, there is a red dot here. There is a gap right next to it. Approximately how deep is it? Let's look at it like this. I think it has a depth of 1 meter, 1 meter, 20 or something. Isn't that right? Hasan, when we look at it like this, Yes, it has a depth of 1 meter, 1 meter, 20 or 1.5 meters. Friends, it is like this. Some of our friends are wrong about this, you see like this, right? They are wrong about the red dot. Now this If you look at it with a panther, if it is deep, it will not detect it. Because the panther also has a detection system, so be careful about this, some friends write to us. Normally, we determine the red dot, but the pointer does not give a signal or the detector does not pick up. This indicates that the detector you used with the pointer is problematic, that is, because Deren does not detect it. It doesn't detect it, you will either dig over it and look at it, or you will continue that way and leave it. Yes, we have enabled you to image underground in this way. Well, what should we do now, let's look at our detector, let 's turn on our detector. If it detects the detector, now it is our detector. Normally, friends, let me talk like this , a detection of around 1.5 meters. It is set as Because you know that in deeper searches, we have extracted material around 25 2 bu5 21 220 from this detector. There are friends who watched our old videos. Now we normally set it around 1220 or 131 meters, so we look at searches with this detector, we do not look at deep searches, we ground it in this way. After doing this, immediately look, our detector is working. When we look at it, we don't have any signal. Look, where did we get the signal? We got it from this area for underground imaging. Look at the redness in this area. Do you see it immediately? It detects the signal automatically . It detects the signal. Let's look at its value. Hasan, look, there is beer right there. That's right. We need to break it down. Stand back for a second. Let's look at the thing. Yes, give a valuable signal. Show it as 70% valuable or gold. Look, it might be gold. It tells us it's % gold. Let's do a reset and see again. It's gold again. There's a 180% chance of it being gold. There is a valuable material, but he tells us that it has a 180% chance of being gold. Brother Hasan doesn't stop, he starts right away. You see, he couldn't resist when he ate the gold. Brother Hasan couldn't resist, look. By the way, do you see that it's going like this? Come on, let 's take out this gold and see, it could be steel, let me tell you, Steel. Steel is also a valuable material. It's a material but it gives gold. 180% 70. Sorry, if it gives gold, it's gold. Are our devices crap? Bro, it's ours, whatever it says. Let's see. Then, let's see how crappy it is and how real it is. I'm trying to open it, but I think it could be something, Hasan brother, it could be kunc or munc. Because they are also in very valuable categories, why don't you bring a point, oh, oh, shoot a lot of ants from here, it's half from the top anyway, be careful, pull it, Hasan, what is this, it's green, it's a toy, it's probably not coming, it's breaking, it's not coming, come on, let's see, let's see, let's look there, let's look at the stones here. Oh , wait, stop, wow, wow, wow, wow, wow, what's going on, let me see if it's going down, yes, it will clear the gap, give me a bit, let me see, it's not like that, it's not like that, it hits it backwards, hit it, it comes out, look, it's like stuffing in there. What 's that snake again? We saw your friend next door. Anything can happen . So be prepared for anything. Look, there's something there. We found the place of the zinc. It's coming. Take it out and give it to me. Now, never mind at 16. Kani, look, the emptiness continues. Did you see that ? Yes. What are we doing? What are we doing, we keep going? Even if we take this place, he ca n't even score . He has learned these things, he has learned these things, l don't hit him, my God, we have been interning for 5 years, it's been a year. How can the treasury be opened? Of course, why can't it be opened? Well, he hasn't learned it yet. There is a gap for a second. My voice is coming, either here or behind it. I say this, should we drop it from here, can we throw it with a complete set, let's deposit it, let it come out suddenly. Let me see what varun is playing behind him . I dropped his head. There is nothing for me. Okay, nothing happened. Our device is gone . Wow, the device is moringa. Yes, we have a horse in the work. Friends, Hasan says the gold we will find is gold. Bro, we will buy 10 of them. It is gone . There is nothing to do. This is what is called an accident. Is there anything there? Brother, take a look, take it to the head section, give it to him, open it , but is there anything? We closed his head as well. No, still look inside the head, but we did not receive a signal from there, but we are thinking of knocking the eye downstairs completely like this, friends, behind it. He will probably push us a little bit to reach us, most likely Hasan brother. It seems very difficult. I think it is a very big rock. You understand, let's open the connections and the edges. Okay, will it come or not? Wait and see. There are pieces from here , all of them are on the side. Is that part going to be lifted in a minute? Come on, is it playing? Come on, come and look for a Sara. What is this? This is gas, brother, plaster. This is plaster. I tell you it 's all plastered. Throw it to me. Give it to me. Come on, care. It's like it falls on the underfoot imaging. Don't let the day fall on you too, how to toast Wow, what kind of thing is this? They made it layer by layer, cover after cover. This and that are almost here. It's still here. Pull it. This horse is coming. Pull it. Goddamn it's coming. Guys, this excavation work is risky. That's why it injures your heart. Come on, isn't the care coming? Wait a minute, I don't know. Why? Why aren't you coming? Why aren't you coming? Come and come . All that's left behind is in vain. That's the back. It's got everything in it. It's good. I hope you can come up with something good. It's coming. It's here. Look at those who are falling. Look at them. Is there something there or here? Blood, what kind of collapse is this? It's coming all over us. I swear, you never know, bro, there's this stone. I don't know what this stone is. Why it doesn't break ? It's all broken. Should we break it ? Give me this hammer. Give me the hammer. Give me the hammer. Is the tower missing there? Well done. Well done. Halal. Well done, look, the gap continues, Kanki, wait, let me see. Open here. Open here . Open here , maintenance. Look, this is here . Hit it towards the side, hit it, hit it . It's happened. No , stop blowing it up. Let's see if I can hit it. Hit it. Let it explode. Let's take it out . Let me see, it's still young, it's not exploding , it's stubborn, it's stubborn, V, let's see. Yes, dude, open the corner, corner, corner, this is this, this is this, this is this, this is this, let's see , what is this ? There's nothing wrong with me. I'm working. It's a work accident. Dude, we're not dying, so we can die. Let me see. You just wait and see, bro. Let him get closer here and there. I mean, go that way. I'll take these out. I'll go. Wait a minute. Why did this guy do this here? Why did he do this? I guess he knows something . Let's not break the camera. I swear, can it be okay? It's okay. Wait for everything today. One of the machines. Per is on the second road. It's coming right around the middle. I hope it's a good thing that comes out of here. My God, salli ala seyyidina Muhammad. Did you see it? It's yellow. God, look at it. My manager. My manager. Look, it's out. It's loved. Kanki kanek Bismillahirrahmanirrahim It's as if we should break this place, break it, let's see, break it with something, so that it can be seen completely, as it is, what is there and what is not, Kani, it looks like beautiful things have come out, L look, look gyor There, Look, friends, after the plaster, look, the treasure. Allahu Akbar, bismillah, ay ay ay ay, it doesn't see yellow, stop, my heart is wrapped. Look at us , very beautiful girl, we will get what you want, now it's yours, I swear it's there, let me see, of, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is another one, bula, take it, bloody , Bismillahirrahmanirrahim, division of of of Of Oh my God, what are these? Oh my God, I'm behind you, be careful, look how the place is built, wait a minute, wait a second, let me see if there is anything, it looks like yellow, where is it not working, open it, it closed with excitement. Oh, there is another one. Where is it? Oh, look, slow down, stop, wait. Is there anyone else? Brother, Buray is going, look, it is going inwards, I wonder if we remove this place, of, of, of, how many of them, let me see, Let me see, brother, pure gold, is it Real? Damn, is there water in the pure bottom row? What are you going to do, bring the water, let me see, bring it here, let me see my brother Hasan. Do not touch them all, friends, look at these beautiful ones. What did we find? Is there another brother? Is there anything else? Dude, nothing is visible right now, but I'm saying there is a continuation of this place. Is the grave probably going into this grave? What is it doing? Look, does it have a PU antenna? No, look. It's already going . Demir is going, look, oh, give me a minute, is it exactly? Look, how much more gold is coming here? Is there an EU? I swear, I don't know. Isn't there a metal on the back of this? There may be a metal entrance on the side. There is no AB. Deniz, bring that hammer. Let me see, there is a possibility that it could be our attractive thing, give me the murcu or brother. Let me see, we are doing a gold test. Is it gold? Is it gold? It does knock, knock, knock. Oh, yes, it is gold. My son, from what period is this from? Look, I can't understand. It could be a gold thing. AB. You and I don't have it, my manager. There are no such things. of of Hasan brother, they are all beautiful, I swear, what a beautiful place he built and put them in. I'm obsessed with it, look at all the rocks, all the beauties. Come here, come, your mind will go, your mind is mine, I took them out, how can you think of them ? Son, are we this? Dude, which one of us is this in this world? We are tired of them. Wow, my friend. Would you look at these, they are amazing? I swear to you, friends, every autumn, the sea is more beautiful than the other. Look at me, what are these? Raise the camera, look up, look at the red Davulga tree. Yes, there is an entrance from here to there, under it, from here. Dude, it's right in front of the entrance, brother Hasan. Check out whether this tomb is a tomb good news thing or a tomb treasure. If this is on the cover, it's not clear what's inside . They put such a valuable gift on the cover. Are they all the same? Look, is it something different? Look, this one is different, that one is different, I wonder here, Aki E. Could it be the owners of the graves who did something ? Did they gather the princesses here and bury them? Did they turn it into a family cemetery? I swear to God, I don't know. Look at this in the background. Oh, well, we got the helicopter, I think that's it. This is Kani, finally. Look at this, friends. Yes, okay? It's Mus, we are running away, we closed the channel again. Don't call us, we love you . Friends, we hope to meet you in our new videos and new adventures. Brother Hasan took the gold. Brother Hasan, let me take my photo like this. We will find all kinds of valuable and worthless treasures, unseen, hidden, hidden. No stopping, continue on the road. Hello, we love you, take care of yourself, bye.