Translator: Zsofia Herczeg This elephant has incredible strength. She can uproot a tree Yet she will remain in captivity, Despite her ability to easily break away, Why? It starts when she is young. She is first tied down when she is small and not yet strong enough She'll try at first, and try and try, but eventually realize she can't. Suddenly, something that is stronger than any rope It's the belief that she can't break free. It's this belief that holds her back - despite her ability. I've had these same beliefs - you may have too - beliefs that held me back, beliefs that led me to feel to struggle in my relationships and to live a life that was far It was only when I became and actively pulled against them that I found myself How do you break the ropes Don't believe everything you think. When I was six years old, One morning, my mother told me because she didn't have So that afternoon, I gathered rocks painted them with my art set, and went door to door, That night, it was Amber and I When I was young, I was bold, I wore what I wanted (Laughter) or didn't want to wear, (Laughter) guided by my own voice that told me I was also in love. His name was Fernando, As with everything else, I wasn't afraid (Laughter) As I grew older, My exuberance was replaced with timidness, my leadership with conformity, my boldness with fear. I don't think any of us despite our parents' best intentions. I grew up with a mother who was determined Armed with love and good intentions, she did everything for me I'd pack a suitcase and she'd unpack it and repack it I'd be ready to turn in and then she'd add her own Later she told me when my choice of boyfriend Although she just wanted I stopped knowing what was best for me. An unconscious rope was formed. I shouldn't trust my own voice and I feared not being perfect. Other ropes attached themselves too. I grew up in a family filled with yelling, To keep the peace, to not rock the boat, to become invisible. In school, I came to believe it's more important to blend in And the pain of an early heartbreak led me to hold back in my relationships so I could avoid getting hurt. I'm not good enough. Don't speak up. Don't stand out. Fear failure. These were my ropes. This isn't just my story. Like the elephant, we all come that weren't true - or at least are no longer true. But we still live with them If you've ever felt not good enough, alone, unwanted, unloved, invisible, powerless, these are your ropes. If you've ever felt trust others, speak up, stand out, ask for help, let others in, these are your ropes. These ropes hold us back. I found myself defaulting when I should have been trusting my own, staying quiet when it would have and blending in when I would have been happier This led me into a series of jobs In one, I hoped I'd get sick It led me into a series of relationships in which I lacked confidence in myself, These never worked out. My beliefs affected the way which changed how I acted, I felt small, and my world became smaller. What we believe has powerful effects. Decades of social psychology In a study performed at Dartmouth College, an ugly scar was placed They were then sent into a room and asked to report how people But here is the twist. Right before they left, &quot;Hold on a minute! We just Rather than touch it up, So unbeknownst to them, the participants went looking completely normal. Despite this, they came back and reported how people avoided looking at their scar, and were tense and uncomfortable Their beliefs about their scar that weren't really there and to make meaning of innocent behavior. What could have been instead became an awkward one. Their beliefs created their reality. Other studies show the same effect. Highlight an Asian woman's she'll perform better. Highlight her female identity, she'll perform worse. Lead a group of men to believe an athletic task is diagnostic white men perform better. Lead them to believe it'd diagnostic black men do. Give someone a white coat they'll perform better than when told it's a painter's coat. In all of these cases, same people, same abilities, And in each case, it was their belief How you see yourself will affect what you see, how you act, and what occurs as a result. It's almost as if our beliefs (Laughter) a headset that allows us to see things and sends us into a false reality. We have these headsets I remember hearing the top model despite having the shiniest hair are some of the most physically insecure And award-winning author how she didn't follow up on the literary early in her career. The reason in her words: &quot;We don't always know or choose the big thing, even when it's right in front of us. It's the shame we carry. The shame of not believing we deserve it.&quot; Our headsets have us living They also cause us Once, I'd been dating someone We'll call him Ben. We talked every day. Then he went on a work trip. For four days, silence. I didn't hear a word. How would you interpret this? What's the first thought My beliefs led me to wonder to make this once enthusiastic person I shared his silence with friends. One, who admits she has was sure he was on this trip (Laughter) Another, who admits guessed he was probably upset because I hadn't invited him as my date And a third, who has guessed he probably thought and was taking some space. Each person saw the same situation Who was right? How should I respond? Each of these assumptions Moving too fast? - I should pull back. But if he's feeling rejected, Feeling rejected? - I should up my calls But if he thinks we're moving too fast, I was so confused. As I was ping-ponging around while briefly borrowing this relationship died a slow death. Are you ready for what He'd been deeply hurt was afraid of getting hurt again, and pulled away when his insecurities It was none of the things Sometimes our headsets It took me a long time to learn this. Just as our beliefs can hold us back, Let's go back to the Imagine the opposite. Imagine the researchers place something that leads them to believe and then remove it Now, what do you think they believe How do you think they show up differently? What difference does it make good at math or terrible at it, good at sports or not? It seems, a big one. I finally learned this lesson. My headset led me to law school. There my long-held false beliefs aim for perfection, This was a familiar path. Then one day, without thinking I signed up for a class called Design Thinking Boot Camp, a class that promised to unleash I had to design innovative products or more accurately, pull on almost I had to trust my own voice there is by definition no one I had to put myself out there because innovation doesn't come And perhaps most importantly, to be willing to not be perfect. The best designs came If I wanted to get it right, I struggled in this class because all of the things were the same things I believed I finally gave in to their crazy approach, and the most amazing thing happened. I was free to go, play, to live as I had before my ropes. I felt free in a way I hadn't and I accomplished things I never I was astounded, proud, liberated - and confused. I wondered if the beliefs were the same ones holding me back The seed had been planted. Maybe I shouldn't believe Headset off. To take it off, I just had to realize I had it on. Ropes broken. New beliefs lead to new actions. In my first bold move since I was six, I turned down my offer and placed myself in a different reality. I experimented with different jobs saying yes to ones I previously due to lack of experience, trusting I could figure it out. I was still afraid of failure and sometimes I did. I just no longer let this stop me. Then one day, I took on a 10-week I fell in love with this work. We're talking Fernando-level love. (Laughter) No longer afraid to grab things I went on to start my own company, helping leaders become and to teach a communication Particularly meaningful for me is that I now get to give others a more powerful voice. I broke other ropes too. When I was self-conscious and shy, I never could have imagined revealing (Laughter) That would have sounded Yet somehow, here I am. This process didn't happen overnight. Each new thought, each new action until I found myself in a new reality. I still have ropes I'm working to break. My goal is fewer over time. To get there, I remind myself Teams of four are given a yard of string, a yard of tape The winning team is the one that can build the tallest in 18 minutes. The marshmallow has to be on top. This challenge has been given to business-school students, lawyers, Who do you think Recent graduates of kindergarten. (Laughter) Here's why. The other groups will take what they think and end up executing In contrast, kindergarteners stay open They test out different options, they gather information by experimenting They have fun. What makes us so amazing as children is we live in a world before ropes. In a world before &quot;what's known,&quot; when there is &quot;what's possible.&quot; In a world before &quot;I can't,&quot; when there is &quot;how could I?&quot; In a world before falling when we fall and get In a world in which nothing is holding What the design class was for me, a seed that gets you to question that makes you more aware of your ropes, that helps you see No matter who you are or where you are, in this moment, there is the life that you can be living You get there one new thought at a time, one new action at a time until one day, you find yourself Thank you. (Applause) (Cheering)