You may be aware that I'm a huge fan of Sanderson. Grant makes excellent videos about I'm letting him take over my channel for (Grant) A week ago, I put out a tweet showing but what I didn't mention is that this arbitrary-seeming lost lecture by Richard Feynman on why planets The construction starts by drawing a circle, which is not the center, what I'll call Then draw a bunch of lines from this eccentric For each of those lines, rotate it 90 degrees the lines, an ellipse emerges in the middle. but there's a much deeper form of satisfaction surrounding this. Front and center in that story is Richard To scientists, he's a giant of 20th century foundational insights for Quantum Electro To the public, he's a refreshing contradiction bongo-playing, mildly-philanderous non-conformist probably heard either relaying some bit of sensible way to view the world, or else some But to physics students, he was an exceptionally his uncanny ability to make complicated topics Many of the lectures he gave as a CalTech famous "Feynman lectures", whose three But not all of the lectures he gave made it One in particular, a guest lecture lecture of planets around the sun", survived only a smattering of notes buried in the office was eventually dug up by Caltech archivist Despite the absence of some crucial blackboard her husband David eventually reconstructed of them published in a book titled "Feynman's itself and the surrounding story in a really Here, I'd like to give a more animated and Feynman presented. The lecture itself is about why planets and ellipses. law, the fact that the gravitational force proportional to the square of the distance why? How exactly does that give rise to an Of course, the gravitational attraction between no one orbit is a perfect ellipse, but to of an orbit. the appropriate differential equation and but Feynman's goal was not to rely on any take a listen to him articulate his own goal. demonstration. But elementary does not mean very little is required to know ahead of time an infinite amount of intelligence. hard to follow, but to each does not require Yeah, that's all, infinite intelligence. I've done what I can to simplify things deal of focus won't be required. First thing's first, we need some definition of proving that they're the shape of orbits. way to construct an ellipse using two thumbtacks to fix the ends of a small length of string pencil, and trace out a curve while keeping It's similar to how you might use a single length of string guarantees that every point thumbtack. But in this case, with two thumbtacks, point you trace? from that point to each of the thumbtacks So the defining property of this curve is the curve to these two special thumbtack locations, constant, namely the length of the string. of your ellipse, collectively called "foci". for "fireplace", since one of the first around the sun, a sort of fireplace of the a planet's orbit. this constant sum of the distances from any sum" of the ellipse. We'll get to orbital mechanics in a moment, I showed at the beginning, which will come Remember, we take all these lines from an and rotate each 90 degrees about its center, You could just take my word for it, but I end if we take the time now for a brief sidestep First off, there are really only two special from which all the lines emerge, and the center of these is a focus of the ellipse. you know you're going to want to look at to...something. involving a circle, you'll very likely want point use the fact that this radius has a I mean, that's what defines a circle, so somewhere. mind, let's limit our attention to just on the circle. You rotate this line from the eccentric point enthusiasts in the room might fancifully call original line. distances from our two proposed focus points The key insight here is that you can find distance from the eccentric point to Q is So, that means adding the distances to each from the center to Q, then Q to P. notice: First, at the point where this perpendicular clearly the radius of the circle. Since that it, the focal sum at that intersection point it traces out an ellipse, specifically an of this circle. Isn't that neat? at every other point on this perpendicular the sum of the distances to the foci from focal sum, all other points of this line must What this means, and this will be important, we got after our special 90 degree rotation, So the reason all the lines we drew earlier drawing a bunch of that ellipse's tangent The reason this will be important, as you'll will correspond to the velocity of an orbiting Okay, geometry proofiness done, onto some The first fact to use is Kepler's (very an object orbits around the sun, the area like 1 day, will be a constant, no matter For example, think of a comet whose orbit whipped around very quickly, so it covers Farther away, it'll move slower, so covers And this trade off between radius and arc swept area is the same. leverage conservation of angular momentum. out is essentially a triangle. small sliver for a tiny time step, but I'll parts. The base is the distance to the sun, and the you can think of as the component of the object's sun, which I'll call v_perp, multiplied So the area is 1/2 R * (v_perp) * (delta t). to a given origin point, like the sun, tells velocity perpendicular to it will remain constant, are directed towards that origin. the mass of the object stays constant, but changing. depends only on the amount of time that has Historically, this went the other way around, facts that led to an understanding of angular I should emphasize, this law does not assume even assume the inverse square law, the only only force acting on the orbiting object is This is a fact Feynman spent much more time in his Principia, but it kind of distracts conservation of angular momentum is good enough of elementarity. At this point we don't know the shape of non-elliptical egg shape. that shape precisely, but the strategy is of the path traced by the orbiting object, vectors. Here, let me show you what I mean As the object orbits, its velocity will be orbit, longer at points where the object moves more slowly. these velocity vectors, and collect them together their tips actually trace out a perfect circle. me. The velocity spins around and gets faster the laws of physics cook things up just right The astute among you might have a little internal of this circle with an off-center point. Now, why on earth should this be true? Newton at this point, so instead he comes to explain where this circle comes from. it up into little pieces which all cover the Alright, now think about how the amount of one of these equal-angle slices changes as Well, by Kepler's 2nd law, it's proportional these slices have the same angle, as you get radius increase, but the component of arc up in proportion to that radius. So the area it takes the object to traverse it, is proportional In principle, we'll ultimately be considering in what I mean by the radius from the planet bits of arc length will be effectively straight. law comes into play. At any given point, the to 1/(the radius)^2, but what does that really the object, the amount that it's velocity object's mass. of information about how the velocity of our the next. The change in velocity is acceleration proportional to the change in time over the But since the time it takes to traverse one these terms cancel, so the change in velocity some constant that doesn't depend on the In other words, if you look the velocity at the slice, then directly compare them by joining the two, the vector joining their tips, this slice of the orbit you were looking at. towards the sun, as we go from the start of turning by a constant angle. In geometry lingo, of this polygon that has formed will be equal. there! Remember that all you need to follow Take a moment to make sure it's clear what's from one vector to the next, the little difference have the same length, which was a consequence mixing Kepler's second law with the inverse Now, because those constant-length change it means they form regular polygon. original orbit, based on smaller and smaller polygon defining the tips of the vectors in Isn't that really neat? Hopefully, at this point you're looking and your just itching to see it give rise it's a little weird, right? We're looking will this give us the shape of the orbit? Step back and consider what we know: We don't the shape the velocity vectors trace. once the planet has turned an angle theta this corresponds to walking theta degrees since the acceleration vectors rotate just This tells us the tangency direction for each our velocity diagram touches that point theta of our orbiting object, and hence the tangency In fact, let me just start drawing all those need to use is the information they cary about magnitude of each velocity will not be as Notice, it's not that the angle of the velocity the vertical. No no no. The angle I'm referencing the circle's center, which is almost certainly vectors are rooted. the property that the tangency direction for given by this vector from a special eccentric around the circle from the vertical? Well, here's the trick. First, rotate this Then take each of those individual velocity the other way, so that they're oriented is rooted in a different spot. have just a little thinking ahead of us to is related to the astronomical orbit. lines about any point, I rotated each about geometric proof we saw several minutes ago. to furrow your brow and think back "wait, One of the key points was that when you have one from the eccentric point, both to a common perpendicular bisector to the eccentric line the point of tangency is where it intersects What that means is that the point of our little with respect to the circle's center, has line. And because of the whole 90 degree rotation, vector we need it to be. diagram has exactly the tangency property And hence, the shape of the orbit must be Alright, pat yourself on the back, because to follow this. an ellipse, requiring some geometry savviness Then there's the pretty clever step of even the velocity vectors trace out when you move And showing that this is a circle requires Kepler's second law in another sly move. how this velocity diagram with vectors rooted an elliptical orbit brings in this neat 90 I just love this. Watching Feynman do physics, Bobby Fischer play chess. (Henry): Thanks again to Grant, and you should