- [Rudder] On January the second 1922, an Aggie named E. King Gill was in the stands at Old near the side of the present Cotton Bowl. He was spotting players at a post-season game between Texas A&amp;M and the great Praying Coach Dana X. Bible had a team that had been before the game. At one point in the game, it looked as if he'd run outta players and wouldn't have enough Coach Bible summoned to suit up and be prepared to play. Thus King Gill became the 12th Man and sparked the legend that He exemplifies the spirit, the spirit which is so apparent as he came forth, ready and later to serve his country in war. He is an example of the kind of spirit which has inspired Aggies everwhere in times of war and peace. He is the 12th Man in which we all aspire. Is my great privilege to present the Original 12th Man. - Texas A&amp;M in 1922 was just a small little country college. It had probably about 1500 students counting everybody on campus. They felt very remotely located a long seven miles from Bryan, Texas. Basically at that time, it was a four year program with emphasis on which was the mandate of Texas A&amp;M and why it was established. King Gill was a student like most students that come to A&amp;M. He grew up in Dallas, in a big city, good high school athlete. And he comes to A&amp;M and becomes a student and becomes very active in athletics. A lot of people don't know, but he was basically a football, basketball, and baseball. King Gill was a big guy. He was probably 6'3&quot; or 6'4&quot;. So he was a big man in his day. And of course the first was the basketball coach goes, oh boy, we've got a And he was, he played a lot of different He was a forward and a center. In baseball he played a number of At that time, players and in football, he played everything from a split end, to a running At that time, usually when they they went both ways. Football in the post war period, this is the post World War 1 period in the late teens and early twenties, is totally different from it was today. A&amp;M with 36 players had a very large team, but when they traveled out of town, they would usually take 17 to 20 players. The official picture they had about 36 or 37 players in it. And so while he played and was on practice squad as a sophomore for all practical purposes, what would happen is when the season starts to come to an end, they want him to play basketball. So the basketball coach, says, &quot;Hey, Coach Bible, so we can continue practicing.&quot; So he was released from the football team in late November to get ready for the Southwest Conference basketball season. Well, one of the unique that's one of the largest it's about 22,000 people At that time, there had only been four ever played in the United States. So it was a very hot And from then it takes off. King Gill was practicing basketball. He's on campus. They take advantage of the December break to really prepare the team. And at the last minute, the coach lets the team go and he decides to go visit So he hitchhikes up to Dallas, which oddly enough, turns on New Year's Eve. And he knows that the So he hitchhikes over to Fair Park the old stadium, this was before the Cotton Bowl and didn't have the money to get in. So he said, &quot;Well, I'll hang out.&quot; And when the team arrives on the bus, he walks in with the team. and of course they all know him and they just go down. He's on the sidelines. While he is on the sidelines One of the leading sports who's of the Waco paper asked the coach and some &quot;Hey, I need somebody to spot for me.&quot; So they turned over there and pointed and said, &quot;Hey, take this He was on the team. He's just up here visiting.&quot; So he goes up now he is got a seat. So he goes up and sits in the press box and ends up being a spotter since he knows all the players and best of my knowledge, there aren't any other players there from the team that did not travel because of the 36 players, Bible only took 16 or 17 with him up to Dallas for the game. The game will start and Center College is big, there are extremely talented. They're very physical. And we keep having injuries. At that time, if you did not have 11 you would have to forfeit the game. Bible realized at that moment, oh my gosh, if we lose one more player, it would be too late then we don't have anybody to send in. And the press box couldn't in the smaller stadium. He turned and pointed or waved at Gill. So he came out of the press box where he was sitting and came down to the sidelines and exchanged civilian that Heine Weir had on to be ready to stand ready for the second half. Few years back, they found a recording that the keynote speaker was E. King Gill. He is introduced by General Earl Rudder and he outlines and tells about what happened at the Dixie Classic and how the 12th Man evolved. - [Gill] Now we did, we We lost most of our backfield men. We ended up the first half. We had no more substitutes and here I saw somebody and get in uniform we got outta the stand it was entirely open, but we took a couple of blankets and they took Heine Weir's uniform off and put it on me, put my clothes on him. And that's the way I went and later on to become the 12th Man. During the days of radio, I believe they had a program they asked that A&amp;M dramatized and E.E. McQuillen, who was the former secretary of the Students Association and thought of this incident. And he dramatized it and And that's the way the tradition started, but I've never thought that the 12th Man really belonged to a personality. It belongs to the A&amp;M student body. - One of the interesting things is after this Dixie he's ready to come back in basketball. He becomes a star on the basketball team and all Southwest Conference He immediately rolls right into baseball and this will continue He will be one of the last lettered, all Southwest Conference from Texas A&amp;M. There are no others. - After finishing Texas A&amp;M, King Gill coached football Graduated from Baylor Medical School and served as a Colonel in during World War II with distinguished records, both in the United States - So Dr. Gill ended up with a in Corpus Christi. And we just knew him as Big King, he was like a grandfather figure. I think he would just be amazed at it all - [Gill] And every one if you stand up for what's right and be ready to serve and these traditions will as you get older. So it's my wish. here today that you It's made me a better Aggie, it'll make you a better Aggie. Those are my thoughts today. If they've helped a little bit, I'm thankful I was here.