Hi, I am Farah Khan choreographer, director and Bollywood lover. When we talk about the iconic pairs of Hindi Cinema, mostly we talk about the hero and heroine. Iconic couples like Dilip Kumar-Madhubala, Raj Kapoor-Nargis, Dharmendra-Hema Malini, Shah Rukh-Kajol, sorry Salman. But for me, I think the most iconic and successful jodi of Hindi cinema has been those two writers, who wrote the most successful films, who were bigger than the film stars. They are here today, among us. The original Angry Young Men Salim and Javed! Still young, and hopefully not angry anymore. Salim Uncle, I want to start with you. Do you remember the first moment when you met Javed Uncle? I was working in a film Sarhadi Lutera. Sarhadi Lutera? S.M. Sagar was producing it. I met him there for the first time. Were you the hero in that film? Yes, I was the hero in that film. Ohho. And what about you, Javed Uncle? I remember it very clearly. My first meeting with Salim Sir was at S.M. Sagar's house in Malad. He was sitting in the drawing room. I used to live at S.M. Sagar's house and I used to write dialogues for him. Sometimes I used to babysit for him and sometimes would buy groceries as well. So, when I got out... Really! When I got out, he was sitting there. I recognised him immediately! I had seen him during my college days. So, that's where I met him for the first time. I clearly remember that. After that it's quite obvious, we were working in films together. If you are ready to consider Sarhadi Lutera as a film. What were you doing in Sarhadi Lutera? I was the assistant and the dialogue writer. And like everyone who works for money, I was getting paid a sum of Rs 100, so I did both. Wow. How did you did you both decide that you'll work together as a pair? No! We never decided that. Because your acting career was mindblowing, nicely destroyed by my mother. When did you decide that you'll be a writer? Individually, we were both writers. Salim Sir had written a story which was ultimately bought. It was such a beautiful story. They destroyed it. One man's story was made into the story of two brothers, there were no brothers in the original story. I mean basic change... They ruined it. When I wrote dialogues with him and with Brij in Yakeen, I swore on my life that I'll never be a writer. You won't become a writer? People just pester you so much! Add a "the" here, a "that" there. Why is this "and" here? All that. So, he was the only man in the world who insisted that I not make this mistake. "You are a writer. You should become a writer." We had no idea we were going to be partners. The story is, we were both unemployed back then. I got to stay at a friend's house which was close to his house. He had provided me accomodation, but there were other responsibilities too. There were two advantages of visiting him One, I would meet him, and two, I would get good dinner! Hence, we started meeting very often. Then, we used to go and sit at the parapet because we had nowhere else to go to. There, we used to exchange stories. There was a wall near the sea shore. We used to go and sit there. Many stories were discussed there. Then, S.M Sagar came back in our lives and asked us to write a screenplay. So we both did ghostwriting together. Ghostwriting? Yes Ghostwriting! So ,you didn't get credit for that? No. He got 2500 rupees and I got 2500 rupees. It was a lot back then. It was raining money. Richie-rich! Indeed. I remember when I got that payment, I ate chinese food! So sweet! That's just how it happened. When we went to Sippy Films, because we had worked together, when I went to have the conversation, I referred to us as "We". He asked me what do you mean by "we"? So I told them that the screenplay we both have written. So he welcomed us aboard! So, we both went there. But tell me something, you both, when you started working together did you immediately click with each other? This relationship grew like a tree. It wasn't created. There was never a moment when we decided that now we are partners. It just never happened. Salim Uncle, did you feel the partnership clicked immediately? No, I never felt that way. Look how much she doubts my word! I thought that he writes dialogues very well. He is very talented. He'll be an asset if I get to work with him. So, was it divided when you used to write? No, no. It wasn't as if you'll write the dialogues and he'll get the story? If I thought of potential dialogues, I would come and tell him. If he thought of a good situation, then he would come and tell me. And we would come to a consensus. Basically Salim Sir's strength has always been the story! And my strength is dialogues. Screenplay writing for us could happen together because no matter how different we are as people, our basic moral values, the basic right versus wrong, the outrageous versus modest, that has always been common between us. This may be because of our backgrounds. Did you guys ever fight about anything? A lot! With people. Superb! I want to ask the three children, Salman, Zoya and Farhan. Because all of you have interest in writing, Zoya being the most prolific writer amongst the three of you all. Oh, it's true. She has written the most scripts. But Salman, you also had that writer's I won't say bug, but, but you have a sense of writing. Yes. Yes, you have that talent. And you like to write? Was it because you hero worshiped your dad? We didn't have a choice back then to decide which films we'll be doing. Back then, nobody gave us a story narration. We just had to go and jump in. Then came a time when my films were doing well. Then I could see opportunities to improvise. Then, if a scene was not sitting well I would ask Daddy, how should I do this scene? He would say, give me five minutes. Things like that used to happen. And then later on eventually... Has Salim Uncle ghostwritten for you in some movies? No, only when he got stuck at something, I would usually get a call from him at the farm. He would explain the situation and what was written, so I would tell him till what point it was okay. Then he would ask me how to go ahead from there? I would tell him to give me half an hour I'll write something. You call me in half an hour and I'll narrate it for you. That's what used to happen. But you didn't want to be a writer? Growing up, you wanted to be a writer? Director - Writer. But you were too good looking, so you became an actor. I was thinking the same thing. No, people were stalling me. When I used to take a script and go to them you know, to be a director, they would reply "you should be an actor". That's when I decided, since everyone was saying the same thing that you should be an actor there must be something about me. So, I said okay, let's go let's try acting. They were all just... It was incidental? pushing me away. Telling me how its better that I act, how would I direct, how would I produce, how will I be a writer. Salim Uncle, did you ever imagine that he would become such a big actor? No. His first film was Biwi Ho To Aisi. In that film, he shook my hands and said son, you're in the right hands. In Biwi Ho To Aisi? He came, he explained to the director that in the sitaution you have written the hero should not be there. Hero should be travelling. He only said that and it made so much sense. So the director said that Salim Sir the scene was amazing. People are going to hoot and clap! He came out. On the day of mahurat, he said, son, you are in good hands. God bless you. This is a first and last. So, Zoya, What about you? You, I mean, have written the most scripts amongst all the siblings. Was it because you hero worshiped your dad or is it genetic? Did you? Let's talk about this first. No. I think... Hero-worshipped Mum! Both. Yeah, both were, I mean, first him and Salim Uncle. I remember them. We watched a lot of films and you're privy to writing as a concept. But were you privy to your dad's writing when you were growing up? No, no, not privy to the process. But privy to the idea of it, the concept of that you can write. And I was always like in school, I was really good with composition, essay writing, stuff like that. I would always ace it. And, I became a copywriter at 19 while I was still in college, and then it just happened to... I met Reema. We were both assistant directors on a film and we started writing short films together. And before we knew it, we were writing features. Farhan? Yes. Your writing started pretty late. My writing, I don't know, my writing actually started earliest. I was fabricating stories from the time that I was about 4 or 5. I used to lie so much! So, my creative juices were flowing from a very young age. But, you know, weirdly enough, as a kid watching their films and also some other films, I loved movies and I knew if I wanted to do something in life it was in films. Back then I didn't know about a director's role. You know, what everybody else does. The only two things I knew was what writers do because of Salim uncle and dad. And what an actor does because I see that on screen. So those were the only two things. So the choices were either writer or actor, you know. And acting seemed very glamorous. That seemed like, you know, that should be like a thing for me. So, first you wanted to be an actor. My love for it came from there to be very honest, it started from there. And when I started working as an assistant, as a DOP that's when I felt direction is an amazing thing. That feeling of a complete experience of making a movie is something that felt really good. And for that to own the story, to really have something to say that is your own, for that, you have to write. So I actually started writing really is when I first started writing. More like poetry and stuff for myself. And then the first real project that I sat down to write was Dil Chahta Hai. And Namrata here, she's a debutante director over here. Your first. What an honor to get this. I mean, I would have paid money to direct this documentary. Namrata, you've done a fantastic job. Thank You! But I want to ask you since you're not from our generation neither from Salim-Javed's generation. So were you familiar with their work before you started this project? I mean, I had watched all their films on Doordarshan. Do you remember the first Salim-Javed film you saw? Sholay. We saw first day-first show when it released. 15th August, 1975. Yeah I had watched all their films, I revisited all of those again. And it was still just as much fun. I had such a good time watching Seeta Aur Geeta, Andaaz, Zanjeer, Sholay. Even, Shakti. I mean, it was great fun! So was it intimidating for you to direct? She was shivering in fear! No, not really. When I met them for the first time, of course. When I went to meet Salim Sir, Salman was also there. Of course, it was a little, first time I met them both. But who intimidated you most? Salim Uncle or Salman Khan? My shorts. Salman. No, and your dog! He got his dog on that day. But he's more intimidating than a dog. The dog is very cute and friendly. Also, when I met Javed Sir for the first time, he had said that there's no need to do any of it. What's the need of making this film? Everyone knows everything about me. That's when I thought how will this be done? But after that it was really nice. And we have shot for a long time. Yes, I know. No one couldn't recommed me. Your mother used to call me 'The Gunda Of Mahim' Correct! 'The Gunda Of Mahim' That reminds me... I want to tell you, when you had taken Javed Uncle's proposal to my grandmother Just now, at lunch, they were discussing this. Not one word from that was written by us! Was it like that scene from Sholay? That scene has come from your Nani that's what he is saying. Not a word was written by us. Neither did he write, nor I wrote! Whatever we heard, we wrote! Was it exactly like this? Almost. I mean, exactly. Javed said that marriage conversations have come up and I don't want to get married. Do anything to cancel this. You told him this? Yes! Are you all hearing this, children? Yes. Help me in any way that you can. Get the marriage called off? You hold such old relations with them. I had known them for a long time. I went and said, aunty, "yes son, tell me." I said aunty, you're getting your daughter married to him. He drinks a lot. Yes, I said he drinks. She replied, even I drink alcohol! So it actually came from there. Sholay's scene was you all. But see, this was their plus point. Whatever has happened in their life They have seen father, grandfather, stories grandmother, grandpa, you know all people with a lot of personalities, people they have hero worshipped, they have taken from there, and put it in their films. But with a lot of humour. So now we come to the evolution of the "Angry Young Man". I think there's an entire episode on this in the documentary. Was that your persona? No. I see a lot of you all in it. You know, that righteousness. and that dialogue 'pheken hue paise'. I could see them saying that to a producer. Like Javed mentioned about our thinking it was almost the same. In terms of what was right and what was wrong But Salim Uncle, before Zanjeer, a lot of family films were being made. And literally, even after your era, many films like Hum Aapke Hain Koun and Kuch Kuch Hota Hai released No doubt about it that Zanjeer was a game changer! At that time, all the films being made in the industry, used to have ten songs, and those songs used to get repeated, there used to be a comedy section. A parallel track. Yes, that used to be there. People couldn't understand our story in narrations because it didn't have any songs or comedy. What is this? In fact, a producer told us that, you ruined 2.5 hours of my life, please leave! After narration? Yes. Zanjeer's narration? So, how many times did your script get rejected? Many times. Many, many times! It's surprising that all our super hit films were the ones that got rejected the most. Then came a time when whatever we wrote, they would take it. Those were not very successful. So Zanjeer was rejected by of course, many heroes. We know the stories from Dharmendra to Dev Anand. Everybody rejected. Not one person is left. Dilip Sahab, Dharmendra, Rajkumar. We just weren't able to find a hero. Why hero, the heroines were also not interested. They were all uninterested in working with Amitabh. When we took Amitabh we couldn't find a heroine then. First we weren't able to find a hero. Then, when Amitabh came, we couldn't find a heroine. We got the thought that Jaya ji would not refuse because Amitabh Bachchan was getting a good break. If she understood that this is a great role it could change his life. So we went and gave a narration. We straight up told her that there's nothing in it for you. But this role would make his life. So, for Amitabh Bachchan, she did it. In retrospect when I look back, I don't feel surprised that this film was being rejected so much. That was Rajesh Khanna's peak period. Laxmikant-Pyarelal and R.D. Burman's music! Super hit, each album! Amidst all this, and we weren't even very well known. Two men are roaming around with a script in hand, in which neither the hero sings, neither is there romance, neither does he smile, neither does he do comedy, in that era! He doesn't even hold the heroine's hand. Absolutely no romance! Why would they accept it? What kind of a film is it? What sells is something else. But only that film can be a super duper hit, which stays away from current trends. It's very difficult to sell such stories! He went to a producer and said that, I'll narrate the story. Once you listen to the story and like it you will offer us a sum. Instead we will tell you our rate first, before we proceed. Producer said, okay. He told the producer we will charge 2 Lakh Rupees. And then started looking at the door in case he needs to run away. So, what was the current price of writers at that time? The best ones at the top would demand 70-75. 70-75 thousand? Yes. After Zanjeer was a hit, we did not have any work for 9 months! We bought a 13 thousand rupees ambassador. That also we had to sell. One day we met a producer who asked if we had any films. We were like, here it is, readymade, perfect dialogues, comma-fullstop, everything. He said if I like it I will take it. I asked him the money for the script? He said, if I liked it, how is money a problem? What are you talking about? So, I went I told him that... We used to do this every time, discuss money before we narrate the script. Don't give us any advance. The writer's rate in those days was around 10 thousand rupees. Maximum 10 thousand rupees. So we went up. He asked us about our charges. To that I replied, 2 lakh rupees. He sat in silence for a while. He rang the bell and a peon walked in. He said, call him. I mean his partner, who I don't want to name. He had a partner, who he called. I thought this is getting serious. He's calling the partner to deal with this. I thought he called him to finalise the deal. The parter entered, preoccupied. He said, what happened? Then he looked at me. He said, eh, tell him what you told me also. He thought that If I left, his partner won't believe his word. I should also show him what circus has been going on! So, Salman when you saw Zanjeer we were I think, eight years old. Even at eight you realise that it's a different movie. And I remember Amitabh Bachchan walked in the interval and there was a, there was an aura. So what did you feel? and when you started doing action movies? Did you have it in your mind subconsciously or consciously, that you want to do certain films? I've always felt that when the, when the audience comes out, you know, they should want to be the hero. They should want a son like the hero. They should want, a girl should want, a brother, a boyfriend or husband, you know, that feeling should come from all different, you know, types of fans. Because I used to also feel like this when I used to watch a Bruce Lee film. So I used to come out and want to be like Bruce Lee. So this has been imprinted in my head that if ever I make a movie, or I'm in a movie, that is the kind of film that I want to do. Zoya, you write completely different movies than Yeah. than a Salim Javed movie. I mean it's a different end of a spectrum. But is there anything that influenced you from their films? Yeah, I think, in their writing all their characters, even their characters that have one scene has something special. I think that's, otherwise there's no wasted character, you know? I think that is something that I've got because I do ensembles. They have very strong women. All their films. All their women are working women. Women with opinions, women with agency. That I have taken. And they have clean films. There's no vulgarity. But at the same time there's everything in it. Yeah. There will be a cabaret dance, yeah, there will be everything, mujra, or whatever. Yeah. But it's always... But there's a completeness to it, that I think has influenced me deeply. Even when you see Deewaar, the character that Parveen Babi plays in it Yes! is of like a night worker. Yeah. But the dignity that even her character is treated with in the writing, in the presentation. No other time of a writer or director, will do that. It would have started with a song. Correct. The hero sitting there and the woman is dancing with some men around her. Then she comes and sits next to him and he says I saw you dancing you're very beautiful. It was treated with such dignity. That relationship, that Vijay and she has. And the humanity I think in all the women. The best quality of, Salim-Javed films, is that each and every character no matter how small a role, was registered. And after that, they may have done a hundreds films, big fims, especially Sholay! That person's bread and butter started from that small role. To this day some of them are surviving because of it. I mean, Sambha is still doing ads. All of them. Sholay is a part of pop culture. All of it. Everyone. The horse 'Dhanno' also I used in Main Hoon Na Soorma Bhopali! That got made into a whole film. About Soorma Bhopali. But I find that really, fun. That everyone has a quality. There's a tone to every character. You know, it's not just just a lead character. And not just that, it was extremely tight. It wasn't like the character is going haywire. Every character is following one trajectory. That was very interesting that even today, these films are still watchable. Yes. So we know of which is Farhan's favorite film to remake of Salim-Javed. You have already made it. Don, of course. But Salman, if you were to do a remake of any of their movies? I would want to do Sholay. Sholay? Deewar. Sholay. So who would you be? You would be Jai or Veeru? He's a Veeru! Yeah. He's a Veeru! Also Jai, I can play both. He can play both actually. Double role. He can play Gabbar also. Gabbar also I can play. Two identical twins. Versatile. With Gabbar, the entire film star cast, everybody had gone and met Ramesh Sippy individually that they wanted to do that role. Gabbar's role! Both, Sanjeev Kumar and Amitabh said it. That they want to do the role of Gabbar. Everybody said they wanted the role. Dharam ji didn't say it. He was happy with his role. He was too cute. He was superb. He was too cute. He was outstanding. But tell me Javed Uncle and Salim Uncle, you all had Zanjeer, which was like, the turning point of your career and Prakash Mehra's. And next year came Haath Ki Safai and after that Prakash Mehra and you all didn't work together at all. Now that the topic is here, I would like to say and I have said it many times before, Prakash Mehra had taken our story. Dharmendra ji heard the whole story and refused it. Whatever the reason. Which one? Zanjeer? Yes! Whatever the reason may be to refuse. Dev Anand Sir heard, and he refused too. Raj Kumar Sir heard it, Dilip Sir heard it, Shashi Kapoor heard it, many other people heard and rejected it. Our recognition was after Zanjeer. Correct. Prakash Mehra should have dropped our script. What script have they brought to me? No hero is ready to act in it. This is a hero-oriented film industry. And he was making it himself, he wasn't putting the guns on someone else's shoulder Hats off to him. Yeah. Hats off to him. That he did not drop the script. Look at his conviction! And he took an actor who's background wasn't great. His films were failing. During the production also they were failing. No, I will work with him! Today, he is not in this world anymore. But when the climax scene was being shot, somewhere just outside Bombay. He said, Javed I'll never make films without him. This conviction on the script, and then on the actor, Hats off to him. We should respect him for that. Otherwise if two actors refuse a script, It starts feeling like a bad script. Yeah, first we throw the writer under the bus. I think about these things now, I never realised it back then. That time we were busy with other things. Sometimes I wonder what an amazing man he was. So I'm going to quickly ask everyone, Farhan, your favorite Salim-Javed movie. And your favorite Salim-Javed character in any of them. Favorite movie by far Deewar. Okay. And favorite character? I think most memorable character is Gabbar Singh Memorable. Zoya? There are too many favorites, but there's one which I don't, there's nothing like that and that's Shakti. I think that's, a very, very special film. And my favorite character... I think I like all the characters in Sholay. Yeah, but even in Deewar. I like all three. The mother and the two sons. We also like the coolie in Deewar. 'I won't give it' 'Why should I give it' ? Salman. Gabbar Singh and Sher Khan. Pran Sir in Zanjeer. And JJ from Don! Yeah, JJ was super. I think Geeta, from Seeta Aur Geeta. I love that film. Yeah, actually, Seeta Aur Geeta. Mine is Manorama from Seeta Aur Geeta. Javed Uncle, do you have a favourite from your own filmography? I think Deewar and Vijay. Vijay from all movies, or from Deewar? From all. Yes. Salim Uncle? Deewar Deewar, over Sholay? No, screenplay is better of Deewar. See, Gone With The Wind, Godfather, Star Wars, These are the films with many memorable characters. Not one, but many. There is not a single film in film history, where people remember so many characters even after 5 decades. They're used in ads, remembered in stand-up comedy. Radio still runs their ads. They are referenced in so many other films. So now we come to the main quiz round. Here, Javed Uncle has mentioned that the joke's on them If their own children are not able to answer questions about their films. It will be very unfair on me to be a part of this. Oh stop it! Very unfair because I know each and every answer of your questions in the quiz. So I think, Farhan and Zoya should play. Oh! That's pretty smart! Are you all in a team or are you all four separate? We are in teams. Farhan and Salman in one team. Girls Vs Boys! Ready, guys? Let's go. Which actor played the role of Shakal, much before the movie Shaan? In a Salim-Javed movie. There was another villain called Shakal. Shetty in Don. Not bad, one of them. Yes. Okay I'll give you two marks for that. But he was, he was a junior villain. Yaadon Ki Baarat. Ajit in Yaadon Ki Baarat was also Shakal. So now we have trivia. So I give you, 2 points. Yes. Which actress was called Computer Ji, by Shashi Kapoor in a multi-starrer film? Rakhee, in Trishul. Very good, five points to y'all. Well done Zoya. Very good. Good going. Let them win. No, no we don't want to win like that. We want you to win like this only. Mostly, Amitabh Bachchan's name was Vijay in most of their movies. But there was one big hit movie in which his name was not Vijay. Jai. What was his name in Majboor? Come on, the two most common names of Salim and Javed. One used to be Vijay. And one used to be? Ravi! Yes! Ravi. Ravi Khanna. Back then, there were only two names popular in India. Vijay and Ravi and with no surname. These are one-off's, only in Salim-Javed movies. Jeetendra. One Jeetendra starrer? Aakhiri Daao. She has an unfair advantage. No, I knew that! Okay, you all got 10 points, How many points have you got? Seven No, no, what? Seven. Seventeen. It's seven. Come on, Farhan, Salman, hurry up. One Manmohan Desai film by Salim-Javed? Chacha-Bhatija Yes! Now, how many do you have ? Seventeen. Okay. No, seven plus seven is twelve! Oh, okay. One film of Salim-Javed in which Aamir Khan was there? Yaadon Ki Baarat. Okay. Oh, come on, guys! Yes, that's a good question. Yeah, I'm a very good quizmaster. Only Rajesh Khanna-Rishi Kapoor starrer written by Salim-Javed? Zamana. Very Good! They are winning guys! Wake up. I am a Rishi Kapoor fan. Which actress was originally approached for the role of Nirupa Roy in Deewar? Waheeda Rehman. No, minus 2 points. No, don't minus! No, correct correct. They have been...What do you mean? No no, you can't minus. Let's go, let's go. Close to Waheeda Rehman. Asha Parekh? No, you can't answer, your team has already said. Vyjayanthimala. Nanda ji. Vyjayanthimala. You all have taken every other heroine name but Vyjayanthimala. I don't want minus two points. I'll tell you something. We contacted two people for this, one by one. One, Vyjayanthimala. And one Suchitra Sen. Okay. I want you all to tell me the the professions of these leading ladies. Rakhee in Kaala Patthar? Doctor. No. He also said this. But I slapped the table first. Yeah. Okay. She answered first. I slapped the table first. I'll slap y'all first now, okay? Neetu Singh in Kaala Patthar? Bangle Seller. You're all clapping but she's answering first. Very easy, very easy, very easy. Hema Malini in Sholay? Tonga-rider. He's cheating, he pushed my hand. But before tapping I said the answer. Hema Malini in Chacha-Bhatija. Street performer. That was Seeta Aur Geeta No, no, Bar owner. She had a theka. Oh, yeah. Correct. Okay. What was Pran's name in Majboor? Come on it's a trick question. There was a very famous song. Yeah. Yeah. Phir Na Kehna... Michael! 'Phir Na Kehna Micheal Daaru Pi Ke Danga'. So now it's 32 to 18. Oh, no no no, we are 38. Salim-Javid won best screenplay awards for three films. Deewar, Shakti and Zanjeer. How many filmfare awards did they win for Sholay? None! Zero! Sholay actually won only one award. Wait, you are the documentarian. Sholay won one award. Imagine. Editing. What was that? Best Cinematography. Editing. That also it didn't win. Editing. M.S. Shinde won for editing. It's so well shot. And such good sound. Unbelievable. It came up against Deewar, now what do you do? No, but still, technical awards? No, I'm talking about the writing. It's so well made. But technical awards they could have given. Hundred percent it deserved all. Three films of Rajesh Khanna, that had Salim-Javed in writing credits? Andaaz, Haathi Mere Saathi and Zamana. Now divide the points amongst yourselves. So, 50-19. On this note, I don't know who has won and who has lost. We have won! So, Salman, he has not answered the maximum questions. He has been benevolent towards us. But he has been very sweet and he's kept score. What is the score? 52-19 52 for us, and 19 for you. Well done. I don't know who has won. Well done. They have won. The ladies have won. We need to be be graceful about these things. Thank you Salim Uncle. Thank you Javed Uncle. Go watch Angry Young Men on Prime Video Now!