Perhaps no flower has mesmerized humans quite Since prehistoric times, they've been grown self-medication. Opium poppies produce addictive and powerful In some countries, it's illegal to cultivate In addition to the notorious opium -- or other species, in hundreds of varieties, from the feathery annual Papaver somniferum laciniatum. Poppies are symbols of remembrance. Through antiquity they were regarded as sacred, of health, wealth and fertility. They've even made their way into popular In the Wizard of Oz, Dorothy falls asleep a spell on her. When author Frank Baum wrote The Wizard of was an everyday drug, as it had been for hundreds In 1753, the Swedish botanist Carl Linneaeus to categorize the opium poppy as Papaver somniferum. The scientific name reminds us of the poppy's Like tea, sugar, petroleum and gold, opium It was a foundation for traditional medicine it can also ensnare its users in deadly addiction. Only a handful of countries are permitted of the legal global supply comes from Tasmania, But an illicit trade endangers people all There are hundreds of varieties of Papaver The seeds are legal to buy and sell in the and though opium is technically a Schedule or for seed shouldn't get the DEA knocking Most Papaver varieties contain at least a in India have created a variety called "Sujata" of the alkaloid from which opium is produced. A wild ancestor of poppies -- a dwarf species the Mediterranean for thousands of years. Opium poppy's closest relative is thought Sea in Turkey. It's often been said that the Sumerians around 3000 B.C., calling it "Hui Gil," But could it have been the Neolithic farmers before that? I think, in my heart, that they all had a There were things developing them from these Because Turkey was such a great source of there for so long, that out of that came the No one really knows exactly when it was discovered It's an alkaloid in the bitter, milky latex pod with the slip of a sharp blade. But we do know people have been using it for escape, and pleasure. The earliest evidence of opium as a narcotic Neolithic burial site near Barcelona, where tooth of an elderly man's skeletal remains. By the early days of the Bronze Age, carried poppy seeds took hold in the eastern Mediterranean, The Minoans, an ancient civilization that of Greece, were among the earliest to trade Archaeological explorations along their trade scarified poppy pods. It appears that the Minoans had figured out From the very first trading cycles in the around. All poppy heads contain opium. If you grow one in the perfect conditions People would carry poppy seeds from one place Opium poppies got to Egypt sometime between they arrived in Crete and Cyprus. Egyptians began cultivating poppies, known of Thebes, a city along the Nile. The opium trade flourished, and its medicinal The Ebers papyrus, an exhaustive plant medicinal poppies' use for insomnia, and as an anesthetic The 110-page scroll, taken from a tomb in Georg Moritz Ebers, also offered advice on with "fly dirt which is on the wall ... It The ancient Greeks saw opium poppies as sacred of harvest, earth and renewal -- first discovered Demeter and her daughter Persephone were often in the other. Hippocrates, the Greek physician considered recognized opium's usefulness as a narcotic It took hold in the Arab world as well. For example, the renowned Muslim physician as a general anesthetic. Some scholars believe that Alexander the Great 300 BC. It's also possible that Arabs introduced territory ranging from Spain to northern India. (Ayurvedic medical texts don't mention opium There is no record of opium as a part of ancient -- it didn't arrive there until Arab traders between 618 and 907, spread through the Silk and parts of Africa. During the Song Dynasty, however, helped along opium was used as a remedy for ailments like relief. In traditional Chinese medicine, poppy capsules and they are associated with the lungs, large Tobacco -- and smoking -- came to China and tobacco caught on, too. By 1729, alarmed by the rise in opium smoking, Some 70 years later they banned growing or Nevertheless, by the 1800s, there were an two million of them addicts. Despite the prohibition, the British East with opium from the huge poppy fields it controlled with China. An opium poppy variety grew in China, but So when the opium from India came in, they The Cantonese merchants were willing to defy On the eve of the first Opium War in 1839, pounds of opium to China each year, helped to small ports using boats called "fast (American merchants were shipping opium to To quell the opium epidemic, some in the Chinese But it was Lin Zexu who prevailed in convincing strike at the source instead. In 1839, he went to Canton (now Guangzhou) In a strongly worded open letter to Queen for allowing the opium trade to continue despite And he succeeded in forcing British traders opium from their ships -- which was then Britain saw this as an affront to its sovereignty Ultimately, the Chinese were no match for The First Opium War ended in 1842 with the control of Hong Kong. But trade tensions between the west and the invaded China again, this time joined by France. These military confrontations with western the end for the dynastic system in China. Poppies had spread to Japan during the Nanban Portuguese traders had brought poppy seeds Aomori prefecture). As an homage to their introduction, poppies for medicinal purposes on small plots of land and in the Wakayama and Osaka areas. The poppy plant's name was later changed mustard seeds. By the time Swiss-German alchemist Paracelsus in the 16th century, packages of opium gum with tea, spices and other goods. Paracelus figured out how to macerate the something more palatable. His recipe for pills called "stones of immortality" quintessence of gold. They were prescribed as painkillers. About 150 years later, in 1680, British apothecary laudanum, made with opium, sherry, wine and It became immensely popular -- and abused. Most any druggist would make and dispense their own pint bottles for a refill. In 1804, German pharmacist Friedrich Serturner Gram for gram, "morphine," as he called In 1832, French chemist Pierre Robiquet isolated In the mid-19th century, opium made its way Laudanum elixirs, often imported from England, packed along with pioneer couples who headed These included formulas made especially for Morphine was the go-to drug for Civil War traumatic injuries to diarrhea and dysentery. Though the hypodermic needle had been invented, skin. TRX: Morphine addiction came to be known as it fueled a movement to regulate the drugs. The first law, passed in the 1890s, was just Then, in 1914, the Harrison Act required all opioids to register with the government, though In 1898, Bayer had introduced another kind At first it was hailed as a wonder drug -- until International legal restrictions on heroin underground. In the 1930s and '40s, when drug use was heroin supply came from Turkey and Southeast Connection," by the Sicilian mafia and Corsican And though we often associate the Vietnam returning soldiers, the problem goes back war at the turn of the 20th century. Cheap and easy access to heroin during the Cambodian border after the civil war there, drugs -- led to an epidemic of heroin abuse of combat. A Pentagon study in 1973 estimated that up though most stopped taking it once they got Roll footage of Nixon press conference announcing Against the backdrop of the war, President and in 1970, signed the Controlled Substances laws. The DEA considers heroin as a Schedule I drug -- but it continues to flow through illegal Today the heroin supply comes largely from Laos and Myanmar -- and the "Golden Crescent" as Mexico and Colombia. (Most heroin in the U.S. comes from Mexico In Southeast Asia, illicit poppy fields grow and Thailand, on remote mountain slopes 3,000 Growing opium poppies has traditionally been the dominant ethnic groups of the lowlands. Though it's less the case today, these farmers insecticides or irrigation on small plots Heroin production tends to flourish in the where government infrastructure and economies Nowhere is this more true than in Afghanistan, By some estimates, opium accounts for a third with a value of nearly $7 billion U.S. dollars Under the Taliban, opium production fell essentially Mohammad Omar, instituted a ban in the year But poppy farming resumed in the chaotic days in the fall of 2001. The Taliban imposed a tax on opium farmers the U.S. badly wanted to curtail. Opium poppies and the heroin trade have been for decades. Critics say the U.S. military and the CIA the U.S. backed mujahideen rebels when the Poppies are much more than a source of potent The seeds can be milled into flour or added They're common in Central and Eastern Europe white seeds to the intensely flavored blue-black seeds that are a bit more bland. They are rich in carbohydrates, calcium and Poppy oil is used in salad dressings, cooking It's also used in paints, varnishes and The thin, densely pigmented poppy petals are resembles puzzle pieces that leave air-filled The effect is mesmerizing! No other flower, save perhaps for the tulip, beauty and stunning diversity. These annuals grow quickly from seed, creating And they're all very similar to start from Poppies require well-drained soil. We can sow poppy seeds in the fall, allowing They'll come to life in the spring. Or we can sow the seeds in the early spring 55 degrees. We have many favorites: there's the graceful showy Florist Pepperbox, with its fringed Black Swan, with its double blooms and frilly Antique, a new poppy that brings to mind those Lilac Pompom, whose large, frilly blooms of blue-gray foliage. Poppies dazzle in arrangements, and so do -- or left just as they are. Breeding and selection programs around the varieties in a rainbow of colors. The perennial Oriental poppy, with its generous, for many years. California poppy is a hardy annual that can And Shirley-type poppies -- such as the wonderful into the annuals garden. There's the striking, double-bloomed Flemish the Supreme poppy, with its blooms nearly Butterflies and bees love this one, too. Poppies are easy to grow. They love cool to moderate growing conditions, wet. At Baker Creek, they do beautifully in our We also frequently start them inside, then cool. Of all the poppies, Papaver somniferum is diversity. We encourage you to plant them if it's legal