As of July this year Mexico made up more of to rewire global trade Mexico could become Starting in 2018, the US administration imposed US trade partners as part of Trumps &quot;America The aim was to reduce the US trade deficit free trade agreements to bilateral trade deals. This round of tariffs was the first volley Chinese goods suddenly got a lot more expensive goods from non-tariff countries that now appeared For American manufacturers, the attraction seemed obvious. Mexico offered a skilled workforce, good transportation the United States, an established export industry This seemed to be a once in a lifetime opportunity the signing of the North American Free Trade It didn't really work out though, between goods imported into the US from Mexico rose were low-cost Asian competitors including Asian countries other than China increased from 12.6 per cent to 17.4 per cent over that The Biden administration retained most of the rules slightly but mostly stacking more Under president Biden, the trade war expanded in a few key high-tech industries. Export controls on sensitive tech and investment When the pandemic struck in 2020 followed supply chains were thrown into chaos. China declaring a "no limits" friendship that the U.S. and its allies stepped up their The new complexity of global trade become itself possibly better placed than almost most of it. By now, even without the trade war, manufacturing no longer considered a low-cost country. In the wake of all of these supply chain disruptions, They could fortify their global supply chains their reliance on just in time manufacturing inventories of components - But this is expensive The other option is to reduce the risks associated a manufacturing location and the market by Between the trade war, the rising cost of goods across a land border rather than across with abundant natural resources, a young and overtook China as the biggest supplier of United States. On top of growing exports, Mexico has the one of the best-performing stock markets. Foreign direct investment is up more than the proposed $10 billion Tesla factory that before 2026. Now, from a manufacturer's point of view, difficulties associated with manufacturing While China may be going through a difficult China's first-rate infrastructure, which is road, rail and port infrastructure is second This infrastructure is purpose built and optimized So will Mexico be able to compete with a nation Now, Before I get to that I'd like to thank If you've been considering getting a Ridge, to win a brand-new Hennessey Ford Bronco - or cash. Viewers of this channel get a 10% discount The Ridge wallet is much more than a money room for cash. There are more than thirty colors and styles Black Damascus Steel one like mine. I love how slim my Ridge Wallet is compared I also have the Ridge Key case which Securely of room in your pocket, and your keys don't car. The Ridge team are so confident you'll love them out for 99 days and you can send them There is no purchase necessary for the Ridge Ridge.com/Patrick. Find gear you'll love and get additional If you use my link, you'll get 10 bonus And the discount code Patrick gives you 10% Thanks again to Ridge for sponsoring the channel, As I was saying, there are difficulties associated Mexico does not score well on the corruption 180 countries. It doesn't rank well in terms of the ease Its infrastructure needs a lot of work too, of the Port of Los Angeles and Long Beach. Mexico has high mountain ranges, dense forests, of which combined make moving goods around While companies like Apple have been diversifying places like India and Vietnam. As of today, if their factories in China were on the same scale in any of these other locations While many businesses in China are directly subsidy of building world class transportation competition. The Mexican border state of Nuevo Leon has of the trade tensions between the United States Led by a brash, 35-year-old governor, Samuel while pursuing highway improvements to ease Connecting Texas and Nueva Leon is the World among American points of entry in trade value. Manufacturing in Northern Mexico can offer across the border and flexibility at low cost. Companies can choose to relocate for a variety Lego, Matel and Unilever are amongst a long investments in nearshoring in Mexico. Chinese companies like Hofusan are building US tariffs. BMW announced a large investment in Mexico cars. This was likely driven by US subsidies provided Mexico. While the big drops in trade with China may working well, trade links between China and tangled form. Some of what is being hidden in the trade is the rebadging of Chinese goods to give country. A good example of this from earlier this year quite a lot of Southeast Asian solar panel content. Over the decades, the collapse in global transportation sometimes dozens of countries. The majority of international trade today finished goods. Many of the goods being imported into the of components that came from China. Finally, the vast majority of critical minerals these are vital components in many of the The US is still very much exposed to these itself from China in finding new suppliers. There is an argument that nearshoring and from other countries who are simply finishing Doing this rather than dealing directly with American allies into a tighter relationship distance itself from. While this is true, the more the United States Mexico should develop and over time they might able to truly compete with China. There are big problems with water shortages the United States where a lot of manufacturing Only 58% of the country's population has daily This region's natural resources might impose A drought last year left reservoirs in Nuevo without water. Local industry had to accept a smaller share The government is working to build a new aqueduct There is also a shortage of electricity in water and energy issues. Electricity is needed to pump and to treat Electricity is also needed for things like In the United States, about 4 percent of power - almost as much as is used in essential Taiwan-based Quanta Computer opened a factory computers for Tesla cars. The plant kept getting hit with power blackouts because the electrical grid struggles to keep The government of President Andres Manuel much of the blame for Mexico's lackluster The government has repeatedly clashed with state's role in the economy. Amlo has earned a reputation for being anti-business. He's tried to curtail the role of foreign this year dispatched troops to renationalize an accord with its owner. Mexican companies have been reluctant to borrow help turn a growth spurt into something more The country is up against fierce competition, to replace China as a supplier of choice to Amlo came to power in 2018 on a left leaning, He says that he dreams of restoring Mexico's days of the 1970's and that he wants to poor first. His regular naming and shaming of multinationals confidence in foreign businesses considering The president's obsession with what he calls class and took a large personal pay cut) has officials. This in turn has led to a brain drain, budget spending on infrastructure. One indicator of whether nearshoring in Mexico share of trade with the US of Mexico and China If companies exporting to the US are relocating a fall in China's share and an increase While Mexico did overtake China as the US' of 2023, accounting for 15% vs China's 14.2%, when comparing the change in trade shares While China's share has fallen from 21.6% only increased from 13.4% to 15.0% (or 1.6%). China's lost share has been captured mostly Things look more positive at a sectoral level. The automotive sector, which accounts for to the US, saw a strong increase of 5.6% in Iron and steel, a sector in which Mexico competes Other indicators we can look at are Foreign If significantly more foreign companies were expect a jump in FDI. 2022 FDI came to 35.3 the highest in a decade. While total investment and new investment respectively, some of the increase may represent 2022 FDI does not seem exceptional compared 2013 peak. The increase in FDI in 2022 was partly driven the restructuring of Aeromexico, and thus If we focus on the trend of total manufacturing This disconnect between media reporting of increase in investment may be down to time investments are not necessarily evidence of If nearshoring was definitely happening on see investment in Mexico and a corresponding We are not really seeing any evidence of that While we have seen some data to support the park occupancy and job creation, the effect statistics. This could lead us to conclude that the effect If nearshoring really is happening, but is explained by the amount of time it takes to Additionally, the current governments anti-business investment, as business leaders might be waiting before deploying significant amounts of capital. A report by The Economists' Intelligence the Economist Group) shows that on several compares unfavorably with Asian competitors, Mexico scored poorly on political effectiveness, and technological readiness, although Vietnam these metrics. Moreover, they say that Mexico remains unprepared sectors in the decoupling between the US and At present there are only weak indications but that might change in the coming months A big factor that might drive nearshoring inclusion in the subsidies under the US Inflation more green industries to set up in North America. Mexico's milestone of overtaking China in a real shift in the dynamics of the global prices (via fragile supply chains) to something Today's global economic relationships increasingly non-price concerns, among them national security, Ultimately, Mexico's greatest appeal to rest mostly on its geographic location and China still towers over every other country of factors has prompted companies to search the China plus one strategy. First, there were rising labor costs in China transfer technology to Chinese competitors. Then there were the US tariffs on Chinese through last year, and now a push by Western China. Many countries are competing to be the "plus and Malaysia, and we will have to wait and Declining trade with China should mean rising as making these changes won't be cheap as These changes also reflect worsening diplomatic world -- which is concerning for reasons It can be argued that aside from arguments good economic reasons for Washington to encourage large persistent trade surpluses like China, like Mexico, that have balanced trade, or Increasing trade with countries like this and increase US exports in line with any increase The reason for this is down to the different revenues. When a country imports goods from Mexico, to buy goods from the rest of the world. China instead stores a lot of that foreign to import from other countries. Because wages and household income make up buy goods from Mexico, Mexican consumption faster than exports did, meaning that buying demand and global economic activity, which from Mexico. Mexican export revenues, in other words, are of these imports might come directly from globally, in the end total US exports should in US imports. Now, this is not what happens when a US business goods are bought from a country who has a In that case the workers receive a much lower country's export revenues are (instead of savings. These savings are exported abroad (buying world has excess savings, they end up representing caused by the shifting of production from runs persistent trade surpluses. In a well-functioning global trading regime, process by which countries specialize in production advantage. In a trade regime like that, more US imports but that's not how the global trading system Countries that succeed in weakening domestic or keeping wages low are rewarded with rising in global demand that ultimately prevents their imports. If you enjoyed today's video, you should Don't forget to check out our video sponsor description. Have a great day and see you in the next video. Bye.