(whimsical chime) (eerie music) - The truck's not there, the minivan's not there. That means mom's gone. Let's do it Sam. - Right! (car door slams) (eerie music) (light banjo tones) - [Warren Jeffs] Oh young people, eternity is within your reach if you will just live faithful so the prophet can place you properly in marriage. I want you to believe these stories. There are no monogamous in Heaven. The men have many wives. And that is the way men become Gods and their wives I want to tell you young about boyfriends and girlfriends. Because you know the right way. But what happens to people The revelation says - Do you ever get nervous - No, not really cause, I don't know it's just, I've lived 17 years out here They ain't, they can't do anything to me. I get nervous when I see my dad though. He was kind of physically abusive like he, started choking me once and stuff. I don't know it's just, I think he just, his way of showing me Wanted me to live forever in Heaven. I was the oldest and and I can't even talk to my mom. Or any of my brothers and sisters. To them I'm, to them it would have been better for me to die than to leave. (melancholy banjo tones) I'm Sam Zitting, I'm from I have ten brothers and sisters, I'm the oldest one. And I left the Crick for reasons that I wanted to be something. I wanted to think for myself, wanted to become somebody instead of just living In a way you escape but in another way you're leaving everything behind. It's a tough decision, and they make it that way too. To choose between family and what somebody else wants you to be. That's pretty messed up. (upbeat banjo tones) (giggling) - Whoa! Yeah! Extreme! Nice! Okay ready? One... one, two... three! (everyone oh) Want me to kiss it better? - Hey there buddy! You okay? - [Sam] There's a lot just sleeping on the couch. The older generation, they give you a launching pad. They know how hard it's gonna be. Usually we just band together and split the rent and everything. Cause everyone out there I mean you ain't gonna write your name on a gallon of milk really. I mean I'd pitch in where I could. - How does it go damnit? - (sing songing) - [Sam] Bruce is my cousin. My mom and his mom are sisters. There's some people that they actually really do kick out. But once you do leave though like me and Brucey did, then you can't ever go back. - Came back in the house and all the moms were They're all on the floor - I'm Bruce Barlow and my And I'm from the first mom. We had twenty-two people in my family and it was a little family. Family is everything. Your best friends are Every day when you come home, all of them that can tickling you, you're trying just so much fun, you can't explain it you gotta be there. You know every night - I drew quite a bit out of the Crick. I won one contest out of the whole class. - Have you read any comic books? - Huh? - Do you ever read comic books? - What's that? - Comic books? - I'm not a real good I should, but I suck. I'm Joseph Broadbent. I have two moms, I have 21 siblings, and I ran away from Colorado City. I gathered up my stuff ran them out there to the truck, loaded them in and I was like, go go go! And we left. Out there, we are so piece of earth that I And once we leave and what do you say to that? - You're so sheltered from the world from the outside, you don't have a fucking - I don't know the capital what is it? - Washington. - Oh, it is? - Washington DC. (banjo tones) - Oh I see. - That's cooler than hell. Now that's cool. (church session) (fire crackling) - [Sam] Your whole life you're taught, if you leave you're gonna go to hell. You're gonna burn in That's why all of us get do stupid shit, because we My family's out there, I'm out here and I'm going to hell so what the fuck You know you're not taught you're taught to think (paint scraping) - My name's Kevin. I've been out of Colorado City They practice polygamy there. It came about and in illegal in the Mormon Church. And a group of them, or the group I was raised with or in, moved to the Short Creek area, or also known as Colorado City and started their own religion. They call themselves the FLDS, which stands for Fundamental They believe that polygamy was never supposed to be outlawed, and they live it no matter (somber music) Warren Jeffs, the current prophet, has over 80 wives. Now he went to them and said, I've had a revelation from God that I'm supposed to marry you. And married them. He was slowly turning place to more of a cult. No more harvest fest, no more dances, no more public gatherings, A lot of people that didn't like it, they were simply told to leave. You know, men with more than, 5, 6, 7 wives. When Warren Jeffs took over, he ordered all the elders to take all their kids out of public schools. - Boys are sent out to work on construction sites at a very young age. - There was really no recreations left. No TV, no bicycling, no sports. - They can't read magazines - Zero dating, absolutely When you're ready and chosen to be married you are given the person - Some of the boys have been targeted as competition for the brides. But I think it's more like, who is going to fit into who's gonna be more likely, whose son is gonna be like dad? - They keep putting more on you and if you don't do what they say, you are compelled to go, I mean whether they say so or not. - Since Warren Jeffs has come to power, well over a thousand been exiled from the community. - It's just like losing your whole family in a bus wreck or something. It's actually worse the bus wreck but you can drive out there and cause a scene try to see them. But it's, you're punishing them, you're hurting them, making them look bad. - Drive past the house and - I actually wanna see all - If he's there than I'm screwed. He'll just kick me out I'm the most devious guy - Hi we're in town now... but hey, could you like bring Wayne or somebody cause I haven't seen any of the family for a long time. I won't say anything or do anything, I just want to see them... Oh, I see... okay. (somber music) - [Sam] You get treated like a king when you get baptized. They tell us that we were chosen by God to be born into that religion. We were pure blood, the pure blood of Ephraim. We were supposed to fight Satan's Army. One will chase a thousand and two will chase ten thousand. All the wicked will be There won't even be so much as a yellow dog to wag it's tail. Earth is supposed to turn and you can look into the earth and ask it questions and it will tell you everything that has been and will be. The moment you leave is the moment you are this person that they always preach about. I'm a son of perdition. - There's your dad Sam. - Where? - Right behind me. - Yep. - Well, go talk to him dude. - I don't know... - I want to see my mom because she's gonna give me some pictures (car door closing) I asked him, I was like come on isn't there any soup or anything from the house? (laughs) Dude I miss my mom's food so much. Stuff is good. - My mom made me tuck in my shirt. I can't believe it. - There's our whole family. And, there's my father. That's all of them. - Hey wasn't that preschool? - Yea that's preschool man. - Aw hell yea. - Everybody got a reward. I've gotta get me a - That's it. (laughs) Those were good times. - Yea these were good times. - Those were the days. (somber music) - [Warren Jeffs] Every Is going to have to they have and how they have taught them. We've shut down your library. We want to present to and Walt Disney, and the Care Bears, and all the little creatures are lies. You're planting frivolous, useless things, in your childrens' minds. Let us take out of our homes these damnable books of the world. Your children should grow up with the stories of the prophets. - So where you been staying Sam? - Right there on the couch. - How long you been - About a month. I don't think it actually settles into your mind that your whole family is gone until a little while later. That's when you start kind of a choice and (hopeful music) Right when you get out, you're just so overwhelmed by this freedom and this awesomeness of and I don't know, just breathe air that - You don't want to see these. (laughs) Nah, just kidding. I didn't wanna give all ya' know and let him So that's one of the reasons why I left. (calm happy music) - It's damn nice to have I just don't want it to be like a prison and control everything you do. I don't know, I just hope it - I want to freaking get - And the guy with the laser gun, - Oh yea, yea. - Okay, come and see my room you guys. This is the entry to my room. I just hung up all my stuff I got a letter, my grades are behind. Can't see my grades. (laughs) And this is proof that I was born. This is saying yeah, I was born. These are all my numbers. Those two right there, I go to school with and they're nice. Don't write their number down! Don't get their number! - Do the kids treat you any - Hell yes! For one, they don't ever come Hit you and shit they What's up dude? They go like this, what's First they'll be dissing, and then all the sudden you'll be like yeah I'm from Colorado City, you know, and they're like the person who was all dissing on you they just totally change, they have a thousand questions, that fast. Did you used to be married? All this shit and I'm all like, no. I think I have some plyg CDs in here. Oh, I think that this has (Cricker music) Yes! - I don't know why but out to the Crick this was my favorite song. - This is my favorite song. It was, my favorite song. - Guess how many kids that is? Does it sound like a lot? - All of Warren Jeffs' - Here, listen to this. - I still know the words dude. Father's heavenly smile... it shines in every face. Puts a sparkle in our eyes and heaven in our heart. For with father's heavenly smile... He's forever in our hearts. (whistles) - Uno, dos, tres! Is this thing nailed down? Prop that nail so we can slide it over. - [Joe] I went and worked I started when I was eight years old, seven... eight. Welding. The equipment that I can run would be a backhoe, a trackhoe, a skidster, a loader, earthmover, road grater, water truck, almost any equipment. I can do concrete, sheetrock, finish work like trim and doors. My money went to my dad, and ten percent of it went to tithing. And the tithing went to Warren. Out here you go out and you work and that money's yours. - Everybody falls. - I've never fallen. - I don't know anybody that's framed and hasn't fallen, so I know my time is coming. - My time's coming too. And it sucks. - [Joe] I wanted to get but it didn't happen. - Son of a bitch. - So whatcha gonna do with your money? - I'm gonna save most of it, and I'm gonna go get braces, go pay a ticket and... go to the mall and see if I can hang out with some girls. Things that you do in life like that. I hate these damn nails. (hammer pounding) - Hey Shannon this is Sam. Hey, I was just wondering I could get into a regular high school instead of Job Corps. I know, yeah, but I want to go to high for the social life too. Get used to talking to girls and stuff, you know what I'm saying? Yeah sure, I appreciate anything you can do for me. Alright okay love you, okay, okay, bye. - What is it you want out of a home? - Just family life pretty much, pretty much what I been missing. - Who are you living with? Who, now? - Job Corps. - What is, it's a group home what is it? - No, it's like, it's like a school kind of get a GED and they give - Do you like it there? - No. - Do you have goals, like short term goals, long term goals. - Yeah, my long term so I need to get into college and stuff. - What kind of doctor? - Probably a radiology - Okay Jake, Conner, go downstairs. Do you mind if we ask you some personal questions? - Yea go ahead. not ready to make any want to get to know you. And you're not on trial or anything, we have to make sure it's - Yeah, definitely, I understand. - And I guess if you don't mind tell me a little about your background? - You're welcome to sit down. You left on your own. - Uh huh, it was about five months ago. - You don't regret it? - Uh uh. - Do you miss your family? - Definitely - Do you talk to them? - Uh, yeah once but every time I do then they just kind of - Are they mad at you? - Yeah. - Are they ever gonna - No, they don't even want me. - They don't want to then. - Uh uh. - So what is it that - I don't know just you do - Do you think he's the prophet? - No, not anymore. - My only, this is our only concern Sam, and I'm gonna be really blunt. The only concern I have is that my kids would be safe. Does that make sense to you? - Yeah it does, I mean I have little brothers and sisters and I definitely would have punched anybody who messed around with them. - I mean would you tell me if there was anything that I had to worry about? - Definitely I would. - And would you be okay if I was a little uncomfortable for a while. - If what? If I was? - If I, you know just wasn't - Yeah sure. - I mean you wouldn't - No, not really. - Does that make sense? - Yeah It'd be kind of weird but... - Does that make sense Mike? - It does, you just - And only around, just the kids. - [Sam] I don't know it would have been easier to always stay out there because had to think for myself or be on my own. - Jacob! - Cause I was raised to believe everybody out here was evil and wicked. - Jacob go show Sam around the house. - Even now it still feels like I don't let anybody close to me. (melancholy music) (coughing) - That is really good... - Oh is it? - I'm sure there's a lot of parents that stay awake at night, you know, the one that got away. You got, you know, you're like a hen you've got all your eggs under your, you know under your feathers or whatever and that one egg that got away. You're always gonna be thinking about it. And it know it's hard on the parents, they try to act like it's not cause that's what they're supposed to do, and if they try to act they're gonna be in trouble. You can have, you know, you have the prophet, this guy up here. And he controls everybody. The prophet has a revelation from God, God tells him who these So he'll give, guy number one, let's say, one wife... Draw her a pretty little dress... oh gotta cover the ankles, sorry. And if they do what then they'll get a second wife. And they literally have It plays a big advantage and if you pay your tithing and you have a nice house and have been successful in your business, you're, you're gonna get more wives, and you're gonna get them sooner. But if this guy isn't doing what he's supposed to do, he's gone. And the wives go down to good guy number three. And all the children go with this guy. They start calling him dad now. And a lot of them, a lot of the children And often times if this and this guy doesn't, he gets to take over this house too. Often he will end up not only the moms, but he'll end up marrying And that's his reward for being good and that's his punishment for being bad. And he loses everything his kids, his livelihood, everything. (paint scraping) - My mom and dad, they loved each other. Oh yeah. But Warren broke up my family. He asked my dad to leave town, asked my third mom and my second mom to move back with their mom and dad, and then my mom stayed in the big house with all the kids. That killed my dad's spirit He just died inside. You ever seen your old man cry? Just crying where he's He's just crying like a big baby? And what the hell you supposed to do? You can't tell him anything, he's your old man, you know? He was like my hero. When I left, my dad didn't say anything. You know just like, make - Out there Warren says straighten your sons up to get all Got thrown around in dad's office, he just threw me around and, oh my God. He never would just sit down and talk, he'd just beat the shit out of the kids. One time he slapped me so damn One of the reason why I left is, I didn't want Warren to I got caught like six or and music, and if I would have stayed, it would have torn our Warren would have took Mother away and married her off to some other sickening ass bastard... One of the best things that could happen to me right now is to have Mother leave, and just having her live out here and just be herself. (somber music) - [Warren Jeffs] Many a young husband should submit But a woman's duty is to bless her husband every moment of her life. How does a woman try to What tools does she use? I'll call them tools of the Complaining, criticism and jealousy. It is a woman's innocence and obedience that has power with her husband. Other sister wives are she will say, lets just obey Young ladies just know, there will come a time in your marriage where he must step out to be the boss. Did you get that? - You know when you marry a man, he's not yours. He is not yours, he is not your only. You don't get true love with that man, you have to share him with God, with the prophet and with other women. You're giving up your physical emotions toward your husband for greater glory when you're in the afterlife. I had two mothers and My mother said it was horrible to know her husband goes down to a bedroom with your sister. It just, it was anguish for her, and you could just see in every aspect of her life after that. You're only there to bear children. You don't think, you don't have a say, you don't have education, you just do it day in day cause what else do you do when you have fifteen children? - Getting ready to go out to the Crick and bail my mom out, out of there. She wants to start her life over. I'm not sure what's gonna happen, Mother's gonna get an excuse to go get some milk or something. She'll jump in her big (whimsical chimes) (TV show sounds) - I was so damn happy. Seeing my little brothers, my mother... my Sisters. So awesome. Hopefully father doesn't where she wants to go back. I hope not. We've got nine children, nine people in the house. I don't see how it's crammed. It's how I lived out to the Crick. - Is it scarier the day you leaving or scarier the next day? - Probably both. - Yeah I don't know if he's gonna come. - Chop your head off. - Exactly, chop your head off. - Take you away and throw you in jail. - If he thinks that how he beats on the kids or anything then he has no chance. - The legal system, the legal system... - is on your side, not his side. All they want to do is and they're not gonna take them away. - All you have to do is call. - You there? She's staying here, she's done with you, she don't want to have she's staying here. She's done. Are you still there? He's gonna be here. Lock the doors. Here's your phone. - She doesn't want to come out here and talk to you. - She will not. You've done enough to - She's not coming out to talk to you. Why do you tell her that they're gonna take her kids from her? - You don't answer to Cause you're so high I need the Sheriff to disturbance at 3555 - What did she say? 3555 East Silver Creek Drive. They're at my house we're trying to get a protective order and he won't leave. Now he just drove off because I called you guys so... he drove down the street but I don't know how far away he went. I don't know if he has any weapons in his truck or not. He'll do anything he has to. He'll freaking tie her up and haul her back against her will. (light suspense music) - [News Station] Breaking the FBI just announced that they have polygamous leader Warren Steed Jeffs in custody in Las Vegas. - Jeffs was wanted in Utah and Arizona on suspicion of sexual misconduct for allegedly arranging marriages between underage girls and older men. - Jeffs has been charged with various criminal violations, including sexual conduct with a minor, conspiracy to commit sexual and rape as an accomplice. - Warren, you know, was born three months premature in 1955. He was seen as this the prophet Rulon Jeffs. So he got away with murder. In some ways it's the abuse that is most repellent. But the more you learn of just ripping off his own people. - Before his dad died, he had his dad sign over all the rights to the UEP trust to him Everyone in that town has a house built on the UEP property, which is short for the United Effort Plan. He owned all their property. He's had followers stop and give the money that put into their own homes and family and donate that to the church. The leader says something, you don't let your mind say is this the right thing to do? If he says it then it's asking you to do and you just don't say well I wonder if God's right or not? - This religion isn't it's the history of the Mormon faith that whenever the prophet is persecuted, the faithful become even more faithful and more believing, I mean it's been that way since 1830, and it will be that way forever. (banjo tones) - Everything was so fun back in the days. Every year, harvest fest, candy apple, pies, watermelon, cantaloupe, hamburgers, just... anything! The park was just full of people, and then I guess Warren thought the Lord's house needed cleaning. And he was the mighty vacuum that blew everybody out. - Right over here is where I went to high school, ninth grade. They don't teach anything Right down here is my She's one of the famous - This used to be all zoo, we used to have elk and - Zebras, llamas... Fred the bishop got up and said everybody - Cops took all the dogs out there, out there by the gap and shot them all. Right here is the meeting house... that's the graveyard. - So if you were to die where would you guys be buried? - Right here. Oh us? Hell no we couldn't be buried here, I don't know where I'd be buried. Right there, if we died in St George we'd be buried in St George. - We couldn't be buried here. (country music) - Did you paint this car? - I did. Oh man! They over painted it, it said right there, it said Warren Jeffs and - If it does catch on pop your hood so we can spray it out. - My prediction is, it's anybody's game. (cars crashing) - Since I left I'd dyed - Okay, sweet you're done. - What are you doing? - Fucking spiking it so it looks cool. - Why don't you just comb it back? - No dude that's lame, you wanna look like a fireball and shit. Pull the sides back like this... alright comb. Okay sweet. - Hell yeah. - [Joe] It takes so To stare Satan in his face and say, I don't give a fuck anymore. I mean, if I'm gonna go to hell for being who I'm gonna be then fucking take me. (somber music) - Uhm, take this exit. Right up in this subdivision I'm pretty sure, that's Fuck! (ominous music) - Truck's not there, That means mom's gone. Lets do it Sam. - Alright! - Suzanne! We're not stopping at the house because Dad's gonna be there any fucking minute. It's totally different Hillary. Okay, mango, guava raspberry, apricot. - Mango. (everyone laughs) - So where are you gonna stay? - My brother Jimmy's house. Right here in St. George. (cellphone phone rings) - Who is it? - It's Sabrina, again. This is my big sister from the Crick. - Just turn it off. - She still lives out there? - She has four children. - Yeah so they're probably a little upset. - What an interesting situation. - It is. (cellphone phone rings) - Yeah, I'm not at the house right now. I'm clear somewhere else. Love you. Bye. Mother's like, don't - What? - Just barely. - Dad has all the police. - Let her stay here. You guys can both stay here. - Might be a good idea. - Let her stay here for now. If she wants to go somewhere else we can work it out after And that's her mom, her mom just wants to make (calm and ominous music) - She's at my house right now, I'm Jeremy Johnson. - Oh. How are you? She didn't want to come so I wanted to come down and meet you anyway. - I want to see if and just stay with me for a week and then she can figure out from there. - Okay, but if she doesn't though which she says she doesn't, I'll have to take her to the Children's Justice Center and it's not gonna be you deciding or him deciding or us working it out, it's gonna be a judge. I don't want to do that. - Well I'm wondering my husband and tell him - Should we do that? - Well, he wants to know where she is, he wants the address. - I'd be happy to give it to him... is this James? It's Jeremy Johnson, how are you? I, your daughter's at my house... - Do you want me to go - Yeah he wants to go talk to her. I don't think you're going to be able to change her mind. - The mother is locked into that society. She will obey her husband. At the expense of her child. She will obey the husband first. When you have a woman with children, she's fighting a battle on many levels. Cause you care. But when you go over that line, how are you gonna give that child to the priesthood? How are you going to into that man to have that child abused by your husband? How do you do that? You have to let that - I'm sorry that she didn't stay. - For some reason mother was helping Hillary move out. - Then all the sudden she switched and took her straight to her dad. - You think she will? - She has to be ready, Because if she isn't willing to make the sacrifice she's gonna regret it. So... - We had the police over Dad signed some papers to where if me Don and Sam come close to and Russell, he can have us arrested. - What do you think your dad's thinking about Hillary? - He's gonna wanna - Think he will? - Maybe. I don't know. - Is she somebody that could be married? - Oh, she could get married definitely. She's fourteen. All Warren has to do is make a phone call and bam, they're married. Just like that. - I'd probably have six kids Because for almost two and a half years while I was out there, those two and a half years father freaking hounded me to get married. I'm like I don't wanna get married. He's like, yeah you're under my roof forever, He never thought I'd never leave. Until one day I just left. For a whole week every damn night he come down and tried to get me. He succeeded five times. - When you're a young girl you do keep an eye on everybody. Because you don't know who's going to be your assigned man of God that will lead you into You could be married to somebody who's very successful. You could be married to somebody who is older than your father And looks very bad. You could be a first wife. You could be a second, third, on up to probably about the fiftieth. I think there are some men who have had seventy wives. - We had guards around our house, and every time you leave, then you had to stop and tell them exactly where you were going. And if they didn't believe car and follow you through town. - They treasure the girls, father always told me that girls are precious They said a woman's hair is sacred so we don't cut it. It had to be what they called done up, which means you can have no dangling hair in the face. I didn't want to be a plyg kid, but I was just there, you know? And like people would stare at us and point at us and laugh at us. And it was almost like I wanted to scream because I wanted to yell at them and say I don't want this. Just because I'm like this doesn't mean I want to be like this. - Do you think it was a lot harder being a girl out there than a guy? - Oh my gosh. - Yes. - They didn't keep tabs - The girls were always in there like, sewing or cooking or tending the kids or, ugh... - We can wear these as long as we wore a knit shirt under it. Here's the shirt, in fact this is the shirt This feels weird. Oh my gosh. I can't look at myself in the mirror. (laughs) - Why? - Cause it's too creepy. - Here's the thing, me and Joe and Suzanne all have a temporary restraining order. - If you can get her to I don't want to go back, no problem then they can take her. But the officer can't are you okay, do you want to go to the... - She's coming to tell - Do you? - Yes. - Okay I'm right here. I'm taking Hillary with - Hillary just pulled her coat off cause I saw Sabrina had a hold on it. That's the kind of shit I (somber music) (piano tune) - He's the piano genius. I can't even hit the key right sometimes. I'm magical! Woo! (happy banjo tones) (laughing) - I was able to become really financially successful all on my own, and if someone had given I would have just done And so to me I thought you know, I know these kids can really be something. I mean I'd love nothing of seeing any of those kids go to college. - Nice job Joe! People say if only I had a little bit more room or more money, and I just think well it's not like we have all the room in the world but you put them where you can. They need a home, they need somewhere to go. If you can provide for them, why not? - It's hard for me to with these guys I mean they're dudes. I just want to get to know everybody. And I'm always bringing home strays. If I had my way we'd probably have fifty people living with us all the time. Have a giant house. - I love this helicopter. And they have me do search and rescue in it sometimes. I've done a couple of things where I was scared I was gonna get shot. When you hit a helicopter with a bullet your goose is cooked. (happy banjo tones) - They all call me mom now. Sometimes I hear it I'm used to only Allie saying it, and then I realize they are talking to me. - Can I snack on a banana? - Oh yeah! - Hey Sam, you can eat anything here. - Anything? - Uh huh. - [Sam] I've never been I mean I've helped frame them but I've never really seen them done when they're all finished up. So it's just, you're you're afraid to talk to It's just so hard to grasp giving me something instead of me just giving everything to them. - You're gonna teach Rudolph to Sam? Okay teach it to him. - Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer had a very shiny nose. And if you ever saw it, saw it, you could even say it glows. - You could even say what? - It glows. - Oh, that's awesome. - [ sam] Landing in a great house, it ain't all about riches. There's a lot still missing. - You can't find me. You can't find me. - Where are you? - How long do you think it's gonna take you to get your GED? - I don't know, I've never done it, so. (laughing) All for history all we did explain how the prophets came along. - Yeah Sharla said you guys had a good discussion about it. - Yeah it's pretty cool. - What did you' guys talk about? - World War One and Two and Bill Clinton. About how he fried all those little kids. - Bill Clinton? Not Bill Clinton. - What's his name? - You mean Hitler? - Hitler. Who's Bill Clinton? - Hey hey hey. (rap music plays) Give him the cushion. Let go! Let go! Thank you. Disrespecting my cushions. Shit's wrong! It's all right cushions, it won't happen again. - I've been kind of slacking on like all the rules and stuff so, you know, kind of like saying I'm sorry and it's Mother's Day, you know? I'm trying to score points with my mom. Yeah like that. It might need some baby's breath. Be perfect corsage man. Nothing says Happy Mother's Day better than Happy Mother's day. Like nothing. Dear Mom. Good start. Oh... right. That's all I got I'm mother's day stuff it's all new to me. - Why is it new to you? - Oh I never celebrated First time. Tell you this year's that's why sixteen has been like, ah... Not to get off the subject or nothing but do you realize I've been out of the Crick for a year in a month? If I'd have stayed I would have to more and more depressed. I swear the longer I stayed there the more depressed I got. That's why I hate going out there. I finally figured that I went out there and I just felt depressed just looking at it and the way they are all isolated and stuff, they are just depressed. I mean, who sits in the house all day? Here we go, dear Mom... well there's one day, comes one time a year. I know you've give me good advice on not to drink beer. Happy Mother's Day. Yeah I'm gonna write that. Yeah. Love Brucey. Mom's gonna love that view right there. Bam! Like, woooh! Now I feel kind of weird. - So how are we cutting you? - Let's get a book! - Yeah I was in it pretty dang good. I mean I had gone through every one of my brothers and sisters leaving, and me going with my father and police to get them back. I just didn't want them After being told what to do, what to wear, what to eat, who to talk to... I don't know, I just don't... I wanted to do something I know there's so many I know they're just waiting for someone to come dig them up. I'm still learning, - I think it's gonna look hella good. Especially with the girl cutting it. (techno music) (Upbeat music) - How old were you when you got married? - I was seventeen. The youngest marriage I've ever heard of getting done out there was about thirteen. - And Hillary's fourteen and father already wants to marry her off. - I didn't even know how to have sex when I first got married. I didn't know shit about anything. Jake was, he's demanding. He went to his dad for to get counsel how to handle me or whatever. And he told him, get her pregnant cause, she'll mellow way out. Get her pregnant and she'll change. - You have to do everything I'm serious. - Yeah be submissive and humble and sweet. - Lets find a drink. - No! - Yeah whatever. - Oh yeah last time she - You all right? - I want... - Who? - Was she pissed when - You want Suzanne? - You want your kids? - She's like... - Normally she's so fucking' mellow but when she drinks everything comes out. - She acted like we were kidnapping her or something. - Most my days were very depressing, cause I was always fat, always pregnant, always home, always pregnant, my kids are a year apart - Jesus Christ. - And how old are you? - Twenty-four (glass smashes) (screaming) - Holy shit. - I'm not sorry for leaving. I don't regret it one bit. But I only get missing your family. - For the first two and every fucking day cause - I miss my kids. Big time. - Well, what could she be - Dude whenever she gets drunk, all the memories from the Crick come out. (screaming) - Do you want to go upstairs? Do you want to lay down? (crying) - Yesterday morning we was all asleep, he comes walking in, wake up here piss in this cup. And I was like, okay, so we pissed in the cup and And I was like, wow that's weird. - They all tested positive for amphetamines, meth-amphetamines, THC or whatever it is they only thing they didn't test positive for was opiates. Actually one of them tested positive for coke too and the other too didn't. - He's like, I guess I results I want you and And I was like didn't do any drugs he's like wanna come look at it? When I looked at it the than the top one but it was still there. And I was like, that says negative. - I'm not happy. They know I'm not. - I know I'm clean. So I don't know what the but I can just tell by the - He wants us to leave. - I'm pissed off because he thinks I'm a druggy and shit. Just talk to us, God. Nobody will be a dad like I mean, I can get close to moms because I had three moms. Can get used to that. But one dad all my life. Not gonna get close to another person. I mean... - If I get kicked out I - I hope they realize that they're about to lose a good opportunity that they have. Because I talked to about it before they moved here. I said I just won't tolerate it. I'll tolerate a lot of if you're gonna drink, if you're gonna do any drugs, you just, I don't want it. You know, there's not like I won't be mad at them I'll just, I'll be done with them. - Me and Sam are joining the Army. It's the only option I have because - It's a great option too because you get to see the world, - Fuck yeah! - Kick ass dude! Kick ass! - Damn they gave me a bumper sticker. - Did they? What the fuck, I want one too. - Go get one. - You don't even have to go fight, there's over 300 jobs you can do. - Yeah, on base. - Just a great job. - I don't know about direction - That guy was doing he's getting his pilot's license, he's gonna be flying choppers and big damn jets and shit. That's exactly what I'm aiming for. Be a mega-time airbase dude. Going seven hundred miles. - Screw that dude, I wanna run a sniper and snipe fools. - Well, is there anyone - It's just I don't want know what I'm saying? I don't know what to do. (laughs) - We have eleven kids stacked on top of each other. And I get on average two new ones that I've never seen before every week. I think that community is in turmoil. And I think the kids that are leaving now are really really young. That's scary to me when you have thirteen and fourteen year-olds who are trying to bust out of their community. That's frightening. We don't have the resources to deal with those kids. - I still kind of look at like parents cause that's They showed me like there's a happy side to you know, to like, I needed that. You know just kind of wish that I had, you know, like my personal family, my mom, my dad, at least my mom and dad get back together now that Warren's in jail. - Can they get back together - Nuh-uh. My dad has to get re-baptized and reinstated in the church, re-ordained, and then maybe. - And who decides all of that? - Warren. - [News Station] Warren consecutive sentences in prison for his role in the marriage and rape of a fourteen-year-old girl. Most of the world knows Warren Jeffs as a convicted felon but his a prophet, a seer, a revelator, a descendent of Jesus Christ. The self-proclaimed prophet now looking at life behind bars. The question is whether or whether he'll now be seen as a martyr with even more power. - You know they're always told, follow us as it was by a thread, you know. Just follow us no matter what. Don't ever even look the other way, don't blink just do whatever we tell yeah. So that's the way they live. - Dad tried to get mom pregnant again. Mom's like, I am not having any more kids. - How old is your mom? - Almost forty-four. - And how many kids does she have? - Thirteen, oh yeah thirteen or fourteen, I can't remember. - Yeah my mom's like forty-something now and dad barely got her pregnant again. She's gonna have her tenth kid. And she already has heart problems and now she's gonna be stuck on her bed all day long or else - What a fucking dick. - Yeah. - Yeah dad's like, oh this is what Warren wants to make our families big so we can build Zion. And the fucking wives are dying, they're on their deathbed, and they're fucking still - I mean seriously, think about this is like It's always gonna be there. Feels like something just holds you. I mean it's just I have with my brothers and anybody about them you know, they're my memories and with me when they happened fuck, I don't know. (somber music) - [Sam] I don't think religion should ever come between family. Family should be your religion. That's your blood, you should love them no matter what. Forever you know. I mean forgive them for anything. Because in all reality that's I mean some people, sure they think they have - [Warren] It cuts deep any of the young people They're on a different level than the people of the world. They were offered so much, and rejecting the greater lies, no matter where they go, they can't get away from It just won't happen. (piano tones) - I get a phone call and answered it and it was Hillary and are gonna come get you tonight. Okay I'll tell you where to go. - Are you gonna go get her? - I'm gonna go find her, yeah. - Oh my gosh, come here sweetie! Hi sweetie! What's his name? - Trevon. - Trevon, that's right. - Trevon Jay. - Hillary is it true that - Oh yeah. He was like, Hillary you shouldn't be I just sat there, I was so dumb. I don't remember you with glasses take them off so I can remember you. Oh there she is! - A lot of kids think that okay, we're leaving so we're gonna bring a piece of Hell with us. Like there's Hell in our hearts. But in my mind, yes there is a God. It's weird how I think about life now. Opened my mind to a whole new book and I'm just sitting there (children playing) - Remember that we're in a pagan society and they have rituals. They would take goat and slit it's throat, the goat would sing a sort of swan song... - [Bruce] When I left, I was worried that I That's what I thought Sometimes you make bad choices and they're tough as hell. But I'm not a bad person. I feel like I've achieved more than I thought I could have. By the time I graduate, if I go right into college after that, I'll be the first one in Do you know how proud my mom would be? She'd probably be proud, I'm pretty sure she'd be proud of me. - Leaving Colorado City I think about family forever because, you don't know what you They say well, it's can't see us so it's your own fault. And I say no, I left because I believed that that wasn't right. And so, was I supposed to live What good would that do? - You couldn't drag me back, I think I would die before I didn't have the right That's how important thinking is to me. Oh I just so love not That's the thing that I Not having to go to church. - Not having to be in (laughs) I, I'm Benda Jensen. I have choices that I I have, love I never thought I would have. I mean I truly, finally, like me. - What you want to look at is on here, is you're gonna see the name, you're gonna see the class... - I would not change my I had the best childhood. I mean, it's just, ya'know after you start growing up you start realizing shit. It's a huge moment in anyone's life from out there, when you actually accept not going to go to Hell in whatever they teach you out there. When you finally come to realize who you really are, and that's when you start climbing back out. I can't really blame my It's just so deep and ingrained into you. I mean, I can't, I can't hate my dad and shit. I know somewhere he still loves me. I mean he has to I'm his son you know? He can't, I'm his oldest son, he can't completely hate me. (sighs) I just wish that he could love me as much as I still love him you know? I mean... he'd at least Cause I'd make the effort, I even told him I'd put on my plyg clothes and go out there to talk to him if I could and he wouldn't even let wouldn't even let me... I don't know it just, sucks. It just gives me a better picture of what I do not want to be when I become a dad. So... - I'll be the best dad, (uplifting music) - [Warren] It feels so good Every person in this room, here to do our prophets will. I want to describe to what the people are and movies of today. They are the most filthy, immoral adulterous people on the face of the earth. Why, what are you partaking of? I can guarantee to you, you sing a rock song in your brain you're not saying a prayer. There's one thing you never stop doing, you never stop praying and obeying. You never stop keeping sweet. (calming music)