- So guys, if you watched the that Karina made me be because I lost the sauna to let me be the boss, unless So you know that I'm not of last to leave challenges. Basically it's obvious that to get an item, to bring to the sauna. And I need to win that I am going to bring an ice pad. It's going to be the smartest idea ever. Karina will not see it I'll just be able to snuggle to save its energy for So all we need to do is win the second challenge, and then I get to be the boss for the day. My plan is going to work unless, I lose the first challenge. Then it's all going to Oh no, please send help. - Hi guys it's Karina, - (mumbles) - and today we are doing another We are doing last to because Ronald is really and he wants to have that I'm going to win this challenge. - Are you sure about that? - Bro, I'm 100% sure. Be ready for my second foot - No, no, no. - In this challenge, we have because it can't be the same we have no mystery wheel because last time we did the challenge the mystery wheel melted a little bit so we can't spin any more. In this, this time we have that we're going to be picking from. And also we have these three lifelines we can use any time during this sauna, but we can't reuse the same ones. Once we all use all three - Yeah and its like please - One of them says; take a cold towel, go outside for one minute, and go jump in the pool and come back. - So those are the three please help me - Are you ready Ron? Are you - Wait, but Karina we need one and 10 to who gets to - Oh I almost forgot. Oh - Okay, rock, paper, - Okay. - Rock, paper, scissors shoot. - No - Well, I get to pick first - Oh ,okay, you pick then. - Oh no, (suspense music) four. - I'll double you, eight. - okay. All right. Where's the number... Okay right here We have the closest number will to bring them into the sauna. I'm nervous. - please, please, please. - It's eight! - Yes! Yes! yes! - How did you pick exactly? - I lost the first one and I - You know what, it's - Oh, okay. You'll see. - Whatever I didn't pick is probably going to be useless anyways. Okay Ron, what are you picking? - An ice pack? - An ice pack? That's going - No, because it has - It's still going to melt, Ron. See? - You'll see. - It's going to melt in two seconds. - Okay. Maybe I didn't think - All right, let's go inside the sauna, go grab your ice pack and - So guys I have my ice pack Ready to go. And Dora, the explorer lets go. I'm ready to win this challenge. - Before we've got to So it says 88 celsius for all you Americans and that's about 190 Fahrenheit. We're going be like - It is a Frying pan. - We're going to be little eggs, going on to the frying pan to our doom. - Not me though. I am while you are over there - Ron if you're in Antarctica, you're probably going to freeze to death. - But I have protective clothes. Okay. Sure. All right. (music) (mumbles) - Not my hands, feel like No, cheater! That's one strike. - Guys, It's been and I'm already boiling in - Not me. Not me. No! - Right here we have our little bowl, all of our little paper things. Are you ready for round one Ronald? - Obviously, I have my ice pack. - Oh my God. I'm going - What is it? (suspense music) - Dance for 20 seconds? - Yep. Stand up and dance for 20 seconds. - That's (mumbles) interesting. Dance. - Okay, that's (speaks faintly) - Oh, it's really hot up - leaving my ice pad down - You're a little weird. my nose is on fire. - five more. - And then you're going - Yeah. 30 more. Ice pack and pack up. - Okay Ronald, it's time for you to pick something from the mystery bowl. - Okay. (Ron speaks foreign language) Please be good. Go on - That's not fair. - Oh yeah, that gives me. it's already quite cool down here. - Ronald. Then can I use the ice pack? - No, it's mine. - I'm going to pick something while Ronald is just chilling there. What does it say? Tell a joke and make - I like the challenge. - I have to tell you a joke. - And you have to keep telling me jokes until I laugh. (giggles) - Why did the chicken cross the road? - To get to the other side? - And to get to the idiot's - I know this joke Karina? - Say who is there. - It's the chicken, I looked Get off my lawn. - Well you laughed. - No, I giggled. No. - Well that translates laughing. Now that my joke skills are on point, - Guys it's so hot in here but my ice pack is over there it feels like heaven - Ronald, I don't think I think it's heating up We're still in the sauna Ronald, - It's heating up a bit before the ice pack - It's still so cool. Wait, - That's strike one. - I thought I already got to one strike. - Guys it's hot in here, I mean cold. Because I have an ice pack in these tough conditions. - So hot here. Okay. - Okay. Please be good. Please be going for over two centuries. That would be nice. - So you want to stay in - No, but until you exit. Run for 30 seconds. Okay ice pack, It's just One Two Three Four Five Six Seven Eight Nine 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 - Guys, It's a lot hotter than last time, but I'm still going to until Ron's ice pack melts. I can't even speak, It's so hot here. - I feel like Dora the Explorer Dora the Explorer, come on let's go. - Okay Ron, I think its gets done now. I think it's been 30 seconds. this one. - Please be bad, please, please, please. - Run for 30 seconds again? - No, you're going to feel even though you don't have an ice pack. - Okay. Oh, my nose (mumbles) - Let's get it, Let's you don't have to do that. You can use one of your please help me. - I won't. I'm okay, I'm all right. - I wonder if I can put and makes my shirt cold. Oh, - It's been 30 seconds. - Has it though? - I don't its been 30 seconds. - Karina, one of your cold You can just use your lifeline. - But why would I do that? When I'm completely fine. - All completely fine with - Yeah. I am, I just got but I'm okay. - Wait, is that, stand on the top bench? (speeds up speech) - Yes you do Ronald. - Life lines? - You are going to use one? - Yeah, I can. Let's see which one's best. A dip in the pool and come back, go out and rest for one I think I'm going to dip in the pool so I can dip my ice pack in the pool. I have a free pass. Bye a free pass to the outdoors. (playful music) I have to win this challenge. Karina is probably inside suffering. Guys this is probably my best one, but I really want a (water splashes) Ice pack you feeling good? It's only a dip, remember? I feel like Santa Claus. Why didn't I say that? but who on planet Earth that Oh my God the ice pack is Don't slip on the steps Ronald. - It's so hot here. I into a boiling hot water pool. What? It feels like I'm all It's just sweat here. - Hello, Karina my ice - Cold air, oh my God - And guys, I just thought of something, the cold towel will be out for another recharge. No, that's strike two. - Guys, I really want to but I'm not going to because I will get my foot - Are you sure about that? - Yes. And a facial, Which one? This one. - No, you cheated. You looked at them. - They're all folded up. Stand on the top bench for 30 seconds. - Yes. Yes. That's going to - I'll do it Ron, I'm going to do it. - Are you though? Karina, what are you This is probably the worst thing there, and you're not using your life. - I can't stand on this but this will do. - Okay sure. - My necklace is like metal - Wait, how long? 30 seconds? no 15 second break points. - I don't have 15 seconds...It's As long as I just stay here, I'm okay. - What? Yeah Stay there Karina. Pro tips from Ronald. Well, I'm going to use I'm going to do this in the meantime. Okay, Karina you are done now. - I'm goin to chill here. - No, that is not allowed! Please be good. I just ripped it. Dance for 20 seconds. How many dancing is there? (screams) - Do you mind if I just No! No! No! Okay. It's only 20 seconds. I will use the ice pack to Karina, that's strike three. - He's going to have unlimited strikes. - Five Four Three two one. - Got to go back to my spot - Karina, update. How are you feeling? - Amazing well, never better. - You see? Because loser's never - What, Isn't that the other way around? - Losers, never show signs of weakness. So you're the looser. - I just feel really refreshed. Like I just took a dip in the pool - Because you're in the sauna sweating. - Yes. I'm gonna take one more. - What did you get? - Say one thing the viewers - That you're going to lose? (giggles) - My least favorite color is yellow. - Oh my God. That was such Well, I'm feeling really good. I'm definitely going to go on Karina, you can just leave, you know? - Why would I do that? I'm feeling great. This is like a nice vacation. I would do this again, my free time. - Yeah you would. You want an ice pack? I thought you said you'd do it again? Go on the floor for 30 seconds. - Why do you always get the good ones? I never got a good one so far. - I got a really bad one, but I used a lifeline to prevent it. That's unfair. - This side of the chair is - Okay. Well now (screams) it's not fair. - Water - She's using my (mumbles) 15 seconds. Four Three Two one - Oh my God, the chair is so hot - More thoughts. - All right. I guess we use my last one, because there's only two left. Tell a joke and make I remember one time I by doing absolutely nothing, But you can't cover your face. - Smiling allowed. - You're about to laugh, I can tell. - No, I'm good. I'm going to tell a joke. I'm going to tell the - We'll see. You laugh yet? - I laughed. (bursts in laughter) - See, I didn't even do anything. I was just sitting next - Well Karina, there's one more left. - And you have to take it. - Okay. I'm guessing this that let's to gets like a revived That would be very nice for me. - Okay. What is it? - Tell the viewers something, that they might not know about you. - Ronald, tell us your secrets - I'm going to say my My least favorite color is, - Ron, Why are you looking - What you don't know is that I was thinking about Brown right now. - Made that actually Brown? - No, but I was thinking about it. So that totally something - Now I guess you're having to (mumbles). - Karina, you did not use any lifelines. - Of course not. I'm a Like it's so slippery from all the slime. - I can just use this to I'm just going to block the - Guys, I can sit here for an hour. Okay. - It's been 17 hours. I'm joking. Ron, I'm just waiting for you to leave - I have two more lifelines. So once I'm about to leave, I'll just use the lifeline the please help me. This - See, I told you. It's melted. - There's still ice in it's still really cold. - I think I'm going to use one of my lifelines. - Okay, go. Take it. Yank it off. - Oh, I took the pin with me. Oh, it's stuck there now. Open it quickly so Ronald - Thank you. Is she going to abuse it and sit she there for - I'm so sweaty. I can't Finally. Hi, Abbie (splashes water) Guys that was such a quick jump. But I've got to go back Bye guys. - I heard that you're - No, I'm not. - Yes you are. You're so wrong. - A minute ago you said that it was bad that wasn't showing signs of weakness. - Whatever. - I feel not so bad here. It's all right. Okay. My clothes are wet So I can use that as a mini Ice pack. - Karina, you want to do something? - Do something like what? - So we each close our eyes and then we have to do it We have to do it. Okay That's cool. I'm going to start. This one. (drum rolls) Run for 30 seconds. - I was hoping that for - Do you like my running? - Dora the Explorer. Yes. - Your turn Ronald. No peeking. - Okay. What's this? What's this? - That might've been the one I just took. Because I scrunched up. - Run for 30 seconds, - He can run - Okay ,I can't lifeline - What! it's just running Ronald. - Well, I'm really tired. I'm so hot, Ten Eleven. - It's so hot here now. - Okay, I'm using your lifeline. - You're what? - Yeah. I'm using your lifeline. - Really? - Yeah. Go outside and - I can't believe you used Ronald. Chill out, Okay? and I'm going to be able to win. So I don't know why I'm I want to take a nap. I think - Karina, you have to sit. - I'm just taking a nap, Ronald. - You have to sit. How long has it been? - Ron, its definitely been Oh, that was nice cold air finally. Okay Ron, already thinking Do I want a Thai massage - Or the, I don't want - But you're going to have - Guys, I don't know - You are? - Yeah. - Do you want to exit? - No. What if I do this? Are you going to exit then? - No. - You're going to sit on your icepack. - I just got a new life. - Can I sit on you? Since I just sat on the spot Oh, nice. - I don't want to do any - No massages aren't that bad. I know why you're fighting so hard. - Who knows what else I'm - Exactly. He's got a point, he doesn't know what else - Please help me. That reminds me, - What? please help me. - But I just told you that a second ago. - But who's going to Wait. So if I take a call, wet - Well until it's it's not cold anymore, but I guess you still use it. - Okay, I don't care. Come here. No! okay we're good. No, stop. That's strike five. - How many strikes do I get? - If you hit 10, you're out. Cold towel. Grabbing my ice pack. - Guys, I really want a - Go ahead, grab one - Let me grab a towel. any water drip onto the floor. No, no, no. Ronald, are you sure you don't want to go? You don't have any more line lines. I think it's your turn to go. - I got a towel and an ice - Nice. Okay. It's still cold? How is - You said it was going to - It melted but it is just still cold. I've got to shield myself Ronald, I think I'm going to go. - Are you really? - I'll get my foot massage another time. - Yea! Give me the ice Dora the Explorer. So guys, I finally won a last to leave or a last You'll always see me as a boss next time. (upbeat music) - I don't know how he did this. I was planning to get my foot massage. (upbeat music)