Everybody, Don Georgevich of here job interview are not created equal? I know that sounds crazy, but it's true. You see, interviews are generally made up But the bulk of your interview depends on Sometimes even only one question. So a normal interview will have behavioral and identity questions. Now, the common questions they carry about Behavioral questions carry about 30 to 40%, 40 to 90%. But if you just focused on behavioral and not get the job, which is really what happens you did well because you answered a lot of not to confuse activity with delivering real But if you just focused on identity questions What if you focused on identity and behavioral You can have an excellent shot at the job, from your competition by demonstrating how Now, interview questions there kind of like false. Those are one point each. Fill in the blank two points, but you see so you can miss a lot of the easy questions. But if you nail the essay questions, you still way. There's a lot of filler questions in a job or what are your weaknesses or what are your These are all one point questions, so you job. And that's what happens to a lot of job seekers. The interview for a job and they feel they know, they know in their heart that they did plus they feel that the job was just made But what really happens and what's happened other job seekers? That's right. Our hearts are broken when we get the bad and qualifications were a better match for Have you ever heard that before? Yeah, me too. I mean, that sucks. I mean, who needs that? I want the job because I mean, it was meant It's mine. So what really happened was they nailed all but they blew the big ones, the essay questions the same thing on a test. It's like answering all the multiple choice essay question and only getting a C. Now they They may have known how to do that job better Their education may have been the best, but most the 40 point essay question. But you see, these interview questions really What I like to call identity questions or and your answer to them is critical to your Now, when I interview candidates while working Cleveland, Ohio, we had a certain set of questions And if candidates could answer these questions answers on questions that they flubbed on. And in most cases, it did really matter why or why they'd been out of work for two or You know, it just didn't matter. You know why they couldn't answer their greatest their answer to the identity question was needed to hear. I mean, did you ever hear the saying a picture Of course you have, and you see a good answer It's just like a picture and your answer to like nothing else. So imagine if you knew all these identity many, and they come in different forms and probably thinking. So, you know, how am I supposed to spot them to look for? Well, the good news is I've got them. And not just the ones from my private stash But you see, I've got customers all over the questions that they were hit with in their So I've got quite an extensive list of these And I'm going to just give you these questions, it in the next video, and I'm even going to video series that you can watch in less than an hour. But before I tell you more about identity to answer behavioral questions. And I'll do this in the next video. I'll send you the link in a day or two, or this page on Facebook tweeted or shared on Google Plus and all queued up But what I'd like you to do right now is scroll Tell me what has been happening in your interviews. What happened in your last job interview? Did it go well? Did you bomb it? What do you think you did wrong or what did I would really love to hear your comments, Don, this is Karen Fair and I just landed a job for I.T., and I want to thank you for all Not only did your guy provide me with a lot You care. Cared enough to send me your personal advice And we did that quite extensively. And there's not too many people left in this I really want to thank you for everything. I never thought it would again be possible and women operating in harm's way. This is just a fantastic opportunity, and the way for me and to help me get that confidence And for, more importantly, being there for Thanks, Don. Take care. Bye bye.