Hey everyone hey Contra, how are you doing? I'm doing well. Yeah. We figured the way we would do this is kind of just. We'll just be riffing on each other. It'll not be a super formal with like hard questions. I have topics with like suggested questions but we'll just see where it goes. We wanted to be organic. Kind of like an in-person livestream. Yeah. But I wanted to start the event off talking about how we got here because it's kind of to the whole what's been on our minds about how do we navigate ourselves within you know pump being popular figures in this political sphere. With all the disparate political factions and some not so savory than others. But this event was we there was quite a bit of turmoil and tumultuous times because your audience kind of or a large portion of your audience turned on you when you announced it specifically because of the presence of conservative trans commentator. Blair white and I kind of want to ask you what went down and why do you think that weighed and then maybe you got from them. Yeah. So this is really a continuation of a problem that I've had for a few months now on YouTube are just existing in a political space on social media. I started a couple months ago when I for New York magazine with the journalist Jesse Singel who is considered by a lot of trans to be transphobia. And I'm not going to comment on or not that's the case but basically my doing an interview with him became a cause of major hostility towards me from a lot of people you know. And I got defensive about I did that thing that we all do on lash out at everyone who dogpile as you double down. I double down. Yeah I managed to heal that. And then of course this event comes and the idea the idea that my whole against me that's not really what A lot of people on Twitter are I wouldn't really quite consider because all they do. With respect you're talking to me criticize me in an extremely vitriolic terms so these are not fans right. But like I think 5 The frustration is that legitimate criticism or well-meaning criticism gets mixed together with half truths with exaggerations with outright falsehoods until the point where the story being from leftist Twitter verse was Contra points is doing fundraising for a Nazi event. And like I said I mean there's just like there's where people are good go round and I have these frustrating like you know I see someone saying Yeah but she did this she like did she raise money for Holocaust And then I'll start correcting them and then I get to the frustrating where I say like look it's never to all the evidence that never and I did say like well you job communicating with your fans that you weren't raising money for her for the fourth race. And it's like you know. So on the one hand it is an as someone on the left who tries to have these kinds of conversations or who tries not to just stick to my own corner of Twitter. But on the other hand I frustrated that a lot of people are very interested in this story Leftist turn on their own or the story of like leftist shut down Frisbees leftist shut down and you know whenever this happens a bunch of journalists show up and they wanted to suddenly they except when something like this want to talk to me because they know tell this story about crazy campus SJW now I don't want to be part of that story being told because I think it's not the most right now. But it's a story that a lot of people are intensely Well the thing is I think that that is it isn't your audience or the majority of your audience But I do think it represents a certain certain faction within the left and that what's what's unfortunate to me is like you such great work for the left in of. Giving them good arguments giving them good ways of thinking and mobilizing them. And I feel like things like that definitely slow slow the left down in terms of it demobilize them and just crises infighting. And focus on the bigger picture. But you said there was some I'm just curious to get to those because. I don't think that you believe that you know kind of the you're not completely sold on the of ideas. Any ideas should be given a platform anywhere at any time and so forth. So I think there's something to be exercising discretion when it comes to what kinds of events or what we have on college campuses or what kinds of speakers we bring There are some speakers who because of their intensely let's just say bigoted views. They simply bringing them onto sort of threatens the campus mission of being an inclusive space a place that is on some basic sense safe for people and where they think they're not be subjected to intense hostility on the basis of or the basis of their space or whatever. So. You know but when it comes to take a more extreme example than here is it a good idea to bring Richard No it's not. And I don't think that you know I think that if I were to do an people would be justified in or there is at least a case to be Now unfortunately no one's ever seems content to limit what they say and everything always has to go from with people on the Internet. And so it can't just be on Twitter. It can't just be I think this is an that I think is an ill conceived It has to go straight to. Why are you enabling the rise of You know like there's there's not a version. Yes well there is a of it but it gets drowned out you and it's as a person who is to this kind of criticism. It's difficult to listen to the measured version of it when you're also being accused of with Nazis. Yeah definitely. I think where people are in this centrists and also center right right that's where they come from in terms of Spencer is like you know the whole market place of ideas platitude. I think what they get wrong is like that that is true for like in a purely intellectual space which no no space in this world is a pure intellectual space is the real world with real consequences. You can't separate the ideas from the effect it has on the people on the subtext that carries within a social political context. And what I was running through this this kind of thought in my head and I was imagining I was listening to a bunch of bench Paris stuff on people. And just how shitty deeply deeply deeply shitty it is regardless of his supposed just the real world effect it has it. It gives so many people a reason to just miss gender trans people online in person and to investigate their identity and pick it apart. Right. And I was just thinking to myself like. Imagine like this trans girl who's going on campus trying to have a good learning a good experience trying to engage with ideas and she hears that some of her organize jihad. Ben Shapiro come on and talk about you know just that knowing that she is surrounded by those people is inherently hostile. Like I understand that. Like I could imagine what that must that content and that. In a very real sense that impedes on for example in this experiment her learning experience and the learning environment and engaging with ideas and so pretending like like Ben Shapiro coming on on campus and talking spot spotting pretty shitty things doesn't have a real world effect on how other people can engage in the free marketplace of ideas and in a learning environment I is foolish and a little bit naive. Yeah I totally agree with that. I think that to anticipate what's going to be the objection the going to be that well people these kids just need to grow and understand that there's people The world's not a safe space. So you know get over the fact that some people are having opinions that are bigoted towards on some level as pragmatic advice. That's true. Like we both know that if you're gonna be trans you're just to deal with some people being about it and everyone who is trans just has deal with that. On the other hand when you're which speakers to bring to your you know my lawyer novelist to tell would be the worst the mateship yeah and arms of someone who is called it a picture as a student transit at the university at that at the University are made fun to bully her on stage. This is not appropriate for a university event now by any stretch. Yeah right. And I think there's a really strong even in a way that that centrists and people on the right come into of free speech is a free speech to be made that you know puts the that person or that a group of people in a where they're unable to engage in that market of free speech. It's except in a few weird parts of the Internet. It's never just saying anything right. There's always an organization to Even like when you have a free and you organize events like you're to amplify a particular person speech and a particular topic. And by doing that you're sort of already. It's not politically neutral in There's already a presumption that this person's worth listening people should hear what they have to that the topic of debate is something that's worth So. It's you know what frustrates me about the free defensive bringing some of my in or Richard Spencer onto campus. A lot of cases would be that you know there's a whole lot of on you're not you know we're not bringing anyone to talk about racism in America years. Instead you're asking the question have a white ethno stay in America. And it's like simply by deciding what the debate's going to be about. You're prioritizing. Yeah. Because we control about everything specific given time. You know there's there's an inherent you're making a hierarchy and you almost when you when you prioritize certain facts or certain certain topics you are in it like in life. You must have some kind of a moral onto something like by which to organize facts or and prioritize them. And yeah I guess I just think this like when you organize it it's not Yeah yeah I know I know because you exercise discretion of your platform who to bring to your event what topics to debate. You know there are people on the left who will take probably too extreme an opposite position where they want to do the platform or disinvite anyone who is even slightly out of line of a particular moral and political vision of the And I find that can be frustrating as someone who tries to do this left because you know I'll find I'll get attacked having it even for doing a video for instance about why I think white is wrong and he will say like to even have this conversation is to already legitimize this topic as something that is up for discussion. Now I would agree maybe in certain circumstances like I think you know I had this reaction was seeing an English morning news show had a doctor on to debate whether conversion therapy for gay teenagers might not actually be so about an all. And I'm like Is this really this we should be asking right now. But I think in the case of putting out you know material that's sort of against for instance white nationalism I enough people believe in this stuff that it's sort of I'm not concerned that simply by mentioning the topic I'm going to raise awareness of this thing nothingness. No there's not is there. And it has to be dealt with. It's just a question of how to deal with it. Well I've noticed and trying to come to grips with this catch 22 of you know you ignore white and they just kind of fester and do their own thing and maybe become more radicalized rather than you know saving the few are salvageable. But then you engage these ideas in the public sphere and you platform you are implicitly saying that these ideas are worth engaging and you are. At like contributing to putting those. Ideas in the Overton Window of acceptable public conceptions of morality and ideas that are OK. And you're shifting it to the right simply by acknowledging it. And that is not me saying that we shouldn't engage with these ideas but I don't trust who doesn't acknowledge the Catch 22 in that. So this isn't this this idea that sunlight is the best disinfectant. Yeah. It's united to your listeners. So what do we do about white which is bring their ideas out into We expose them for what they are see that they're bad OK. I agree with that. But I don't agree with is that Richard Spencer a megaphone is the best way to get clarity on Spencer's ideas now radio isn't. You know Richard Spencer and people like him I've noticed and I had to really take the time to go deep into the. Annals of of all right YouTube and all right Internet and figure out that he's really good at making his ideas sound closer to the open window than it really is. And and he has a vested interest to because he needs to recruit people movement. I think that's. And so someone like for example running millennial who basically sat there and smiled. Richard Spence in an interview not pushing him on anything. I feel like that's that's not responsible platform. It's become a YouTube genre. Let's interview Richard Spencer like not click bait and it's like. It's frustrating because Richard So when you're when you're Richard and you think that you're official policy position is that the should be transformed into a homogenous ethnically white state based on the principles of socialism. Like you're having to have a great of difficulty getting mainstream and he's not a Nazi. Of course not. There is a ethno nationalist like your but first you know you're gonna have of trouble getting on CNN. So he's looking for any platform and he has acknowledged this. Yeah it's more like niche streams here acknowledges. You know I don't care if CNN or leftist interviewers the right man and treat treat me terribly because at least I'm getting the ideas out and he takes every circumstance that he can. So that makes it very difficult. Like do you engage with Richard Spencer at all. I personally do not. For insanity sanity I think I could someone be good at it. Maybe I mean it depends on some people have different talents. Some people are at arguing with a disingenuous person like that and making them appear sort of exposing their efforts to an audience. I personally am not great at it. Are these not without. Why don't I trust myself. Yeah you know. So if you have someone who is just terrifying you know kind of like Christopher Hitchens person. Fine. They can debate or nationalists and make them move. But it's dangerous move. As a mother I don't even really want especially in view of a situation where in this case Richard Spencer he just is going around the You them to have him on his on their Why. Because he's confident that any news is good news that any platforming is good platform and he is sort of right on. He's kind of right. And if he thinks that it's going to I'm inclined to believe it. And I don't want to be part of that. Yeah I don't want to get them. That's the thing I see you mentioned how you just by doing an event with someone like black or white and you've got a lot of From a certain portion in the. Yeah I had a similar experience. I tweeted out the other day. I I simply asked Andy was he if he I'd consider all the possible ramifications of hosting a debate with three Nazis on the number one trending livestream with eleven thousand people watching at one point. Like has he not. Don't do it. But like Have you thought all of it through. I'm just asking him that got me so much shit. I am in it should I mean. I don't care about free speech. You only care about free speech as with it and and so that stuff comes on the right as well. You know I simply ask him to think about what he is doing because from what I could tell he wasn't. And maybe up in that moment it the biggest deal but it may be a big the future. I guess. We've gone through a lot of what to talk about he's kind of right. We fly more. Yeah. Well I was. We kind of answered this already but like how to deal with it all right. We kind of. Well yeah I mean so so here. Here's one way to When I talk to people like Andy Lawsky who you tubers who will have already figures on their channel ostensibly for the purpose of or debates over what they say is you know it's the sunlight is best disinfectant argument. They say that well you know if their ideas are so bad a discussion with them and we discredit them. So you say OK well what happens once they're discredited. If the answer turns out to be that they're discredited no one has them on their YouTube channel Why don't we just get right to that and not have them on our YouTube You don't I mean like if I just if the intention to outrage discredit their views right then why have them on in the race. You know it seems to me that these they're already widely discredited how much more discredited could these things be among them. You know in polite company it's about the polite. So. So I think that if we could stop gawking at them like a train accident as a you know as journalists as YouTube's as academics I think in some sense that would be Yeah. Like something I try to do in dealing with them is I. It's difficult for me because I do agree with you. But at the same time I'm one of super curious and I and I do love watching those debates. I'm not going to lie because I like it's similar to someone who likes obsessively watching documentaries unlike mass murderers or serial killers. It's like you're just so fascinated by how could someone believe this. And I want to understand it. So like I watch an inordinate amount of like Terry McCarthy on and die. Who else. Wild Bunch people. My point is like I try to understand them so that I can debunk them but I don't try to understand them. I make it a personal journey I'm not going to like try and understand them while I it on my channel for everyone to Yeah. So. Well I mean I share your morbid curiosity but isn't that kind of what started so yeah we all saw you. I mean the reason I started covering all right on YouTube not to be too arrogant. Like before most before it was a story and one of the reasons that I started talking about it is that I had know going back to 2007 something like a Stormfront lurker just out of shares gawking at the train accident like I wanted to see oh a Nazi. Like what do they saying. What is their deal you know. But of course I was just some You know I wasn't putting this up on I was just voyeuristic like staring into the void and like you would like live yourself now. Right. Right. Right. Right. But it was having done that. That made me able to recognize that the sudden mainstreaming of the kind of Stormfront mentality especially when it came to about two years ago suddenly common sections are filled with the word cock and they're filled with talking talk about white genocide. All this stuff was on Stormfront So that kind of rang alarm bells for me. And you took them seriously. Yeah I took it I hear you. You you didn't go with. You didn't care about the people you can't take a joke. You don't understand shit posting don't feed the trolls all that You took it serious. Yeah. Well if you go back to 2016 talk about all right. It was just a joke because just me and there is irony is just pepper a like crack you know hilarious. That was what they were. Now they're getting 300 miles I'm on right right right under there. An actual faction of real politics. I saw the first data. That's right it was incredibly anyone to take it seriously. And then you know Trump won and then everyone shut up. Bye. Bye. Yeah. So I see. What you mean like there's a value in learning. About them. Like I'm not saying like oh we must like look away or avert our gaze from the Nazis but it's about how you go about ignoring like is it worth going into all right forums and stuff and reading the stuff as Like I think it is like I think Like go read what not to say. Like you know I think that's a responsible thing to do. Go read my comments like that's so responsible it earlier first focus it's a responsible thing to do to be aware of what you know because knowledge is is good. Well you want to know what these or for any group you know. But there's a line that's crossed when you start bringing them onto your YouTube When you start hosting campus events with them when you start effectively helping them spread their ideas. And I may not be how you view it. Not only spreading the ideas but I think there's a is a subtext that comes with sitting there analysts hearing them out. Yeah and and and. Not challenging them there's a that girl that reads as I'm somewhat sympathetic or complicit in this and maybe that subject text. That's up text usually isn't but it is. Comes across and I didn't believe it at first. I was very much not wild about it but I saw it happen in front of my own eyes. So another thing is I think that people can maybe take online comments a little bit more not saying every single thing. Sometimes people generally are just some nice people Jr on or just being ironic. But here's the thing all irony and many circumstances it kind it is a way of kind of your toe into some belief that you actually are a little bit sympathetic towards. Right. It's a way of kind of playing around with it before you go full And I've seen so many of these people who kind of like laughing as as as writers and I'm being ironic and shit posting become that right. And so we should take that seriously and maybe like quit. I was just trolling right. What do you think about. Yeah I think that for some people these jokes and memes can be a way of like experimenting with an idea or sort of just see how they feel expressing it. It's also you know an idea that they is very socially not acceptable and that's a kind of safer way to do it as a joke because you can say things as a joke that Right. Like that one the reasons why comedy is so a defense even when it's being defended isn't really comedy. So you see this is what happens often so I didn't say comedy is so anything just come everything's Yeah. So yes I think raises that people get mad at you. You say I was just a joke. Well it's kind of a cop out isn't it. I mean you can say And you know sometimes that you know is just a joke but sometimes people are. There is no punchline whatsoever. And in the case of course it's a little bit from deliberately using it. But I do think you've also would kind of as a tactic of obfuscation. Right. That means that peppy. It's to put up the front of the whole thing is incredibly trivial. That's just for laughs. And you know I'm not just making You can find Richard Spencer saying That's where he is. That's what he He. Yeah. Yeah. Very encouraging. You know what he's doing cause he's Like we give him to way too much No he's just kind of like the white house. Yes. He's picked up that kind of Internet that's who we can use this Oh look off. Well let's let's get that in here. Yeah yeah. I kind of. Maybe we should switch a little bit and talk about. Trans activism because that's something we are both in a sense doing whether we want to or not whether we need to or not. I think we can't really deny that we're doing some form of or public trans public figures that talk about trans issues in a sympathetic way and so on. So I think it's important to figure out how do we best make the world better for trans How how do we go about it. And how we've been going about it so far been good. Oh what. I think that you know no one person can do that but my individual approach to this has been you could simply do a lot by being trans and then being visible and don't even have to be doing doing things. Creating a public character of yourself that people can sort of empathize with on some level. You know I did this I did a vehicle which is not an argument or debate. It's just like a series of like vignettes that are supposed to convey something about what gender dysphoria is like and that I hope because for some people it's just to respected. Right. I guess my puberty is my pronouns but I just want them to allow me to I'm not satisfied with that. I want to be understood. And like we'd like as we all do and young and I think well that's a thing right. You you you know you can agree or disagree with the idea of minimum I know you know. But you know or like a 15 dollar minimum wage with this too much. But the idea push them at fifteen dollars in a over and over and over and over again and you argue you get politicians talk about it and then eventually end up with you know a twelve dollar way which is much better than an and so should we be asking for more so that we get you know rather than. Being compromising and then just getting nowhere. So should we be making optimistic demands in the hopes of a strong and like uncompromising demands innocence like certain things were not on. Yes I think that's probably true. I think that as long as you earn you not to compromise on some basic For example I would never compromise that OK fine trans women or men. I would never like in no circumstance. But there are signs that mean to you would you go to stop someone from saying that. It's not that I would stop sign here just wouldn't ever compromise to that point to the point of associating with them or of saying OK well as long as you use something it's ok that you do that it's ok that you think that trans women or men. Yeah yeah but that's OK. So what kind of sub tweeting here we are some say that because you know someone like Blair white stars kind of readers. No I think she does she really lowers the bar in terms of like she will sit there on a hot binge apartheid. You're a man and you're just you just look like a I'm not for that reason I'm going to Ebola and she's like Oh. Yeah. Well so this is not I'm so my question is does that actually that kind of super compromising does that make some of the really far dyed in the wool bigots just make them a little bit more tolerant. Does the Blair white strategy have any effect. If you want to do gay rights than making money you don't do it by trying to ingratiate yourself with the Westboro Baptist Like the point that culture can move well beyond what Ben things and his opinions are So trying to even create a little niche herself as a conservative trans person or as a conservative whatever group you always have food on the if you're going to do that. But. If you you know if as you say if you're willing to you're like oh yes sure you call me long as the paycheck keeps coming I like Doug I hopefully won't be you. Mm hmm. I mean his argument that she would oh she's creating is understanding with Ben Shapiro. I mean the argument has to be that likely to treat trans people better in the future because we said he could treat them badly Which I find implausible implausible and I think that there's a degree to which. I don't know if the universe lives it comes to people who want that kind of problems today as. A lot of Ben Shapiro's audience a lot not all I know there are some great Shapiro fans. I see you a lot. It's like Do you really inspire people to be more exciting to or be more accepting of you. Like people are great at right. It doesn't necessarily and then you have this cushy as the one trans person that they're tolerate with a thin veneer of Well there's something to be said sympathy for one individual tends to be come potentially generalizable. Like how many people do I know who have told me that my coming out as trans are my being in their life person has transformed what they thought about trans people and I've heard the same from other they just did not get it until they knew came I was trans was only and I think that being that person in their life you can have a transformative effect. So I don't want to completely or completely disparage the notion that having some conservative trans around could possibly open up a little bit of understanding and circles where that otherwise find it like probably it But this is enhanced. This is achieved simply by being trans in those spaces. He has not aided by the kind of attempting to make political concessions or trying to get away with your own sense of entitlement to basic politeness. I don't see that as helpful in any way. Yeah that's a I think that was a good discussion on how to move certain things done compromise on. Now what your principles are. But beyond that try to be reasonable in a sense. Don't. There are some trans activists that pretty crazy. For example last year. The Vancouver women's library opened in February. They had all kinds of books in the trans exclusionary radical But they also had a bunch of authors was super transformative right. But. They were convinced these trans activists were convinced that it was run by Tufts and they they were like tearing up pages of books that were yelling they were at the of this library and I think that's that's really like I would go to that library and I'd be like I don't speak for trans people but on behalf of like reasonable people I'm sorry that they did that you because that is not okay. So I'm cautious about telling this kind of crazy trans activists type story. How do some activists behave in ways that are to say the least bad optics. Yes I. They just also. Admittedly I'm being unreasonable now but I think oftentimes the sense of outrage comes from a place of thought I think is outrageous. Outrage is justified but I think that it's it can be in ways that are unproductive. That. Do not really do anything by appease the kind of emotional drive. And is that sometimes a problem. Yes it can become. Like I said an optics problem but it's also incredibly difficult when you have a media environment or journalists who like to tell the story they do again. So. Yeah on the one hand like yes there who go about things that are very way on the other hand. There are a lot of journalists who obsessed with this. They're more interested in crazy activists as a story than they are trans rights as a story because it right. Yeah it's reminiscent of you know one person you know transmit existed for as long as humans have basically as far as we can tell and that's no surprise. And then there's this one person who Rachel Dolezal and they think they think they co-opt the trans issue and call out trans racial. Okay let's all talk about this one person in the history of everything. And then by calling it trans. Something or trans species or trans Abel drawing this trans phobic metaphor like metaphysical equivalence between the two where there isn't any. I was saying this in a livestream you can you can go from one state to another and call it trans something like I. I earlier today didn't have makeup that I put makeup on I'm not trans beauty trans cosmetic. Trans cosmetic you have. If you can put a label like that on anything. And it's like you to put those labels on there because because people want those buys confined. I'm like oh this is what's going to happen now. Now we're going have people you know as you know slices of cheese or whatever yeah. So I mean it's usually the issue with the journalist covering the is that the story transparent here is the here that here's the dilemma that trans Here is this this problems they face This isn't as sense as a media or difficult story this where they you to think about why things are The story that potentially asks you you think and change how you behave. That's hard. And people don't like that. The story these crazy artists are unreasonable demands. That's easy as a story because it tells you I'm fine. It's the people who are complaining that are the problem. So do you think this and for that reason that there's inherently conservative about Normie or mainstream culture like that kind of. Well it isn't like you to the side. And I don't want to sort of nail down sling a little more is following popular culture. Yeah yeah. People that don't like do what even I hate. So I think wonder a YouTube. I think that the mainstream media. Yeah I think that there's on to a lot of reporting on these issues. There is a kind of especially in the fascination with the deranged activists right as as a news story is just something that I find becomes an excuse not to think about the issues. So I'm the next YouTube video I'm working on is of an old controversy within the kind of relation between academics and trans people and it's like Journey upon niche Yeah. But I know I know it says a lot of topics to explain. But I hope like so base there is a kind of BS that goes back to 2003 with a publication book called The Who Would Be Queen by Michael Bailey which proposed a bad theory of what it is to be a trans woman and a theory that sort of us in ways are kind of stigmatizing. And there's a kind of I'm just whether it's dramatizing or not. There was a massive backlash against Bailey and against this book that came from Trans activists and trans people and you know there's been so articles and books written about the controversy often talking about how unfair Bailey was treated. Yep. And how crazy and awful these trans are. So is there some truth to that but also Bailey still has his job he is doing fine. Yeah. And it does. No one has paid attention to the and in the coverage of this story what's been lost is the fact this theory was wrong. And that is actually quite and damaging to trans people. So there really was something there in the first place. So it's like you know in the case that is I think the same with a number of these recent if I mean this is just becoming a news story right. White says smell a college professor between the ages of 35 and 70 says a thing that's offensive a bunch of SJW is get angry about it. Free speech is under attack. Newspapers go up you know. But in a lot of these gathers Yeah did it do the activists sometimes. Do they do they mix. Half truths and exaggerations along with the genuine criticisms. Yes. Do you think that's a bad thing that they mixed half truths and exaggerate. Well that's a bad Yes I do. But you know if you look at these most of them have their jobs. Many of them are much more wealthy and influential than they were by SJW. I mean how is Jordan Peterson doing. Like is he on the streets. Like last I checked his patron was around 50 K a month layoff. He's doing fine. You know he's being silenced turns and like you know the initial controversy that erupted was about him refusing non binary students pronouns which. Well it wasn't an actual stick. OK. A hypothetical. Yeah. Yeah. Which actually is about. So man is wrong. People overreact person wrong person becomes lionized and defended in the name of sticking to these crazy artists. This is a story that's become very tedious to me. And it's it's a story that people you know journalists they don't want me unless they want to talk about All journalists want to talk to me tell me about your career. I mean that's how we started this Tell me about your crazy audience is with those crazy trans people Like how let's talk about that's all about. It's frustrating Yeah. Because you feel like they're not questions. They're asking me. There's a single line that migrate. Because the thing is like I'm like leftists on the Internet like unreasonable. Yes. The people I mean I'm sitting around and having myself accused of and you know preposterous things. But I try I don't let myself get so with that that I lose my sight of the more important political and moral struggle is going on right Like and it's annoying to me that so much of the storytelling that goes around these events is obsessed with telling the same crazy octopus story again and again. Where are we at. Shall we start the queue and I shall we take a 15 minute and then I thought the queue and I Lewis. Yes Lewis says yes. OK. Perfect all right. We can take a 15 minute break. Stretch your legs and you can give us a round of We'll start the training session at 8 15 and I would also like to remind you that the donation box is right over there. And I enjoy your brain. Also. You look pretty amazing. Let's. It. Welcome back. And now it's time for the Q and A session are we shooting this can be a bit of a ramble. So there's usually years of activism up before a moment happens in which society accepts something as a So gay activism. Some could even say it started it turn of the 20th century. And then there was a point where some figurehead will step out and it will be useful because even your mom can agree with it. So like one can activism had a point in which Ellen came out and that was a useful moment despite not being the most of the moments. It was a point in which society took a turn. With trend transgender politics at the fore there's this sort of has been a much more thing with like Caitlyn Jenner a with really regressive politics but also coming out. So do you think we've hit that moment and we're on the other Or do you think you're working up to moment. And what will it look like. So I wouldn't expect it always to go the same way with whatever kinds of activism So I think I'm looking around for is probably not necessary because not any reason why there's going to just like that. I mean with Caitlyn Jenner you know we have someone who was famous before anyone was aware that she was and someone whose politics are not I mean I think does it have an Yeah people will now all know at one trans person because of the of Caitlyn and that's like something. Not the whole thing. But it's like a moment of a public awareness. So I think that looking for a perfect Alexander movements is not necessarily we can't sit around expecting it to but there are going to be some similarities. Sorry and I had no fun. OK so this might be more for Theron I for both of you. Despite like both countries having fairly different legal and cultural approaches to free speech it seems like both Canada and the United States are sort of try. All have a lot of the same in the on the ground discussions. Do you think that's justified. And what do you think the difference in the conversations should be. The question is explained Canada. Won. In Canada. Obviously we do. We do have hate speech hate speech laws. You can't advocate genocide the protected groups. There are limitations to your free You can't incite incite violence and it's not quite as it's not quite as free speech as in the US. So yeah I think you're right that should be a little bit different I mean in the US at the moment so conversation trends you know politics is about like stopping these negative things from It's the bad the bathroom bills the military bad right. It's because of the nature of the current It's like old defense damage control and try to prevent things and worse in Canada. Maybe it's more you can afford to sort of be of just raising the shields. Yeah yeah. And I think Canada even in its in its laws a little bit more social justice oriented you can say in a sense we have those protective groups. And it's kind of how kind of you know does its thing basically. There's an argument to be made that if you don't like it don't live here I don't know like because. There. Is an argument it's a very good one but some people hate the fact that that Canada is more kind of social justice oriented like Overton Window just is more to the left naturally. Which I actually like. You know Canada has given me so many that I would never have had if I stayed in South Africa for So. I can't fault them for that in many ways. Question was should we having a different conversation. Well yes I do think that we should in terms of the legality and the history and the culture because it's It is different you know. I think that you know my answer is but not too much then not right now because my brain is a This is a bit of an open ended You were talking earlier and you talk about people like Jordan Pete Peterson and Jay Jay Michael Bailey and how they're wrong but they still get this platform and they go on with their lives perfectly well. And I also noticed in online spaces especially on MySpace it's people it's like when you're wrong you're wrong and you're screwed. And so it's kind of like. It's like and I'm maybe that's open ended question to sort of the Free but I think the idea of free speech could really be about the to be able to be wrong and then grow from that. And so like online communities. How can we create the space for people of all different walks of life to be wrong. And. What's the roadmap to that. And also because like if you don't create that road map for the other people who. You know go straight white male obviously they get to be wrong and go off and have their own And the reason they get to do that because the marginalized people have less and lower standards for them whereas we have really high people who are marginalized. And then yeah. So how do we go and create that being able to be wrong. And grow. That's I'm really sorry. I'm really trying to certainly. I like the way you're putting out. That's right of freedom to be wrong and something that I feel like I in the last since. It's my first started making contact online. Like maybe more patterned after I So I could just like fuck up all the time like I did. And like you know you make a bad people tell you you're wrong. That was a bad take. I don't get to make bad takes on because too many people follow me. And if I say something stupid and like ruins my week out of that I have I feel like there's a lot of things I want to talk about fully understand. But I feel like I cannot publicly about somebody because my online platform middling though is is already too big to do this. So how do we do it. Do you have any idea what it is can relate to a lot because I have very wrong on a lot of things online and you know. For example like I'm like planning on making an apology video. Sometime next week. And basically I'm going to talk about like how I've not spoken about non binary people in the right way. And I've. I've. Kind of contributed to this shit that I have to deal with already and I was wrong I shouldn't have done that. I guess that I do still have this because I know I've said and done things online that have hurt people and a lot of people have I'm kind of a reformed shitload. And I sympathize with where they were coming from there as well. And I like my vision and I hope people will somehow on that that I do have this fear that I was wrong and I was publicly wrong I'm that had some ramifications that weren't good so well that were held against me. I'm not sure and I would hope that it's not I think that the world needs more people like me. Yeah that's. That's not really an answer the but it was open ended I guess. Yeah. Hi. I was wondering if if Dave Rubin ever left his echo chamber would you would you ever go on his show and how do you think that would work out. Well I mean the my channel has been kind of an ongoing me trying to go on his show it for the time being. I kind of don't do anything like that. Like I'd just been down because I just don't feel like dealing with it. I hope I get to a point where I sort get over that. RUBIN I may make an exception for it one of two tropes that I feel like trouble for that I could simply to everything I've ever said. I would go on his show but I once called him out for being an echo chamber and I think that's kind of takes you off of his list. He's considered having me on. And I think he actually decided not to have me on anymore because I told him I'm tired of your echo chamber. Please you you talk about how you want your show to be about big ideas. And and and how is this free speech There's this big gap like how people like Natalie on have Kyle Linsky Galinsky come from secular talk. Have David Stockman of destiny have some cedar or his co-host Michael Brooks. How people like that and on then you know and I kind of call them out on Twitter which maybe that's not the best way of it but yeah. So basically probably not going to ever go on this channel him out on it which is you know maybe I deserve it. I should learn to like not tweet. So you have to learn by a POV lobby and conditioning. Like it's just once you get into my work even the you panic like you've been trained. So we were talking earlier about like Ellen as this of public figure for the gay rights but there's Brinkley in the transmission. There's this interesting thing where you know if you're looking for role or just representatives it's if a racial minority or if you're a woman that's obvious or even if you're gay there was obviously a long phase where most people were closeted. But it was it was expressed. But the trans community has the concept of basically stealth. It's you know I'm a man or a woman whatever. And like I shouldn't be treated that And like allMr. Reese the fact that I'm trans from Do you feel like that's going to or that it was a good thing bad thing what are your feelings around this objective stuff particularly with regards to giving people either a role model or example of you know community. Well there are a lot of trans people are living their lives stuff and perform not at all happy about trans. Activism having this big like moment is going on. They were perfectly happy without poking around and thinking about And I sort of get why they would feel that way because I understand that you know done with this. I don't think that on the other hand I feel my personal feeling about this is that it's if this is going to be a movement of you're going to organize your recognition for your rights. You kind of have to name herself. And that means knocking itself. At least you know you can be stuck at McDonald's. I don't mean it is not being selfish on the platform. Well it's not supposed to. It's one less trans. Like. It's one less trans fats not exist. Nobody knows that business right. All right. I would like. To say. Sorry things since it's Friday. You know that are in the minds of like. Like if you don't like out of sight Right. I have to think about these Obviously they exist. But. My point is that I would like to live in a society where trans people doesn't have to be stuff and not exist in order to exist. I would be nice. I'm just saying we're like we're We've had a lot of parties and it's not like dire straits. I know for some people in some cases South Africa is absolutely not right. You know. It's. Anyway. It doesn't. Even exist. I mean for sure. All right. So. Speaking of this. Hi my name is Frantz Gretzky. I'm a fourth year philosophy student here at UBC. I've been I think fair to say very in the free speech activism on this and I have a question for you. You've sort of please be patient is going to take a to get us out. So you've talked about you've met. Just briefly mentioned gender neutral pronouns and you also talked about you a bit critical I think about Jordan Peterson so very briefly I I started a bitter course of recently an at UBC and I think it's important to keep we're talking about. I'm here for the same reason a lot are which is that I think there's like a free speech movement being created on the campuses. And I think the reason for that is young men in particular although wonderful that many wonderful red pill women here tonight. Thank you. Ah are kicking back for the rights. You mentioned that it's not always that there's a content when you're speech and the content for me and for a lot of people I think it's criticize the distortions and the excesses and some of the textured technical inaccuracies in the narrative of it. Yeah. Well let me ask you. OK well life's complex you know. The area you're asking. Yeah well I'm sorry I've been diagnosed in the of several times. That might be an issue. So I'm just gonna let him finish the I I'm trying to make a point because this is there's this there's groups here. There's free speeches were trends there's different kind assumptions but here's fine. We want me to be your. Yeah. You want me to be blind so I'll put it out. But here's the deal. I think that we're not talking about enough about the campus issues a talk having on the campus in the of a kind of a culture war. And at the core of that are issues. Let's use one example gender neutral pronouns. OK so that's satisfying. So so that he has I mean I'm sorry. So when I what I wanted you about is this my thought on this. So I was in the theater club course and we start the course it's about and we start the question. I want this to be a safe space says the professor. I want all you to give your pronouns as we introduce each other says the So the question is with situations like that I want to ask your questions about policy and culture of how we're going to move forward with this. The reason why I think this matters is because trends individuals biological males biological females who identify with the other side and thus again it's a touchy issue I don't want to paint this. I guess the question I am asking a we are laying down. The question is how are we going to deal with this. Because for me using she using her these kind of things to refer to biological males. Biological females who identified with or aspired to be the other side a previous societal accommodation. It was a kindness. It was a generosity. But it does not change their evolutionary but very biological status as technically biologically male and female. So do we are we. And so the question theory of gained traction. Yeah. People use gendered pronouns without without any awareness of the formal role of sex in human evolution. I don't think that evolutionary pertains to the use of pronouns in the English language in any I guess I'm. So. Important. People people mixed gender and sex all the time and I think that's a mistake. Sex I think is what pronouns refer to and when you use alternate sex pronouns for people who are trends that is a generosity that is a kindness. It's like you say that's what the sex determines what permanency is and what situation yes the situation of being biologically born into one sex or the other. So that's biological biologicals X Well genitals again there are fine distinctions there but most the time. That's not what when we're talking to people on this kind of thing. So I don't check her blood to make sure x y. I don't like I don't see like hold pants up. I don't know what pronoun. Thanks. There's a circle right there. Yeah. Yes. Alan. Alan the topic some sort that the final question for you to leave with you. Yes those are we know we just need one on one house these long conversations short there for the environment for the other people There one of the arguments I hear on the. For free speech absolutism is the idea that for example if you like a KKK rally you also have like an anti white counter rally that can many many many times overpower and overpower that and show the message that they have against that. So what would you say that's a valid message and what would you any counter to that particular Sorry as the argument died you like beneath there's like a like for example there's like a white like KKK rally and you have like the print. Although the third there right there. The idea that if there is an movement there's often like a which even overpowers it. That's sort of like the argument for the Free Speech is that if you have like a counter that's even more powerful in the The fact that the KKK has a platform it diminishes like it is harmful ultimately. Yeah. So of course I think that if there is going to be a KKK rally get as many people as you can. You can't right. That doesn't mean you have to fight the KKK your living room to give a here. You know it doesn't mean that on campus. Do. You have anything to say about that. Sorry. I'm kind of running out of steam to I want to. Get you. This is mainly for Natalie bridges a lot of the different kinds of things that have been touched on representation as well as the alt as well as me maybe trying to be too perfect. So just referencing your views about one of the Tabby so I know that you you mentioned that think that TAVI is liked a lot because of just the appeal of the character. But I find Tobey interesting and appealing because Tommy is someone that would stand up to protect people from. Fascists and neo-Nazis and in general. I'm wondering if there is a need to have more of like a Mary Sue like a perfect character has good arguments as well as being to do those kinds of things to try to give somebody representation that they to. That's that's not as flawed as that's the way that TV is right now. Yes. So I personal I mean I do think there is. Yeah. Is there a role for Mary Sue's a trans Mary's. What does it all mean that probably am reluctant to make it myself because I personally find that kind and the persona I presented myself on YouTube is a persona that has some of my flaws built into it you know. So I think that to me I try to make videos that I would want to watch. And to me part of what's interesting on the Internet is feeling like a real person is on the other hand a real person who makes and gets too drunk too often. And you know you know I think things like this I it more interesting and I kind of host than a perfect NARRATOR As far as Tabby. Yeah I think you're right that watch people so tabby is a character that invented on my channel who is fat cat girl who goes around with the bat talking about fascists. And the character was sort of as a caricature of last young leftist activists with no capacity to convey their ideas effectively to other people by some. Somewhat to my surprise much of my audience just loved this character and ironically that is I think that part of it has you know. I think people don't understand how scary the whole right is to a lot of trans people or to people of color or to you know a lot of these groups that feel just directly physically by that. And so to have a character who's you know it seems as if seems weird they would want to be represented by violent person but I think just having to back his physical presence as you know it seems to mean something. Therapy. I think we might have time for one Would that be okay. Yeah yeah yeah. Okay. One last quick one. How often do people come to either you say I was going the way of the old right or was going in a negative direction with hate and your sort of speaking to me as a person who helped me turn a different direction went bit more compassion. Very often. In my case well with the All right I too much about the art right. It's something like I kind of plan talking more about this. Yeah. So not so much that that I have had a lot of people like. Like you've kind of red pulled me on trans people blue pink purple whatever. Yeah. But that I've changed their minds and and that they understand trans people for they are much better.