Vishen: So what I'm going to do next is I'm at A-Fest in Maui last year and digest them So what you're going to learn are some of See, this isn't just a seminar with a bunch topics. After I'm done with this presentation, you and sequence to what you're about to learn. Now for those of you who were here in Maui, to you but I hope you'd still stay because And at the end of the presentation, I'm going questions list that you created at Maui, and A-Festers. Okay? So let's get started. Daniel, could we get the presentation up? So I call this The Theory of Awesomeness. And yes, it is a scientifically validated See, in New York in 2002, that was the apartment Now, that was really where Mindvalley was I moved into that apartment. I was earning maybe a really low salary. This was in Times Square. Back in 2002, this was one of the most unsafe And in fact, this is really the apartment So it's kind of interesting that one of the started there because 2 years before we moved And we all know what Thai massage parlor means Yes, Mindvalley was started in a former whorehouse. Now, since then we've grown. We now have beautiful offices, about 100 people We are now based in Malaysia. But I want to tell you about my background I had it easy. I graduated with good grades. I'm smart, blah, blah, blah. It wasn't like that. Eleven years ago, that means right now we're Eleven years ago, exactly 11 years ago, this I was living in Silicon Valley. I could not afford an apartment. So I was basically sleeping on a friend's And it wasn't even like a three-seater sofa, like this. I had no insurance. Got into a car accident, had to pay for my And I had no job. I was sending out my resume to every job on me. That's what I was 11 years ago. Things started changing very rapidly. Now, couple of things about my background, Firstly, I was a C-plus student. I almost flunked out of college. I was working for a non-profit for under the get a real job. I failed at my first business, putting a 30k The only job I could get to allow me to get commission-only sales gig, you know, dialing If you didn't close a sale, you did not get I got demoted from that job. I started an online marketing company, which First year, all we made was $20,000, which Worse, I got added to the special registration this was like a year... Why are you clapping? Right. Great. So I'm on a watch list, you now feel safer. Thank you. Yes. See, after September 11, if you were brown weird shit would happen. So one day I showed up in JFK, they pulled watch list, that I could only fly in and out But the worst was this, I have to live on I'd never been in prison, never done... You can trust me. I'm not a threat to your way of life. But what happened was every 30 days I had the immigration office. So I thought, &quot;You know, screw this shit. I'm gonna just move to a different country,&quot; So, again, you can see we went through some But the funny thing was this, that first year to leave the country, that first year when wasn't about building a business. It was about this strange little game I had See, I started a little website and the first money. By month 3, I was making a grand frickin' Now, that was cool because I dug Starbucks, Starbucks in New York and with that 4.50 get Now, by month 4, I was making six bucks and Now, venti with whipped cream and hazelnut By month 5, I was earning about 12 bucks. Now, it was a grande venti coffee and a Subway And that's what I lived on, Starbucks and I remember being in bars with my friends and that allowed me to eat Starbucks...sorry, single day. And in my mind, that was it. It turned into a game. I had actually gamified the process. I was loving it. I was loving the entire process. I didn't really care that, you know, there'd total profit for a single day's work might It was a game and I frickin' loved it. Then 1 year later, the money really started Now, we were in Malaysia, those were our first And all of a sudden the fun stopped, the game Now I have to worry about employees, taxes, want to care about and things started collapsing. For the next 4 years, I wasn't having fun. I was miserable. I liked coming to work but we had a lousy And no matter how hard I try, I couldn't grow It was 4 years of struggle. The funny thing is, in 2008, which isn't that went back to my Starbucks and Subway days, And when that shift happened, the Mindvalley, accelerating. Within 1 year of that shift, I was a cash in debt. I owed more money than I was bringing in. My business partner was also in debt for his We'd been running a business for 5, 6 six But 1 year after that shift, the business We had a million dollars cash each in the And life just started growing, improving at So the question is, what was that shift? I had it in year 1, then I lost it for the Then it came back later. And you can see our revenue growth and how It came back in 2008. Now, that mind shift is what I now call The Sometimes in some presentations, I refer to And it's based on me recognizing that there in my life. It was a balance of two opposing forces. One was the idea of being happy in the now, Really simple, happy in the now, vision for Being happy with where you are right now, a day getting a free cup of Starbucks coffee in the future, but it's a really delicate And the fact is maybe less than 1% of the Now based on this balance, you can exist in The first is a negative spiral. You're not happy and you have no vision for In other words, you're depressed. And when you're depressed, life sucks and help. The second stage is what the vast majority You're happy in the now but you have no vision So what's going on over here is you're content You're content with your job but there's no Now, some people might ask, &quot;Well, if I'm But this is the problem. If you aren't growing, you're doing a disservice You've got to dream big, play big, push your In the words of Marianne Williamson, &quot;Let for others to do the same.&quot; Yet most people in the world stay content a true vision for where they want to take planet. Now, then you come to another big group of I estimate this to be about 20%. They have a vision for the future but they Now, these are often entrepreneurs. You have that vision for that next bold office, the next group of employees you want to hire disconnect between your vision and where you anxiety, or worse, unhappiness. You forget to live in that now. And finally, there's the fourth state where for the future. Now here's the crazy thing, right? And I can't really explain why this works this fourth state, the state of flow, it's And I can't explain it but it's as if the right opportunities just seemingly come out Has anyone experienced this? Almost everyone has. The trick though is staying in that state So that's what I'm hoping to teach you guys The recognition off the flow state and giving in this flow state for extended periods of So it's a mental state of mind in which you where you are now. It creates a feeling of growth and a feeling So that's pretty much how you can visualize And we tend to move between those four boxes The trick is staying consistently in flow. When you can pull this off, your impact on towards really epic awesomeness. I can't think of a more technical word. Okay. Together: Sorry. Sorry. Sorry. Awesome. Vishen: Isn't that cool? Thank you, Sean. Now, the paradox of intention comes from a And I like the way the author summarized it, be tied to these goals. You must be happy before you attain your goals.&quot; Think about that. You have to learn to detach your happiness Your goals exist but your happiness should See, I never felt unhappy if during year 1 because what was it? A free cup of Starbucks coffee. So it's good to have goals, but the thing Now, there's this awesome quote that describes this century and it says...and this is what &quot;The root of his reality distortion was his He had evidence for this. In childhood, he'd often been able to bend He had a sense that he was the chosen one. He thinks that there are few people who are he met in India, and he's one of them.&quot; And I've noticed this about a lot of great I've studied. They seem to feel that they can almost bend I believe this is true. And I've constantly noticed this in my life, being able to enter into my space and elevate In fact, before the word &quot;bend reality&quot; was I bought the domain &quot;Bending Reality&quot; was what Steve Jobs believed. And I've noticed this with multiple entrepreneurs. Another great American entrepreneur said this, Thinking like this often turns into a self-fulfilling That was Sam Walton. Another man who believed that he could in Sam Walton built the biggest company in the And think about this, see if you can guess as well as play. My life has been one big happy holiday, full I dropped the worry on the way, and God was Notice, he talks about dropping worry. He talks about play and work being merged And when he talks about God being good to or opportunities or the universe. This was written over 100 years ago. It was written by John D. Rockefeller, the ago. So, again, you notice a pattern here. I've noticed and I've noticed this with people Branson. I've spent a number of...I've been on his We've had a couple of deep conversations on And one of the things I ask him is, &quot;How do And he says, &quot;I make lots of list. That's it. No productivity tools, nothing. I just make lots of lists. When I wake up in the morning, I make a list And if you look at Richard's list, it's not work that morning. It's stuff such as launch an airline in Nigeria, mobile phone industry. It's epic, aspirational list. And another opportunity, I was with Richard What do you do when you're sad?&quot; And this is what he said, &quot;I can't remember I only remember the good things that happen And it's something else I notice about Branson, He has these crazy goals. He's one of the biggest thinkers I've ever And if you read his biographies, even in moments He bounces back really quickly. Donald Trump said the same thing. Donald Trump has amassed phenomenal wealth. He's also lost phenomenal wealth. But in his book, &quot;Goals,&quot; he talks about this He says it's one of the biggest ingredients And positive stamina is simply your ability your happiness from you failing to attain Happiness in other words creates success, Gary, would you stand up for a second? I love what it says on your shirt and I know Gary runs a 50-person company in Australia, best placed to work in Australia. Another awesome tribe member you want So that 11 commandments of happiness, right? How does this relate to what we are talking Well, if we look at it, it's about two things, Every talk, everything we do here at Awesomeness areas. That's why this isn't just a goal setting That's why we inject so much fun and happiness So, again, if you look at the item spirituality, body, having great social circles that inspire And aspiration, wealth, optimism, mission, future. Education really falls under both realms. Every talk, every speaker here at Awesomeness areas. So happiness in the now, how do we get there? What I'm going to teach you next are a couple work with your brain to elevate levels of hacks to elevate your aspiration. And in the next 30 minutes, what I'm hoping view your life and undo years of bad programming Okay? So the first thing is that you need to understand As human beings, our physical evolution is Now, here's what I mean. I want you all to raise your right hand. Go ahead. Now, take that right hand and wrap it around Great. Get a little cozy. Now I want you to gently take your left hand, neck. And if you don't know them, that's cool. It makes it even more awkward. Make a new friend. Now seriously, just take a deep whiff. If you want, you can massaged their head a Great. You can stop now. You can continue this tonight at the beach. Now let me ask you guys this. What did you smell? Anyone? Woman 1: Hair. Vishen: Hair? Okay. What else did you smell? Man 1: Cocoa butter. Vishen: Cocoa butter? Okay. What else? You smell love? Wow. Whoa there, stallion. Okay. What else did you smell? Okay. Well, see, the thing is if we've done this stank. One hundred years ago, on average, people if they were lucky. People did not spray on cologne or deodorant People stank. But in the last 100 years, we've learned to We wash our clothes after, you know, a single We shower every single day. We spray on all sorts of, like, chemicals Yet we forget to do the same thing to our So we'll wake up in the morning feeling stress to that particular day at work and we do nothing In other words, we wash our body but we fail And the funny thing is the mind wash or things negative energies or emotions is the best your level of happiness right now immediately. So how do you wash your mind? Well, there are a couple of ways. But the idea I want to introduce to you is staying happy on a daily basis is the most We call this blissipline. So how do you do this in the morning? A couple of things, you can do this...I recommend when you wake up. Number one is meditation, and you all know You can start by attending Tom and Nick's Number two, visualization. I often like to start the day just sitting perfect life unfolding. I like to spend three to four minutes visualizing Second, intention setting. Some people call this segment &quot;intending.&quot; And it's really the idea of when you start to unfold. You declare mentally in your head that you're gonna have an amazing lunch, that that project to the boss on time and he's going to be super that night or wonderful dinner and so on and It's as if you're practicing the idea that aspect of your life to unfold. Funny thing is the more you practice this, influencing your life. Once again, I can't explain how it works but Inspirational readings, I love...last year was a series of powerful book summaries to Inspirational readings are great. I love reading books summaries like &quot;Philosopher's of pages from a biography of someone who inspires in the day. Then there's &quot;mookie,&quot; which is morning nookie. It gets chemicals going. It makes you happy, strongly recommend it. Finally, there's gratitude, which is one of A study by a University in California showed every day, after 30 days in that study, you're that did not. In short, simple exercise 5 minutes a day It wasn't about boosting your salary by 25%. It wasn't about finding the new love of your It was the simple exercise of gratitude and, Now you don't hear much about studies like Instead you hear about situations such as, happy.&quot; Why? Because the pharmaceutical lobby, massive. The gratitude lobby, not so big. Okay? So one of my entrepreneurial mentors introduced His name is Dan Sullivan, right? It's just a really cool, cool idea that'll Because of all the ones I've suggested, gratitude do. So Dan Sullivan calls this &quot;the gap.&quot; Most people, if you look at this, they spend difference...sorry. They spend their lives focused on the gap, that they want and where they are now. Problem is if you're focused on that gap, want and where you are now, you tend to create But what Dan says is, &quot;If you want to be successful learn to appreciate where you are now compared So close your eyes for a moment. Think about where you were 1 or 2 or 3 years Think about where you are now. That's the reverse gap. And just think about how much you've grown, What you're just doing right now, whether for your last 1 year. It's a really simple concept. And Dan trains some of the best entrepreneurial He doesn't talk about business strategy. This, in fact, is one of his most important It's amazing how well this works. So Paulo Coelho... You can open your eyes now. Paulo Coelho, who's one of my favorite authors... Who else here is a Coelho fan? Great. So Paulo Coelho said this, &quot;There's one great Whoever you are, whatever it is that you do, that desire originated in the soul of the The soul of the world is nourished by people's When you want something, all the universe I love that quote. Here's why. Look at the last line, &quot;When you want something, to achieve it.&quot; Now you can interpret that any way you wish. I interpret it like this, that we and the universe to help bring those desires to us. But that last line is dependent on the second universe is nourished by people's happiness. Take away the happiness and it becomes harder So you see, we get it wrong. Success doesn't create happiness, happiness Does that make sense? So let's now give you a couple of mind hacks I'm going to give you my favorite mind hack. Okay? So the first thing to understand is that society What we think we want and what we truly want So what is it that we think we want? Well, from the time you're young, you're trained You need to get good grades. Then you need to make it into a good college. Then you need to get a good GPA. Then you need to get a job. You need to earn a decent wage. You need to save. You need to study something that'll hopefully You need to find a good woman or a man. You need to get married. You need to get kids. There are all these rules that society says The result is the fact that 95% of Americans they basically grow up with this belief that 50 years of their life so that they can someday like Cancun. But what if all of that is wrong? What if those were simply means goals? And if so those are means goals, and means What are end goals like? Well, end goals are the things that truly End goals are things such as studying something I studied computer engineering and I hated I actually got myself fired from Microsoft. What I wanted to be was an actor and a photographer. So in college, I failed at everything except I wasted 4 years of college because I was Because to me, I didn't see photography or I thought it was going to be getting a computer mistake. So the idea is you pursue. You forget the means. You go straight for the end. You go straight for the idea that there are you want to experience. Maybe it's amazing travel, maybe it's opportunities your life, maybe it's moving to South America end. I'll show you how in a moment. Okay? So why do so many of us end up there? It's because of this concept called brules. A brule is simply a bullshit rule. A rule that does not need to exist but society So what are brules? Well, firstly, remember this, outside the rules are illusions we have chosen to believe. Smash the ones that no longer apply to you. The only rules that are meant to exist are Everything else, a brule. I met a guy called Peter Diamandis once and who just refuses to play by the rules. Peter Diamandis started the XPRIZE Foundation. And he is the guy who helped move mankind Basically, what Peter did was he decided to $10 million and declared that this was gonna figure out a way to make private space travel They had to build a plane that could take space and land again. Someone did build that plane. It was acquired by Richard Branson. It became Virgin Galactic. And Peter Diamandis and the XPRIZE helped Now, Peter says, &quot;That's not enough.&quot; There's so much more he wants to do. So he's launched an XPRIZE for education to He's launched an XPRIZE to bring, like, fuel He's launched XPRIZES to solve all the world's But this is how Peter thinks, right? So when Peter first wanted to build the XPRIZE And I'm gonna read this out to you. &quot;I had tried to get on NASA's Zero G Plane I thought there must be a market for this. So we raised 500 grand. We walked into the California space authority They said, 'Regulations wouldn't allow a plane whose seat belts weren't strapped.' And I said, 'That's bullshit.' I proceeded in an 11-year effort to get permission Today, we have flown 300 flights, 12,000 customers.&quot; Amazing. Now, did Peter stop? No. This year in April, Peter launched Planetary It was all over the news, all over &quot;The Daily And that's the kind of man he is. Who says we can't mine asteroids just like That's what he's doing next. It's crazy cool. So what are your brules? What are the bullshit rules that you've chosen Is it the idea that maybe you need a master's a good job or you need to complete that law The pursuit of money is inherently bad. This brule holds so many people back from Money is frickin' amazing, yet we have been I had a guilt issue around money as well and College education is necessary. I don't think it is. In fact, one of the people in our audience, Michael, are you here right now? Okay. Michael's not here right now, but Michael of Millionaires,&quot; where he interviewed 100 And one of the common themes of the book is dropped out of college. It's a fascinating read. Aging is a part of life. I've met people who really believe that they what they are. Success equals hard work. Horrible brule. Success does not equal hard work. Do I look like I work hard? I actually don't. I'm in frickin' Cancun right now and this There's a masculine and feminine way of doing fact that I do not possess a penis or a vagina. In fact, we possess both. It's called a &quot;penina.&quot; And you can, you know, operate in a masculine Then one brule I really hate, be realistic In fact, there's a whole methodology of goal supposed to stand for something. I hate that methodology with a passion. The &quot;R&quot; in it is supposed to stand for realistic. Absolute rubbish. Do not be realistic. Realistic people forget this one thing, intuition. And this is very important when I teach you The idea is this, you do not need to know So when I met Branson, one of the things I your business partners?&quot; And he said this, &quot;I make up my mind about of meeting them.&quot; Within 60 seconds of shaking a person's hand, this person. Intuition. Now, Napoleon Hill in his book &quot;Think and has discovered how to increase the intensity with sources of knowledge not available through Sources of knowledge not available through That was written about 80 years ago before And then there's this quote from Walter Isaacson's This is describing Steve. &quot;Throughout his life, he would seek to follow the emphasis on experiential prajna, wisdom experienced through concentration of the mind.&quot; Steve Jobs seemed to believe in intuition it. In short, intuition, however, is easy. It's not a gift you're born with. There are some highly intuitive people. I know a couple in the audience here. But intuition is sparked when you know what to get there. So I make a habit of setting crazy goals without them and these goals start unfolding. So the idea that you need to set realistic encountered and it holds so many people back. Do not be realistic. Promise me you will never be realistic. I want you to raise your hand right now and Together: I will set unrealistic goals. Vishen: &quot;And I'll figure a way to get there.&quot; Together: And I'll figure a way to get there. Vishen: And that's really it. That's how it works. So what is an unrealistic goal? Well, here's a great quote and goal setting &quot;A good goal should scare you a little and So when you're writing down the goals in this stuff that discomfort you a little, should That's when you know you're pushing through But it should also excite you a lot, that's Okay? So now we're gonna get to that hack. You see, when it comes to goal setting, this it's a massive shortcut to goal setting. I call it the three most important questions. Now, many of you have done this. You've seen my video online or you did this Not a problem. You're gonna do it again because in the last ideas, additional visions and aspirations So take out an iPad or a notebook or a laptop we're gonna do. You're gonna make three list. That's it. No big deal, just three list. And you're gonna answer the following three And I'm gonna give you no more than three Okay? So the three questions are this, the first in this lifetime? Second question is, how do I want to grow? And the third question is, how do I want to Now, why are these questions important? Well, I believe that we are souls having a And let's think about that for a moment, right? Souls having a physical experience. So what exactly would the soul be craving? Experiences. And that's why the first question is about What are the experiences I want to have in Now, let's go onto the second two questions. Tony Robbins in an amazing TED talk said, six great needs and two really powerful spiritual And those two spiritual needs are the need And that's where question 2 and question 3 How do I want to grow, and how do I want to So when I think of goal setting, to me it's What do I want to experience? How do I need to grow? And how do I want to contribute? And remember you're going to answer these You're going to forget the idea that you may goal. You may not know how you're gonna learn to You may not know how you're going to build it doesn't matter. You're simply going to write down these goals. Okay? So let's start with the first question, and I'm gonna give you three minutes, you're gonna And three minutes may seem short but that's It's simply a way to get you started. You can come back to this list and expand And if you have your all list with you, that's Okay? So let's start with three minutes. Now, you really don't need more than three You already know. You've already thought about those experiences You've just never written them down because So assume you were blessed with luck. Assume the universe was conspiring on your Assume that you don't have to know how you're The answer will come to you through tapping Write down the experiences, the objects you'd And as you're writing this down, I'll toss Think about your love life, what would that Who do you want to wake up to in the morning? Think about your social life. Who are your friends? Who do you travel with? How do you spend your time with the most important Think about money. What are the objects you'd love to buy and Think about your travels. Where would you travel? What places would you visit? Okay. Stop writing. And remember you can go back to this list I just wanted to get you taking that first Who'd like to share one of the items they Yes. Mic one is all ready? Yep, just one second. Mic one is going to come up to you. Man 2: A Lamborghini. Vishen: Say that again. Man 2: A Lamborghini. Vishen: A Lamborghini. Awesome. Next. Jeff. Jeff: I want to experience the ecstasy of in an elevator. Woman 2: I want to create a self-sustaining for the rest of the country to see the different harmony with nature and the world. Vishen: Awesome. Gary. Woman 3: I'd like to have dinner parties with then we could cook together. I thought that just came to mind, so. Vishen: Gary. Gary: This thing on? A world full of people who are appreciative Vishen: Awesome. Thank you. And now we're going go on to the second question. How do you want to grow? Now, again, like Tony Robbins said, &quot;Growth And if we aren't growing, we are stagnating.&quot; So what you're gonna write down here, ideas your skills. I'm going to give you a few things to get So I've started the timer. Feel free to start writing. And as you're writing, I'll toss out some Health and fitness. What would you like your body to look like Would you run a marathon? Have a daily gym practice? Get some six packs? Be able to do a pectoral dance? Your spiritual life. How often would you meditate, pray? How deep do you want to get with your spiritual Your intellectual life. What books would you read? How many seminars would you attend? What new skills would you learn? Musical instruments of business skills or Okay. Let's have a few people share. Yes. Megan: My name is Megan. Hi, I'm Megan Jennifer. And one of the things that I really want to scales. I'm a violinist. And I've gotten out of practice, so I want increasing that skill set again for every Vishen: Awesome. Thank you. Man 3: Mine's really simple I want to live Vishen: I like that. Yes, right up front. Woman 4: I got it. Man 4: One of those ones I have no idea how level the nature of the universe. Vishen: Awesome. Right over there. Man 5: I would like to meet with, work with, on the planet. Woman 5: Thank you. I have many but one is to be an unconditionally for my grandson. Vishen: Awesome. So the last one. Man 6: I wrote sponge up all tech-savvy innovations Vishen: Awesome. Now we go onto the final question, right? And if you guys haven't figured it out by a bucket list. The final question is, how do you want to And, again, Tony Robbins said, &quot;Experiences, but fulfillment comes from giving.&quot; So what would you... You can contribute to your career by writing through your family life by raising great The Dalai Lama said it best, &quot;You're happy Okay? So start writing. What are the different ways you would want What gifts can you give? How would you elevate others? And you can contribute through time, money, or music that contribute to human creativity. And once again, we'll have a few people share. Yes. Man 7: Hi. I want to create a non-profit center that to be its best in mind, body, and spirit. Vishen: Right at the back there. Jessica: Hi, I'm Jessica. I would like to correct the misalignment between what the labor markets want by providing youth their potential, their leadership potential, dream jobs. Man 8: I want to help create societal change have a connection to the divine, and the Law responsibility for their bodies, their minds, Woman 9: I want to share with others concepts thinking that will allow freedom and power. Vishen: Awesome. Eduardo: My name is Eduardo I want to help wherever they are in the world. Vishen: Thanks, Eduardo. Last one. Woman 10: I'm on the same page but mine's commit to helping 10 women each to become Vishen: Thank you. Now I want you to remember this, your true a life, not a career. That's where society has it wrong. We are forced to go through these different end life look like. Now, what are the applications of this? Well, I use this list. I call it the three most important questions. I use this list in so many ways. If you were to walk into the Mindvalley office the world's biggest vision board. And we have the three most important questions with a picture of them, all 100 employees. And when I'm having lunch with one of my employees, bring that list. And now when you are sitting down with someone most important questions, this is amazing into their soul. You know exactly how they're looking to contribute, to grow. And it becomes a powerful management tool to the employee as well. And we also know what drives them, what motivates Now imagine if you did this with your sons I have a friend and many of you have heard He spoke at the first Awesomeness Fest, Sean And Sean told me that when he really wants like someone is becoming a close friend, he me a bucket list. That's the only way we're going to be friends,&quot; And this is really what you guys have done. But you've gone beyond just a mere bucket are stuffed with realistic goals, are stuffed but they failed to put the items that they That's a mistake. So what you've just created is a truly powerful hold onto and are probably going to consider you have in your life. I've seen amazing things emerge from this I do this with my team at every Mindvalley And 1, 2 years later, I'd have people showing the crazy places that they wrote down that they put down, like 24-year-olds who put down, 27 speaking at MIT. Those kind of things were happening. And again, none of these kids knew how to knew how to start their online business but And that really is what I want to teach you Welcome to awesome living. Thank you. Thanks.