Way out in the wilds of Central Asia, on the of a dying sea. For thousands of years, this sea was a lifegiver, Covering an area the size of Ireland, it was world. But then, in the middle of the 20th Century, An irrigation project went wrong, depriving In its place came toxic chemicals, poisons, Today, the sea is so deadly it's been called But you likely know it by another name: the disaster. Beginning in 1948, Moscow diverted water away The plan was to make Central Asia into a fertile Instead, it triggered an environmental catastrophe true toll. From an ancient oasis to a modern desert ravaged of the Aral Sea... and the bygone empire that The Ancient Sea the Great stood on the shores of the surging Behind him lay the vast swathe of land he Ahead lay an unknown frontier, a wilderness out as far as the eye could see. As Alexander stood at the farthest northern know that this wasn't the end of the world. That the river before him led not to empty it dominated the horizon. Today, we know that expanse as the Aral Sea. First appearing some 11,000 years ago, the mistake. At the very end of the Neogene Period - a just call it Long Ago BC - a depression formed Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. And there it remained for millions of years, until the Amu Darya decided to change course. Since time immemorial, the Amu Darya had flowed But now it began to flow instead into the As it flowed, the depression began to fill Began to look less like a depressing dip in ...and more like a lake. From this chance hydrological event, the Aral By the time Alexander the Great made it to the sea was one of the vastest lakes on Earth. You know Lake Biakal in Russia? A lake so famously large that it makes Loch Well the Aral Sea was over twice the size than Africa's Lake Victoria. As a result, it drew thousands upon thousands and Uzbeks to Kazakhs, lured in by the promise colonize. Yep, freshwater. Despite its name, the Aral Sea is not a sea but a regular lake with a salinity of around liter for your average ocean. Not exactly something you want coming out to survive. As for the islands; the Aral Sea is home to The name even comes from the Kyrgyz word Aral-denghiz, For ancient peoples, this fish-stuffed, island-filled As cultures flourished along its shores, it Road. But even in the dim and distant past, it was At some point in the Middle Ages, something the Sea. We're still not entirely sure what that or related to some external factor. Either way, the result was an apocalyptic Shorn of one of its inflows, the Aral Sea As it dried, it shrank, until entire shoreside from its waters. With the drying came economic catastrophe. By 1417, court historian Hafizi-Abru was able Thankfully, this spell of dryness didn't At some point in the 16th Century, the Aral By 1570, documents suggest that it had regained It was a historical near-miss, a moment when But it was also a warning to the future. A warning that the delicate ecology of the destroyed. Unfortunately, the future wasn't in the Here Come the Russians for the destruction of the Aral Sea, it's Voeikov was born in 1842, right around the that would bring the Aral Sea within the Russian But Voeikov wasn't a soldier or a politician. He was a climatologist. One who developed a bizarre dislike for the Because the Aral Sea has no outflow and is seems to have taken offense to its very existence, a "mistake of nature." But what could Voeikov do about it? When he died in 1916, the lake remained; an But Voeikov's writings survived. What's more they influenced a whole generation. A generation who would soon be running the Cut ahead to 1948. In the years after Voeikov died, Imperial tasted independence, and then were absorbed Soviet Socialist Republics. Alongside this geopolitical shakeup, Lenin of state-engineered famines, purges, and other the empire. And now Stalin wanted to go even further than He wanted to mould the landscape itself. The Great Plan for the Transformation of Nature the "non-productive" areas of the empire. "Non-productive" in this case meaning inland seas supporting fishing villages - stuff kinda productive". But Uncle Joe preferred a definition of "productive" lives, but vast plantations making Moscow And so it was that a network of irrigation feeding the Aral Sea, diverting water for Initially, these new Central Asian farms of much. There was just so much water, how could humans And even if they did, who cared? The people running the Soviet Ministry of If the Aral Sea was a "useless evaporator" to better use? This toxic attitude prevailed even as Khrushchev his own Virgin Lands Campaign. It prevailed even as irrigation channels criss-crossed it was a miracle the sea survived. Yet, survive it did. As 1960 dawned, the Aral Sea was in rude health. Stretching 435km north to south, and 290km economies. Fishing villages dominated its shores. There were wetlands, river deltas, hidden Local towns thrived, too, like Aralsk, or Were you to stand on the shorelines back then, boats, watched the children swimming, and that would last forever. Sadly, that wasn't the case. By 1960, the Water Ministry knew the Aral spine was one single straw away from snapping. They could stop digging irrigation ditches maintaining a living lake while also growing But "a decent amount" simply wasn't The leadership wanted more white gold. Eyes wide open, still loyally quoting Voeikov, be dug, yet more flow diverted. Although they knew what they were doing, they to be felt. Generations, even. They were wrong. The Dying Sea In the summer of 1967, word began to go around was wrong. As a center of caviar exports, the locals in. The Aral Sea had been sustaining life here But now something was happening. Almost before their eyes, the residents could shoreline, leaving the town behind. Those locals had no way of knowing it, but a coalmine to check for leaking gas. And the agonizing death of their economy would Over the next few years, the effects of water By 1973, some of the wetlands and deltas had By 1980, the rivers feeding the sea were starting soar to 40C. But it was over the next decade that the effects As the 1980s wore on, the shores of the Aral They moved slowly at first, then quicker and two hours' journey from the nearest fish. As the waters receded, the 1,000 islands the first becoming peninsulas, and then just outcrops One of these former islands was Aralsk-7, scientists engineered weaponized Plague. As you'll know if you've watched our video that the Aral Sea's waters would stop its And now the sea was gone, leaving nothing of Kazakh villages. By 1987, the drying was so bad that there Instead, the waters split in two, creating and a larger South Aral Sea mostly in Uzbekistan. As these two seas shrank, the salinity of per liter to 110. In this toxic environment, fish began to die Come 1992, the combined area of the North half the area they'd once covered. The good news was that, come 1992, the Ministry And neither was the Soviet Union. The USSR had collapsed in 1991, ending the Unfortunately, the successor governments had of economic ruin without the cotton, and so And so, the Sea slowly died. By 2002, the South Aral Sea had subdivided As the 21st Century dawned, towns sustained some 90km from the water. Between them and the receding shore lay nothing hulks of abandoned ships. Faced with ruin, the people living around Those who could, fled. Those who couldn't sank into poverty, illness, Come 2010, the East Aral Sea was barely a In 2014, it dried up entirely. In five decades, Soviet mismanagement had of. It had killed the "useless evaporator," the Middle Ages. But it wasn't just the lack of water that There's a reason some refer to the Aral Like Chernobyl, it was a disaster made of Like Chernobyl, it left behind a ghost town And, like Chernobyl, it was a disaster that The Wasteland of interviews with locals living around the One of them, Yusup Kamalov from the lakeside as follows: like," he said, "If we ever have Armageddon, ones who will survive, because we are already The Armageddon he was referring to was more Although photos of the dried seabed littered the reality of living there is anything but. As the sea dried, it left behind ground that While the Soviet water scientists had predicted remained loose, at the whims of the lightest The result is salt storms that can blow up you feel deathly ill. But the painful concentrations of salt are The dust storms also blow deadly quantities All are known to cause cancer after prolonged In the years of the dead Aral Sea, cancer times the world average. Those who escape cancer are felled by respiratory tuberculosis. In short, the air around the Aral Sea is toxic And even those who escape these deadly dust So many chemicals have been dumped into the ago, that every part of the food chain has If you want a single, depressing statistic corner of the world, you should know that highest on Earth - growing steadily since Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. All in all, it's a disaster area. A place inimical to human life. And it gets worse. When the Sea vanished, the effect on the local From somewhere that experienced relatively somewhere that the weather Gods seem to have Nowadays, temperatures swinging wildly between and burning this once-fertile land into a It this hostile world, one of the few things Plague, which occasionally causes minor outbreaks. While we're not definitely tying the ongoing region to the abandoned Soviet bioweapons are saying it's a spooky coincidence. And that, really, is the Aral Sea today. A forgotten, toxic world festering in Central lake are devastated towns and sick and penniless According to scientists, the chances of the are vanishingly remote. The Aral Sea, it seems, is dead. At least, in Uzbekistan it is. Earlier, we mentioned that when the Aral Sea and the south in Uzbekistan. While the unfolding disaster has continued said for its northern neighbor. Unlikely as it seems, our video today isn't and despair, although there has been plenty It's also a story of hope. Time for us to venture upwards at last to haven't just been stopped. They've been actively reversed. Hope Springs Eternal 1994, chances are you'd have predicted a At that point, the North Aral Sea was drying And a meeting that year between Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan on preserving the two rivers feeding But while things would get worse over the get better. In the early 2000s, Kazakhstan presented the Aral Sea's decline. With the Sea's catastrophic death headline $87m, likely expecting it would help slow But, to everyone's surprise, the Kazakhs The first step was to completely sever the Until the mid-2000s, a narrow channel ran Kazakhstan to Uzbekistan. The Kazakh government decided that, rather one to save the other. A vast dyke known as the Kokaral dam was built waters in Kazakhstan. At the same time, a massive cleanup operation same river Alexander the Great had stood beside, When the work was completed in 2005, scientists the North Aral Sea. To everyone's shock, the water level rose As the North Aral Sea slowly refilled, its Shores that had been salt-swept desert sank The waters got closer and closer again to As the 2010s got underway, the Kazakh government died when the salinity levels went through Not only did the fish survive. They thrived. Around the same time that the East Aral Sea Sea reopened to fishermen. Villagers who'd last caught fish in the time in decades. Sons of those fishermen who'd only ever first experiences in a boat. From a dead industry, fishing in the North make a living. You can see the effects most clearly in the A one-time port city, Aralsk slumped into hold. In the depths of the crisis, this fishing salty no fish could live in it. By 2018 - the closest date we could get accurate 17km from the edge of town. With the water came bream, pike-perch, and From abandoning all hope, the older generation day the waters return to Aralsk's docks. But for that to happen, a few more miracles While the North Aral Sea is today thriving, can. The Kokaral dam is too small to hold any more of cubic meters are now lost every year. It's estimated that merely adding another enough water to allow the North Aral Sea to Enough to perhaps at last turn Aralsk back At time of writing, there was no deadline The Kazakh government was giving nothing more But hopefully it will happen soon. Hopefully the elderly fishermen in Aralsk at the docks, as alive as they remember it If that happened... well. It might just qualify as a miracle. The story of the Aral Sea, then, is actually Soviet Sea turning into desert; and one about But more than that, it's a tale about choices. About how we can look at habitat destruction to either turn a blind eye and accept the and do something about it - no matter what The recovery of the North Aral Sea hasn't where it once was. But hope has returned, bringing with it a And if we can save a sea as contaminated and Then maybe, just maybe, there's hope for