okay, to be clear, I'm not talking about this isn't about how many Mario games there games there are. within the Mario franchise, there's a distinction and "spinoffs". so like, which games are how many games are actually in the mainline no, really, I promise this is an interesting actually, you know what, hey, if you're know which Mario games are part of the mainline count how many there are. you don't have to post a comment with your of which games you consider to be the main got it? cool, so for everyone else, I guess I'm going to assume you already know like, also already know that there's a series that's the Super Mario series. but, despite being an incredibly popular series which games are part of it. and by no consensus, I mean absolutely no if you look at Wikipedia, the Super Mario and the official American Super Mario website, lists of games. so like, what's the deal with that? this of all time. how can there be so much disagreement about, I'm jan Misali, and how many Super Mario first of all, does this question even make "Super Mario series" as though it's between "Mario games" and "Super Mario personally, I think it does, but a lot of see, as research for this video, I conducted games they consider to be part of this series, I'll be citing the results from this survey one of the most interesting things was just Mario series" as being synonymous with the a lot of people down in the "other" option Kart or the Mario Party games to be part of Mario Odyssey and the like. others said that "Super Mario games" are the title, so most Mario Kart and Mario Party and Super Mario Party do. just to be as clear as possible, the series is one of many series of games within the it's the series of (mostly) platformers and all of its sequels. there's a lot of different names people series", "the mainline Mario series", however, the most common name seems to be what I'm calling it. so, now that I've hopefully cleared up what to actually listing games. I'll start with the fully uncontroversial are part of the series. to be clear, when I skip a game in this list, part of the Super Mario series, it's just group of people who don't think it's part we'll come back to the ones I skipped soon, each one. this list is just a baseline of games that the fully uncontroversial games in the series 3, Super Mario World... ...and that's it! it's just those three Mario 1, 3, and World. every other Mario game is at least somewhat series or not. now, when I first started this project, I three games are the only ones basically everyone that's part of why I did that survey, just with that, and it was extremely validating are the only ones that fewer than 5% of respondents of course, that isn't to say that all three Super Mario series. I mean, okay, Super Mario Bros. definitely I think if someone says the Super Mario series either lying or not talking about the same but for the other two, you definitely could they wouldn't be very convincing arguments, but you could. and naturally, I don't think there's anyone Mario series" of games exists, and two, however, there are a couple big groups of considered separate from the mainline Super first is the 3D games. the split between 2D and 3D Super Mario games number of people, as in over 5% of the people 3D games as a rule to be separate from the although, exactly what the 3D games are if some consider all 3D Super Mario games to it up further. the pairs Galaxy and Galaxy 2 or 3D Land and series in their own right. the 3D collectathons Mario 64, Sunshine, and called a separate series and excluded, or form of 3D Mario, with all other 3D Mario although, the Galaxy games sometimes get grouped games that get excluded for not being true there's another interesting nuance with some people, though not many, consider Galaxy of the two Galaxy games as one thing. however, for the 3D Places, it's more common even though 3D Land came first. this is, I think, not a case of the two games but rather a case of home console purism, for a game to count as a mainline Super Mario games like 3D Land don't count. this isn't a super common opinion, especially between console and handheld games kinda arbitrary, number of people! the other set of games that's almost always New Super Mario Bros. series. this one is pretty straightforward: around to be a distinct series, separate from the however, as before, there is nuance here. home console purism is relevant once again, handheld systems. New Soup Wii is the most commonly included for reasons I do not fully understand, the was included by fewer respondents to my survey Soups, including New Super Mario Bros. 2 for consider New Soup 2 to be a Super Mario game, I have literally no idea why that's the I know, the reasons you're thinking of right was those too, but from analyzing the data out. it isn't a case of misplaced home console don't count but don't know that New Soup it can't be that because about 70% of people also included Super Mario Land. it's also not just a portion of the respondents within this group, every single one of them included Mario 3. their most-included games, aside from New group, line up with the general population, just picking games randomly. it's also not people who think that "New Mario Bros. Wii, the second New Super Mario included this game also included New Soup I also don't think it's entirely explained Super Mario Bros. (DS)" refers to. New Soup 1 was included significantly less described themselves as "experts" on the and like, this is not an obscure game. New Soup DS sold over 30 million copies. so like, what the heck? who are these people? what is their reasoning? my best guess is that that, since I put "DS" on the survey, they assumed that this is a about it. looking at what other games this group is a lot of other games with parenthetical console I don't know though, I don't think that games in general don't know that the first the DS. maybe it's just because I was the out that all my friends were in the target is better known among people I know than it anyway, with those games, we now have the Mario 1, Mario 3, World, 64, Sunshine, New New Soup 2, New Soup U, 3D World, and Odyssey. these fourteen games are all included by almost some of them to be separate. cool, we can now move on to the games where first of all, there's a pretty obvious gap "where's Mario 2?" I hear you ask. I mean, you're probably not asking that, single most well-known piece of video game people who don't know this already but somehow be watching at this point, there's two separate just for the sake of clarity, I'll be calling aren't "Super Mario Bros. 2". so, the 2" in Japan is "Super Mario Bros.: The "Super Mario Bros. 2" in America is "Super annoying and pretend that they think "the USA" are two separate games, as though the Bros. 2 and the Famicom game Super Mario USA differences for literally any other NES/Famicom deal with it! anyway, yeah, pretty much everyone includes include both, and what I had expected would people who say Lost Levels is the real Mario real Mario 2. and while that is technically don't think either Mario 2 is part of the more of them than I had anticipated. in fact, there's slightly more people who Mario game than people who said Mario USA I think it's understandable why more people the history of the two games that you've and excluding the Lost Levels makes some amount Mario 1 again but with different levels. but what's really interesting is how this on this topic. the official Nintendo of Japan Mario website Mario series, which most people agree with. the same is true on Wikipedia and the Super Mario website claims that Super Mario USA this is the least commonly held opinion about the one that you'll find at supermario.com. to be fair, it makes sense that Nintendo of from their perspective, The Lost Levels is they're the ones who lost these levels in like this game is completely nonexistent outside it was one of the games remade in Super Mario Bros. Deluxe, it was released on Virtual Console the Nintendo Entertainment System Nintendo and that said, most people do still agree this next pair of games, on the other hand, it. I'm talking, of course, about the Super the Mario Lands are a special case in the they're included more often than not, but the other games we've listed so far. Mario Land 1 was included by about 80% of by around two thirds of respondents. there's a few reasons why these games are the first is, again, home console purism. Game Boy, after all. but it's not that simple, of course. as early handheld games, the Mario Lands have Marios from the time, mostly due to the limitations Mario Land 1 in particular was really janky. it was one of the very first games developed development team had any experience yet. another major contributing factor is that when Super Mario games were still being numbered. in Japan, Super Mario Land was released between it was released between Mario 2 and Mario so, that's a clear separation between these the other big factor is the existence of Wario Wario was first introduced in Super Mario Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 featured the Land came a full new series of games starring almost half of respondents to my survey said 2 to be Super Mario games, but not Wario Land. the other two most common opinions on the that none of the Mario Lands are Super Mario games, including Wario Land, are Super Mario most of the other respondents said that Super 6 Golden Coins or Wario Land. are these people game means that Mario Land 2, not 3, is the definitely possible. however, I think it's more likely that people this is one of the lesser known Mario games, 1 and say that its gameplay is similar enough would have to agree that Mario Land 2 is a before we move on, I think I should talk a why do most people who consider the Mario not consider Wario Land to be part of it as 3" after all, so on paper it should count. the most obvious thing about it is that Mario you don't play as Mario, you play as Wario, game. and, of course, there's sequels to Wario Land is very clearly a whole series please keep these facts in mind, they're for now, we have a list of Super Mario games it's all the games we had before, plus both personally, I would say this list is complete. there are eighteen Super Mario games, simply a clear majority of people (over two thirds) in fact, this exact list was the single most now, that isn't to say that this list represents there is no consensus. even though this was the most common list of everyone who responded to the survey. while most people's idea of the Super Mario personal list deviates from it slightly. I intend to present the full range of ways and even though I have now given the list of the Super Mario series, there are still we are now ready to get into the games where are part of the series or not. at the time of writing, the most recently describe as a "Super Mario game" is Super cartridge includes two games: the Switch port so, what's up with Bowser's Fury? this isn't the most ambiguous game in terms is the one I'm personally most unsure of. here's the main points for and against it. Bowser's Fury does not exist as a standalone you cannot just get Bowser's Fury, you have so, in terms of what the product itself is, the the Switch port of 3D World. but like, why is that important? it's clearly it's two games included on one cartridge, with Duck Hunt. however, Super Mario Bros. and Duck Hunt were that's not the case for Bowser's Fury. Bowser's Fury is built off of the 3D World but the gameplay is significantly different; course-clear platformer. Bowser's Fury is more different from 3D or The Lost Levels is from Super Mario Bros.. however, it should be emphasized again that it is one half of "Super Mario 3D World it "half" is generous. Bowser's Fury is clearly a different game the whole package? on the survey, I included two separate options by itself, and another for 3D World + Bowser's most people selected at least one of those in fact, the two options collectively were 2. however, between the two different options, the least common opinion was that Bowser's not the bundle, and the most common opinion are Super Mario games. so, you could argue that this suggests that its own is not a Super Mario game, but that World is. that said, it's not very clear, and I'm about it beyond my own opinion, which is that it shouldn't count. there is one more game which is ambiguous game or not, and this one is arguably an even New Super Luigi U. this game was first released in 2013 as DLC same year, it was released as a standalone New Super Mario Bros. U + New Super Luigi on one disk. then in 2019, a port of New Super Mario Bros. called New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, a title that refers to a console the game is not for, famous video game character, and the word unlike Bowser's Fury, New Super Luigi U game. but also unlike Bowser's Fury, that standalone Bros. U, but with different levels. and yeah, you could say the same thing about similarities between Luigi U and Mario U are but still, a lot of people say the different for Luigi U to be counted as a separate game, course, there's another sillier argument you're not playing as Mario in New Super can't be a Mario game. remember, this was one of the key points against between these uh, four(?) versions of New two separate Super Mario games, right? I mean, I certainly think so. as you probably most people either said that all four of them Bros. U is a Super Mario game and that the that. I would like to focus on the third-largest exactly two of these versions of New Soup this group is split almost evenly between that set are Mario U and Luigi U, and people U Deluxe, with just slightly more people in I don't really understand this viewpoint, Super Mario game from New Super Mario Bros. the bundle that U Deluxe is a port of. that said, this is actually Nintendo's official America website and the Nintendo of Japan Super Mario series include New Super Mario my own take is that Luigi U and Bowser's being separate Super Mario games without actually these games are both incomplete without the Luigi U technically also exists as a standalone that said, I completely understand the viewpoint and I have changed my opinion on this matter video. New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe and Super Mario edge cases. but the funny thing is, there's another a new version of an older game that's included that game is Super Mario 64 DS. this makes sense to me. 64 DS has tons of new content, with new graphics, mechanics, and so on. I would say that remakes in general shouldn't is a pretty strong argument you could make the original to be thought of as a distinct it's pretty clearly more different from is from New Super Mario Bros. U + New Super Mario 64 DS is one of the handful of Super consider to have enough new things to be counted in general shouldn't count. New Super Luigi U and Bowser's Fury are but the question is, where do you draw the how different do two games need to be to be series has seen plenty of remakes, rereleases, many of these add new content to the games so, when enumerating the Super Mario games, this is a case where the limitations of a interpreting the data difficult. many people, myself included, would say that are definitely Super Mario games, but they're so, how people respond to the question depends the other remakes that are most commonly counted Mario Bros. Deluxe, and the Super Mario Advance each of these has a substantial amount of All-Stars is a full remake of four separate entries into the mid-90s. notably, this was outside of Japan. Deluxe is a port of Mario 1 and The Lost Levels to play these classic games on a screen that's there's also a decent amount of new content, Boo side mode. the Super Mario Advance games are where things these are four Game Boy Advance ports of different two of them are ports of games originally two are ports of individual remakes from Super there's a whole range of how much new stuff the same as the SNES originals, but with new the one that has the most new stuff is Super wow, Nintendo is, good at naming things. Advance 4 was the first Super Mario game to archaic way possible. there was this card reader accessory for the cards that stored the data of individual levels it was this whole convoluted process, and nobody I knew had an e-Reader so I never played they were included in the Wii U port of this honestly, I think that if someone thinks New should count as separate Super Mario games reason not to also include Super Mario Advance at it. the rest of these remakes don't have as entries in the Super Mario series depends as a unique game. is it original levels? then Super Mario games. naturally, there are several other remakes of as separate games; it's mostly just these Super Mario games, unless again they consider I'm not sure if that's because of people that differ the most from their corresponding familiarity with some of the more obscure I'll talk about those obscure games later, games that haven't been brought up yet. of the NES/Famicom games, Mario World, Yoshi's Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island is the in this series. opinion surrounding this game is split almost is a Super Mario game, and the other 51% saying Wikipedia says this game is part of the Super it isn't. who's right, and why are so many other people here's the main argument in favor of including first of all, it's called "Super Mario practically everyone agrees that Mario World Yoshi's Island is a direct sequel to Mario additionally, multiple developers who worked consider the game to be part of the core Mario so, that settles it, right? primary source directly saying what the game but, hold on, right, because remember, there's lists of Super Mario games. and both Nintendo of Japan and Nintendo of Island. so then, what's the case against Yoshi's well, the biggest factor is that Yoshi's you're not playing as Mario, you're playing of Yoshi games, including multiple direct the way I see it, there's five different to the Super Mario series. option one, you could say that Yoshi's Island it's part of the completely separate Yoshi option two, you could say that yeah, there thing from the Super Mario series, but Yoshi's part of the Super Mario series instead. option three, you could say that Yoshi's the Yoshi series. nothing stopping a game from being in two option four, you could say that there is no Mario series. the two series are one and the same. and option five, you could say that yes, Yoshi's the Super Mario series, but it's also a Super Mario World is also part of the Yoshi wait, do you hear that? oh hey, it's Wario Land again! hi there, position to Yoshi's Island. both games have titles that suggest that they're different gameplay styles, and both games separate series of games. so, those five different analyses of Yoshi's Land. and there's a lot of great insights first of all, there's no reason why someone if you think Yoshi's Island is a Super Mario irrational to not also think that Wario Land second, it's actually really common for the first two Mario Lands can't be part is almost never applied to Super Mario World, now, my survey didn't include any Yoshi's since the list of Super Mario games I used about the series. however, a significant number of people wrote Island or Wario Land sequels to be part of so then, is Yoshi's Island a Super Mario what's the correct answer here? well, obviously, there isn't a correct answer. it's all subjective, you can choose to analyze personally, I don't think it should count, disagree with that, which is completely okay. how open to interpretation this is. that's like, the whole point of this video. I don't want to just give you one list of answer, my goal here is to present the tools was that a good transition? I'm talking about Mario Maker now. most people agree that the Mario Maker games there is still a lot of ambiguity surrounding interestingly, Maker and Maker 2 are two of Mario Wiki, and the two Nintendo websites the main thing going against the Maker games while the Mario Makers do feature traditional isn't really the main appeal; the main appeal so, the Mario Makers are often classified however, another way you can think about these contain extensive level editors. both Mario Makers have selections of original could theoretically play either of them without any yourself. Mario Maker 2 is slightly more fleshed out be described as a "story mode". and, if you're thinking of the Mario Maker with the games themselves, then technically, Mario Maker for Nintendo 3DS. about a year after Mario Maker 1 was released this is, practically speaking, just a worse you couldn't upload levels online, you could the Wii U version. of course, this is now true for the original anyway, one thing this 3DS port has that the which features a set of 100 completely new so, if that's the defining thing that makes Mario Maker is a different game from Mario but like, that's obviously missing the point Super Mario Maker, I don't think most people 2's story mode. these games are about making random people online. and as for whether playing courses or making I mean, it's open for interpretation. all analyses of these games are valid. there's no clear answer here, it could go who's to say for sure what the focus of it's hard to say one way or th- oh yeah, remember Super Mario Run? you know, big sources for lists of Super Mario games but is it? very few people seem to think so. Nintendo 64DD sequel to Super Mario 64. it's but there's more agreement that this game some of the games I was comfortable saying so, okay, why isn't this game a Super Mario Nintendo has officially referred to it as enough? much like the Maker games, genre plays an while Super Mario Run is definitely a game platforms and the word "Super" in the it's an auto-runner game, like Temple Run Joy Ride? it's- it's one of those games. it's a whole established genre of mobile that's closer to these games than it is of a 2D platformer. but does that actually matter? I mean, a whole bunch of games in this series consider that to be a reason to exclude them. is there something about auto-runners that what Super Mario games are "supposed" another factor is an updated version of the Super Mario Run is a mobile game, it's not I disagree with this mindset, but it is a a lot of subtler things that this overlaps Super Mario Run was never released physically, hardware, stuff like that. I think wholesale disregarding mobile games get why Run in particular is generally not series. the thing with Mario Run not being made for point, actually, since there's a few other Super Mario Bros. Special is a sequel to Super Mario Bros. developed computers. on the surface, it looks kinda like a port one, but it's not. it's a new game made with Mario 1's assets, this game is really weird. it was officially licensed, but beyond that in any way. it's a relic from an era before Nintendo as they are now. so hey, is this game part of the Super Mario its gameplay is about as faithful to Mario were working on, but the fact that it wasn't hard to justify calling it part of the actual but like, who cares what company owns the from? that's not how art works. sure, Nintendo might be the copyright holder actually made by corporations, they're made that said, uh, no, nobody who worked on Super Special also worked on Mario 1. but also, most Super Mario games weren't were credited as programmers for Mario 1. Toshihiko Nakago hasn't been a programmer hasn't been a programmer for a Mario game a Mario game, then it was 1993. (also, Toshihiko Nakago was credited as uh, the New Soup games released in 2012? I don't know how much work that actually as being a programmer.) anyway, while I don't really like using count, basing it on what specific developers real Super Mario game was Mario 64, since any sort of actual active role in the development Producer" or "Supervisor" or "Game so, for Super Mario Bros. Special, the hardware the game was made for that differentiates it from the "canon" but even that feels like a strange thing to like, seriously, the main reason to consider Special to not be part of this series is just like, maybe if some developer Nintendo granted managed to capture the same feeling as the games would be harder to dismiss. and naturally, I can't talk about Mario bringing up Hotel Mario. MARIO: you know what they say, all toasters MISALI: Hotel Mario is a game for the CD-i and published by Royal Philips Electronics. it's mostly remembered for its animated of youtube poop. it's an arcade-style platformer, Mario was Super than it is to any of the Super that said, it is still a platformer game starring I didn't include Hotel Mario in my survey, comes from this article on the Super Mario nonetheless, Hotel Mario was one of the most with some specifying that they were only doing that they're not doing this as a joke. now, I did include a different CD-i game on as Hotel Mario. years before Hotel Mario was released, a sequel the CD-i. this game was going to be called it was in development for about half a year so, is Super Mario's Wacky Worlds a Super to Super Mario World, and the player character at least as much of a Super Mario game as the only problem is that this game doesn't it was never finished or released. if it had been finished, it could have been it wasn't. all that exists of it is this Super Mario's Wacky Worlds isn't the only that was never finished. it's joined by a Virtual Boy Mario Land to Super Mario 64 for the Nintendo 64DD. I think most people would say that none of like, who cares that they would have been there's infinitely many Super Mario games so, unless you're satisfied with that, then existence for a game to be part of this series. so, let me ask a different question. is Super Mario Bros. 35 a Super Mario game? Super Mario Bros. 35 was an online multiplayer created for Switch as part of the 35th anniversary this game doesn't exist. it did exist for a while, but it doesn't the game was taken offline and made completely is there a difference between Mario 35 and it? there's a couple different relevant things the more significant one, I think, is that at one point, even though it's impossible the other is that unlike those unreleased game. it was a different version of Super Mario notably, the official Japanese Mario website Super Mario series, but the official American Mario 35 is not the only Super Mario game also made for the 35th anniversary of the of slightly updated ports of three 3D Super this too was only available for a limited however, this game still exists. you can't buy it from Nintendo anymore, you can still buy physical copies second-hand if the requirement for a game existing is its original publisher, most video games don't yet, there are other Super Mario games that impossible to play legally, due to being released since been taken offline. these are the games released for the Satellaview. the Satellaview was an add-on for the Super in" to games that were broadcasted through you could only download games that were currently for a limited time. BS Super Mario USA was a slightly altered USA, released episodically, with four weekly throughout April 1996. while the gameplay was mostly identical to of the satellite broadcast format, featuring acting. [Mario speaking in Japanese] see, it wasn't just a game. BS Super Mario USA was also a radio drama, and stuff could happen in the game to line it's such a wild concept, it's almost it's a shame that none of this stuff has none of the Satellaview games have. the other Super Mario game broadcasted through IN-GAME VOICE: BS Super Mario Collection! MISALI: this was the Satellaview version of in four weekly installments in January 1998, second and third being different parts of like BS Super Mario USA, it featured new music original gameplay elements, like this completely the Satellaview games were a bizarre period anymore, just like Super Mario Bros. 35. but, for the brief windows when it was possible part of the Super Mario series? and, if so, series today? luckily for me, I don't consider remakes games, so the status of these ethereal games games I think there are one way or the other. but like, surely, these games are at least games as New Super Mario Bros. U Deluxe, right? and, on that topic, I guess we're back to the question of how for it to count as a separate game. I've already mentioned most of the games but there's still several more. Super Mario All-Stars has been released a the Satellaview and Game Boy Advance versions content, but other versions are really just there was that time it was bundled with a World on the SNES, and there was also the ROM on a Wii disk. and, honestly, All-Stars and Mario 64 DS are completely comfortable calling full remakes other people will draw the line in other places, outside of the remakes already discussed, are pretty unambiguously not separate games. the various Virtual Consoles, the Nintendo of Mario 1 and Lost Levels, the Classic Mini Mario 1 and The Lost Levels specifically have I've already talked about the Game Boy Color the Game Boy Advance versions, but there's to be considered separate games. one notable one is the arcade version from Super Mario Bros.. it might look like yet version, for instance, but it has several design. its levels are mostly from Mario 1 with minor are from The Lost Levels instead, and the in originally. it's also the game this version of the Mario much more obscure is All Night Nippon Super ROM hack of The Lost Levels that replaces celebrities who had appeared on the radio it's kinda like VS. Super Mario Bros. in some ways. the levels are taken from both Mario 1 and mostly Lost Levels instead of mostly Mario the levels are in a different order again, layout. I don't really know what to make of this so I don't have to bear this knowledge alone. oh right, and I can't forget the most recently the 35th anniversary Game &amp; Watch: Super Mario I guess this handheld is kinda like Mario Lost Levels separately, with some random extra that said, I don't think any of those new game". it's definitely less of a new game Super Mario Bros. or uh, or the other one. in contrast to Game &amp; Watch: Super Mario Bros., (Game &amp; Watch). unlike Game &amp; Watch: Super Mario Bros., Super (Game &amp; Watch) is a very different game from in fact, there's really no ambiguity with Super Mario Bros. (Game &amp; Watch) is very clearly not the same but is it a Super Mario game? it is a platformer, and it has "Super Mario" in the title. Game &amp; Watch games are often ignored when I absolutely believe that these pocket-sized be overlooked. but uh, are Game &amp; Watches video games? like, isn't a video game a game, with video? Game &amp; Watches don't have video, not really. I mean, the fake new promotional Game &amp; Watches not talking about those. okay, here's a question. if we say Super Mario Bros. (Game &amp; Watch) is a Super Mario game, what (Game Watch)? you know, the Nelsonic Game BDG: you say Zelda Game &amp; Watch, what about that's right, the Nelsonic Zelda Game Watch. MISALI: yeah, it's that. the Nelsonic Game Watches were these watches different thing from what the Game &amp; Watches on Mario games. it's very hard to find literally anything at all about the Nelsonic Game Watch games series? also, fun fact, one of these is based on Super internationally as "Super Mario Bros. 4", was officially sold outside of Japan with this wristwatch that I can't find any good dedicated article on the Super Mario Wiki, but wait! BDG: you say Super Mario Bros. Game &amp; Watch and you say Game &amp; Watch Super Game Watch, what about the Super Mario Bros. Watch? that's right, MISALI: the McDonald's Happy Meal Super Watch. is this part of the Super Mario series?? games canon or not??? can somebody please Catch, Luigi's Hammer Toss, and Princess there are so many of these games is the thing. you have no idea how massive the Mario franchise if your idea of "the Super Mario series" are hundreds of Super Mario games, and we're it doesn't make sense to say that the Super that said, we can go further with this without also a Super Mario game. I've already gone over all the ones I included categories that- oh, wait, I haven't gone over all the ones Captain Toad: Treasure Tracker was also on Treasure Tracker was the game that the fewest which makes perfect sense, I absolutely agree. the reason it's listed by the Super Mario a full game version of something that started but it's still really weird that the Wiki the Super Mario series, but not Super Princess Hotel Mario. like, come on, at least Wikipedia's Super Super Princess Peach a major spin-off! although, also calls Yoshi's Island, not, a spinoff. so uh- there's a few specific categories that some Super Mario series. earlier, I dismissed the idea of someone calling series, but it's not that out there. I disagree, I think calling these different worse ways you could talk about the Super unrelated, a lot of people consider the RPGs once again, I think this is a case where an series just makes more sense, but I can see Super Paper Mario gets a special mention, "Super" and "Mario" in the title. also, for some reason, a lot of people brought I'm assuming that's mostly a joke, but included write-in game for the survey, with I guess some of the edutainment games are Mario's Time Machine looks vaguely like so uh, sure, this one could work, I guess. another big group is platformers from before arcade game and its blatantly anticapitalist case, since they are the games that "Super of. granted, the Game &amp; Watch original isn't strong here. it is not hard to argue that Super Mario Bros. one of these two unrelated games with the there's also some other non-Super Mario uh, I'm not going to list all of them here to turn into just a list of every single game will yell at me in the comments if I don't the other extremely significant Mario game the game Mario first appeared in. I think the separation between the Donkey pretty clear, but it's still important to to include it. the main point I want to make against Donkey than simply the first Mario game) is that be traced back to Donkey Kong. like, is Donkey Kong also the first Mario I think the analysis that makes the most sense of the Donkey Kong series. the connection of being the same genre (platformer) is enough. obviously, a lot of people disagree with that, if you want to argue that every platformer Super Mario series, please do. I just want you to be aware of exactly what lot of platformers. the Donkey Kong series in particular has a sure, this game may be a platformer where Donkey Kong 3 definitely aren't. and that's Country series. I think the most interesting rabbit hole here I think a lot of people who don't know about arcade game, but it's not. it's a full sequel, with like a hundred its scope is honestly really impressive. and yes, this is a platformer game where you qualify as a Super Mario game. there was a spiritual successor of sorts to called Mario vs. Donkey Kong. if you've heard about the vs. Donkey Kong this is going. so uh, this game is about how Mario set up Mini Mario toys, and Donkey Kong steals all so the whole game you're going through these Marios, and then after you've done a few to guide all of the Mini Marios you rescued a little side mode thing. so then Mario vs. Donkey Kong 2 comes out puzzle platform challenges. and that is what the Mario vs. Donkey Kong this series has successfully Ship-of-Theseus'd Donkey Kong into Mini Mario &amp; Friends: amiibo also, uh, Wrecking Crew, exists. Mario, is there. there are hundreds of Mario games that exist, most gamers agree that some, but not all, series of games that either mostly or entirely however, there is no consensus regarding which only okay, but really cool. there's a list of eighteen games that happens this series is, but almost everyone disagrees some people consider the Mario Land games the New Soups to be separate, and some people separate. New Super Luigi U and Bowser's Fury are of them should be thought of as full games separately, many remakes and ports of Super opinion on these games' status ranges from them. in the maximal case, there is no meaningful due to just how many times Nintendo has rereleased Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island is the its relationship to this series, with opinion Wario Land: Super Mario Land 3 is a game in as part of the Super Mario series is not nearly official sources additionally include the is not in line with how most people think of people do still include them. there are also several games that are extremely of as part of the Super Mario series. however, it's likely that if more people have similar amounts of controversy surrounding Island. the level of ambiguity surrounding the Super with time. you're probably watching this in the future, video was made and the time you're watching that we here in the past don't know about it'll be another weird edge case like Bowser's either that, or it'll be the first truly when a Mario game's status of being part uncontroversial, that's the exception, not I've been jan Misali, and please stop saying it doesn't make any sense, and there's directly contradicts it.