Welcome to Puglia. We just arrived in Bari a couple of hours ago. Our flight had a delay. We had so many plans for this evening, including seeing sunset right here where we are right now. But alas, we came here just for a drink. Before we arrived in this spot, we made one pit stop. A very important pit stop. We went to a pizza place, and honestly, we had the best pizza of our lives. Would you recommend this to friends and family? This is top two pizzas I've ever had in my life. Really? Yeah. It's so packed with flavor. It's amazing, and we have to come back, and we have to try something else next time. Don't mind if we do. And it's huge. We ordered a Calzone al Forno, which is the one baked in the oven. And your beer is the best beer I've ever had. Yeah, probably me too. And it's their own beer. Amazing beer, amazing wine, and amazing pizza. All of this, 20 euros. I think we waited like for 20 minutes in line, but the best part is that right beside the pizza place, there was a place that sold homemade taralli. Taralli are tiny pretzels specific of Puglia. They are my kryptonite. I love taralli, and these ones are also the best ones we've ever had. Behind us, you can see the Porto Vecchio of Bari. It's absolutely beautiful at night, so charming. We'll be here for another two full days, and we are extremely excited. Seeing how it started, I think this is going to be an incredible experience. Why does this look like a postcard? Good morning. This is our first full day in Bari, and we're kicking off the day with a coffee. But on the way to the coffee place, we stumbled upon a flea market. And it was so cute, and it had all sorts of beautiful, beautiful antique items, and so well-priced. We found some cool stuff as well. I got myself a silver ring. This was 10 euros. 10 euro for a silver ring. I mean, this is probably anything between 50 and 100 years old. I got a pair of sunglasses for 5 euro. They have to be cleaned a bit, but I think they're really cool. Yeah, five euros. Five euros. And also, we got from the same person. It's a really, really cool coffee maker. It looks very vintage Italian. I love it. We didn't bring our own coffee maker here, so this is actually Super useful. Yeah, very cool. Five euro for the sunglasses and two euro for this. (dog barking) I don't think Bari is the most beautiful city altogether, but the old town, is definitely one of the most beautiful we've ever seen. How's your cappuccino? Very good. We are at Antico Caffe del Carmine. which is very well-rated. However, there's so many people. there's this tiny street and we're just sat at a terrace. You will excuse me but I really want to try the pasticiotto. It's like grandma's cookies Crunchy but at the same time I don't know, it just melts I'll now try the croissant with pistachio. Oh my god, the pistachio cream is so good So far I'm loving Bari. This is definitely a place where you have to come off-season. September is the perfect time to come I think We are at Castello Svevo in Bari now. Sadly, we are not allowed with backpacks and also they have no lockers left Anyway, this is a really cool spot It's 900 years old It was built by a Norman king. I wish we could have seen it from the inside. Maybe next time. One of the cooler things about this castle is that there's allegedly a ghost wandering the hallways of the castle. It's this lady with a white dress and I would have been super excited to meet her. But ... There have been allegedly sightings. There have been sightings, yes. Allegedly. Nonetheless, it's very cool to see from the outside as well. This is apparently a place for ghost enthusiasts. Not sure exactly what that is but... am I one? Am I one? You're ghost curious. I'm ghost curious. I think we are photo bombing their photos. They're trying to have a nice Sunday photo. Strada Arco Basso, which is the famous street in Bari where all the nonnas are making orecchiette. And taralli. One of the most picturesque streets we've seen here in Bari, at least here in the Old Town. And now we just have to decide what to get. Which taralli are we getting? Yes, from which... ...nonna? The nonna is ignoring me. Is the nonna ignoring you? Grazie. Taralli with the onion flavor. Probably similar to the ones we had yesterday. So we are at La Puccia. This place comes highly regarded, amazing reviews. They make these incredible traditional Puccia with various different toppings. One of the most famous ones is with octopus. We're not eating that here today. We are having a classic Italian prosciutto mozzarella and tomatoes. Two panzerotti over here, again traditional from Puglia. These are sort of like, imagine tiny deep fried pizzas basically filled with something inside. That is the one with ricotta I think. I think it has a bit of tomato sauce. Very very good. Okay, I'm gonna try the Puccia. So the guy kept slicing the prosciutto. I think there's like eight or nine slices of prosciutto in here. This is one amazing thing with the paninis and all kinds of different sandwiches in Italy. They're always extremely generous with everything they put inside. And high quality ingredients. This is outstanding. The fact that they sprinkled some olive oil on top. The flavor of that oil, unbelievable. Trade trade. One euro fifty for a peroni. It's so good. How can ricotta be this tasty? Well this is all thanks to you because I probably would not have ordered the ricotta panzerotto. Sort of tastes a bit like aged cheese. Okay, I'm really excited to try this one. This is definitely beef. So far everything has been delicious since we arrived in Bari. We haven't tried the Focaccia Barese. yet, but it's coming. Okay, we just sat down outside at La Bitta* Porto Sicuro. This place has really good craft beers from all over Europe. Belgium, Germany, Italy of course. And some really really incredible wine, not just from Puglia. Laura is having a glass of Falanghina from Puglia, a local Italian wine. And I'm having a Belgian red beer. Really cool spot. Luckily at this time of day, just after lunch time, it's quite a good moment to come here. We are now on our way to the beach. A beach called Pane e Pomodoro, which means bread and tomatoes. However, on the way we are passing on the Lungomare, which is this promenade that goes all the way along the seaside. And incidentally, we stumbled upon a sort of farmers market. Kind of. Okay, let's go see what they have here. First stall, one euro for a glass of wine. Look at that bun. Look at the one in the corner. Cute. They're fabulous. What about this one? This is so random. It's not. It's perfect. It's like their feathers grow backwards somehow. Right? This is a fabulous looking rooster. Oh, tippy toes. We were literally just saying this is our type of amusement park. I guess we're at that age where we would rather do this than go to a club. You're near the seaside. They have dogs, they have wine, they have pasta, they have cheese, they have chickens. They make fresh pasta over there. You can just have a tiny bowl for five euros. Five euros for a bowl and one euro for a glass of wine. So for six euros, you come here, you're set for dinner. Dinner out. My advice, if you come to Bari, come on a Sunday. You have this farmer's market, you have the flea market that we went to earlier. And actually, you know what, with the exception of a few focaccerias and bakeries, most of the places are open on Sundays. This is an artisanal beer that was four euros, so you can have four glasses of wine or this. Un panzerotto. A panzerotto with mozzarella and pomodorro. It looks like a newspaper. Yeah, like an old newspaper. It's hearty, it's delicious. It's like a meal, practically. Panzerotti, generally speaking... ...chef's kiss. Look at that cheese. We're going for a walk now to the Porto Vecchio here in Bari. We just want to see what it looks like at night. Also, we may or may not find a ghost. There is a famous ghost tale about a lady who walks the port at night. Another one? Yeah, that's another one. There's at least six or seven ghosts in Bari. We're drinking a very expensive wine. It's six euros for a half a liter caraffe. We are at Cantina dello Zio. We waited in that line over there for about 40 to 45 minutes. Laura doesn't want hers, so... cheers. We started today off with queuing again, waiting in line. I don't know what it is about Bari, but it feels like it's the city where you have to line up for everything. We waited in line at Panificio Santa Rita which is super famous for its focaccia. Focaccia Barese, the traditional one. I sure do hope it was worth it. And yes, Laura is freezing as we speak. Suddenly it's very windy. It was so warm when we left the flat. And now it's freezing. The best one I've had. Worth it? Yeah. Worth the time? Yeah, I guess. It's so good. The dough is so good. It like melts in your mouth. The flavor of the tomatoes is incredible, but somehow it's not even that. They could have added anything to this dough. It would have worked. So we are now in the Basilica of Saint Nicholas, and it was free to enter. The church is over a thousand years old, and here you can find the remains of Saint Nicholas. Saint Nicholas is one of the most important figures in Christianity, and Saint Nicholas is known to have somewhat inspired the legend of Santa Claus. When he was alive, he was known for doing really good deeds and helping a lot of children in need, and apparently even paying off the dowries for prostitutes to help them get off the streets. It's very non-judgmental and nice. I know. He was very... What a feminist. Exactly. That's what I wanted to say. The church is also very important in terms of architecture. It's a classic Apulian Romanesque style, and it's honestly one of the most impressive interiors we've seen without it being too opulent other than the ceiling. Yeah, I love the contrast between the walls are so simplistic, and then you have the ceiling, which is golden, and it has beautiful paintings. Okay, so we have here a traditional sandwich with beef strips, some chili, and some lettuce, and that's literally just all it is. And this was a whole five euro. Very crunchy, and it's now soaked in this chili oil thing. You can eat so well here for so little money. Yeah. We left Old Town. We are on our way to, I don't know, let's call it New Town. There's an area not far from where we're staying that has quite a few really good vintage shops. So we just finished our thrift shopping session here in Bari, and we didn't get anything. I feel like everything is kind of overpriced, and I feel like there's not a huge variety in clothing. Backstreet Boys tour t-shirts for 65 euros. I guess I get why they're expensive, because you can't really find them, but... I feel like Florence was way better for thrift shopping. We are on our way to El Focacciairo, which is... As you can guess. As you can guess, it's a place where we will buy a bit more Focaccia Barese. With the sole purpose of comparing it to the one we had earlier today, and see which one is the winner. You hungry? A bit, yeah, tiny bit. I haven't been hungry in a few days now. Yeah, a few months. We waited in line again. This time just around 15 minutes. And yeah, excited to see how this compares to the other one from this morning. Mmm. Very similar. Less crunchy maybe? Maybe less crunchy. I would prefer to wait in line 15 minutes than to wait 40 minutes for that one, so I'm happy. Let's say you're presented with both options. Which one do you have? Does it matter? The first one. First one? Yeah. But like, such a tiny, tiny difference. Like, it's still very good. Another thing worth noting, this whole slice was 1,60 euro. And I really like this area here. I know it's not Old Town, but all these buildings around us. It is oldish. Yeah, but they're so beautiful. Look. All these. Somehow I feel like everyone's balconies look amazing behind me. Let's head back home, get changed, and go off around too. So far, the food scene in Bari has been unbelievable. Amazing. They have a lot of good stuff dough related, and that's kind of my weakness, so yeah, not great. The final evening for us here in Bari. Normally, we don't do this, especially in a video that is mainly dedicated to the food of a city. However, this time we just have to. We are going back to the same place we went to two days ago, to Pizzeria da Michele. simply because that pizza was absolutely incredible. And this time, we want to get the one that they set on fire as well, so it's going to be a bit more spectacular. Also, Bari at night... Beautiful. It's a vibe. And it's a Monday, and everyone's hanging out. We finished our dinner. The pizza was excellent, as always. Highly recommend. One glass of wine, one beer, one pizza was like 22 euro. 25. 25 euro. And our pizza was huge. And we went to the deli right next door, where we went the first time we arrived in Bari, and we got some taralli. So this one is, I think it's a bit fresher with the onion. Yeah. And this one is packed, but it's with potato and rosemary, which I love. We left the pizza place, and we came to Il Veliero, which is very well known here in Bari for making incredible, huge pizza. This is called the Margherita Gigante. This is the only one they had. They literally just got it out of the oven as I paid for it, so two euros for this. It's huge. Two euros for this one slice. Just like anything else in Bari... The tomato taste is just out of this world. Very simple. And the dough is always very good. This is another Italian drink. It's non-alcoholic. It's called Chinotto. Can't really say what it tastes like... It's a fizzy drink. It's a combination between Coke, Tonic Water and Jagermeister. Perfect. I would say that I'm very happy with the two pizzas that we had this evening. I do think that da Michele is the winner. Yes, I do think that Bari is a hidden gem. And apparently it's becoming more and more popular, so I highly suggest you coming here. The food is spectacular. The architecture is so beautiful. And the weather is really nice all year round. It is one of the most affordable destinations in Italy that we've been to. We walked everywhere. It's very walkable. It's so user-friendly. The only thing that I wish we had done that we didn't do was go to the beach. So, future Horia and future Laura here interrupting this program. We are actually on our way to the airport and we stopped in Bari for a few hours. And we are on Bari's main beach, Pane e Pomodoro. Yeah, there's loads of people. So, for what it's worth, we are now on the 8th of October. And there are tens of people in the water. As far as inner city beaches go, this is actually quite nice. I mean, if I lived in Bari and I had this on my front door, that would be amazing. Sweet spot, I like it. Okay, back to the vlog. Tomorrow we are renting a car from the airport and we're heading to Monopoli. With that said, we do hope that you found our vlog here in Bari useful. And you can start planning your next trip to Italy right in this very place. And don't forget to like this video and subscribe to our channel. And we'll definitely see you in the next one.