The War of the Ancient Dragons began thousands And the Erdtree Capital came under siege. Led by a gargantuan dragon named Gransax. The dragons wielded heavenly bolts of red learned to fortify themselves against it, Until Godwyn the Golden delivered the decisive He stood before another legendary dragon, And defeated him. But instead of granting death, he showed mercy. He offered friendship. And it was with this act, that the ancient Years later, a dire plot was put into action. A plan to kill Godwyn, the Golden. So a fragment of the Rune of Death was stolen, contain it. This fragment was then enscribed onto a set of And with cloaks of silver that fooled the the first destined death in a millenia. Godwyn should have died a clean, true death. But he did not. Instead, as the mark of death was being carved alsa being carved into another of his kin. The Lunar Princess, Ranni. Ranni got her wish, and perished in flesh But Godwyn died in spirit alone, and his so His living corpse would spread a peculiar via Deathroot. And wherever there is Deathroot, the hunters There's no mistake, is there? Death has left its mark once again. I'm sorry, I cannot give you your proper rites... But at least you did not join Those Who Live Your soul will return to the Erdtree, in time. Ah, a Tarnished, are you? I'm known as D. I hunt down Those Who Live Heed my warning. The village here has been touched by Death. If you value your life, then go no further. The dead have long been left to wander, and The mariners can call to those who live in Buuut..they make poor leaders. And even poorer fighters. So it is that the dead continue to live, without Well, well... Another fool who won't listen to reason, eh? But with a prowess for weeding Deathroot. I've spotted the mark of the centipede here in the village. An ill-omened symbol that should not be. Someone, or something, threatens the sanctity And must be eradicated. D claims to have seen the mark of the centipede And it seems he's talking about the Deathroot Who Live in Death. This deathroot carries the curse of the centipedal their graves. Ordering their bodies to life. Without a soul. Without guidance. And without grace. How would you like to earn the strength of If you're inclined to hunt more of Those Who then I'll introduce you to Gurranq. I have a matter of my own to attend to. And the beast himself wishes for someone to What say you? Very well. Show me your map. I've marked the location for you. It will lead you to Gurranq, the beast clergyman The beastial sanctum lies past Farum Greatbridge, Past the vulgar militiamen, who are short, and the Black Blade Kindred, who are a patchwork wax. They're all here in defense..of Gurranq. Or should I say, Maliketh. He is Marika's loyal shadow, that once kept That is, until a piece of that death was stolen. Afterwards, he buried the black blade deep steal it, ever again. I smell it... Death... Feed it me... Suffused with the Rune of Death, Maliketh back what he strongly feels are the missing Tarnished...bring more...Death... I shall grant thee... eye...and claw. Feed me...more. But there was a time before And so, there were other cultures of death. Ways that were even practiced outside the exile. Greetings, great champion called by grace. I am Fia. Circumstances have compelled my stay at the Great champion, would you allow me to hold Ah, my thanks. You are very warm. I was known as a Deathbed Companion, where After I received the warmth and lifely vigour I lay with the remains of an exalted noble, To do so is the purpose of my being. But before I could bear the noble into new I was awakened by the guidance of grace, and Originally, the deathbed companions existed dying. But at some point, it seems, it was discovered of others to birth dead remains into new life. And so, the deathbed companions became a tool. A path to rebirth for the privileged - who and when - So that one exalted being, might get a second Despite all that, I still wish to be a Deathbed So please, let me hold you like this, as often But it's not all about you. After all, you are not the only Tarnished And who knows what secrets are shared, in Ah, nice to meet you. The pleasure's mine. Rogier's the name. I'm looking for a little something, here in When I'm not hotfooting it from the troops, But enough about me, what are you doing here This place is bristling with Tarnished hunters, They sacrifice our kind, for grafting. Not exactly a place I'd stroll into without Many external threats have laid waste to Stormveil And now the castle is marred by mottled thorns, stone. The soldiers mutter that it's the curse of some talk of its root being something much That is why Rogier is here, on a mission of And as you square up against Godrick, he is And he finds it. For the world has grown crooked, and if one understand what happened to make it that way. No matter the cost. The world is slowly being taken over by the For when Godwyn died, his body was buried directly below the Erdtree. This was done in accordance with the practice Destined Death. For under Marika's Golden Order, death exists, Erdtree should call to all the dead, in time they may one day, be reborn. Godwyn, being a great hero, likely received to the Erdtree as possible...but this backfired For the roots would instead take up Godwyn's and spread the mark of the centipede throughout So it is, that Those Who Live in Death, were ...and the Hunters of the Dead, would follow. I serve the Golden Order. That I might put this crooked land to rights. Following only the guidance of the great Elden Those Who Live in Death fall outside the principles Their mere existence sullies the guidance Tainting its truth. And so it is the vermin must be exterminated... Down to the very last. The Hunters of the Dead are fanatics, who with. But does such an evil exist in the fundamentals Are you acquainted with a man named Rogier? You know, the piteous fellow hiding away on He was a formidable spellblade, in times past. Don't let his easy air deceive you. He was wise beyond his years, stout of heart Ah, so you have met D. D is an old friend. We found ourselves journeying together for a time. Bound by our exploration of Death. But their paths have since diverged, never Hardly an uncommon fate for two friends No more though. You see him now, ravaged by thorns, muttering Like he's half dead already. I can't stomach to watch. Take well the lesson, friend. That's how you end up, when seduced by Those When grace is sullied, it rots people from Breaks them. This is what the Golden Order has been reduced Godrick. The runt of the litter, dependant on the strength But Fia's favour is bestowed upon her consorts. It allows them to ignore any aches or pains. For in death, there is only peace. For in death, there can be no sensation. Ah, you defeated Godrick and claimed yourself Mm, looks like we both got we wanted out of Well done, friend. Always good to see you safe. So! The misshapen corpse under Stormveil? That is a sacred relic. Of the black knives plot. As that famed night of assassination is known. It happened during the Golden Age of the Erdtree, Someone stole a fragment of the Rune of Death And on a bitter night, murdered Godwyn the That was the first recorded Death of a demigod And it became the catalyst. Soon, the Elden Ring was smashed, and thus I once wished to become a scholar, you see. I've spent many an hour scouring the archives And that thing is to blame for the shape i'm Don't disturb the corpse more than necessary. Have you ever heard of black knifeprints? Dear Rogier likes to talk of them when abed. And the ancient plot, in which the first of The black knives wielded by the assassins along with the impressions they made, somehow These grand affairs are hardly my forte... But dear Rogier began to weep as he spoke... In truth I've heard tell from someone else, dear Rogier so. But It wouldn't be right to give this to him, Perhaps you could make use of it? With a crudely drawn map in hand, we can find One of many who lurk, purposeless, in the And D is here to help you. Ahh, hello. You've been busy weeding Deathroot, I take I thank you, as your brother in arms. The Black Knives were, after all, instrumental So here, he takes his revenge. ..and you walk away with an imprint of a black This...is a black knifeprint! I can scarcely believe you managed to get Please, I beg of you, lend me the knifeprint I'd love nothing more than to tease out its Though only a fragment, a very specific ritual Traces of the one who performed the rite are Truly, you have my thanks. Time can move rather slowly, stuck here, you know. A little conversation goes a long way. So Rogier continues his investigation. And you continue to seek out Deathroot, waiting You are, basically, put to good use by everyone around you. I am pleased to see you again. Would you like me to hold you? Come closer. You are so very warm. I heard that you lent a hand to dear Rogier. He seemed positively elated. He must be possessed of great mental fortitude. It anchors his will, and sustains him, despite You truly are a champion. To dear Rogier, and myself, too. My dear, Could you please find the owner of this dagger, A certain person gave it to me, as a gift. It's a very precious thing. It must have a special place in the owner's So I would like for the original owner to If you wouldn't mind... This Weathered Dagger was once a special weapon it has been worn down, and marred by a black It's natural to think that this weapon belongs But then..why didn't Fia give it back to him Well, what have we here? How did you get your hands on that dagger? ... That hardly matters. I know very well whose dagger it is. Why don't I return it to them for you? Good work, bringing this to me. It's almost as if they're playing a game with Arguing over whose heart it truly deserves And it's a game that D ends up losing. For Fia developed a sorcery to oppose the is only effective against the Tarnished. Especially if they confront you in a small, Finally, it is returned to its rightful place. The stolen hallowbrand, of the exalted noble. And now, I must bid you goodbye as well. Though I ask you deliver this message to the I am Fia, Deathbed Companion. Hark, Roundtable. Disturb not the Death of Godwyn, the exalted. We, who humbly live in Death... Live in waiting, to one day welcome our Lord. What right does anyone have to object? Our Lord will rise. The Lord of the many, and the meek. All this time, Fia was getting closer to recovering For this hallowbrand is the key. It's the cursemark that the black knives carved of this in the first place - And Fia has a use for it. While D is dead. But D is also alive. For Devin and Darian are the inseparable twins. They are of two bodies, and two minds, but Supposedly, they were reviled by many - but which accepted their duality of the self. They even had armaments forged to represent An inseperable sword, and a twinned suit of the other D, who yet lives. Devin slumbers in the Eternal City, tormented stood before the Prince of Death, suggesting Godwyn's flesh. Perhaps he even used a Weathered Dagger.. witch. Setting into motion the events that would The mariners are a joke. Making your hunt for the spreading Deathroot, It shows up in Limgrave, in Liurnia - even And is most common wherever there is stagnant Infecting all manner of creatures, who meet own visage. Deathroot even starts to get the better of After all, in the end, what we're feeding fragments of the Rune of Death. Something has changed. mmmm There's something else... I must consume more! &lt;growl&gt; I won't forget...again... My sin... I must consume more. It is... It is all...consumed. Still, I am not sated... Not nearly sated... Marika... Is this...what it is...to sin? Will things...never be the same...again? Tarnished, my thanks for thy long labour. But I have done all that I can in this land. Henceforth, mine appetite shall be my sole Farewell. Ahh, hello. I was hoping to see you. My examination is complete. Here's the knifeprint back, with my thanks. Now, I have a fairly good idea who performed The person who orchestrated the Night of the Lunar Princess Ranni. One of the children born to King Consort Radagon Demigod and sister to General Radahn and Praetor Her's was the name I discovered in the imprint. If Ranni truly is the one who plotted that then she should bear the cursemark of Destined I would like you to procure it for me. And then all will be laid bare. I will have the answers I have sought for Do you know of Those Who Live in Death? These souls have committed no offence. They have every right to life, only, they By D's account, these defiled fiends must But truth be told, I seek the cursemark to If we're looking for someone to blame in this Does the guilt lie with Those Who Live in Or Godwyn, who spawned it? Or should we blame Ranni, who thought up the Personally, I think any fault goes further To Marika, who, in her hubris, thought that Death, and life, should never have been separated. A fact that is more clear now, than ever. Hmm. Maybe I should tell you. Lately, I feel I'm on the precipice... Of falling into a deep...fathomless slumber. And I have an inkling it could spell trouble So I just wanted to get the apology out of Since you're so scary and all. Off..er her c-curse...m-mark T-to... G-god... wyn F-forms...a...r...rune... So whoever can obtain two halves of the cursemark, And with his dying breath, Rogier hints that And a letter scrawled by Rogier on his deathbed It's that D had a twin brother. And that the other D might be found in an Rogier implores us to put his friend to rest, Which we do...by returning D's armor. Ah, aah... D-da...ri... Ngh...nnngh... Rogier goes on to reveal that Devin stood And indeed Devin, and the dagger, were deathblighted So we travel a little farther. Upwards, to a nameless city, overtaken by Oh, Lord Godwyn... My poor, sweet lordling should have died a A scion of the golden bough, sentenced to How could such a thing come to be... Here, Fia finally lies with Godwyn, the Prince strength of every hero who lay with her. Including, of course, The famed spellblade, Ah...there you are. I knew you would come. What is it you intend? To deny us, and our ways? Like the dogmatic brutes of the Golden Order? You are an odd one. I am the guardian of Those Who Live in Death. They call me a foul and rotten witch. Yet you still wish to be held by me? This...is the other hallowbrand. How did you... Oh, my utmost thanks. With this, Godwyn can take his rightful place And claim a second, illustrious life. You are my-- our true champion. And though I can't be of any use to you. Can I hold you tight? If only for a moment. I will soon lay with Godwyn. And it will surely stir within me. the new life of the golden prince, and first as the rune of Those Who Live in Death. Please, do one thing for me. Brandish this child, my rune, and take for Stay the persecution of Those Who Live in By becoming our Elden Lord. This is goodbye, my dear. But I am satisfied. I choose to lie with Godwyn of my own will. Not the remains of one chosen for me. And I will bear a child. Who will inherit your warmth, too. What greater blessing could there be, but Now Fia can fulfil her purpose, and initiate a rebirth. A gestated rune that tells the broken story of those who live in death. So Fia lies with Godwyn, and she dreams. But it's within this dream, that we realise of Death. A being who, even after all this time, never their companion. They are the last thing that stands between And now they refuse to let go. For Godwyn was a friend. And they were the great ancient dragon, Dread Finally, you can bring the entire broken cursemark The Mending Rune of the Death Prince, which an official part of Death's Story. But first, you have to burn down the Erdtree, of destined death. Which leads to Faram Azula. A broken city, floating outside of time. ...and against all logic, deathroot now grows Turns out, nowhere is safe from its touch. Death is still protected - by none other than Maliketh - who masqueraded And help him to achieve the one and only task Witless Tarnished... Why covet Destined Death? Tis no matter. I hereby vow, that Destined Death shall not be stolen again. Cower. Before Maliketh, Marika's Black Blade. Marika...why... Why...shatter... Ha! Prince of Death, take a good long look! See the wrath of the Golden Order! The Order's justice, writ in blood! This is what's become of your precious witch! No more children can be got from this useless This is a proper death, O prince. Behold, your mother is dead! Heh heh heh heh... This is revenge, you witch! And you, you ghoul! This is the wrath of D! Ah. Hello. The The Golden Order, unsullied. Now I can look my brother Darian in the eye. Honeyed rays of gold, deliver my spirit. Darian....Honeyed rays of gold, deliver m- Ahh, don't you dare. Unless you want to die like a dog. Very well. Die. Die. DIE. (laughs) A defiler of the Golden Order and murderer I'll grind your corpse into th- (laughs) Forgive me, D-arian... Darian... As a Deathbed Companion, Fia had no choice Until the guidance of grace led her back to Where she used her chambers in the Roundtable Biding her time. Listening to the secrets told to her in private. Until she could use the strength of champions For the downtrodden, who had no champion. But soon, they will. Now, Fia has finally lain with the remains So that she might gestate a new beginning: in Death. A gift to the the undead, who were born at Duskborn, before the sun rises once more, The fallen leaves tell a story. Of how a Tarnished became Elden Lord. In our home, across the fog. The Lands Between. Our seed will look back upon us, and recall: