Do not hit the like button! Or the dislike button, at least not yet. I want you to consider a problem that's been one of the most controversial in math and philosophy over the past 20 years. There is no consensus answer. So I want you to listen to the problem and then vote for the answer you prefer using the like and dislike buttons. Okay, here is the setup: Sleeping Beauty volunteers to be the subject of an experiment. And before it starts she's informed of the procedure. On Sunday night she will be put to sleep. And then a fair coin will If that coin comes up heads, she'll be awakened on Monday and then put back to sleep. If the coin comes up Tails she will also be awakened on Monday and put back to sleep. But then she will be awakened on Tuesday as well and then put back to sleep. Now each time she gets put back to sleep In the brief period anytime she's awake she will be told But she'll be asked one question: What do you believe is the probability that the so how should she answer? Feel free to pause the video and answer the question This was my reaction after hearing the problem for the first time. I mean the intuitive answer that pops into my head is clearly one in three. It could be the Monday when it came up heads. Or it could be the Monday when it came up Tails. Or it could be the Tuesday when it came But you know what's really interesting is you just answered that the probability of a coin coming up heads is one-third. I think a lot of this comes down to what specific question is What is the probability that a Fair coin flipped gives heads? That's 50 percent. What is the probability that the coin came up heads? I would say the answer is a third from her perspective. Yeah it's it's remarkably the same question. The simple reason why Sleeping Beauty should say is because she knows the coin is fair. Nothing changes between and she knew for a fact that she would be woken up and Imagine that instead of flipping the coin the coin first and ask her immediately: &quot;what's the Well she would certainly say one half so why should This is known as the Halfer position. Others would argue that something does change when she's I mean it seems like she gets no new information. There are no calendars no one tells But she actually learns something important. She learns that she's gone from existing in a reality where there are two possible states. The coin came up either heads or tails to existing in a reality where there are three possible states: Monday heads, Monday Tails or Tuesday tails. And therefore she should assign equal probability to each of these three outcomes where Heads only occurred in one. So the probability that the coin came up heads is one-third. This is known as the thirder position Now I know it seems wrong to suggest that a Fair up heads but that's because the question she's is: &quot;Given you're awake, what's the probability that Now halfers would counter that just because there are equally likely. In the Monty Hall problem for between two doors. But it'd be wrong to assign as likely to be behind one door than the other. In the Sleeping Beauty problem we know a heads outcome and a Tails outcome are equally likely. So the chance of waking up on Monday with heads is 50 percent And the chance of waking up on Monday or Therefore the Tails probability gets split across two days 25 percent each. but if you repeat the experiment over and over, which you can try for yourself by repeatedly flipping a coin, you find she wakes up a third of the time Monday heads, a third of the time Monday tails, and a third of the time Tuesday tails, not 50-25-25 like the previous analysis would suggest. So if you were Sleeping Beauty and you were awakened and asked &quot;What's the probability the coin came up heads?&quot; What would you say? If you would say one-third then hit the like button. If you would say one half, hit the dislike button. The answer may seem obvious to you but you should know that to other people the other answer seems equally obvious. And that's why hundreds and There have been many variations of this problem like what if instead of being woken up twice if the coin lands If the coin comes up heads she's still woken only Doesn't it seem absurd in this case, when Sleeping Beauty wakes up, to say that it was just When we know there are a million more wakeups in the I mean if you reach into a bag of one white marble and a million black marbles, what are the chances that you pull out that one white marble? I was pretty convinced but this same argument is used to convince people that The thinking goes that our computing technology has improved so dramatically, even over just the last 40 years, that we can imagine a time in the not-too-distant And once that occurs it And then if you were to ask someone if they would have to admit that they probably are because there are many more instances of that existence than the one true external reality. But how do we know that I mean if it can happen then This seems like the logical conclusion Now I personally don't buy that I'm living in a simulation and I think most people don't buy it. But maybe that's just illogical bias. But there's another thought experiment that makes me seriously reconsider the third or position. Let's say there's a soccer and a less World dominating team like Canada. So the odds are 80:20 in Brazil's favor now a researcher is going to put you to sleep before the game And if Brazil wins they'll wake you up one time But if Canada wins they'll wake you up 30 you won't remember if you've been woken before. Okay so the game is about to start you fall asleep... and now you're woken up. Who do you think won the The thirder would say Canada but I would almost certainly say Brazil. I mean why should I done if Canada had one when I'm fairly confident To extend this, let's say Brazil plays Canada five times and we do this experiment each time. Well then if you say Brazil each time you're woken up you'll probably be right about four out of five of the games. but if you said Canada every time you would be wrong about those four games but right 30 times in a row when you're repeatedly asked about Canada's one victory. If the question then by all means you should bet winner of more of the games well then you should dispute between Halfers and Thirders in the Sleeping outcome of the coin tosses well you should say the answer more questionings correctly well then you last thought experiment. Imagine that you know for a coin flip and if it came up heads only a single a quasi-infinite Multiverse would be created and every possible variation of Earth and the people In some versions there would be no Earth Now you becoming conscious is just like Sleeping you're in that single universe or in one of the more of them. So would you think that you're for The best way to develop intuition about or running simulations like we did for Sleeping probability courses that walk you through lots to learn how to build your own simulations? Go days at brilliant.org/veritasium. You know to it forces you to think critically and it's also and sharpening my thinking energizing. In their expand your understanding of cutting edge topics transforming our world right now. Are we actually Who knows, but with Brilliant you might actually They already have thousands of lessons and to get started with Brilliant's annual premium 200 people to sign up via my link: brilliant.org/ So I want to thank Brilliant for supporting