Never settle for bad coffee, There we have liquid gold. Today we are gonna look four different ways using devices that are probably somewhere locked away in or potentially on a bench. Never grind enough coffee for a month, that's way too much. A couple of days worth of coffee is probably the best way to go. Investing in a good grinder if you wanna be doing this But if you know what you're doing, you can get away with even a nut grinder. I've used spice grinders Let's get into the actual We'll start over here And it's all about the grind. It is a quite coarse grind. This one is almost like cracked pepper. The trick to this one is to And this is just using The reason for doing this is, you don't wanna have a coffee I am gonna add maybe six to We add our hot water. The other component here is just to actually start to get the oils extracting from the grains. Put the lid on. And it'll take maybe anywhere to actually brew. What we need to do now is make sure we don't get any of that coffee grain in our liquid. So we gently pass the strainer through, and it is gentle. As you can see, we've even formed a Crema is what most people consider the true essence of the coffee. In my estimation, coffees have a tendency to be very bitter. People will taste the bitterness before they taste anything else. The crema sweetens it off. With our pour-over method, there are many different The Hario filter, which is this variety, is just something very simple, We also have Vietnamese-style Phin coffee, which is very similar. With the Phin, it's a slow drip method. With the pour-over in there is a style involved. And that's where this And it's all about the actual rate at which you pour the water. So first things first. You need filter paper. The trick to this one just before you start. So initially we just dampen the paper 'cause that'll help for that flow through the coffee into the Once you've got it there, that's when then you will add your coffee. The pour-over method is like And again, that one is like raw sugar, you put a little bit of raw The best method is to create a slight depression into the top where you then start to pour your water. Okay, so we'll start right in the centre and we gently just wet the surface and let that infuse into the coffee. As you can see, it's already And we wanna make sure that all the actual surface of the So this is a step-by-step process. It takes time, but the is quite worth it because what you achieve is a very pure coffee. There we have liquid gold. And now we're gonna get into the Moka pot. The size here is almost like There is this little vent, the top of the vent. This little filter And then again, we add our coffee. In this instance, we actually above the brim. So we just keep adding the coffee until we get that little mound. Try not to press the coffee down. Try to let gravity do everything. And then you just twist it. Make sure it's locked on. With the heat, be careful. Try to just go to the perimeter of the actual pot that you're using. Don't go beyond it. As you can see, we've and it's just scored the outside. It'll take anywhere between again, for this to brew. It is slightly bitter, a lot more bitter than the other coffees. Remember, we're adding heat to this now. So we're starting to do draw out some impurities So we're gonna be very Pushing it down too hard, is straining the coffee So be very wary, too much coffee will create Once it starts to actually remove the heat and then we'll because otherwise it will keep cooking, it will keep heating, and the coffee will then start If it starts to make that you need to stop. Yeah, I think we're done. Okay, I better turn this off. We need to take the base So with two towels, just twist it off. Take the lid off. 'Cause what we want is for rather than still cooking. I'll put that aside now 'cause to make my favourite, the ibrik. This one is very personal to me. My mum taught me when I was And I was the go-to person I'd make them coffee. My mum's 94 now. And the funny thing is, she has to make me my coffee. In her eyes, it's the of expressing her love for me. To measure it, you'd normally For every cup that you wanna serve, you'd fill it up to and then it's a spoonful of the coffee. Remember, this is super fine. This coffee is virtually like rubbing flour between your fingers. So it's really, really fine. The traditional method would on a bed of hot sand. What you do initially is, you I'm gonna place spoonfuls like this, teaspoonfuls, like heaped, in A good three to four of these. Like so. At this stage, if you have a you would add sugar as well. Now, whilst it's in there, hopefully you'll notice and got the water just I'm now gonna try and And you swirl it, and you stir it. The prescribed time, I Mine's at 27th, so I will That's traditional, absolutely. I now let that brew as slowly as possible. I'll try to get my flame as small without going out as possible, but you must, must seriously And don't leave it. You leave it for a second, it boils. And if it boils, don't drink it. The key to this coffee is That crema is vital here. Because if you don't get the person making it for you is actually telling you something about the relationship that you've got. It doesn't exist! What you'll see is that the perimeter When it closes in, it's at that point before that you take it off the heat. So now we've got our coffee. Swirl it around a little bit. So I'm just gonna distribute so everybody gets some. The person that doesn't get It's bottom line. Okay, and there we go. Four different methods, same coffee, different your choice.