This is James. He has two passions in life: wildlife and Random, I know, but to each his own... Right now, James is warming up to combine He wants to outrun as many creatures on Earth How far through the animal kingdom do you Let's find out! Sorry, Jimmy, but the chances don't look Humans aren't that fast. Like anyone else, James walks at a humble Good news, though - he's already faster For example, insects and other bugs are fast Our competitive friend here can easily outpace Really? Even house centipedes? Those little monsters move nightmarishly fast! Yeck... Other animals with more comparable sizes to are also left far behind. Sloths live in places where it's too risky So, they move at a sluggish 0.15 mph. And giant tortoises clock out at a max of But these animals are among the slowest on So, it's finally time for Jimbo to put on James is really fit, and he's been preparing That's why 15 mph is just a jog for him, run at. Yet this pace is good enough for us because mice, as well as all spiders and snakes in The leading competitor here is the Six-lined can show James how he won't keep up. Uh-oh! Hurry up, fella! James wants to go for high league levels of So, he kicks it up to Olympic speeds. 28 mph - the fastest running speed ever Animals like elephants, squirrels, and even behind our speedy friend's back. This is a strange point where a human can long against a grizzly bear. Better throw some honey to distract it! This is also the point where Slim Jim decides strongest attribute. But intelligence and ingenuity are! With this thought, James jumps on a bike... 40 mph - that's about the top speed he a motor. It's just enough to escape from all bears But he still can't catch up with a brown But, hey, at least James wins the race against What about their big cousins that rule the Lions can run at a staggering 50 mph. That's about the same as their favorite Tigers are even faster with a speed of 60 And, of course, the absolute champ of top Sprinting through prairies at 75 mph, it's down extremely fast pronghorn antelopes. These horned creatures can easily beat a lion To match the speed of a cheetah, James can't and endurance. This time, he hops in a car. Nothing too flashy or fast - a simple sedan no problem. But we humans have come up with some unbeatable Powerful racecars and even jet cars capable of 765 mph! I guess we technically win the battle on ground. But what if Jimmie Boy challenges some animals Again, there's no way he can do it without It's much harder for us humans to move underwater more streamlined body shape for speed. With our bulky torsos and lanky arms and legs, Nevermind all the hair covering us... Well, buddy, what are you waiting for? Dive in! The maximum speed James can hope to achieve That's barely enough to swim past eels. But he's easily moving past crabs and starfish. Well, yeah, duh - these bottom dwellers lives. Not the mightiest contestants out there... But wait, what's that behind you in the Something triangular sticking up out of the Is that...a shark? Hurry, Jim, put on a diving suit! You better swim for your life!!! With that wet suit covering his mammalian can now swim a lot faster: 8 mph. He's on-par with most land animals' swimming and sea otters. But those Great Whites are catching up fast! And it's no wonder - they're moving They're right at his feet! It's only seconds before they open their James? Are you...ok? Well, aren't you a sly one?!? Or lucky... You jumped into that sailboat at the last He's now sailing smooth at 18 mph. Granted, those Great Whites can swim way faster See? They're already tired now. The boat is faster than humpback whales, sea But Jimmy Crack Corn is already wanting to This time, he hops on a giant cruise liner. Its deafeningly roaring engines can accelerate barracudas, dolphins, and octopuses. Yeah, those eight-legged creatures can swim Looks like it's time to take this challenge James finds a speed boat and whips around Careful, buddy! Don't crash! And congratulations! You're moving way faster than a marlin, Oh yeah, and you've passed the world's at 68 mph. The only thing that's left for our champ To talk about human capabilities in flying By the way, do you prefer zooming through car? Let me know down below! Anyway, right from the get-go, James needs Looks like he's opted for a jetpack because, Up in the sky, poking holes in clouds at 65 record breakers. All the pigeons, sparrows and blackbirds are He's now flying with falcons! The Peregrine Falcon to be exact, which can mph but can bump it up to 69 mph. There are even quicker feathered beings, like 75 mph and topping at 99 when it really tries. Some recent studies showed that our flying 100 mph and still be beat by the White-Throated That all would be just enough to ruin James' for this occasion. Now flying 124 mph, it seems like nothing Yet it's Jim's old rival the Peregrine Watching as James zooms ahead, the bird only mph! It must be swooping down for some lunch! Well, it's all over then. Give it up, dude. Just pack your stuff and fly back home... He's only cruising, yet the speedometer And we have a champion, folks! Not a personal record to be fair, but a victory Maybe one person can't be the fastest being that are simply unimaginable for any other And today we thank James for proving that! Hey, if you learned something new today, then friend! And here are some other cool videos I think Just click to the left or right, and stay