Translator: Hiroko Kawano In the fall of 2005, I find myself at the Military I'm in the lead in the final, and I have one shot left to shoot. The target is 50 metres away, and the ten is 10.4 millimetres. What is it that determines Is it the physics, the technique, the relaxation or the breathing? No, those are abilities has been training for years. It's all about the thoughts I think This is what focus is about. When I was 23 years old, I felt that I had a kind of capacity, that I didn't really know how to handle. And it frustrated me, not knowing what to do I was completely lost. And the only solution I could think of was trying to become best in the world at ... something. I had no idea in what. But I decided to become I was quite athletic, but my helpful brother pointed out that I was too old to become So I choose shooting. This determination brought me and since that very day, Thousands of hours were spent I ate on the range. I slept on the range. And still today, I can remember that smell I travelled all over the country, but I lost over and over again, not getting any reward or recognition. In my world, I was programmed to win, but I didn't. And I couldn't understand It was only my perseverance In this very moment aiming at the target and these nervous thoughts this potential triumph could But then, suddenly, I saw, and I focused on, a beautiful autumn leaf I give this leaf my full attention. And suddenly, I am completely calm. And the world champion title is mine. (Applause) This was - This action was a deliberate choice and the result of Because this leaf relieved me and made me focused. And the phenomena of focus not only in peak performance and in life in general. I studied this vital capacity, and what I saw was that the human mind struggled with focus on three distinctive ways. First, our minds are often often worried about Second, instead of working with we are constantly focused And third, we are frustrated for not having time. So, how can we help ourselves Well, before we can discuss that, we need to find out what focus is. In today's overflow, the ability to focus has been despite its great value. It's, however, a particularly So, let me simplify it for you. The pre-eminently thinking human beings, all of us in here, I guess, have the ability to think And we often go down What happens if ... ? What happens if I shoot a nine? If I forget what to say If I don't finish my report on time? If I start losing followers If life doesn't turn out Or we worry about why it didn't turn out Can we then, at moments of need, free ourselves from these disturbing a kind of undemanding present arise? Because it's in this undemanding present It's here that we perform and function So, standing there, but giving that leaf my full attention, this is what happened. So, focus is simply among thousands of thoughts. Now, how do we get focused? Well, firstly, regarding We need to learn to notice and to distinguish them A not disturbing thought like a lamp, a chair, a belt, a toaster or an autumn leaf. Because as the brain, in broad terms, a not disturbing thought knocks out all the disturbing And this is enough to reach we in fact already possess. Second, regarding how we constantly In the performance-based we often lose focus because we constantly strive instead of finding our inner power and constructively working at each given moment. Because if we always think about the goal, about what we want to achieve, about where we want to go, about who we want to become, our focus is constantly on the future and not on the work So, removing the goal now and then Well, scary at first. I mean, where we're going now? But that is how focus ends up on who we are and what we have instead of chasing after So, focus is not about becoming but simply about functioning and understanding that this is enough for both general happiness Third, regarding frustration for not having time. We live in a time with and this seems to have created the notion We try to exceed on all arenas and one's self-confidence instead of placing focus on one thing and doing this really, really well. Our focus shatters into a thousand and time is somehow eaten up. But the principle is quite simple: The more possibilities, Today is no longer about prioritizing but about prioritizing away. Imagine yourself and making a must-to-do list. Now challenge yourself and your brain will Also, it's funny, despite our unique we want immediate response on our efforts. Posting a picture We live our life with short-term focus, and we are losing the ability without constant feedback from others. So, how do we find a long-term focus, that focus that moves your life Achieving long-term focus requires that we learn To that what I call our inner core. To that which doesn't need Because it's here, and perhaps only here, that we find genuine with who we are. So, why is all this Focus is important because several essential abilities The ability to listen, and not at least, to steer our self And as the pace in our society it will require quite a lot to navigate with a constantly growing roar around us. And you know what? We must control the intense society. The intense society must not control us. And for this, we need to stay But do you know what I'm worried about? I am concerned that our ability is something we are about to lose. I'm worried that we, in the future, those with the ability to co-exist and those who will become more or less Although we as adults are struggling we still have a sense But what about our coming generations? What if our generation is the last one Here, we own a responsibility in ensuring that this ability Because focus, this vital force, and in others, something our world Now, finally, embrace the ability to be able to see the value of a small autumn leaf (Applause)