This is my dad's Egg Drop Soup, the Chinese takeout classic. After serving tens of thousands of bowls of egg drop soup over his 50 years as a chef, my dad's gonna share his restaurant secrets to develop the signature flowery wisps and the perfect heartwarming textures all ready to eat in a matter of minutes. First, we'll prepare the shrimp. We'll first peel the shrimp. First, we'll peel the shrimp by hand. We're using pretty large 26/30 shrimp today, which means there are 26-30 shrimp in a pound. For smaller shrimp, you would go for bigger numbers, which my dad actually says would be better for this soup as you could skip cutting them into smaller pieces later. For sustainable seafood options, check out the Seafood Watch website. We don't need large pieces of shrimp for this soup. so we're going to peel, wash, then cut up the shrimp. We'll cut it up into small pieces. Slice it open. Now, we'll turn the knife edge sideways and slice the shrimp in half. Slice the shrimp open. This will help us devein the shrimp in the next step. Slice open. To level up your confidence in cutting all kinds of ingredients, check out our comprehensive masterclass on knife techniques in the Canto Cooking Club! To get access, check out club.madewithlau.com. Once you've sliced them all in half, use a bit of water to wash them. Wash the veins out. With a bit of water, we'll agitate the shrimp by hand to wash off the veins. Other than shrimp, since there are people out there with shrimp allergies, just skip the shrimp. You can chop up some chicken for this. If you're vegetarian, you can use fresh mushrooms like king oyster or seafood mushrooms, or fresh shiitake mushrooms, those will all make delicious soups. You'd cut all of them into small pieces? Small cubes or thin strips, yes. Squeeze the excess water out. We'll drain the washed shrimp and squeeze out any excess water. We want tender pieces of shrimp. Put the shrimp here. Cut it up. Not a fine mince, though. We'll cut the shrimp into roughly half-inch pieces. You can chop it like this. If you're a bit more comfortable with your knife or cleaver, you can quickly chop into small pieces like this. Then we'll marinate the shrimp. Add some white pepper (1/5 tsp) to counteract any fishy odor. Next, add a tsp of cornstarch. Mix it well. We have all of these ingredients listed on our blog at madewithlau.com along with step-by-step instructions and video clips to guide you as you make the recipe at home. This helps keep the shrimp tender. My dad likes to use his hands to mix in the seasoning thoroughly. That's good. Set it aside. At the very end, when the soup is done, we just need to mix it in. Once the shrimp is chopped up, we'll prepare the carrot. We only need a little. We'll just sprinkle some on top, then mix it in. We basically want it for its color. We'll peel and cut off about a 3-inch section of the carrot. Thin slices. First, we'll cut it into thin slices. Then chop across. Then we'll rotate 90 degrees and chop roughly into small pieces. All right, next is tofu. We'll use half a block of tofu. We'll first take out the tofu from the packaging and drain the water. What kind of tofu is that? This is soft tofu. If you don't like soft tofu, you can use firm tofu. That's totally fine. Soft tofu is more tender. Most restaurants use soft tofu. Half a block. Now, we'll cut up the tofu. We'll cut into small cubes, watch. Halve it. Halve again. Halve again. Now, lay them down. Once they're flat, cut thinly. Then we'll cut into strips. Then, we cut into cubes. Now we'll turn the knife to cut the strips into small cubes. All right, we have four eggs. Lastly, we'll crack 4 eggs into a bowl and set it aside for later. Those are all the ingredients. Once they're all prepared, we can start making Egg Drop Soup. Today, I'm using one can of chicken broth as the base broth. If you don't want to use this, that's fine. You can use a tbsp of chicken bouillon powder instead. That will have more umami flavor. Today, I'm using chicken broth. It's a low sodium one, very mild. Just natural chicken broth. Pour it in. We'll add one can of chicken broth into the pot and turn the heat to high. Or instead you can use 1 tbsp of chicken bouillon powder and one cup of water here. 6 cups of water. This is boiling water. Then we'll add 6 cups of boiling water. Today, I'm using potato starch for my slurry. The great thing about potato starch is it thickens liquids but keeps them translucent. The soup won't be watery after it sits out. Also, you don't need much. 3 tbsp of potato starch is as effective as 5-6 tbsp of cornstarch. You can use less potato starch for the same effect. &quot;What other starches can you use other than cornstarch and potato starch?&quot; You can use sweet potato starch. Da Da! Hi! Sweet potato starch. Are you brushing your teeth? Tapioca starch works too. For the slurry, we'll add 3 tbsp of potato starch to a bowl. 3 tbsp of potato starch. If it's not enough, we'll make and add more. 3 tbsp of water. No, let's use 4 tbsp. A bit more water. We'll mix the potato starch in with the water and set it aside for now. First, we'll add the tofu. As the water starts to boil, we'll add in the tofu and give it a quick stir. As a subtle pro-tip, prevent splashing by holding your ladle just at water level to break the tofu's fall. Now, beat the eggs. Add some water to the eggs before beating them. 1 tbsp of water. The water makes it easier to beat the eggs. Now, we'll beat the eggs well with a fork. Just use a fork. Just beat the eggs. You can put some strength into it. You want the whites and yolks to be well-combined. Beat the eggs with upwards motions. Just mixing side to side doesn't do much. Beat the eggs with upwards motions. As long as you beat the eggs well, the eggs will flower nicely into the soup. How can you tell if it's not done nicely? In the bowl of soup, if you see distinct pieces of white and yolk, that's not good. All right, once you've beaten the eggs, make the slurry. The soup already boiled. When you thicken the soup, turn the heat off. Take your time. Keep stirring as you slowly pour the slurry in. Watch. If you dump the slurry in, you'll get clumps. Take your time. On low heat, we'll slowly pour in the slurry while mixing with a ladle. Also, don't turn your heat up. It's not thick enough. The consistency is too thin. I'm adding 2 more tbsp of potato starch. Here, my dad thinks the soup is still too thin, so he creates more slurry with 2 tbsp of potato starch and 3 tbsp of water. He mixes it together, then again pours it in while stirring. Almost. It's better to add less at first, so you don't over-thicken the soup. For us, it was 5 tbsp of potato starch and 7 tbsp of water total for the slurry. Turn the heat back on and bring it to a boil. &quot;How do you make it less gloppy? Like, clumpy?&quot; When you thicken it, make sure the heat is off. Don't dump the slurry in all at once; that's how you get clumps. Gradually pour it in as you stir. Then it won't get clumpy. If it's on high heat and you throw all the slurry in, it'll clump up. This next part is one of the most important steps, so pay attention. It's boiling, so let's add the eggs. When you add the eggs, turn the heat down and add them slowly. Stir as you pour them in. Stir all the way to the bottom so the eggs don't just sink. Also on low heat, we'll drizzle in the egg just like the slurry, a bit at a time, while stirring with the ladle at the bottom of the pot. At my parents' old restaurant, Egg Drop Soup was by far one of the most popular items. So much so, that my sister and I used to steal bowls of it when my parents weren't looking. Also known as daan faa tong, or literally egg flower soup, mastering this dish might inspire you to try some of our other soups that employ this egg flowering technique, like our Westlake Beef Soup, Seaweed Soup, or Wintermelon Seafood Soup. On another note, if you've been around since the beginning, egg drop soup was the third video we ever posted on our channel back in September 2020. Today's version is slightly different, with tofu and shrimp instead of frozen veggies, but we just wanted to say thank you for all of your support. This journey has taken us beyond even our wildest dreams, and we could not do it without you. So, thank you. Now, add the shrimp. Heat off, or very, very low. Add the shrimp. Then we'll add the shrimp. Very low heat, so the shrimp can just cook. Once the shrimp turn red, they're cooked. Next, add salt. For seasoning, we'll add 3/4 of a tbsp of salt. A bit of white pepper. And 1/4 tsp of white pepper. Give it a taste. Now, we'll see if it's salty enough. It's okay. A few drops of oil and a tsp of sugar for seasoning. We harmonize the flavors by balancing salt and sugar. The soup is complete, so let's put it in a serving dish. First, we'll add and mix in a bit of the carrot to the soup. Then, we'll transfer it into a large serving bowl. Finally, we'll sprinkle just a bit more carrot on the top for color, then we're ready to serve it while it's still hot. Hello, friends! our Egg Drop Soup is complete! I hope you all enjoy it! Hong Doy, Mui Mui, time for soup! Cheers! Most of the time he doesn't wear it. Thank you, Mui Mui! Is this soup lotion?