On July 8, 2023, Liam Payne a video titled I'm Back. After a year hiatus, apologized for online behavior and past particularly those during his appearance Impulsive: The Year Prior, reasons why he doesn't like his former The The backlash from this interview hate, and Liam was openly mocked Liam admitting that he didn't while the backlash was at its peak, as a result of the interview. After that video was uploaded, I had to go away to get better, let's say. It was death threats. It was all sorts of stuff. For me, a lot of what I just I was so angry at what And instead of taking a look to everybody else. And I just think, yeah, I just which is just wrong, really. And my own frustrations with my own career of everybody else, which is wrong. However, in this video, Liam to focus on himself and his sobriety. Having always been honest about struggles abuse, Liam was at this point months in a Louisiana-based rehab clinic. Things were now looking on the way up The month prior, ex-girlfriend, model Kate Cassidy, praising his new single on social media, life, having already taken part Liam also announced plans for a South With new music inevitably on the cards seemingly prioritizing his personal life The turning of a new leaf and a new So the question is, that led to the devastating news? Former One Direction star, Liam Payne. The former member of the boy band Liam Payne died instantly a fractured skull caused by his fall In this video, we look back at the final his tragic passing, as well as unpacking that were all too often overlooked. A tale that is unfortunately as old and the perils of child stardom. In the weeks after Liam's YouTube video details came out about the nature That his ex-girlfriend and mother to their instrumental in getting Liam professional On July 12th, Payne revealed that doctors had diagnosed him with He also spoke about his manic episodes that made sobriety challenging for him. There's a lot of manic things in my life of it, and that feels like when I these moments that were super low. And I felt like that today. And since isolating the two things they are now and I can identify them. The purpose was unclear other than to help others they are not alone in their struggle. Even though it was clear Liam had plenty available to help him fight his demons, the best of health, which was made apparent on August 25th, when Liam was hospitalized due which can occur for a variety of reasons, dehydrated, and has a weakened immune system. As a result, it was decided that Liam tour, the seemingly defeated on social media just days before Hey, guys. This really is the last news I wanted I've been a little bit unwell recently, kidney infection, really not the right time to be out Just a few days later, Liam celebrated enjoying a clay pigeon shooting class members club in Honesbury, Warwickshire, Despite the career setback canceling was still tipped to drop in September However, no music was released, was hospitalized again for kidney issues with his girlfriend Rushed in an ambulance and staying mom, Karen, has said to the press that as her son was in another country. Liam Mumm's panic suggesting that her son both physically and mentally, whether the former One Direction star had and the supposed kidney infection was substance-induced emergency. It wasn't until three weeks later resurface after his health crisis, that he was doing a lot better now. On October the 13th, it was reported that the singer was seen of Strand Hill which was understood as documenting his A few days later, Payne was banned after pleading guilty to speeding. Payne wrote to the court to apologize and apologize for speeding. However, he was still sentenced and In November 2023, Liam finally and revealed his second solo album he has already filmed a music video Liam was now planning to in the first few months of 2024. On December ninth, 2023, Liam revealed he was finishing up his second album. And on January 31st, 2024, his next single, Teardrops, As part of promoting his new music, with a close-cropped haircut captioning and released a behind-the-scenes video and even cries as he records his new song. There were definitely a lot of teardrops For the first time, really for me each day of making this record. This album, literally, How I was feeling on those days is each So it can even help someone help somebody celebrate something. That's really what I wanted to get across part, I guess, about my job. On March first, 2024, his first music output in three years. And in celebration, Liam shared son, Bear, looking at his father's That being said, No television performances, and no announcement of tour dates. Other than a Lyric video, an in-studio the song being released onto his YouTube, stopped, and teardrops On the same day of its release, Payne's was working on a fictional book Maya revealing a content warning, relating to abuse, violence, eating disorders, and abortion. When the book was released on the 13th got an abortion while dating Liam was neglectful and abusive In the coming months, articles relating to Maya Henry would continue to circulate. And in August, Liam attracted of misogyny me due to comments Kate Cassidy, in a TikTok video. And then I'm wearing Do you wear heels? Nice to cover it up for once. Workwise, by this point, and there was no sign of a release date In promotional material posted on his a much more athletic and robust build. However, this contrasted dramatically just a few months later. This, as well as his recent facial suggesting he had buckle fat removal made Liam look more sickly and gaunt, into the insecurities Liam harbored when aged out of his teen idol status. Plans for a one-direction that Liam was spearheading was also the singer had chosen to instead However, on August 16, 2024, reports landed a huge career break in the form Alongside Pussy Cat and Destiny's Child Kelly Rowland, a hit-making supergroup from scratch The series culminated in three live shows August, in front of an audience where Liam met eager fans outside. One fan revealing that to Pain as he turned 31 Soon after, Liam and his girlfriend wedding, where concerned fans noticed Then they vacationed in Greece back at her home in Florida. For the rest of September, as documented wanted on her TikTok. Career-wise, it has since been reported as his album had apparently been put he had no idea if it'll ever be released. Feeling low and despondent, travel to Buenos Aires, Argentina, Niall Horan concert as he was currently Liam stating on Instagram, We're going is playing down there, and I think we Payne admitting, It's been We've got a lot to talk about, a couple of things with the boy. No bad vibes or nothing like that, It was unclear what Liam wanted to talk to travel so far to see the former visited some closer cities to Liam, Florida, earlier in the year. The venue in Buenos Aires being where Liam before canceling due to illness. Maybe Liam was feeling insecure knowing full well his appearance thousands in the crowds. Or he wanted to reconnect with his former of happier times when they were of adoring fans night after night. On September 30th, Kate Cassidy Aires, stating that it was all a rush to pack for their trip. After the nine-hour flight, nights, but fans noticed, and in turn, irritable, disorientated, to include him in a TikTok Liam, get in here. What are you wearing? Clothes. Come on. I don't know what I'm wearing. These jeans were They've got Okay, that's cool. That is all we're getting You're really good. On October second, Liam and Fans were worried about and his intentions in coming, taking confront his former bandmate in person. Videos shared on social media and singing for a group of screaming fans The former One Direction star showed several videos and snaps of him Captioning them with, So happy Some outlets suggesting that this may be However, several videos of Liam concerned about Liam's bizarre behavior, for being attention seeking. Remember when Harry stayed under the radar Meanwhile, Liam Others mocked his lackluster dance and when a security guard appeared the Macarena for the crowd below. In conjunction with the ridicule Liam caught wind that Liam's upcoming album his other personal and career woes. His ex-fiance, Maya Henry, to the press, altercation he had with one of his going on a TikTok tirade, stalked and harassed her two He messages me. It's always from different So I never know where He'll create new iCloud It's always a damn new iCloud account. I'm like, every time I see one pop Messaging my friends. Not only was he messaging them, I found could go over to his house, apparently. He's the one that is constantly And also, might I add, oh, the reason Snapchat, which he has for years, And he says that he praise on they will always be loyal As a result of these bombshell revelations Liam became the victim of further The Mail Online releasing an article How Liam Payne's Toe Curling Gaps Have Image, and remind readers of every cringeworthy at the center of since At this time, Liam and Kate were still stay was only meant to be five days, two weeks had passed, back home without Liam on October 12th. It is unclear why Liam decided ultimately traveled home alone. Maybe Payne just couldn't face going home deal with issues in his life and career. Maybe he was spiraling, and they argued, his side and watch him be so destructive. Liam Payne was reportedly Park Hyatt due to being intoxicated. As a result, he was being a nuisance By the time of Cassidy's into the Casa Sur Palermo Hotel On that day, a podcast episode in which she revealed in her conversation use his threats as emotional manipulation Because he would always message me ever He would always play with death I'm not doing well. I know the lifestyle he lives, something bad is going to happen. So I would always be like, I have to help him because if I don't, if something does happen to him. On October 15th, the following day, instructed lawyers to issue a cease and after accusing him of continually In his final days, Liam greeting well-wishers outside his hotel, appreciating the enthusiasm On the morning of October 16th, Liam saying that he was having a chilled out She recounting, he was He said he was having a chill. Nothing seemed out of His social media output concurred a casual video of him with his girlfriend before, as well as a throwback pic However, in the hours became erratic and concerning. A woman, only known as Rebecca, in the hotel lobby, described him She claimed he announced himself to a queue of guests waiting for the lift She said that then Liam returned surmising that he'd spotted an email Rebecca recounting, 'Fuck this, mate, ' and started The singer's out-of-place behavior But concerned, Rebecca said she She explained, But he just grunted. Then he said, I used to be in a boy band. That's why I'm so up. Shocked at his admission, She added that he fell over when he intervening by guiding him There is currently no confirmation as to Liam's violent outburst, but it has since within his record label, Payne A decision that understand simply and only deepened the personal Since the age of 14 years old, Liam had and corporate interests guiding his life time, he would be all alone. There was no future album, And once this hit the press, public humiliation and online ridicule. Residents staying in the Casa hearing loud and violent noises I thought they were working on the room. There was a lot of noise, like heavy violent noises, I thought. Then others saw hotel staff going into Then a desperate 911 call was made support, with a receptionist a A guest who's off his head on drugs We need someone to come. After the line disconnected, know if the guest's life is in danger. The room has a balcony, and Then just seconds later, a violent scream the receptionist making the following Just send an ambulance, only an ambulance. Liam Payne died at 05:07 PM on October leaving his seven-year-old son, mourning the loss of a crucial member we'd not quite experienced ever since. For the women mentioned your compassion and grace. No single person can be the cure or Loving someone who suffers from issues inflicks its own battle and healing from this traumatic event.