Hey, have you seen my ,,Handy" I want to ask my Friend if he's wearing a ,,Smoking" tonight r if he wants to dress up in ,,Partnerlook." What - you only understood half of what I just said? Well, then you're definitely not German. Hallo, Servus and welcome back to my YouTube channel. My Name is Felicia, I was born and raised in Munich Germany, but I have been living off and on in Cincinnati, Ohio since 2016. So I hope all of you guys are staying safe and healthy during this Crisis and I hope you're staying Home if you can. This is definitely a difficult Time for all of us all around the World and I'm sure we could all use some Distraction and Entertainment. So for today's Video, I'm going to be talking about something light and fun; Many of you know this and I've mentioned it before, Germany is a pretty americanized or anglicized Country overall. We listen to a lot of american and other english-speaking Music, we watch american Shows and Movies and almost all Germans speak at least some basic English But did you guys also know, that English has slowly become part of the german Language over time? There are actually so many english Words that we just naturally use when speaking German, that it will probably take Hours to name them all. A lot of those had to do with the Progress and Technology in the past few Decades. So a lot of these english Technology terms were just adapted into the german Language like: ...just to name a few, and as you could probably tell from what I just said a lot of those Words have also been adapted grammatically into the german Language. So an english Verb like ,to download' gets the regular german Verb ending and we say ,,downloaden", and then it's also being conjugated like a regular German verb and it's the same with English adjectives, that we use in German. Those two are usually being declined at the german Way, and english Nouns that we adapted to the german Language get a german Article. So it's ,,der Computer" for example, but what many of us Germans don't know is, that a lot of those english Words that have become a normal part of our everyday Vocabulary are actually used in a whole different way in German, and if we use those Words towards an English native speaker they will probably not be able to understand us, and believe me; it's really tricky not to use those Words in English, even if you're aware of this, because you're already speaking English, and you have those english Words in your Head, and it's just hard to remember, that you can't use them the same Way that you're used to in your first Language. So for today's Video, I've prepared a List of 20 english Words, that Germans use wrong, but before I start with the whole List I'd like to mention a few english Words that are or used to be part of the german Youth language: The most common one is definitely ,,cool". This one has been part of the german Language for a few Decades now and we don't use it in the Sense of something as cold, but only in the Sense of something is hip something is great, but as I said, it's been around for a very long Time, so today almost all Generations use this Word, and we actually use it all the time. A couple of Terms, that were part of the Youth language, when my Parents were young, that my Generation doesn't use a whole lot anymore ard ,,heavy" or ,,too much". ,,Heavy" is mostly used when something is emotionally or mentally heavy, and ,,too much" is used for when something is overwhelming or over-the-top. So a German may say something like: ...meaning that Movie was pretty ,,heavy" Lady Gaga's Outfit was a little ,,too much". Now going more into the Slang of the past few Years you'll hear a lot of younger People use the word ,nice' in German all the time, and we don't use it as a Synonym for ,pretty', but as a Synonym for ,cool', ,sweet' awesome'. So when I tell my Friends some good News they may just reply with ,,nice", or a German may say something like for when someone has a new Car. Here you can see how the Adjective has been inflected, by the way; We don't say ,,nice Auto", we say ,,nices Auto". So these english Words that I just mentioned aren't exactly used wrongly in German, but through People using them over and over again, they kind of get their own Connotation in the German Language, but my favorite english Slang term in German for the past few Years has been ,,safe", because that one is actually used completely wrongly in German, and a lot of Germans therefore also use it wrongly when speaking English. So when a German says; ...it doesn't mean I'm going to come to your Party safely, but it means I'm definitely coming to your Party. So Germans use it as a Synonym for ,definitely' or ,for sure'. Another Example would be something like; Are you sure that we're allowed to park here? Yes, absolutely, for sure - So with that little detour to english Words in german Slang language, here is my list of 20 english Words that have a whole different Meaning in German, and when I first introduce the words I'm going to pronounce them the Way that we do it in German. This one absolutely has to be the first one on my List, because we use this Word almost every single Day in German. ,,Handy" is what Germans call their cell Phone or mobile Phone. In English ,handy' is when something is practical or ,handy' can also be something sexual. No, there are no Guns involved here, ,,Fotoshooting" to Germans is simply a Photoshoot. German don't use the Word entirely wrongly, but I found, that the Word ,Casting' isn't as common in the U.S as it is in Germany, because Americans usually use the Word ,addition' instead, and Germans also use this Word to describe Reality competition shows like American Idol or The Voice To us, those are casting Shows. I've definitely used this one in English before, even though I knew in the Back of my Head, that nobody would know what I'm trying to say, but my Mouth was just faster than my Brain, because it's just such a practical Term, ,,Partnerlook", to Germans is when two People are wearing the same Outfits, and there isn't actually a good Translation for this in English, but you can say something like; ,those People are twins', ,they're twinning', ,they're wearing twinning Outfits'. This is a Term that a lot of Germans think is totally misunderstood by English native speakers, but it's actually not as bad as many of us think. ,,Public viewing", in German, refers to the public Screening of a Sporting event, usually Soccer, like the World cup or the european Cup, but it can also be some other kind of Sporting event like the Olympics. Public viewings often take place in Restaurants, Beer gardens, outdoor Movie theaters, Stadiums and other places, often outdoors but not always. Public viewing in English has different meanings, but one of those meanings that's especially common in American English is the public Laying-out of a dead Body. ...in German, but that's not the only Meaning of public Viewing, it can also be used for... when something is shown to the public for the first time like a picture, or when something that's usually private and closed is opened to the Public temporarily kind of like an open House. I actually used this term in my Video on Sports culture in Germany and the U.S, because I knew most of you guys would know what I mean, and since I was talking about Germany, I thought I should also use the Term that we actually used there, but I did get a few Comments, I think mostly from Germans, asking if I was aware, that ,public Viewing' to English native speakers has to do with dead Bodies. So be assured it's not the end of the World to use this Term in English. This isn't necessarily used wrong in German, it's just used differently. Drive-in is what Germans called a Drive-through, so it's not the McDonald's drive-through, but the McDonald's Drive-in. We don't have those nearly as often as you guys do in the U.S, but they do exist in Germany, and I think the reason why we call them differently is that a lot of Germans struggle with the Word ,through', because a lot of Germans can say the &lt;th&gt;, and then also the English &lt;r&gt; is kind of tricky to say, and then both right behind each other, ,through' can be really tricky for a German. So we just call it Drive-in, way easier and it also works, because we don't use the Word Drive-in for outdoor Movie theaters, where you drive to with your car We call those ,Autokino' in German - Car cinema. In English, this stands for a glowing Meteorite, a Sternschnuppe in German. In Germany, we use this term for someone who became a Star overnight like a rising Star or a high Flyer. This can be used the same way it is in English, for basically everything that mostly Women put into their Faces to look prettier, but a lot of Germans also use it as a Synonym for just ,Foundation'. That's how I learned it when I was young that ,,Make-up" equals ,Foundation', but I think partly because of all those beauty YouTube channels, the word ,Foundation' has become more common in German too. ...another beauty related Word, and this one can be really confusing because it's used as a Noun in German and when used as a Noun in English, it usually refers to the peeling of an orange for example. In Germany, a Peeling is something that you use for your Face or your Body, it's a facial or a body Scrub, probably because you're peeling off dead Skin, I'm assuming. So if you're looking for a Face scrub in a german Store, make sure that you look for the Word ,,Peeling". Smoking, in German, is not used as a Verb for when someone smokes Cigarettes, but it's actually used as a Noun for something that Men wear when they formally dress-up. So it's what English native speakers call a Tuxedo or a Dinner jacket. This Word is kind of confusing, because it does stand for a Kitchen device in both English and German but in German it means ,Blender', whereas an English it denotes this Thing right here, that you use, for Example, when you mix Cake batter or something. Also where I live I think, that if I use the Word ,Mixer' and I'm not currently in the Kitchen a lot of People will also assume, that I'm talking about a social Gathering or a Party or that I'm talking about a Beverage with which you mix your alcoholic Drink, like Orange juice or Coke can be a Mixer, for Example. A german will immediately think of Cars when hearing this Word, for to us an Oldtimer is a classic or a vintage Car. In English, this just refers to an older Person To German, a Cutter is a pretty important Person that's involved in a Film production, the one that cuts all the Material. In English, you would say film editor Germans call the Process either ,,Cutten" or the German equivalent - Schneiden, and the Person responsible for it is the Cutter. In English, a Cutter can have a lot of different meanings but it usually refers to either a device or a person that cuts things. This one is a very popular one when it comes to wrong Anglicisms in German; To Germans, a Bodybag is a Bag that you wear close to your body - a messenger bag. In English, a Body bag is a Bag that goes around a Body, a dead Body to be Precise It's what we call ,Lechensack' in German. In English, a Timer is either a Device or an App, that you use to time something, an Alarm that goes off in exactly 2 Minutes, for Example. This is mostly used in the Kitchen for Cooking and it's what Germans traditionally call [literal translation] Egg clock. For Germans, on the other Hand, a Timer often times refers to an item that they carry with them and in which they put all of their Plans and Appointments - a Dayplanner. A Patchwork family is a Term that refers to a non-traditional Family in German, so for Example, when two Partners get into a new Relationship, and they both bring Children into the Relationship from previous Relationships with different Partners. Then they all come together and form a new Family - a Patchwork family. This one seems pretty simple and doesn't leave a whole lot of Room for Misunderstandings, and in both English and German, it does refer to the Process of purchasing something, but in English it really means buying anything like Grocery shopping or when you buy Cleaning supplies, etc. Whereas in German it really only refers to buying clothes. So when a German teenager says... ...they mean that they want to go to the Mall and get new Clothes. Okay, So this one I actually wasn't aware of myself, I only stumbled upon this for this Video. So there's a good Chance, that I've already used this in the Past towards Americans, so I'm really sorry for the Confusion. A Neckholder, Bikini or Bra or Top, in German, stands for a Piece of Clothing with a Halterneck, so instead of having regular Straps, it goes around your Neck. This one is one of my favorites; For Germans, Beamer is something that we actually use quite a lot like in the Classroom or at the Movie theater, because it means what's called a Projector. In English, I don't actually hear the word ,Beemer' a lot but apparently it is kind of like a Slang term for a BMW Car, who knew? And to Germans, a Beamer can also be a Transporter, so like a device like they have it in Star Trek. So something that beams you from one place to another. This is one of the most common Mistakes Germans make, because it is a very common word in both German and English, and while speaking English it's so easy to forget, that it has a whole different Meaning in English. ,Box' is what Germans call a Loudspeaker so I may ask my friends something like Does one of you have Loudspeakers I could borrow for the Weekend? To English native speakers, a Box is just a Box ...and actually, Germans use it in that Sense sometimes too. So this was my List of 20 english Words that Germans use wrongly or that have a whole different Meaning in German. So which one surprised you the Most? Let me know in the Comments below, and obviously there are many more of those Words. So feel free to also share your favorite Word of those that is used wrong in German, or maybe the other Way round, a German word that is used wrong in English. Thank you guys so much for watching, I hope you're all staying safe and healthy. If you like this Video, make sure to give it a Thumbs-up, don't forget to subscribe to my Channel for free if you like what I do on here, also activate the Bell to get Video notifications, follow me on Instagram, and I hope I'll see you next time. [In German - Bye]