Geoff: We are going to take a closer look now at President-Elect Donald Trump's pick of former democratic congresswoman Tulsi gabbard to be the next director of national intelligence. If confirmed, gabbard would oversee 18 intelligence organizations, including the CIA and NSA. But her nomination is expected to set off a confirmation fight since she has no experience in the intelligence world and has been accused of defending dictators and parroting Russian disinformation. We're joined now by Michael Leiter, former director of the U.S. National counterterrorism center, who served in both the bush and Obama administrations. Thank you for being with us. Donald Trump has made clear he wants to clean house and overhaul the nation's intelligence services. We also know he is rewarding fealty as he staffs these top positions. Help us understand in that context what he sees in Tulsa Gabbert serving as director of national intelligence. Michael: As you noted, President-Elect trump is clearly looking for people loyal to him. I am not sure that is fully different from any other president. There is probably Y extra concern for intelligence positions because at their very core, the director of national intelligence and director of the CIA, although of course loyal to the president, are also there to, as everyone has said, speak truth to power. Make sure they are providing an objective analysis of the circumstances and allowing the president to make the policy choices he is empowered to do. And some of the concern here is whether Kelsey Gabbert has the expertise and experience but also the inclination to speak truth to power. Geoff: The role of director of national intelligence was created after 9/11 because there was a concern other intelligence agencies were not sharing information. Information had been sideload. Help us understand what the dni actually does. Michael: The director of national intelligence, the dni, was a result of decades of challenges and fights between the intelligence organizations, the FBI, CIA, national security agency. Those were epitomized in the failures of the weapons of mass destruction debacle in Iraq and 9/11. The dni was supposed to take this large enterprise, coordinate budgets and efforts, and make sure the president and the cabinet had the best intelligence possible regardless of where it came from. And making sure that different views were coming to the president. It has been the subject of criticism over its 20 years as being overly bureaucratic and not efficient. But I think those core needs for the intelligence community to be well coordinated and to make sure that differing views are presented to the president, that is still critical. The president will probably see the dni as fulfilling its role for if it is necessary at all. Geoff: Tulsi gabbard has echoed Russian began to, is a conspiracy theorist -- echoed Russian propaganda, being friends with war criminals. John Bolton said she should not even sit for a senate confirmation hearing until the FBI investigates her because he said she presents a national security threat. Is that a concern you share? Michael: I am very concerned with anyone in any position who is not thinking very critically and questioning what enemies of the United States like Vladimir Putin and bashar al-assad say to them. Any official needs to realize that the leaders of other countries will try to manipulate our leadership for their benefit. I think it will be up to her to prove that she was just echoing their propaganda, but she can actually reflect critically as an intelligence officer and will listen to all of the analysts who serve the U.S. Government and she will ultimately get to make her own judgments she absolutely does need to be free of any influence from foreign governments. That should be true of every U.S. Official. Geoff: What might a second trump term mean for intelligence sharing? Will our nato allies be as willing to share closely held secrets, sources and methods? Not just because of Tulsi gabbard potentially, but Donald Trump's own cavalier approach to guarding classified documents? Michael: Your question is critical and the critical premise is that we do rely on our allies. Whether it is the United Kingdom or countries around the world, to share with us intelligence to protect our national security interest. The U.S. Has a terrible record of protecting secrets. There is legitimate concern that a trump administration will have challenges with that. Ms. Gabbard does not have a history of working in this so there will be real concern both from allies and also within the intelligence community. She is going to have to establish to the senate that she can protect our nation's most sensitive secrets and the secrets of our allies. Because otherwise we will ultimately be weaker, have worse intelligence, and it will harm our national interests. Geoff: Michael Leiter, thank as always for your insights. We appreciate it. Michael: My pleasure. Thanks.