- [Man] Seven zero, six up, point four up, Standby for impact! - Welcome back to Smarter Every Day. I've made a really long in the Arctic Ocean to a U.S.. Navy fast attack which has punched its Today we're gonna learn a sub underwater, and it's very different After we go back into the ice, we'll go really deep in the ocean, which I found to be a and then we'll go into the control room and learn the complicated of surfacing a submarine in the Arctic, which involves using through the thick Arctic ice. All right, here we are. We're at the final episode deep dive series, on And there's a lot of in previous episodes: the command structure, how to make oxygen, how to fight fires, but for now, we're gonna go back to the beginning when I first boarded the USS Toledo, and we're gonna learn what through the ice and begin our journey. Let's go get smarter every day. [Music] - Okay, Arnell is about to We are literally about to dive and you're gonna walk me - Right. - [Dustin] So what's going on. - Basically, what we're about to do is, we're gonna take our boat and we're gonna pull it back what we're used to operating in. So right now we're operating So basically... - [Dustin] Our what? - The bow planes, which on the front of the boats They move just kind of like airplane. Just think about the airplane wings, that's what we think about So we're like an airplane - [Dustin] So you wait a second. You said you pull them inside the boat. - So hydraulically, we pull both sets of little (Dustin laughs) We pull them in, and they're right now because we don't want to come up and damage them in the ice, when we surface through the boat - [Dustin] No way, there's no bow plane, can I see it though? This is made out of wood. - They're retracted. - [Dustin] They're retracted. - So right around here is where the bow planes come out on this side. This is where I was talking So you have the stern planes - [Dustin] Yeah. - And on the side, both sides here, it'd be a short set of and those are your bow planes. And they control, for Now the ballast tanks we're talking about, they're located up here and This is where we're take water on here, or put more air in to It's the sail the boat right here. - [Dustin] The sail? - The sail. - [Man] Even though it's not a sail. - Even though it's not a sail this is how you got on the boat today. So you come up through here. - [Dustin] And why did - Because when we surface which is normally located here, but when we came through the ice, the superstructure of the there was still water over so if we'd opened the there would have been - We're not high enough so there's a little water over We can't open the normal hatch. We decided to go with this option. - [Dustin] That's a good (laughs) That's a good reason not to do that. Okay, so my understanding to the control room. - That's correct. - And we're gonna do a dive. - We're about to dive the ship. - And you're gonna let me - You will see something. (laughs) So who am I gonna watch? - So when we go up to control, I'll have you up in the the captain will be on the conn and you'll see the chief of the watch, you will see the diving officer, and you will see the officer deck and the conning officer of the entire evolution. - Okay, got it. Got it, sounds good. And what do I need to not in that room? Just keep my mouth shut, right? - Just let it ride. - Yes, sir I'm looking forward to it. I can already tell man, you're my favorite person on the boat. It took me like 10 minutes. Is that why you got me? Is that why you shook my hand first? - That was it, I felt it. - [Dustin] Filming inside the control room of a U.S. nuclear submarine while it's diving in the Arctic And this is not the kind of access that the Navy takes lightly. Because of this, there's at some point, you're gonna see some stuff blurred out in the background, and at some points the audio We're doing this so that right up to the line, as far goes without revealing or limitations of the submarine. Okay, we're gonna dive and I can film here in that direction just because of stuff - [Man] Just tell me when you're ready. - Ready, sir. - Yeah, ready to dive? - Captain, sir, all personnel onboard the ship. The ship is rigged for dive with the exception of Arctic full blow and a sounding of 1490 Checks with charter water depth, I intend to stationary - Submersion ship ice sir. Dive, stationary, dive - [Man] Stationary dive Dive by chief of the watch and the one MC stationary dive stationary dive. Sub two blasts of the diving alarm, stationary dive, stationary dive. - [Man] One MC Stationary sub two blast diving alarm Chief of the watch aye. - Stationary dive, stationary dive. - We can bring the water so we can control the to come down from. The diving and officer of the our angles and our pitch and - Where's the depth gauge? - So we have the depth gauge here, you can also reach depth here and digital depth here. And you can read it in digital, up there. - Got it. - Speed, course, depth, pitch, roll. - I can feel it. - Right now we have a 63 down angle. - Understood. - We're trying to come of the ice. - Put 10 - Upward depth rate, four six five down. Upward depth rate, four four, four down, four two, four down. Upward depth rate, negative acceleration, chief of watch, flooding. - [Man] We're flooding. - [Man] Test turn planes and rudders - Test turn planes and rudder. Test turn planes and rudder. Six four, six six. Extend the bow planes. Extend the bow planes. CSES control extending the bow planes. Seven eight eight zero three down, positive acceleration. - [Man] I make it up 240 - 240, zero degree bubble aye sir. - You just heard the diving And you may not have heard that before, but you already know what that means. To maintain a level submarine before the ballast tanks are equalized, the submariners have to use and the stern planes. I'm tempted to use an airplane metaphor, but piloting a submarine is There are two main forces at play here. You've got the buoyancy whether it's moving or not, and then you've got, what's called the dive planes. You've got the bow planes And these are kind of like wings, except they provide both And they only have an when it's actually Using the speed and the angle of attack, the submariners can the planes are contributing to maintaining a zero degree bubble. You can then push or pull water into and out of the ballast tanks to equalize the buoyancy force at You can then slowly dial and the stern planes to take less and less of a bite of water until ultimately they end up at a zero By trimming out the submarine like this, they can dial it in so that at a certain depth using This is a really, really big deal. And when we go to punch this concept is going in a really big way. - So when you do a static dive, you don't have the forward and the bow planes to help you. So you have to adjust pitch - If you want to go to just weigh you down Under the Arctic is very challenging 'cause the salinity changes so much, normally salinity is pretty but here 'cause of the freshwater on top, the salinity can change all So that changes your buoyancy - So, if you noticed, he was calling off depth 'cause it's very heavy And then once you hit that salinity acceleration started coming off, the velocity started coming off and it was really more - It's not like a thermocline, it's a different thing - It's both - It's a pretty strong effect that it has. - Only thing we have to deal with is the temperature but other under the Arctic it's both. - Really, it's amazing. So I noticed you were hyper stressed for a short period of time and now you seem chill. What's up with that? - A lot of things happen all at once and if they don't happen you don't get the angle you need, you don't get the ascent rate you need, you don't get the pitch rate, the planes are moving as everything kind of happens all Once you get ordered up, calms - So sir, you're controlling - Yes sir, rudder and bow planes. - [Dustin] So you're It's not like driving, you can't see what you're doing other than these needles, right? - Just the needles. - [Dustin] So what are you trying to hit? Don't tell me a number, but... - I'm going to a course. I'm going east, going in a so I'm going east. - [Dustin] So you're literally - Yes, sir. - [Dustin] Is it pretty intense? - When you first starting, I would say so. But I've been doing it for a little while, so I got used to it. - [Dustin] So you're pushing but you're also turning, so is that the bow plane? - It is plane. So I'm trying to keep depth of the planes and then going in my direction. - [Dustin] So left and right is rudder, pushing in and out it's your planes? - Yes. - So, we did the dive 10 times is that correct? - So we're gonna do 10 turns of the screw. - [Dustin] Of the screw. - That just means the screw's turning 10 revolutions a minute. - Oh okay, so it's a rotation So you're calling that. Okay, got it. - And the goal of that so we can actually do a very microscopic adjustment of the trim. We're taking the planes, which provides some by slowing the ship down. So we're finding that neutrally buoyant. So in the event that casually where we lost propulsion, the ship wouldn't float it would find this happy and we'd just stay until we figured out what the next step was or where we're starting to fall. - [Dustin] Got it. - A lot of experience and previous ships and training commands. - [Dustin] Got it. A little later, once we were underway chief Charlton had a classic demonstration set up for us in the torpedo room. - All right, so we got here is we've got a string tied across from all the way across the ship, towards the starboard and what we're gonna do is to show you how the hull compresses as we dive the ship. - [Dustin] Really? Here in a minute, they're And then as you see that, you'll see the string starts to lower from the hull compression. - [Dustin] Are you allowed to tell me the difference in depth that we're going like from... - No. I felt it diving now, - I'm gonna lean a little bit forward, you're going to lean in a little bit aft. - I can feel it. - And then as we go deeper, you'll see the string start to dip. - Stuff's starting to move. - [Chief Charlton] - Wow, that's like a 10 degree tilt. - 10 degree yep. We're starting to get a little already you can see here. - [Dustin] I'm doing the math in my head, at that speed at that angle, we're going deep. - Oh yeah. (laughs) - I'm a mechanical engineer, and one of the things they teach you in mechanical engineering school is the ultimate load So while I was in this I was thinking about and axial stress and mechanical buckling and the fatigue strength of wells. There was a lot going through my mind. In this spaceship, the difference in pressure between you and outer space is only one atmosphere, but it's very different in the ocean. For every 10 meters or so that you go deeper in the water, it's like adding another to the outside of the pressure vessel, and in the Beaufort Sea, where we're at in the Arctic Ocean, there is a lot of available atmospheres worth of depth that we could go just by diving deeper. Okay, you're a smart person, and you know that if that's pointed down at 10 degrees and you can approximate a velocity, you can just do the trig that over a certain amount of time, Dustin is going to be in the submarine, right? For that reason, I'm having to put a cut so you don't know how long we did this, but I will tell you this, I could do the math in and I was terrified. We were deep. This is the only time on the submarine that I was genuinely uncomfortable, and this is because I of the stresses that were on the outside of the pressure vessel - So, 10 degrees down, at least eight knots we've been doing it. We're freaking deep. (laughs) Cleaning out now? - Yep, so we can study out our final depth and you can see the line starting to droop here a lot more play than there used to be. - [Dustin] Oh yeah. - [Chief Charlton] That was tight and now. - [Dustin] It was very tight. So what I'm seeing is the deflection, the hull is crushing in. And so it's built to deflate like that. - It is, yep. - [Dustin] And so everything around us has the ability to move. So there's not one thing that's bolted from that side all the way to that side. - Correct, everything kind of floats and it's all mounted in a way that it allows the hull compress without affecting the operation or the normal state of machinery on board. - That's amazing. Okay, the more I think about this, the more interesting it gets. The first thing I learned is that a submarine can control its depth with dive planes and ballast tanks. The second thing I learned is that a submarine can go stupid deep and undergo incredible So these two things are actually related, and I want to show you called a Cartesian diver. This is just an eyedropper, and I've got a certain amount of water in the eyedropper so that and check this out. If I simulate going deep in the ocean, by squeezing the bottle and look at what happens to the As I squeeze it, you can see my ballast tank the air is getting crushed, and then at some point it reaches a point where it is no longer wanting to float. That means the depth of the So it's like this big feedback system and you have to constantly to make it work. So at a really deep depth, because you have a lot of pressure, it either takes a whole into your ballast tanks, or what I would do is, I would so I had control authority This is fascinating. It is far more complicated And it also means that you where a submarine will want to fall. You're not just controlling you're controlling relative buoyancy from the front and the back. - We will control relative We work a lot on that while So when we were doing the stationary dive, we were operating the front and the aft main ballast tank vents, and we were operating them separately. And that's what basically We're trying to control our pitching angle because if we open them we end up sticking our or we'll end up sticking and we don't want that 'cause that's our safety ship where all our sound sensors are at. - So, this sounds easy, but I thought hovering a - Hovering a submarine sucks. It just takes a lot. - When you say hover a submarine, you're saying that the submarine - Parking the submarine on it's very hard. So basically the diving that are sitting up the different waters, different angles and what it's gonna basically zero to sit in one place. - I had no idea, man. I thought I knew like even I knew nothing. I'm gonna summarize it this way. You're solving multiple kite equations as a crew at the same time, it's like a continuously iterating loop that is constantly being solved. And if you do it right, you can hover, and in this case you want to pitch up just a little bit and come But that pitch up is important. - That's exactly what we're doing. - Oh, by the way, you have to do it in the right spot because the ice has a certain thickness. - It gets really thick if you miss. (laughs) - [Dustin] Thank you very much. - No problem. - It's hard to describe, but when we started getting I could feel the energy level of the ship start to slowly elevate. Like people were doing things and they were making preparations. And interestingly, the and he started putting - [Dustin] Sir, what are you doing here? - So when we serve the ship, I'm one of the first ones So I'm kind of getting halfway Might be about negative when we get up there. So when we first surface me we're the first ones to go to the bridge. And our main goal is to clear all the ice off the top of the sail, We have to raise our induction mast, which we use to bring air in and that's needed to fine tune and finish the servicing procedure. So after we're up on the surface we run a low pressure air system, to push more water out to adjust the angle and get So I sit here, all my winter stuff. - [Dustin] So, you're and like move the ice from the top? - Oh it's pretty neat. It's probably about two to - Is it okay if I throw like - Of course a GoPro on the weps, it'll be a pretty cool shot. - That's awesome. Okay, sweet I'll get out So you need my dosimeter back? - [Man] We need that back. - Okay, cool. Can you hold that? - So this is my radiation exposure, so you're gonna measure - It's a thermal luminescence dosimeter. So what we do is, we open it up and there's a chip inside. It has lithium fluoride crystals inside and it's exposed to heat and that are captured while you're on board. - [Dustin] So you can quantify. - We can quantify how much you get. - That's awesome. Sweet, thanks man. Okay we're about to When we descended under the ice, there was a lot going on. I can only imagine it's gonna be more in the other direction, I I might get to hear the crunch. Because this servicing was part of ICEX, the team that was back at Camp Seadragon warned us to surface the ship in a very specific location - We've already went and it's probably about 300 yards wide, probably runs about a mile and thin enough for us to surface through. My dive just got us hover trimmed, so we slowed down to about a knot and made sure that our water's good, so when we slow and actually hover under where we want to go, we'll be able to just ascend So I am right now waiting for permission to vertical surface because So we got to wait for them to go. So once I get to go ahead for that, and then I'm gonna go under the spot that we've identified and hover right under there, and then we'll blow a bunch of water off and then vertically surface right there. So you gotta make sure you Your goal is to have your sail hit first, it's hardened, it's designed And you want to make sure that the rudder and the screw don't 'cause you have the Now we're making our approach right now we're just waiting for permission. - Roger that. Okay, I have an absolutely to show what my concern was. At this point, just roll with this. This is a popcorn ceiling, we're gonna pretend like Okay, so here's the deal. As the submarine is coming up, we have to hit the right angle to bust through the ice, right? But it has to be thin enough But there's another problem. Let's say that you're a balloon, right? And you're floating just like a submarine wants to be positively as it comes up, you've and you've got the center of buoyancy, and the moment where they touch that's when the center of mass So check this out. If we have a submarine, as if there's any disturbance, like the ocean flowing, you're if you don't punch through enough, right? So likewise, as we're coming when we touch the surface, we have to go through with But if we don't, in this if I push really hard, it's That's a really big deal, in this case, it's, you - This is a camera that's mounted directly on top of the sail, straight up. - [Man] We'll run a steady - Turn around and see It helps with the ice thickness. Also, if you look, this is what's gonna help us out, it's part of that vertical surface, we have to be perfectly hovering. That's a zero speed. You heard earlier, we made an announcement for people not to walk around the ship. So it's that sensitive from the board compartment just the weight to the 150, can affect the trim of the ship. It has to be perfectly trimmed. We use this to see if we're - [Dustin] So we're pretty - Yeah, 150 feet under the water. - [Man] That's about one three - [Man] I still have to mark a spot. That's where the previous So mark out the exit, you can see it. - [Dustin] You can see it through the ice. - [Man] Shovel it out. - [Man] There's another one. That's where they're panicking. - [Dustin] So that's where That's cool. So there's a very complex scene behind me. I'm not allowed to film it, but they're mapping out They understand their And it's very interesting, and I'm sorry I can't show you. You're the captain, you're What's happening there? - That's the best part too, everyone's we're trained so well, so I should just be able to sit back and check big picture of things and we practice it so much &quot;What's he gonna say next?&quot; And he says it and it checks so I get to sit back and say very well that's where you want to be. If you're involved with So we train, this way I can just sit back, see me constantly I'm checking everything. - I'm all back two thirds. I'm all stopped. - Basically what we're trying to do here is parallel park a submarine, when you can only look up at the sky and our parking space is a mile long, but a 300 yard stretch of The crew of the Toledo had already done something like this before, through the ice when I met up with them and you can see from the aerial footage, when I was coming in the delineation or the thicker in the older ice, in contrast with a The problem is the aerial footage doesn't tell the whole you might have a strip of and you're trying to pop up right there. But what you don't realize under the ice in a completely So you're trying to hit this, but you're having to deal with forces that are moving you this way. So you might have to It's a very complicated dynamic thing. Another question I had, which I asked, but I didn't get an answer, is how does submarines know Like, do they have some where they can guess that thickness above or do they get that I have no idea, but what I do know is if I was moving through I would want to know the closest location where I could surface. So to me, I would constantly kind of like when your engine you're always looking for a field. I would want to know what for a submarine. They would not tell me how that works, but I got to believe that in place. - I'm all back two thirds. - [Dustin] The main way is with the propeller, and he's pushing backwards in tandem use with the rudders. But also from what I infer of retractable outdoor propeller, which extends from the hull and can rotate the bow to swing the bowel around. Throughout this whole event, his only relative cue is up above from an upward facing camera, that gives the relative sense of motion. - I'm all stopped - Okay, here we go, We're about to punch through the ice. - [Man] Vertically Vertically surface the ship. - [Man] I want to see vertical surface vertical surface. - Vertical surface, vertical - [Over The Radio] what have you got? - [Man] Eight zero three - [Man] Seven zero, six up, point four up. - [Man] Stand by for impact. - [Man] Six zero, seven up, point four up. - [Man] Impact! - Angle's staying up. - [Man] It's coming down. - Chief launch three forward. - [Dustin] So that's what it was like down in the control room, but I want you to see what it was like from the sail itself. Weps, or the chief weapons officer, he was up in the sail, which has multiple compartments, and I was able to get a GoPro on his head, and he's up there during This is what it would've This is the Toledo doing and I think it's fascinating above to what's actually going on below. - The primary concern now so that we can actually so that water's not coming down and we'll go and dig ice picks and stuff. - So while I waited, weps, or he's the lead officer over and torpedo divisions, he went up with captain off the sail, which was no easy task. - [Man] Upper bridge - [Man] There's a good bit - Yeah, I could feel when they opened it. So they're going up there - [Man] Big chunks come down? - [Dustin] How big are - About that big sometimes, they range. - [Dustin] So I need to stay over here. - Yes I would recommend - [Dustin] Yes, sir. - [Man] That thing's solid like six times. - [Dustin] What's up buddy, are you about to go dig us out? - We might get out. - It's gonna be a hit or miss, you may be able to get out, we'll see. I didn't have any Wheaties this morning. - I am starting to learn I'm good with just going straight to the Pacific, if you want. - [Dustin] How was that man? - Intense, sir. - [Dustin] This first - No sir, third time. - [Dustin] Was it good? - It's getting better - [Dustin] Is it? - [Dustin] How about you man, how was it? Was it good? Yeah, a rush? How did they do man? - Just another Sunday. (laughs) - [Dustin] How'd they do, sir. - They did great. - [Dustin] Did they? What could've been better? Obviously something - It can always get better, - [Dustin] That's awesome. So were you nervous? - I wouldn't say nervous. Definitely, it's always anxious doing that because it's such a dynamic evolution between like positioning Like I positioned a spot that's but you know, the ocean current pushing me, So you're trying to sit yourself up and account for that. So I got to worry about that, but dive, sitting there trying to hover and everything's got to 'cause the longer I sit there and wait, trying to, you know, mess the more I'm getting - [Dustin] 'Cause there's no - No, I can only like twist So usually try to set up like because then you can but this one, the way that the surface of feature that we were shooting for, wasn't too oriented in that way. It was only 150 yards wide, so you're not gonna necessarily 'cause the ship is so long. With the geometry set up, it was one of those ones where stop and go up 'cause you before you drift out. You can kind of reach a point like when you get close enough where you're not stopping the ship, so you gotta make sure you meet the parameters. It's definitely dynamic, but it's probably one of the - [Dustin] When are they - Once they clear. - Yeah once they clear the ice up there. So it sounds like it's kind of thick so they should have fun. But once that happens, we'll get the scope up, take a look around. You'll be able to see ice camp. - [Dustin] That's cool. - It's pretty awesome. - [Dustin] And just like that, - Looks like you're trying to leave. - [Dustin] Thank you, Pretty awesome. So I took a few more pictures. I took a selfie with and said my goodbyes and which did one orbit around the Toledo, so we could see what it looked like when it punched through the ice. After a short hop in the helicopter, we landed at Camp Seadragon of last minute photos with the flags, which I thought were really cool. And then the Canadians who took us all the way back to Prudhoe Bay. It was there that an of how truly isolated we were. This is like the edge of civilization, and I was struck by both of this part of the world. It took several days and which was wild because got to Camp Seadragon via This was the last video deep dive series in a nuclear submarines. I'd now like to introduce that made this happen behind the scenes, we'll start with Lieutenant You may have seen her in the background of some of the shots Michelle is the one that and introduced me to the I had access to the things Here's a quick high five with Michelle at the end of the embark Thank you, Michelle, for - Thanks for coming out. - [Dustin] Yeah, it was pretty cool. Yeah so all the time, huh? This is what these guys do all the time. That's amazing. - Pretty great job. - [Dustin] Thank you what that was like, it was really fun. I want to say thank you the USS Toledo, you treated me with respect I hope you feel that I reciprocated. Everyone from the A-gangers, the chief of the boat, executive thank you so much for your time. I know you went out of your and I'm grateful. When someone contacts me about a video, oftentimes they have in their mind the exact type of video they want or the message that they want to convey. I want to introduce you to Because when I first met it was clear to me that She trusted me with the Navy's message and I trusted her to This was unlike anything I've the Navy one video and But because of the and the trust she put in me, we created this entire series. So I definitely want to introduce you to Commander Jodie Cornell. This is Commander Jodie Cornell. - Hi. So why did you bring me out, Jodie? She's the PAO officer Why did you do this? - I brought you out because about the submarine force. And I want you to take this message back and show everybody about and the enlisted folks that how dangerous it is, how important it is and how interesting it - And can you please explain the rules and stipulations Like you told me what to make, right? - No, I did not. I let you do whatever you wanted to do. I gave you some ideas So before you came out, I sat down with some &quot;Hey guys, what are the cool things &quot;that happen on a submarine &quot;while he was out here?&quot; - Jodie's awesome. She's cool, we've been for several days now. She's really fun. But she basically made all this happen, so big thanks to Jodie. - Yeah, thank you. - [Dustin] Thank you, I appreciate it. - Now, hand sanitizer. (laughs) - I have found that the for me personally, is when the environment and ask So that's what Jodie did and I'm grateful. Again, thank you to the Navy the Smarter Every Day deep dive series in a nuclear submarines. This episode of Smarter Every I want to tell you about this This is the USS Requin. This was a submarine It didn't see a lot of but I'm gonna tell you That would be the USS Barb. And you can listen to when you go to audible.com/smarter or text the word smarter to 500-500, the link will you just click it. Thank you so much if you in this deep dive, it's amazing, but if you still don't you have not passed the course here. You have to know who Eugene B. Fluckey is in order to complete the deep dive. It's incredible. So if you would consider that'd be rad. You can do that by going You get your first audio book for free, but you also get access which has all kinds of stuff, that'll just ease your genuinely a smarter person. The amazing thing about diesel is, this is how the Toledo came to be. They slowly developed the They built system after system. Eventually the U.S. made the Nautilus, the first nuclear submarine. All these systems didn't they had to be developed. Learning about what these guys did way back in the day, it's incredible, and I really want you So required listening, &quot;Thunder Below&quot; Eugene B. Fluckey, you're gonna love it. audible.com/smarter. Download that book for Sometimes at the end of people say things like, please subscribe or support I'm feeling so much more than that. I'm feeling just grateful, If you've watched these videos, if you've participated in any way, if you support on Patreon, whatever. This was a thing. The Smarter Every Day, deep dive series into nuclear submarines, And one person in particular, There was a person in the submarine force that spent a lot of time making sure I could get this stuff cleared They asked that they were not I just want to say, you know who you are. And I want to say thank That's just a Testament and what they do. I'm grateful, all over. I'm gonna leave links down to the Navy. Haven't been asked to do that, given the subject matter I'm gonna make a playlist, so that this can live on to learn along with me, I'm going to re-watch this stuff too. So I'm grateful. Thank you so much. I am Dustin, you're Have a good, bye.