In many of the big tech software companies engineer is the first level that it's OK to But what about the levels higher than that, and so on? How do you go about reaching those levels? What's good about them? And, what sort of rewards can you expect? Hi! I'm John Miller, the deliberate engineer. I spent more than 30 years working in big and I spent 15 of those years working as a companies, such as Microsoft, Amazon, and So today what I want to do is tell you a little engineer. And also, a little bit of information about I didn't make it beyond principal engineer did. What I'm sharing today is going to be my experience talking to my friends. These are opinions, they're not hard and fast There really are no such things in the big By the way, if you aren't already familiar band) then I recommend taking a look at my reach senior as a software engineer. For a quick refresher, and to show those of chart that shows what the level titles are at Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. At both Microsoft and Amazon, a principal At Google, they do have a principal engineer to what a distinguished engineer would be At Google, the same level as a principal engineer So, you need to bear that in mind as you're or bad about these positions at the various There are a couple hallmarks of people that these companies. The first is excellent technical communication It's the ability to understand complex topics, And in turn to be able to take those, come be able to translate it into a variety of levels of technical expertise, and different Being able to take those concepts and translate engineers, managers, vice presidents, C-suite As well as being to communicate the most important way that won't frighten them. This is really one of the main jobs of a principal Second, you need to have excellent technical Now this doesn't mean that you're the world's although you might be. What it means instead is that you have a good and you have the ability to solve complex and to work with a variety of people to turn that's well enough specified that it'll be than yourself. So, as a principal engineer, excellent technical something that is probably a five team effort, fits together, the right way for these different the work, helping make sure the interfaces are testable, deployable, and so on. You may even write some of the most complex you won't write the majority of the code in That's because that can be done by other people do to help the overall project to succeed. Having a principal engineer do relatively time and resource for the overall project A principal engineer has battle scars. They've shipped many versions of a project They really have the battle scars that go / accumulating technical debt, and then having Figuring out how to diagnose problems, how of the implications of taking technical decisions As a principal engineer, I always used to &quot;Look, I can't tell you the right way to solve ways of solving that won't work, and give try and do it that way.&quot; This negative experience is really what a engineer. Many of the ways that a principal engineer problem are the ways that are most obvious doesn't already have this experience. So, the company gets a lot of value out of In addition to communication / design skills, of series of checks and balances for what's They evaluate what's being built, and how They take a look at the requirements for the feasible direction. If it's not, then the principal engineer will the project, communicate that and build consensus, first step, can be delivered. That should give you an idea of what a principal The next question is, let's say that you're How do you go about becoming a principal engineer? First, make sure you're in an environment level tasks. Many times an established product won't. The work that's being done can be done by So work with your manager, and make sure there's to do something that's at the principal level You can make a preliminary identification taking a look at how many different teams how many touch points there are, how many impact that the project will make. It doesn't HAVE to have a visible impact, what the project delivers in a meaningful A principal engineer doesn't have reports-to with. Instead, they work by building consensus, them understand that the engineer can add move in a direction that makes sense, and It may be counter-intuitive to you that a authority over the people working on things, with lots of other responsibilities, and lots That is time and energy that the principal don't make use of their particular skill set. And in the meantime, somebody at their level that the overall project goes smoothly. Here's two real examples of principal level The first was on a project called the Touch This was based on a Microsoft Research project. I was working in Research as a software engineer And my team and I were helping to productize the hardware team in Microsoft. The main things that we did - that we delivered gesture recognition engine. But, in addition to that, we had to work electrical with the experience, user experience researchers, and make sure the project moved forward. As a principal engineer, one of my roles was them that yes, we were going to deliver something forward with everything fitting together. The second example is when I was at Microsoft We produced a feature called 'Capacity Reservations' capacity, where they could say something like VMs at a particular time with this particular If you haven't worked in compute allocation, But trust me, it is. Because you have lots of VMs running on lots what other VMs you can put there and so on. Anyways, in addition to coming up with a new we had to understand the way everything fit all the way down to what was placing and monitoring The code that I delivered was a relatively The bigger part was trying to reconcile this be represented to users, and making sure that monitoring and disaster recovery would still It was a big project, and definitely a principal In fact, both of these examples that I've projects. They had a variety of principal engineers areas of emphasis. Collaboration is absolutely key for you to Another key attribute that most principal to the point where when somebody anywhere that area, they would say &quot;Oh! Well let's go to that principal engineer. They're the person to really get buy-off as Or if it'll work at all!&quot; These principal engineers will usually have the variety of disciplines, and even sometimes word will be taken as something that's true, A good principal engineer needs to be able when they bump into something that they genuinely And, they need to be able to adjust their appropriate for whatever the audience is that Now, if you're a senior engineer trying to a principal level project, and DELIVER it. That means the project has to actually be audience is for it. This is usually a prerequisite for being able If you do lots of great work, but the project to let you move forward. So I've said some good things about being there's lots of semi-management stuff associated So why would anyone want to be a principal Well, I can think of three good reasons. First, it lets you work on big projects with doing things you could never manage to do Really, if you want to be able to deliver You need to be in this kind of a role, and something actually gets put together and rolled than yourself. Second, being a principal engineer typically For example, at Microsoft, when you move from especially higher up in the principal band, will be somewhere between - I've seen it for dollars and a million dollars a year. So, you really get rewarded if you're doing Third, principal engineers, even though it and satisfying position of your career. I worked as a principal engineer at Amazon, fondly at. In fact, it's something that I'm going to video. Summing things up, a principal engineer is But, it comes with some really great work You can accomplish fantastic things. And, the time that you spend as a principal fondly in your career. And, as a kicker, it's very well compensated, If you have experience as a principal engineer, I'd be very interested to hear what you think Is it accurate? Are there other things that should have been If you're a principal engineer, do you have principal? Please leave comments down below. And as always, if you like this content and think about subscribing and giving this video That gives me a signal that tells me this Thank you for watching the video to the end,