Hello Nicholas. So you, We liked your story a lot, And I hope it will appeal to our audience. Why are you with us tonight Bah, I'm here tonight because I'm looking for And she came to Strasbourg because And we were together for a year and a half as brothers and sisters. And afterwards, she returned to Bordeaux to join her father. - Her name is ? And so after we lost contact and it really touched me, Because we really had a bond And it was a shame to lose sight of her like that. - How old were you? - And today, you have? So it's been 12 years since you last saw each other. And in 12 years, it was totally erased. And what is great, indeed, is that It had, for you, marked the beginning of a year of great happiness. But 12 years later, you still think of her. A wise little boy, a good studious pupil, This little blond head is in CP class. Nicholas Yes, but there you are, behind this smooth and And her early school years will be brightened by meeting a little classmate named Danielle. So, from their first look, a In the school yard, they walk around. Love has no age. The years go by. Two years of happiness, always inseparable. Everyone knows them. Parents are the But the very people who observed them with a tender and protective eye, Will be obliged to separate them. At that age, no adult thought they would hurt them so much. Danielle's parents are moving. Will the relationship of the 2 children break down? But luckily the phone remains a This, until the day when Nicolas pronounces clumsy words that he still regrets to this girlfriend who will remain upset. The years pass and Nicolas never forgets his childhood sweetheart. The years pass but everything reminds him of his young romance. Daniel's sweet face like a burning scar The others repeated to him with a smile, like the song, that with But Nicolas now knows that memory erases nothing. As he grows, grows also in his heart, He has not seen his little Danielle for 12 years, Whatever her age, her words for her Do fairy tales still exist? Answer tonight. Beautiful story, great story, long story. How did you get lost That after this year of CP that you spent Written links, etc. But as she went back to Bordeaux, In 15 days the move was planned. And And then it was over. And we were so young... Even I, at that time, would not have thought Do you imagine it big? I think she's still brunette, blue eyes but So Nicolas, you asked us to find her, to Because today she is 12 years older and It was not easy, it must be said, to And as usual it's Rebecca who is Danielle lives a few meters from here. Let's go ? Hello, I'm Rebecca from the show Y'a Yes, that's it, yes. Allow me to give you this invitation, - So ? She left CP! Yes, it changes! But there are always the - How did you find it? What exactly are you waiting for, Nicolas, 12 years later with Danielle than you A friendship, that's what I'm looking for with her. Contacts And that we see each other as often as possible. What This is the most important, the contact. You have the possibility that this story of a Me, I have a little girl of seven and a half and But does it matter so much 12 years later? We can imagine that for her, it is a pleasant distant memory, But that she's not going to turn her life upside down to reconnect And that she may have forgotten a little? This I do not know. That's the big question, I don't know. I'm a little scared of his reaction though. You imagine that she might be able Yes yes. I've been thinking about that all week. If she recognizes me or if really Don't forget that when she'll see your face We'll find out in a few seconds, She left a little boy who was 8 years old. But we've seen pictures, you've changed a bit So she won't recognize you at all. So If she's there and we'll see if Well don't move, we'll see if Daniele is next to Rebecca in the dressing room, if she has accepted our invitation. As soon as the curtain is closed, Pascal. Rebecca, do you want to answer Pascal's question? Did Daniele accept our invitation? Well yes, Danielle accepted our invitation. Danielle, how are you feeling? A little stressed, my heart is beating, but I'm fine. - Did you study pharmacy? So you should know what to take to get No, but in fact, I take nothing, it's And when I brought you the invitation, It went well yes, it will be fine. Well, tonight is not an exam, everything will be fine. I'm going to ask you to stand up. You go Thanks. - How are you ? - Thank you for being with us. - Where are you from? - What a beautiful city ! Thank you for being here. If you were brought from Bordeaux, To tell you something important. - Do you know our show? Have you asked yourself questions But I didn't stop, I didn't really find any answers. - You don't owe anyone money? - Not a hidden fiance? - A chilled suitor? - You're not angry with anyone? Well, you want someone who's been told the story, - I would like yes. You know, Daniele, the past resurfaces - Are you the nostalgic type? - Very ? - Do you have a good memory? - Excellent? - Which goes back a few weeks, a few months? - See more ? A few years ? You often look at photos of adolescence. Have you kept good relations with your friends? I've been writing my diary for a very, very long time so it's all there. At what age did you start writing the diary? I had to be in CE2. So I'm at - Alright, do you have another advice? So look. You know, Danielle, childhood memories - What are your fondest childhood memories, Danielle? - Happy childhood ? - Instead ? So, is Mademoiselle, who is a bit - You want to know who came to talk to you tonight? Look at this screen, Danielle, the face of the person who Hard hard. I recognize but there is evolution. - You recognize ? I believe. I know who it is. It's my first - And his name is Nicolas, can I say his name? And There you go. Maybe I'm wrong, but... There you go, still the same eyes. We are quite blown away. Quite amazed by this memory. Is this your first love? Yes, and that hurt me but we were small What hurt you? Well let's say there was a move and then here's what. Why didn't you keep in touch with Nicolas? Well, because we were quite young. It was the CP, And we kept in touch for a while I got a phone call that said What is this phone call? It was the nice Nicolas who told me He must have had a tumultuous love, let's say. How old were you? I was in CE1 when I left Strasbourg. - When did he give you the call? - About nine, ten? At eight years old, nine years old? He calls you to tell you he's moved on to another love story? But he was adorable Because we were young and he was frank. It's good. We better be careful with our kids! Oh no but... Was it Casanova? It rhymes with Nicholas! I didn't know him, Casanova. But - How do you find it? - No, but there? Does it affect you a lot? Many, many yes! Really, yeah. Do you want to hear what he If it's good news, I want it. If it's to tell me... No, but yes, I'm willing. It was he who asked us to you Yes. Hello Daniele. It amazed me that you recognized me, 'Cause I wouldn't have believed that you And, for these 12 years, I have always thought of you. And it's true that this phone call, I had to make it, Because it couldn't go on like this anymore, That we're on the phone all the time And it hurt my heart when And we both had a great bond. And now what I'm looking for with you is more If there's something going on between us, it's fine, But I'm already glad that you Sorry, I'm quite emotional. - Would you like a glass of water? It made me really happy. By writing my And I thought maybe it's you and I'm really happy. It has often happened to you, Danielle, It was something very strong in fact. But we were little, so it's the first loves. After, The stories that our children sometimes live that we And who are more important than we think Every time we left school, we saw each other again. I ask you a super indiscreet question, you answer if you want, you are engaged in life at the moment, Do you have a fiance, a husband, an ex-husband? No, I have five children waiting for me! That's good, he has a big car. No. Danielle, I'm going to ask you about yourself Nicolas came 12 years later, He made us do a lot of research He wants 12 years later, while you are Re-establish friendships with you and real relationships. And who knows, more if affinities, as they say. Do you accept or do you refuse? For this you know that you are totally Do you want, Danielle, to open the curtain? I do not know. No, if so, of course! So we open the curtain. It's really nice to see you! Let them find themselves a little quietly. - Do you like it? - Mission accomplished ? Well, we let you tell all the stories So I went out in fifth grade with a certain Alain. Do you remember Alain? Well you Full of happiness for you both, renew your bonds of friendship, And then may life advise you for the rest. We are very happy that our team Thank you both.