10 out of 10 Battorneys like &amp; subscribe! Hi Kid! There's quite a buzz going I heard it was originally going to be Where did you hear that? Today, I am not Fuchsia Fish. I That's lovely, but honestly, I'm a bit Obviously. Except you Lana lamb. You're a baby. Okay Lana Lamb is a baby, but not you. And well... if there happens to be a baby listening right So the point is, since you are so sophisticated, be begging me to read Harold and the Purple It is not a baby book! b But you would love it anyway, Lana. Yes you would... Okay, so let me see if I have this right. It is a book with a baby on the cover that but maybe also some babies I can tell you're seeking clarity. So this is not a baby book! It's about magic! Adventure! HOOTY-HOOT-HOOT, HOOTY-HOOT! Creating your own destiny?!? And the power of your mind! Well color me intrigued! You're telling us that you've You mean &quot;book&quot;? I have not. That's because you discriminate against purple! That is the craziest thing she's ever said! You've said crazier. Well you wanted the story, the puppets want So let's see what this Can you HANDLE all the purple?!? Speaking of purple, where I spilled frittata on it. It happens... all right, here we go! You know, for a little kid, It's like a super long arm or something... One evening, after thinking it over for some time, Wait wait wait wait... A baby? Walking HOOT-HOOTY-HOOT! Really, Hooty? Just go with it? HOO HOO! Alright... but just so we're clear, I don't in case any baby out there is taking notes There wasn't any moon, and Harold needed a And he needed something to walk on. He made a long straight path so he wouldn't taking his big purple crayon with him Alright, here we go... But he didn't seem to be getting anywhere on for a shortcut across a field and That's nice of the moon. The shortcut led right to where so the thing is he didn't want to get lost with just one tree in it. practical. It turned out to be an apple tree! The apples would be very tasty, So he put a frightening Dragon It was a terribly frightening And right now Harold may be It even frightened Harold, so he backed away and suddenly he realized what was happening, but No! How did he draw himself Oh yeah... I remember how... unsupervised baby! He came up thinking fast, and in no time Thank heavens that Harold is a quick draw. Good luck moving that thing Oh. He got a sail. Ugh.... He quickly set sail, and the moon sailed Look at that face of contentment under the light After he had sailed long enough, because this kid knows where He stepped ashore on the The sandy beach reminded Harold of picnics Made him hungry! So he laid There was nothing but pie, but there were Can someone have nine favorite pies? Yes. Yes they can. When Harold finished his picnic, and he hated to see so much so I can see that Harold is Harold left a very hungry moose and and boy, does that porcupine look happy or what? And then off he went, looking for a Harold knew that the higher up he So he decided to make the hill into a mountain. And if he went high enough, he thought, Now this mountain is starting to He was tired and he felt he ought to be getting to from the top of this increasingly tall mountain And oh! As he looked down over And there wasn't any other side of the mountain! Well it's all over now! Quick, Harold, quick! Don't just fall there! Okay, let's draw! Luckily, he kept his wits &amp; his Purple Crayon. He made a balloon, and he grabbed onto it. And he made a basket under the He had a fine view from the balloon, He couldn't even see a house So he made a house with windows and he landed Nice and easy, safe and sound, in one Now none of the windows was HIS window. So he made some more windows. He made lots of buildings full of windows. So now I'm supposed to believe that this baby If you can draw it, you can do it! That's not a saying. Listen baby, you should draw But none of all of these many windows was HIS So many buildings... so many One with one line across... one with one line up So much variety.... So he decided to ask a policeman, and the But, you know, Harold thanked him, as you do. And he walked along with the moon, his And then suddenly, Harold remembered. This kid has so much going on He remembered where his bedroom It was always right around the moon And then Harold made his bed... literally The Purple Crayon dropped on the Wow. You know what, Kid? I gotta thank you I recommended it, too. I like the part where the dragon And then my other favorite part But then he couldn't find his own But he was able to draw a boat And hot a balloon And then eventually he did find his way home after his adventures on Land, Air, and Sea! But disgracefully.... What? That's because Harold was drawing from his I wish I could do that. Draw the life of your dreams? And so can you, Kid. I'm going to draw the White House!