The woman known to history as Marie Antoinette, was born on the second of November 1755, at the Hofburg Palace Her parents, Holy Roman Emperor Francis I her the name of Maria Antonia Josepha Johanna. Her birth was welcomed but not particularly of sixteen children, ten of whom would survive Since each of her sisters, as well as her child of the Emperor and Empress of Austria "Antoinette" within the family. Despite her illustrious Hapsburg lineage, her life or experiences would be especially Certainly not more than her own mother, whose and diplomacy had made her one of the most It is unlikely that anyone could have predicted of Austria, would ever attain greater notoriety, most famous - and infamous - women in history. Antoine was born during a period of notable Austria had recovered control of most of the War of Austrian Succession a decade before, Maria Theresa's inveterate enemy, Frederick When Prussia signed a treaty with England, the overseas colonial world, Austria immediately the long history of wary hostility between When Antoine was just six months old, her Louis XV of France by proposing her betrothal de Berry, who was just one year older than The marriage, which was not officially approved respectively, would figure prominently in and war, and not just in France, but throughout Antoine was born on what is known as All Souls' traditions. Because it is a day of mourning, associated observed Antoine's birthday the day before, Not only was the day of her birth inauspicious, wreaked untold destruction and caused 30,000 The King and Queen of Portugal, who had been were forced to flee their ruined capital. Naturally, these coincidences were not really The communication barriers of the time period disaster reached Vienna, and neither were to arrive for Antoine's christening, since three days of birth, and proxies almost always But upon reflection during the decades and one could be forgiven for remarking on the especially given the ultimately tragic course From the beginning, an ill fate seemed to Despite her obscure place in her family, Antoine although her early life is not particularly Her eldest siblings were nearly two decades enough to her in age to be both playmates While Antoine loved all of her brothers and Charlotte, who was three years older. She also enjoyed a strong relationship with Roman Emperor, despite the vast difference Maria Theresa's children seemed to view She was committed to her family, loved her a mother very seriously, but as Empress of her own right, she also had the stewardship Maria Theresa's father, the Holy Roman Emperor treaty in 1713 known as the Pragmatic Sanction, heir, in the absence of a son. He then arranged Maria Theresa's marriage After the death of Charles VI, Maria Theresa Bohemia, and Hungary, while securing her new Roman Emperor, since the title could not be It was the Empress herself, however, who wielded Maria Theresa's devotion to duty was such sign important state papers while in her child-birthing Historians have observed that the Empress's hard quality, even with those closest to her, family life. She was also constantly critical of her children, marriages with the greatest possible benefit The Latin motto of the Austrian Hapsburgs, translates to "Let others wage war, thee, Virtually none of Maria Theresa's children and all were expected to do their duty and Maria Amalia and Maria Carolina, known within required to marry royal suitors of dubious On the eve of Charlotte's wedding to the Maria Theresa wrote: "So long as she fulfills her salvation, even if she is unhappy, I will Even Maria Christina, her mother's favourite, "You know the manner in which she loved her mother's death. "Mixed in with her love there was always As for young Antoine, like most of her siblings, by the Empress's criticism, and by her generally and capabilities. The little archduchess had a much closer and Francis I did not have much in common with His noted pursuit of pleasure contrasted sharply interested in amusements like hunting, gambling, Francis seemed content to hold his largely is true that Maria Theresa held the real state Austria's financial affairs. Considering the financial precariousness of the mid-to-late eighteenth century, Francis duties. The most unfortunate aspect of Francis' almost certainly loved him more than he loved Francis, the young Duke of Lorraine, had been at the age of fourteen, as Emperor Charles and heir. Maria Theresa was said to have loved Francis return, although he did seem to hold a genuine He unfortunately proved to be compulsively and often indiscreet philandering saddened Nevertheless, as a group, his family seemed He was described as cheerful, lively, teasing, his children, and he showed them all, including affection and warmth which their own mother The Austrian royal family had several residences at the Hofburg Palace during the colder months, months. Both of these palaces were formal royal residences formulated and power duly exercised. Courtiers, ambassadors, bureaucrats, and other interacted formally with the royal family. However, both palaces had been constructed a sphere of privacy for the family. Unlike other mid-eighteenth-century European a noted distinction between the public and In contrast, the French royal family was on Even their bathing and dressing routines might greatest nobles, each of whom was fully convinced royal family. In contrast, Austrian royal palaces were built chambers for official receptions and audiences, only at the express invitation of the royal As a result, Antoine and her siblings grew which was quite different to their European Naturally, the children of Maria Theresa and play their royal roles in public functions, for family recreation out of the public eye. The Austrian Hapsburgs enjoyed outdoor activities and riding and hunting in the warmer months. Vienna was one of the richest cultural centers were lovers and patrons of the arts. Whether it was in public for the entertainment amusement, the royal family particularly enjoyed together. From an early age, Antoine had been exposed the greatest musicians, composers, and dancers She had the privilege of meeting the six-year-old months younger than herself, when he visited in October 1762. Her dancing instructor was one of the greatest and her music teacher was the famed composer, official patronage of Maria Theresa the same Naturally, the arts formed a major part of quite talented in multiple artistic pursuits. She was a particularly fine dancer and was graceful and poised, even as a small child. Antoine also proved to be a fine musician. She was adept at the harp and the harpsichord, level by the time she reached adolescence, voice. But beyond her noted artistic accomplishments, She eventually came to enjoy her history lessons, subjects. When her new tutor, Mathieu-Jacques, Abbe assess her previous education and begin to Dauphin, he was shocked and horrified to discover write in her own native language. This is rather surprising considering that best educational resources to be had in Europe, family were quite well-read and scholarly. Additionally, Vienna was one of the foremost and a cosmopolitan approach to learning. A sizeable proportion of the Viennese, and trilingual, regularly speaking German, which they ruled several regions in Italy as well, of eighteenth-century Europe. At barely thirteen years of age, Antoine only any fluency, though her speech was overlaid and she spoke with a strong German accent. A number of potential factors may have contributed Antoine's father, the Emperor, was the former also French. Although he became Emperor of Austria - albeit refused to speak or even to learn German, his daughter. Additionally, Antoine's principal governess rather neglectful of her young pupil. Antoine always disliked reading and it is those lessons she did not enjoy. Further, Antoine's parents might not have to rectify. Until it became virtually certain that she the Austrian court seemed to care much about because until her marriage to the future King particularly worth teaching for any purpose court. Her tutor, Abbe de Vermond, wrote that his which is unsurprising in a child with so little He expressed confidence however, in what he Despite the gaps in her education, Antoine Vermond noted that when sufficiently motivated and used reason admirably to suggest solutions Under his tutelage, Antoine's literacy and Though the Austrian Hapsburgs appeared to royal family, they would have their share It is quite remarkable for eighteenth-century only three did not survive infancy. Another scourge was to visit the Austrian Six members of Antoine's immediate family during the late 1750s and 1760s, including This spurred Maria Theresa to mount an inoculation younger brother Maximilian received the new material from people infected with the virus. This early vaccine method was exponentially both children survived, and without scarring. Three of Antoine's older siblings, Charles, the smallpox virus during the 1760s. The family suffered another cruel blow with of 1765, from either a stroke or a heart attack. Empress Maria Theresa was devastated, going She wore only widow's black for the rest Nine-year-old Antoine was as shattered as Legend has it that prior to his final departure but turned back on impulse to embrace his Francis I died just days later in his carriage In a memorandum to his will, he admonished their friendship, and not to be too hasty He further enjoined them to avoid gambling Those with the benefit of hindsight might young Antoine, and many historical commentators it in the ensuing years. In April of 1770, an anxious fourteen-year-old and her country. Her mother urged her to conform herself to all of her charm and amiability to win the "Do so much good to the French people," sent them an angel." King Louis XV and her fiancee, the Dauphin near the Austrian border with France. Before being presented to her new family, of attire which was entirely symbolic. On an island in the Rhine River, the traditional attendants helped her remove all of her clothing her in French garments and jewels, despite had been wearing previously was also designed in Europe. Maria Antonia, Madame Antoine, the Hapsburg She was now to be known as Marie Antoinette, Apprehensive and immediately homesick, she but tried to collect herself sufficiently the Dauphin. Maria Theresa and Antoine's eldest brother upon her the great importance of Austria's The knowledge that responsibility for nurturing have been daunting indeed. On the eighteenth of May, 1770, Marie Antoinette in the royal chapel at Versailles. If his bride was nervous, Louis, who was just Observers noted that his posture remained hands shook as he placed the ring on his bride's Sadly, their apprehension was warranted. Their first several years of marriage would lasting impact on their public reputations. At first, Marie Antoinette was dazzled by court. Versailles had become the gold standard for by other European royals. In fact, Schonbrunn Palace in Antoine's a miniature Versailles, but the princess was of the original. She quickly learned that fashion, aesthetic to earning the admiration of the French aristocracy please, determined to be the most fashionable, Marie Antoinette was initially quite a success King Louis XV took an instant liking to her musicianship. Because the King liked her, the Dauphine's promising, and it may have been King Louis' young princess in check for a time. Despite the admiration which her beauty and a young teenager and ill-trained for the role Like many fourteen-year-olds might have done, important political figures at court, including who considered themselves the arbiters of Marie Antoinette was taken aback by the utter of the French royal family. Having grown up accustomed to a clear distinction spaces enjoyed only by family members, she never permitted to be alone, or to carry out Her resistance to royal protocol and her sometimes great-aunts dislike her. Additionally, she managed to alienate courtiers removed them from her household service in liked better. Marie Antoinette also made an enemy of Madame whom she refused even to politely acknowledge Moreover, most of King Louis' advisors had and distrusted the princess on general principle. Those at Versailles who feared the potential on Austria's behalf scathingly nicknamed Sadly, Marie Antoinette's new husband had this same suspicious distrust of both the an already difficult marriage between two still. Louis-Auguste de Bourbon and Marie Antoinette people could possibly be. They were both blue-eyed, and her ash-blonde but that was where their similarities ended. Where she was lively and extroverted, he was He struggled with indecision while she was He loved to read, a pastime she had never Even his great height contrasted sharply with four inches tall, which was quite impressive Although he admitted privately that he eventually did indeed find her beautiful, he continually of affairs which remained unchanged for the The initial lack of consummation is hardly the bride and groom who were only fourteen Since sexual matters were rarely discussed, couple were left alone on their wedding night, They were almost certainly terribly nervous, before. Louis wrote in his diary that he simply went the following two nights. With Versailles being the least private place the lack of consummation between the Dauphin An unconsummated marriage meant that there and heirs to safeguard the French throne. Since this was an important matter of state, King Louis XV. The old King was fond of both his grandson show some understanding. He insisted that no one should try to press confidence that the young couple would settle Empress Maria Theresa was not nearly as patient and shortcomings. The correspondence between Maria Theresa and years at Versailles strongly highlights the daughter. Kept well informed by her spies at Versailles, for alienating members of the French court, lifestyle, and most of all, for failing to consummating the marriage. Maria Theresa scolded her daughter for allowing gossip for her frivolity and flightiness. She castigated Antoine for failing to pursue and warned her that she did not have the intelligence, to withstand the much worse criticism the Marie Antoinette often responded defensively that her mother should believe the worst about indeed have the best interests of France and As her mother predicted, it did not take very for frivolous extravagance. Historians and biographers have speculated which she had developed in the early years Queen, were partly an attempt to compensate Not only did she remain physically unfulfilled who persisted for several years in wariness loyalties. On the tenth of May 1774, King Louis XV succumbed at the age of sixty-four. He was highly unpopular towards the end of to mourn him in any genuine fashion. The French people now looked to Louis XVI The new King was young, just nineteen, and presence of his grandfather, Louis XV, or was perceived to be a kind, genuine, bright, qualities for a potentially great and fair Queen Marie Antoinette was initially quite for her beauty, style, and charm. But four more years passed without a consummation And the longer the situation remained unchanged, Queen began to suffer. Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette grew even further the French throne. Louis rose early, attended to the business Antoine, on the other hand, loved to stay eleven in the morning. He enjoyed reading, riding, and hunting and She loved the gaiety and distraction of evenings or masked balls. She spent lavishly on fabulous clothes and tall, often dressed with towering poufs of She adored gambling and frequently lost exorbitant This behavior earned her the very uncomplimentary French public, who were becomingly increasingly as much as anything to France's economic If Marie Antoinette was compensating for loneliness Louis was doing the same. After he became King, Louis gifted his wife in the grounds of Versailles, which had once Madame de Pompadour. Knowing that Marie Antoinette found the total confining, Louis gave her the estate as her She could receive only those whom she wished the house and grounds at her pleasure. The King also regularly settled all of his censuring her. It is possible that a sense of guilt may have of his Queen's every whim. In the summer of 1777, Antoine's elder brother, quietly and unofficially on his mother's alliance and in particular his sister's He and Louis apparently got on well, so much about his sexual problems. Historians long supposed that Louis XVI might made sexual activity unpleasant or painful, The theory that the King underwent circumcision rejected by more recent historians. Rather, they point to the letters that Joseph which indicate that Louis' sexual impediments embarrassment at his lack of knowledge and fear of sex itself. It did not help the situation that her husband's frustrated, resentful, and far less willing Joseph's visit and interventions between bear fruit, so to speak. A few weeks after his departure for Vienna, in a letter that after seven years, her marriage I do not think I am pregnant yet," she wrote, very soon." The Queen was right. The following year, on the nineteenth of December child, a girl whom she named Marie Therese sister. The birth of a child and the progress they and Queen build a closer, more trusting relationship. And although their first child was not a son, for a time. The birth of a daughter meant that there might One hundred or more years earlier, these developments stability and reduce criticism of the monarchy, was undergoing dramatic social, political, cusp of a new world whose values were utterly prerogatives of royalty. Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette had both been royalty. Neither one of them knew anything about how almost completely insulated from the deep But France's strictly hierarchical and deeply economic pressure during the mid-to-late eighteenth France's conflicts with her European neighbours XVI's generous support of the American Revolution the French treasury to the very brink of financial At the same time, the French people were suffering consecutive poor harvests. High food prices and persistently high taxes and desperate people struggled simply to house In addition to these serious structural problems, thoroughly permeate French society, making many members of the bourgeoisie, and of working-class Inspired by the American Revolution and by accountability, the abolition of noble privilege, person, the ideas of philosophes and revolutionaries French monarchy at the moment of its greatest Marie Antoinette gave birth to three more in December 1781, christened Louis Joseph Charles in March 1785, and Marie Sophie Helene Despite the appearance of greater stability public reputations of Louis XVI and Marie The years during which their marriage had on the public perceptions of both the King Louis was perceived as weak, ineffective, an inability to govern competently. The Queen was viewed as domineering, greedy, In the scurrilous libelles, or scandal sheets sometimes depicted as a castrated pig, smiling Marie Antoinette was often lampooned in the suspected political domination of her husband But more than this, the public attacks launched be sexual in nature, and they became increasingly the closer France came to the 1789 Revolutionary During the years in which her marriage had to circulate that she must have enjoyed many, This is highly unlikely, but some historians that Marie Antoinette had at least one intimate Swedish Count Axel von Fersen. The Count was handsome, dashing, an adventurer in the American Revolution, devoted himself advisor and friend. Fersen was a frequent guest at Le Petit Trianon bedchamber just above hers. It is perhaps worth noting that her husband, even one night at Le Petit Trianon, although family, at his wife's invitation. Traditionally, historians have reserved judgment Count Fersen and Marie Antoinette due to the has either been lost, purposely destroyed, However, in 2016, historians working in French and finally decoded multiple letters which intimately involved and deeply in love for Because of the existing public stain on her to repair the Queen's reputation. Her detractors were quick to suggest that were fathered by the King. Although Le Petit Trianon was meant to be Antoinette, she probably did not realize that her reputation. Queens of France did not traditionally enjoy public reason to believe that the Queen might Sexual immorality was the vice most often However, the way that the Queen renovated She spent extravagantly to create a rustic peasant family to tend livestock and produce Meanwhile she, her friends, and her children, picnics, and acted in amateur theatricals such as milkmaids and shepherdesses. The idea of the Queen spending huge amounts the real people at the bottom of France's of cruel ignorance and disregard for all but Marie Antoinette likely never thought about it was too late. Following the birth of her children, Marie whirl which had characterized her first years little to repair her extremely negative public She began to take a more active interest and open to her advice, particularly surrounding Her tendency to intercede for Austria however, who had always distrusted the Austrian alliance. Additionally, she was seen far less often and had begun to show much more restraint approach to her demands on the treasury. But many of these efforts were too little The period between 1787 and 1789 featured disasters which led France's monarchy, the 1787 was a difficult year for Marie Antoinette Madame Sophie, their infant daughter, succumbed A few months later, the Queen, still mourning jewelers Boehmer and Bassenge and offered necklace, originally made for Louis XV's It featured a staggering six hundred and forty-seven would be worth approximately seven million The Queen admired the necklace but promptly When a group of thieves hatched a conspiracy aristocratic Cardinal into believing that the necklace for her and that she would reimburse Desperate to rise in the Queen's favour, When the money became due, the King and Queen Two of the thieves had fled with the necklace, Marie Antoinette, and Louis XVI ordered the Since the Cardinal came from one of France's surprising that the Parlement of judges, who him not guilty on all counts. Marie Antoinette was devastated. The proclamation of the Cardinal's innocence Queen's fault for coveting the necklace, or the Affair of the Queen's Necklace, as else to destroy her reputation. During the period between 1787 and 1789, the to deteriorate. He confronted stress by drinking heavily and He lapsed more and more frequently into bouts Out of necessity, Marie Antoinette now became and exercised more power than she ever had With her husband on the verge of a nervous meetings where Louis' chief ministers struggled to bankrupt France. She was, unfortunately, ill-prepared to step or economics. Still, her actions demonstrate a determination together. Having had role models like her mother, Marie it her duty to rise to the occasion. She was instrumental in the appointment and for various reasons, unable to find a way the country. Efforts were made to enlist the help of France's to give up their trade monopolies or tax exemptions Finally, in desperation, the King called a thing to a Parliament or national legislature Louis' summoning of the Estates-General Representatives of the three "estates" and the common people, had not met since 1614. Because the participants were pursuing such the Estates-General, nothing was accomplished. The Third Estate, representing the overwhelming the creation of a constitutional French republic could ever imagine sharing power with elected The conservative nobility defended their traditional solutions to France's bread crisis, which The talks went nowhere. A month after the opening of the Estates-General, Dauphin died of tuberculosis. Because all France was preoccupied with the was little public discussion or acknowledgement Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette were devastated. "My poor little boy is dead," the Queen seemed to notice." On the twentieth of June, when the King and representatives of the Third Estate arrived room locked. Believing that the King had ordered them locked court, where they collectively declared themselves to disband until they had formulated a constitution. The newly-formed National Assembly began at Alarmed about the way these developments continued Marie Antoinette convinced the King to move This led to riots in the city as the fearful would launch an attack against them, and against On the fourteenth of July, the rage boiled fortress known as the Bastille, the release and the murder of the prison's governor. Paris had exploded into chaos and violence. At two o'clock in the morning, the King that the Bastille had been taken. "Is it a revolt?" the King asked. "No sire," came the reply. "It is a revolution." After the fall of the Bastille, royal authority A "great fear" rose among aristocrats of the people were imminent, and many began Most of the extended royal family and many in the following days. Marie Antoinette was also strongly in favour that he would not consider leaving, she resolutely and children. Events began to move more swiftly in the coming The National Assembly worked tirelessly to but the far more urgent food crisis was causing On the fifth of October, rumours were circulating at Versailles for the high-ranking members Anger exploded among the women in the street and plenty at Versailles while bread remained own children starved? Armed with knives, pitchforks, cleavers, clubs, hundred women marched toward Versailles to They were joined by a great many other men they overwhelmed the palace guards. A mob rampaged through Versailles directly two of her guards. She heard them coming and escaped through in, and fled to her husband's bedchamber. Howling with rage to find her gone, the mob The Marquis de Lafayette arrived just in time order at Versailles. That night, Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, and the last time, never to return. They were escorted by the mob and members in the center of Paris where they could be The enormous pressure under which the royal on Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette. Louis slipped deeper into his depression and to action than she had ever been before. The next two years saw an extraordinary learning found that it had now fallen to her to hold Since the death of her son a few months before, And in the coming months, she would play the On the one hand, she worked closely with members Legislative and Constituent Assemblies to It was largely thanks to Marie Antoinette's to declare war and veto legislation. Despite her perception of France's new political tried to work with republicans like the Comte Bailly, and the Marquis de Lafayette, whom But at the same time as she collaborated with respect for her determination, bravery, intelligence, after night, secretly writing coded letters to her family in Austria. She covertly kept these contacts informed It is unclear now exactly what her ultimate to keep channels of potential escape open, day re-taking France from the Revolutionaries. It is possible that Marie Antoinette and Louis of a constitutional monarchy. But there was little they could do about the leaders and among the people of France in No longer content with a constitutional monarchy many were now in favour of dispensing with After the death of Mirabeau, her greatest Antoinette began to contemplate escape from The Revolution was radicalizing more every The Queen managed to convince her husband restricted any further and escape became impossible. Late at night on the fourteenth of June, 1791, outside the Tuileries palace. Less than an hour later, they had escaped border with Count Axel Fersen, who had helped driving the carriage. Once they were far enough from Paris, Louis he did not want to seem to be accepting the However, it is just as likely that he was his own peace of mind. The royal family made it as far as Varennes, for only a moment, was recognized by the local Incredibly, the man had only ever seen the It is a testament to how poorly executed the Their carriage, clothing, and luggage were their belongings were searched, the King's Now truly prisoners, reviled by their own Austrian armies to invade France, the royal back to Paris. The crowds lining the route of their carriage General Lafayette, but watched the King and The following year saw the Revolution become power. Marie Antoinette made a final attempt to work notably by establishing a correspondence and probably the most moderate and influential time. However, by April, France had declared war The mood in Paris grew more tense and combative Fear of an Austrian invasion to restore the palace. By September, the Assembly had abolished the Only weeks later, there was a citywide massacre and counter-revolutionaries then being held The royal family was moved to much more secure known as the Temple. The family had a few months of peace together, known as "Citizen Louis Capet," was put He was found guilty and sentenced to be executed He was permitted to say a private goodbye the next day with dignity and quiet courage. The loss of her husband made Marie Antoinette within a few months, her son Louis-Charles taken away from her also. The Dauphin was viewed as a serious threat, His jailers subjected the seven-year-old prince doing everything possible to indoctrinate Marie Antoinette's daughter would eventually would die in the Temple, of tubercular fever Marie Antoinette was now entirely bereft and be put on trial for treason, she was moved fortress known as the Conciergerie. Marie Antoinette's trial was a farce. She was accused of conspiring with Austria the country's treasury, and of moral and It is now known that the Queen did indeed and to other European allies, but at the time that she had. Lacking any concrete evidence, the proceedings rumours which had been published about her Her judges even tried to add an accusation Louis-Charles' jailers had somehow coerced him. When asked why she did not respond to the "Nature refuses to answer such a charge I appeal in this matter to all the mothers There was an abashed and shameful silence, sympathy and support. The judges pursued the incest charge no further, nonetheless. When asked if she had anything to say, she my crown, a wife and you took away my husband, My blood alone remains. Take it if you wish, but do not make me suffer On the morning of the sixteenth of October, remaining black dress into one of shabby white, Her hands were bound behind her and she was courtyard where a small open cart waited. As it wound slowly through the streets of at the still, silent figure in white. She looked decades older than her thirty-eight and expression dignified. Journalists who turned out to watch Marie she bore herself with all the unapologetic Yet, if she had wept and wailed and begged would have denigrated her for being a coward. The Queen went to her death with incredible Up on a platform in the middle of the Place surrounded by a crush of people noisily exhorting She climbed the few steps without faltering executioner's foot. The last words she spoke seemed to encapsulate she had arrived in France to this terrible "Pardon me sir," she said quietly. "I did not do it on purpose." Resolutely, she knelt before the block. The blade fell. There was an eerie silence for an instant, the Queen's head before the baying crowd. For more than a century following her death, unapologetic and luxurious excess, of completely for the suffering of others. These charges are merited to a certain extent, to support the royal family in the decadent It is true that as Queen, she had made many recent decades have begun to rehabilitate what happened to her. She had been ill-prepared and ill-trained her when she was little more than a child, dynastic chessboard. She had done what she believed was expected insulated from the changing world outside as public sentiment was now powerful enough She had been a scapegoat, and it was a testament through French society that people could believe and domination of her husband had been solely failure to embrace the Revolution, and for As tragic as it was, the execution of Louis of the Revolution - as long the King remained to the throne and the new constitutional French Yet, it is difficult to view the execution All authority had been vested in Louis, not She had no power any longer to pose a threat Rather than an act of justice, Marie Antoinette's of public rage. Far more than the King, it was she who was of what could or could not be proven about Very few of the accusations leveled against mill had any basis in fact, not even the most eat cake," as she was believed to have replied eat. Marie Antoinette's execution was a symbolic Her blood would be an expiation - to show back. What do you think of Marie Antoinette? Was she truly a doomed woman, caught in historical Did she waste opportunities to work with reformers the fall of France's monarchy, the radicalization all inevitable? Please let us know what you think in the comments And as always, thank you very much for watching!