- And they wonder why we fight so hard. You see what you've been missing? - Did anyone think to pack any vodka? - Beth, just look at the horizon. - Yeah, I see it, dad. It's very pretty. (John laughs) What, I said it's pretty. Don't make a thing out of it. - You two drop in here. I wanna go down 100 yards where - It's the same view from the (hooves clomping) - (laughs) Honey, you got a mean streak as big as this damn valley. - Well, it's a woman's job to give a man perspective, baby. - Oh, is that what that was? (suspenseful orchestral music) - I don't like to share the (door creaks and slams) - That's how you slam a door, Jamie. Never contradict him again. Okay, when he says jump, just start fucking hopping. - I am trying to protect This is not some sleazy This is a multinational firm that has invested billions of dollars and leveraged billions more on They will fight you. They will fight you dirty. - Is there any other way? I wanna believe that you're advising what's but then I remember this isn't your family And we both know how you Just stop thinking that you have a chance You don't. Just do as you're fucking told until these fuckers tuck and then we'll just quietly (suspenseful orchestral music) Your political career was over the moment you chose You're in my prison now, and if you ever forget it, I'll put you in a real one. (suspenseful orchestral music continues) (footsteps clomping) I, uh, heard you sold your ranch. I want you home at the weekends where I can keep an eye on you. Say, yes, ma'am. - Yes, ma'am. - Good boy. (screen change whooshes) (bar piano music) - Hey, Glade? - Would you gimme another? - Here you go. - Can I get a beer? - Let me get a Trout Slayer - Care for a Trout Slayer? - That what you've been - (laughs) Mountain biking, actually. I'm not much of a fisherman. You ride bikes? - Not since I was seven. - (laughs) Didn't expect to see a dress like that in Montana. - [Beth] Yeah, well, I'm working. - Really? - What kind of work? - Buddy, this is your one with your self-esteem intact. - Gimme your best shot. - (sighs) You're a professor - Northwestern. Once they left the house, your wife divorced you so fast But how nice for you, huh? Let me guess. World went a little wacko, no longer cool to boink the co-eds. So, you decide, fuck this city, get a nice little place in Bozeman, 'cause, well, it's your And now you teach Zoom of your creek side cabin. And you lecture about inequity and the concentration of wealth and how it's decimating the middle class all while you draw your six-figure salary and finance your dream home that is 275 basis points below the loans that your students need to take out to listen to this bullshit. And my guess, if I had to guess, is that you paid over asking price for it because it's just fucking So, you run up the house prices here and fuck you the middle Bravo, you fucking hypocrite. - Well, fuck you. - (laughs) Not for all the (screen change whooshes) (suspenseful orchestral music) - You're up early. - Shrewd observers, the men in my family. Yes, I am up early. - Why are you up so early, honey? - Keeping my promise to you. Why are you up so early? - Reflecting. I can't, (sighs) I can't The evenings are for forgetting, but in the morning I can remember. - Remember what? - There's some memories fathers shouldn't share - I think we're way past I think I've told you about everything. Hell I told you about my first threesome. - Your what? - Didn't I? I thought I... Never mind. (laughs) You want some more coffee? - God damn, Beth. - Well, I'm not the one sitting on a porch thinking about things - I was thinking about your mother. - What about her? (mournful orchestral music) - She was a magnificent woman. I wish she could have lived long enough for you to recognize that, to know it, know how much she loved you. - That's not what you were thinking. - That's what I'm thinking about now. (screen change whooshes) I'm jumping off the wagon tonight - Aren't you a tall drink of water? - What are you doing? - What? - I'm married, darling. - Me too. (laughs) - Yeah? - Where's your husband at then? - He's in Sacramento. (laughs) - Where's your wife? - (laughs) My wife is staring at you. (upbeat country music) - I'll handle this. - No, don't do that, ma'am. - I'm good. Oh shit. Lloyd, hey Lloyd. We're done. - It ain't midnight yet. - It's midnight enough. (bottle smashes) - [Bartender] Whoa, whoa, whoa. (crowd clamoring) (fist whacks) (fist whacks) (screen change whooshes) - What you doing? - I'm trying to outfit this boy for the gathering in the morning. I'll be gone a couple of days. - Is my dad going? - It's the spring gathering, honey. Everyone's going. (tack jangles) - Well, can you outfit me too? - You what? - Well, I am not staying (tack jangles) - Honey, we're two days on horseback. There ain't no tents, no bed rolls, no bathrooms, no nothing. - Don't you want me to go? - Yeah, I'm surprised that you wanna go. - Oh, it's fine. I'll just, uh, I'll fly to Vegas. I'll get a suite at the Wynn, go catch the Thunder Down Under. - Beth, if you wanna go, - Well, I think I did, but you seemed to find - Okay, Beth, let's put the crazy away. Would you like to go on the (Rip coughs) Beth, love of my life, I don't think I can And God knows that you and being dirty and cold and especially being told what to do, all of which is gonna happen tomorrow, but would you consider (laughs) the misery of - Well, I don't need you miserable. - Jesus Christ, here, try these on. - Ah, you make a girl work for it. - Get up, try 'em on. - Put 'em on, I say. - You don't want me putting - Ah, you can be as crazy as you want now. (gentle violin music) (screen change whooshes) (gentle violin music) - Fuck, you're a good man. (gentle guitar and violin music) (Rip sighs) - Mm, thank you. - All I need now is a cigarette. - Oh. (laughs) - You know I'm blowing you anyway. (Rip laughs) You don't have to work so fucking hard. - [Rip] (laughs) Here. - You are a perfect mother fucker. (lighter clicks) I could do this. I could live here and never see another person - Yeah, well, might be a little tricky in the winter, sweetheart. - No, you know what I mean? I mean, I don't, I don't - Oh. - Cigarettes, whiskey, a meadow, and you. - Darling, you have a I'll tell ya. - No, I don't. Three things that make me feel good in the perfect meadow. I don't need anything else, do you? All right, you can have a horse. - Well, I need cows to chase or there's no reason to ride 'em. - [Beth] Fine, you can - Oh can I? Thank you. - Now, you're gonna need some place to chase them to, right? - Mm-hmm. - You're gonna make me build - Beth. - No, you know, stop applying logic to my perfect daydream place. - Beth, shut the fuck up. Shut the fuck up and - Shut the fuck up? - &quot;Shut the fuck up,&quot; he says to his wife. Not shut up, shut the fuck up. - You know what? (both laughing) - Fuck your sunset, baby. You watch me. Sunsets are overrated anyway. (gentle violin music) (screen change whooshes) Look at all you sluts. - You're sitting here too. I doubt you just wandered to take in the view. - Yeah, well, I'm a married - Ah, yes, that arcane ritual where you stand before family and friends and swear before God, deity, that you will surrender your independence and obey the man you are betrothed to. - Betrothed. - See what Summer is attempting to do here is make out that marriage is designed to somehow oppress and control a woman. You know, if you're married but if you married the love of your life, the mirror to your soul, - I thought we agreed to get along. - We did. I didn't agree to placate where every institution and every custom is designed to oppress. - They are. - They're what you make 'em, babe. - I'm gonna take a shower. - You could probably use one. (Summer laughs) - Are there showers here? I'll show you. - What? - Just waiting for another zinger. - I'm all zinged out for now. - Why are you so mean? - No reason. Fun. - That's fun for you? - What, to point out the very thing that everyone's thinking, but they don't have the Yeah, damn right I romped You should try it. Which I did, most of the night. Yes, I find that amusing. - Well, I think it's cruel. - Well, that's why I don't do it to you. Those cowgirls, they (sighs) And that well, she needs it. You don't need it. - Well, I don't need to just 'cause I lost a child. (mournful orchestral music) - Yeah, you do. I'm gonna tell you something... I haven't told anybody, so - Okay. (mournful orchestral music continues) - I know how you feel And I feel it every day. So, when I say that I am sorry, Monica, I really mean it. - Thank you. (screen change whooshes) (door knocking) (chimes) - Oh shit, it's my sister. - Well, just ignore her, she'll go away. (chimes) - [Jamie] You don't know my sister. - See. (glass smashes) - Shit, Jesus. (suspenseful music) (glass clatters) (door clunks) - Jamie? - There's a term for this, Beth. It's called breaking and entering. - There's a term for It's called career suicide - Get the fuck out of my house. Get the fuck out of my Get out! (fist whacks) - Oh! (groans) - Tomorrow, you will and you will resign from office. Do you fucking understand me, Jamie? You will resign or I am printing photos for the sheriff. - No, you're not. - Doubt me. Doubt me, Jamie, I am begging you. (Jamie sniffs) - How many bodies has your Turn me in, you turn him in. Have you thought this through? (laughs) Wait, did you even know? Do you think I'd just pick a turnout on the Wyoming border at fucking random? There is a century's worth down at the bottom of that canyon. You wanna see how fast they It'll straighten your fucking - Bullshit. - Ask him, ask your husband and how many times he's been there. You wanna know the real price I don't think you do. If the goal is protecting the of which you have none, then monetizing the The airport was the only You're a businesswoman. How's the cattle business You see any long-term plays there? You know all of this and Well, I am guaranteeing the to my son, to their children, someday. That is the promise that I made and that is the promise I'm gonna keep. The greatest threat to And you know that too. So, I will remove the threat. (stairs creaking) - You'll take your approval won't you, Jamie? I bet you're one expensive hooker. Are you enjoying your marionette? - Every inch of him. Okay, so it's war. - The war is over, Beth. - No, Jamie... war is just beginning. (footsteps clomping)