All right. I'm If you are here to watch All things extraterrestrial, If you're looking at the rise with Ryan Gibson and myself, And when we talk about investing in space, So we're not talking about Mars That's a topic of another day, right? So we are going to dive in the number one major investment class as far as returns in the last ten years. I don't think like real estate for sure, class, major asset class and Ryan, All the bitcoiners you know, that's the best major asset This is number one. That's right, number one. Number one among all other major asset Just I don't know anything but I'm sure it's done really well, right? Yeah, I still remember. Yeah, I have some, but there's people out there And that said, Hey, there's All right, so guys, I'm going to dive in because what we want to talk about What kind of opportunities out there in today, Ryan Gibson, He's been working with our clients. Ryan, how many years is it? Because I remember pre-COVID, Hawaii years ago I think was 2016. Yeah, in 2017. Yeah. No, no, 20. Yeah, something like that. In one was my daughter was running around Michael son. So somebody says, number one, Yeah, definitely. During a recession too. Yeah. So we're going to dive into all this. And here, here's kind of the rules. Yeah. If you have if you're watching this live, and Q&amp;A, like comments to chat If you're trying to get Ryan's attention, going to be going over his presentation But what you do is put in the Q&amp;A, serious question, non clarifying question, put it in there on in that Q&amp;A and then I will ask Ryan questions So he's going to go over all things And before you go, well, Yada, yada, yada. Ryan Right now with Spartan, he's the how do you call yourself Chief investment officer or co-founder, storage guy, president, So I always know Ryan as the guy and they're great guys and amazing So I always like to introduce people And no, I don't get paid This is completely What we do is we advocate And Anderson, that's a big thing. We really do care about that, We have preserve, protect and prosper. You hear us talking all the time Keep your stuff away from lawyers, But you don't oftentimes sit here in here saying, here's And this is one of the groups who has just done phenomenal I would say the worst return action is in the I'm sure you'll go through some of those numbers, but that's that's So like Ryan can't say, I could just look at the K one and say, I don't, I don't have to listen I can actually look at the numbers. And I think that they do a great job, I think it's getting close Right. So over 700 million. That's right. Yeah, about 700 million. We just bought three huge properties two in Portland, one in Vancouver, So that part is pretty close to, So excited about that. And we bought two in Georgia last So you guys are just absolutely on a tear. And this is this is why he's here. He's going to be talking to guests Yes, it'll be sent out. I'll probably post this on my YouTube If you haven't been to my YouTube channel, in YouTube and Toby Please like and subscribe, by the way. And then my partner Clint Goons but we'll be posting this up there But this is why we are so bullish on this is because it has been a phenomenal just growth in the last ten years. Has self-storage been. But it's also still a great opportunity to getting towards that top. And if there's one thing about Americans So this is this is a great opportunity. I am invested significant late. Our firm is invested have had great returns So what we're going to do why are we looking at self-storage? What are the opportunities? Why is it so different than traditional what's going on right now and then why now And I'm just going to hand it to Ryan and I think you have a you already have I'll be moderating the questions and I may pop in once in a while and go, Let's answer it. Awesome. Well, thanks, Toby. Hey, I'm Ryan, and I'm going to be going I'm going to go ahead and share my screen. And I think everybody can see that now. Yeah, we could see my my presentation art. Cool. You'll see it. All right. Well, we're going to go right into it. So you're probably the first thing So people is kind of coming up everywhere. It's in my neighborhood. They're building it, my friends building And the reason why is because if you look in utilization from Americans you can see that that bottom left there. In 1991, the average American used And now that net number has surpassed six square feet per person in 2020. What is it, 2021, 2020, And the projections So if you're like, man, I think self-storage and it's filling up everywhere, because more and more people are using it. There is a square footage per capita for self-storage are these these guys right there. Public storage cube, smart extra space. NSA is another reads and you just see these big box publicly traded companies And we're going to talk about But just to give you a sense of my learned how to fly and ended up And it was a Delta for a while And what made me want to kind of get into real estate there was just some part of the job And so I read this book on one of my Robert Psaki's Cash flow quadrant to just And so we went out and basically built or the 36 largest self-storage company And that's kind of the to the that we're in today across heavy in the Sunbelt, in Georgia, Florida, Again, we have some smattering We're building a lot of the PNW right now. And, you know, lots of things like juggled business, and just really grinded to well, while being a full time employee. So I actually share my story podcast. So Toby's been on my podcast I share everything that I've learned And you can see here, if you scan the QR Clint Coons has been on there you know, love to share what I do. And, you know, my way I want passive income. I want to do things that I love and spend time with my investors That picture on the left hand side, we do an investor ski retreat every year with all of our investors. And we have a lot of Andersen clients in there bringing their families. So a lot of things that I love hike, get out there But before we before who here has used a self-storage? Maybe she'll give me like a thumbs up You've ever used a unit. You know what I'm talking about. Okay? Like everybody, right? So I always ask this question storage is kind of silly, but like, Americans actually uses a self-storage Or like, if you also have a garage when you were using self-storage, Let's see how many more. Okay. So about a 33% reduction and thumbs Well, you guys all meet So 66% of people who actually use So if you think that, well, this guy's or whatever, they're not going No show of hands or some comments, Why did you use self-storage? What was your whole point? Why? Why did you actually rent a self-storage unit and go take the time I can't see the comments, Let me know what what you had and I'm going to shout out some some things here. So, Passive Income Pilots so cars, too many cars, relocation HOA rules, daughter came back from home. I was moving. I thought I'd use this stuff etc., etc.. So the lot a lot of things Decluttering the home move town, interim cleaned out my brother's house. Okay, so you guys all fall under the but then I'm going to show you, why people use self-storage, death, So everybody talked a lot You moved your daughter came home somebody Somebody went and bought a new home So these are the reasons Yeah, plumbing issues, heirlooms, large furniture Right. It's because at a life events, because they have something and they're using self-storage And that doesn't go anywhere, right? So you're not you're never going to not have a situation facility in your life. And these are a lot of reasons that do it. This is actually 70% of our customer base And what's exciting about this is There's not a lot of displacement and there's a lot of pent up demand that's occurring And that's So so which generation? Baby Boomer, Gen X greatest generation, greatest and Silent Gen X? Who do you guys think uses self-storage Show hands or throw in the comment. Think millennials use it the most. Baby boomers Baby boomers x x, Gen Z. Okay, some good questions are good, good, So the answer is actually it's pretty X, and the reason So they, like millennials and Gen Xers, So I'm I'm a millennial, I'm I'm the better the better adjusted side of that But basically millennials and Gen Xers using self-storage they're buying their first homes they're getting their jobs relocated, whatever it might be. They're in there So actually we look for cities We just bought a couple of properties The average age there are 38.3. And that's a perfect market for a place We're we're building another property in Portland, Savannah, Georgia, Right. So baby boomers but now that they're kind of settling down events, they're becoming less But now millennials Yeah, well, who from? Savannah? I agree. Good market. All right. Now and again, So people people use self-storage We have too much stuff. Yes, But generally what people do, no matter what's going on, no matter how is, they're going to use self-storage And 30% of our other customers So I didn't see a lot of business But landscaping, company, sheet Etsy or moving companies or furniture A lot of these companies are using I mean, I just had a guy that needs to use a self-storage space So we have a ton of people that use it And again, You know, this was It wasn't as nice, you know, when I was And, you know, So we didn't have any stuff. Like it was And then, of course, you have kids or your house looks like this, right? You get all the toys and things. But, you know, when you have hey, like, I'm going to need self-storage and make a bigger house or whatever. So when I renovated my house, you know, so I kind of thought And thankfully we had owned and I was able to utilize my own place And so that's just And, you know, I joke as an airline pilot, when COVID hit and, you know, and, you know, And there was one passenger on the plane And I was like, welcome aboard your private jet, You know, What's so important? You know, nobody's flying right And she said, well, my mom just I'm flying down to Florida So when you think about like it never stops, And in fact, during COVID, where we had more customers than ever And, you know, One of the first self-storage is we built by a furniture staging company 10,000 houses So the furniture staging company since there was so much moving. Going on in So people the average cost of a unit And so if you think about it and the more you can put it on autopay, I mean, as most us Americans, you know, Netflix and Disney and Prime and and this and that, And, you know, it's Where like, we sign up for this gym and we never go. And then we want to cancel, but we don't And that's kind of But it's worse because not only go to the unit and physically go there, So our average customer stay. I was just looking at it in our portfolio So even though our leases are month people stay on average of 30 months once you move your stuff in, you really I mean, who wants to spend a Saturday you know, sifting through a bunch of stuff what you're going to do with it, Right? Do I put it on Craigslist? It's just going to stay there I'll just come back later And then you end up But here's We got into the business because we used to flip houses and build condos And, you know, we got into the business that easy to own, easy And these are So that's why we really choose the space. So, you know, when you think about it, this is like your typical real estate When you get into real estate, it sounds exciting and sexy and you get to get all this But then you have these things that get in appliances, Right. And these are all the things And that are not as fun. And we went through all this stuff And in storage, We have like 30,000 units 25 toilets in our entire portfolio. If you had 30,000 units you're going to have like 60,000 toilets So a lot of things to take care of. You know, we don't have to have a person We can lease all of our stuff And we'll talk about that in a minute. We don't have any place or anything like that in our in our We don't have any water heaters So I just mentioned buying a property in Portland Like that's a hard market I mean, there is no eviction. There is no eviction laws in the state of Oregon So we can be in a market that has really and we don't have to worry about eviction because we can kick somebody out if they And the last thing is, is, you know, When somebody moves out there, There's just we sweep the floor and turn it over. So this is how the facility this is how storage is performed So when you think about every major you can see the Black Monday of 1987, the great Financial recession of 2008 was the biggest downturn. Right. And when you think about how the GDP And the goal line there on the screen is how storage So it is it is something that goes into you know, it goes into recession Because here's what happens. When the economy is really bad, people start doing things like they start or getting foreclosed upon They have to change. They have to You know, for for people and they get divorced So and then likewise, and people are buying things same type of environment. And so this is kind of some of the penetration You can see that This is the trend We're seeing more households So dating back to 2013, 8.968.9, Now that's up to over 11%. And that continues to climb But I talked about easy to evicted window here. And I think, you know, it's important how does this how does this work? What does that really mean? Well, if you look at a storage lease, It says the stored property So that means that if a customer doesn't and auction them off, And so if they don't pay, that we make on the collection We can get that money back to pay Now I know everybody's like, well, It's like, Yeah, kind of. It happens actually a little bit. It's a little bit less, you know, dramatic as that, right? Just like anything on TV, it's not it's the same is true, right, Self-Storage auctions, dot net And people that they and people can come to the property, come to the website It's not behind a closed door. They can actually see the goods And when they buy it, we, And any past rent pass, And then any ding above that is basically goes to the Right. So if there was $1,000,000 in there and somebody gave us a half we would get that we would get and the rest of the money So we don't really make money on auctions, Where if you think about it, a single family home or multifamily unit my God, that could take a year. You're spending thousands of dollars and nothing, right? You could get nothing So that's this is why we really like this. This is like this in almost every state. The next thing, like easy to operate. So if they fail to pay, we can restrict So if you don't pay after three days, So we have a gate software or whatever and after a couple of days you don't you, So you can't even get access and the So I saw somebody say, But, you know, at the end of the day, you know, we do our best job, and of course, providing excellent But, you know, at the end of the day, for any damage inside the unit, Easy to maintain slab on grade We're going to talk about But you're not allowed to make to make any alterations So, okay, we talk about space. I like to joke around about this So we're going to go over the most common you're going to see and the different features So this is a five by five corrugated walls, slab on grade, right Metal door. This is a five by ten corrugated walls, slab on grade metal door They're all the same. They're all just a little bit bigger Now, of course, we have the inside units, but you can see another ten by ten slab on grade corrugated metal walls, looks pretty similar and we can put in So there is our ten by 15 very common unit And then there is our ten by 20 Now to feature this unit. But other or gated metal walls in a So just to kind of give you I used to invest a lot in like a house, you go buy it this is my house that I bought here And, you know, I started buying little rental properties It was it was it was leased up But, you know, when that tenant moved out, you know, It took me And I was scared to death and that was the winter time. And I no one wants to move in the middle And it took me six months to find a tenant the city come down, inspect the property It took them 22, it took me 20 $500 to, to, to repair this property, So I was crazy. So, so again, and they were in there for a year, company called me up and said, Hey, And you know how much And I'm like, I'm just thinking, my God, because what if they move again And then I also have to have 20 $500 I'm like, Keep them happy. But for a self-storage facility, you think someone's going to move over Probably not. Right. So we can change our rents every 30 days. In fact, our rents just went up June 1st. We sent out about ten. We have about 35,000 customers. We just sent out rent increases So we plan about a 17% attrition Usually we see, People are moving out anyway. But, you know, we kind of monitor, But in general, $10 increase in monthly rent, monthly rent, So if you think about how much cash rent increase, this is one of the huge value add strategies So a little bit about kind of who and what we do, investment opportunities We're one of the fourth. We are the fourth fastest growing, in America last year. And we're the 126th fastest private company And we're the actually now in the U.S. And our our national brand So if you have ever heard of free up all of our facilities under. But Smart Investment Group is kind of This is my business partner, co-founder Tobi mentioned Scott's an Army He was a neighbor of mine and that's how we got into this business So if you want to meet your business just knock on your neighbor's door and see if they want to do business with, we just kind of met And and so we started Spartan a portfolio nationwide Here's just a quick snapshot. About over 30,000 doors. We have about 150 employees now. And the slides a little dated. We've raised about 350 million buy self-storage facilities together. And and we've made that I guess five years or four years in a row, you know. So like I said, we met So I was an airline pilot here in this picture, It was her first flight, And and I met Scott. I was actually living in the White House And our first flip And he was on the house to the right. So we met his neighbors was literally flipping And this just stuff We really wanted to start a company that we could scale that was one of the top performers So we quickly switched over So we are a turnkey operator, so So we, we basically So we'll we'll find a piece of raw land and fully operate it and lease it up. We'll find existing properties where we'll buy the property and then run And we share in our profits So we share in the cash flow and we share This is this is one of the due that that we share with our Before we do anything We we put it through a thorough 700 And if you scan the QR code, and we can give you a copy of it Just shoot me an email. But we take the property in order to make sure it's Spartan. So and Toby mentioned this at the beginning, I think the worst investment we've ever And then our most recent self-storage So crazy good returns. Usually we end up in like the 20 to 30% annual return range for investors, in in the real estate space overall. You know, typical things that we buy, like the ones that you see on the screen there, actually, we built that And on the bottom, we buy some mom and pop But 70% of facilities out These are people that built the property and they just have no need for it or they don't have any heirs to give it to they have a basis in it So they're selling it. And these are under managed properties they need to just be run And that's really, really make our money. And I'm going to kind of go This is a picture of land in Sandy, Oregon, where we actually built And so this is a this is an example of I mean, we probably build maybe 30% of the properties But here's a great example of what We took this land here and we built this in Sandy, Oregon. So you can see it on the front here, And then we also once we once we build national brand on it called And then we take the property So we'll actually go out and and lease So likewise but we'll also do is will buy We bought the 735 unit property So we decided to take this two acres of expansion potential So you can see the buildings here and that's our construction team out there And we'll talk about this example But, you know, how does this really compare to multifamily single family, So, you know, I think we all get into I mean, if I think of like if I am I show I've interviewed dozens of people about self-storage? And, you know, I think we're all into You know, that's depreciation section 179 or whatever the the things that Toby talks about And so you get that on multifamily, you can actually get depreciation I'm going to go through And so I think it's all kind of tax in that sense, average day. So I've kind of changed my opinion I actually think self-storage is probably got the better average like if you think about multifamily yeah, maybe I couldn't really find But our our specific portfolio gets about 30 months of average stay now, And that includes properties So there is a there's a really good This is where I think because it's hard to scale and it's hard to manage a lot of single Right. But self-storage, you can get or hundreds of units. And same with multifamily the differences are just automation, I think that's why this has been a top a property management software into your facility This is like property technology. You probably hear this word proptech, what is Proptech Property technology and self-storage I feel that really got this down So we have kiosks and we have where 24 hours a day, seven days a week, so you can actually book unit online, you can book a unit on your phone, and you can move yourself in And I'll never forget the first My wife was actually our director and we were on a hike and she's like, Hey, I just moved four people into Aspen which is one of the first properties I was like, What? She's like, Yeah, I can see right here. They just move themselves in. And so and there wasn't So if you can find another space that can, Lisa Multifamily or single family home without anybody talking to anybody, But self-storage is one of those rent recapture is basically saying like, we can recapture the rent We can actually get our unit back When somebody doesn't you know, So we can actually get to renting units than a lot of other industry asset classes. So and then low maintenance, a set of countertops, cabinets, We don't have any of that. And that provides us So so you might be wondering, okay, But then to a an empty box, And one of the examples I love to give is we're going to go look in a market $30 a month for that unit and we'll look at all the competition's all charging But for whatever reason, this mom and pop operator, They don't like to do any marketing. They just like to be at $30 a month And we go to the market. So what we do we can basically double because we can charge 60 So we'll raise the rent to maybe and maybe that customer says, I'm But the reality is the person that moves in So now instead of having a $30 unit, where you can literally add value Right, other than buying the property and doing all the things But you're not doing any physical upgrades You're not repainting or redoing the You're simply just mark to market. You're taking the current rents and you're moving it up And that's It's just such a fragmented industry that hasn't really adopted best practice all the other operators are doing, So get the move in at 160 Now, speaking of improvements, and we have a value add strategy actually take like this old property We bought this from an older couple They didn't and we bought this this storage facility We a nice professional sign in there. We did some professional landscaping, and basically made We painted it and all that. There was a handful of Anderson clients I believe the payout was like 22 or 23% annually, They made like a seven or 8% cash on cash Why we held this asset And and this is These are kind of some of our sites the Sandy site, some sites in Arkansas, And these are this is we just give it We want to make it feel like this is a place that people Some of the properties looks like, you know, some of these I mean, we had one where we were that were living in the office and rip out all the carpets And who wants store your stuff and it smells like, you know, a zoo. Right. And and so we do these office renovations look and feel professional and and give a sense of security and safety because that's really who And storage is like a 70 year to the property and feel really good about So we'll do things like change we'll put in security lighting and really just give the facility Here's and I'll cover I know on the bottom I put the batter Be assured So we actually a lot of mom they don't offer tenant insurance. So when we come in will require tenant insurance and then But what we can do is we can say, hey, if you use our plan, And then that allows us you know, offered tenant insurance you know, if 500 people buy our plan, income on 500 units And the insurance company actually get 70% of that insurance money So when you think about value And you can do things like U-Haul, sell So so let's talk about an exit strategy. So, you know, okay, who's who's actually buying them? Who's actually, and buying all these facilities going out and buying all these properties Right. And so we kind of yourselves So we go out and we buy all these little tiny whatever it is, and we kind of scoop up because the big boys don't all these little tiny properties. They don't want to take the time to build them, What they want to do is they want to come And these are all the big REITs that are coming in So we've sold eight in the last year our average cap rate in 2023 on the sale So they are paying a healthy, for these assets and the ability And they love the fact a bunch of properties in the same spot. Like specifically, these are just some of the assets And you can see we cluster these properties together Because if these are really good locations there's high traffic counts, and we kind of cluster together, So a reader buyer will go, Hey, a little bit better. We say, Hey, we have a we don't just have this one store manager We have six properties, where we can have one district manager that entire region and then they can be So that's what the readers want that's basically going to allow them give us better returns, which is what we really like. Now when we think about, you know, what are five ways home, Well, the answer is you can't write which is great. And if they move out, no more income. But for storage, you can actually And when you think about the tenant insurance that I talked about, this is some of the five ways Ten insurance has to be top on your list. You know, renting units is number one, That's your primary business. But number two has got to be tenant That is, you're going to be merchandise sales. You know, this is a good way to entice have a good, convenient location. You're not going to make millions of dollars on selling merchandise You're not going to make a lot of your We also do boat and vehicle storage, We probably have a little over This is great for like excess land additional buildings because the storage units are always going But hey, if you got that extra land in the back why not offer some RV storage, whatever And there's a ton of demand for it because there's a lot of people We rent out trucks. This is one of our branded trucks And we rent this out. We offer a free truck rental kind of lease up our facilities And the other thing we do is so we'll actually get paid cell phone towers on our property, All right. So we talked about it, right? We talk the talk we we kind of why people are using it, how people are using it in But I want to show you guys we actually bought a property. The real numbers that go into go into doing one of these properties. I got to show you a case study. So one of the properties that we bought in And we paid 6 million bucks for it. And for those that are out there real estate, there's really only one thing That's, you know, NOI divided by cap in commercial real estate. So we bought this property, And so that that's basically a 7.38% cap rate. So 6 million bucks while we paid We bought it in April that we bought But we really love the vacant land in the middle that you see there And so just to kind of walk this was an existing property had interior and exterior storage. It actually had about 735 units above about 81,000 square feet. And it had the climate controlled units. About 40% were climate controlled And it came with this car wash, which we just And then it also had so we could actually rent trucks But the best part about this So the two acres you see on the screen, we actually turn that into those two And you could see that We built these units a really good mix So because we knew what the customers wanted, you can see that, you know, once we did some promotional stuff And those are the brand new buildings. As the day after we put the put them on to the market. And, you know, we do things and really promote the property So how do you Right. So, you know, we have something which is basically all the debt So for this deal, we went out Our minimums are 100,000 $2.3 million from a handful of investors. And then we went to the bank and we basically put together And you probably thinking, Wait, I thought Why would you why would you get seven Well, good question. So this is how we spent the money. So we spent the money We expanded the property for $1.6 million. We had 250 K set aside for reserves the due diligence here is something that you really want If you put the property under contract, for about 60 days and we do everything Actually we do a geotech, we do financial due diligence, we drive to all the competitors, everything that goes on and do diligence And we gave you that checklist a little earlier, and if you can get it, But basically we go through all these You can go to our website and download But when we put a property under contract you want to actually go So you want to go through all the rent This is all a rent roll on a This is what all They live on the property But there are customers in your facility and you basically want to take a pop as well. So like your P.A., your profit loss has been realizing and rent and expenses and then the last you know, the next thing So we'll actually go and we'll pretend a mystery shop will say, Do you have a units in? You know, they might say, we have a waitlist and, You know, there's And so we actually mystery shop and we find this in a lot of markets all right, I'm going to pop in here Ryan may have just frozen. So I'm Maybe my team can reach out to him You guys are seeing a frozen, frozen. Ryan, to answer a bunch of your questions Yeah, you guys are all seen frozen. Ryan So Jan Maybe call him Questions Just because there's a, there's a few oops, they're on it now. He's gone here. I just get my chat back up. Can men be frigid? Here we go. All right. All right. So let me go to your Q&amp;A. Does Spartan allow IRA All right. So he hasn't gotten into Yes, you can invest directly with Spartan. They have three funds. And I'll let Ryan go over what those funds It's accredited investors, but yes, you can use a self-directed IRA or 401k to invest in those. That's not a problem. Our Spartans offerings for non-accredited investors at this time, But again, we'll get Ryan to clarify. That is if they do have any investment. The purpose of today You can get involved in self storage a fund or not. So you could actually get involved what is an opportunity in self storage like Ryan and either partnering on deals or finding deals that they can acquire So there's lots of ways You could just become maybe this is something knowing And one thing about Spartan is that all of their investments, they provide you with detailed I think it's almost quarterly. And I see I'm actually in the market So this is this might be perfect for you. Right. And yes, I believe you can 1031 exchange Now, the questions want to answer because In fact, I reached out to you guys in chat and said, So let me explain this. When you saw the image of Spartan building, one of their buildings and you saw the infrastructure a lot of that is considered And so when you see the parking lot, a lot of the things that are those things could actually be classified as 15 year property under that Why is that important? Because in virtually all of their deals, where he didn't elect They break it out can be deducted in a much quicker time It's 15 year property Hey, Ryan, you're back. I think I'm back. Yeah, I think. I think so. Hopefully the Internet loves us today, I was just answering some questions there. I actually 35 questions right now queued, so I knocked out Do you remember where you were yeah. Yeah, they're good It's always fun okay, it's it's always the little bit of sweat So just briefly. Good. Plug it. We're in real estate. So this is this is nothing like I know I mean, it sucks, but. But I did. I did want to go over some of these. Yes. Some folks are saying Yeah, the Q&amp;A is where I have a laundry list I'm going to wait But I did want to hit the tax because started How much of these buildings would you say which means it's it's much faster than the rest of the building, And in some cases, I've seen you guys get close to it, right? Yeah. I mean, we've had like 60%. But, you know, I like to just to be a little bit more conservative plan your taxes on, you know, something So but yeah, it's pretty significant. You know, we've seen it 60, 65% on some things Yeah. So if you're an investor and you put money $100,000, that you'd get back 30 or 40, $50,000, loss, passive loss, because you're not I don't know if you even have to participate, but for the most part, There are ways to make that deductible against your W-2 if you qualify And in this particular case, in between you and a spouse Have to aggregate them all together And there are ways to do it. But that is a huge incentive And in self-storage that said, totally, I'm going to get out of your hair You want to reshare your screen Yeah, yeah. Actually it is cool. I am. Can everybody see the screen again? Yeah, I think it's up there. Okay, I'm going to share an example. I'm going to give you a real quick one there was losses here in just a minute. But what I was talking about was like, we're going to buy. How do we That's And I think, you know, if you look at the screen, this is a five by ten unit mix. And when you look at six, and this is $47 and 67 units, people or 67 of your units are paying $47 Now, if you look at all those people are Now, when we looked at the market for a five by ten So not only do that aren't paying what everybody else is but they're paying less than whatever So when we went through this, we go line by line by line and we figured out that there was $165,000 So between what our rent competition was charging, and by the way, So it's it's important to know But we had the best property in the market, but yet we're charging That's a crazy value add opportunity. And so what we basically says, well, we're going to tell our investors, We're going to just projects, right, $72,000 a year over 18. And what actually if you that that gives you $6,000 and that adds $1,000,000 of value by cap rate, $72,000 divided by that gives you $1,000,000 of value to what everybody's charging. And then we got a civil engineer. Next thing you want to do on a property We have one in house that basically looks at this site and says, Hey, You've got two acres, What easements, what, sir, what can you actually build on the site? We are civil engineer basically said, you can build about 40,000 square feet. And if you look at this picture, a gas line And then you got to put So just know that like just because you have a bunch of land All right? You have to make sure you talk So what we said was, yeah, we can build, 20,000 square feet and at the time But we could build a 20,000 square foot Now, that would it'd be about 70 or $80 a foot, So construction costs have gone up And then that would add that revenue units So totally worth doing. Right. And then when we look at a property, initial improvements, we're going to paint We renovated the office, we're going to increase our rents We're going to expand the property revenue like tenant insurance, like this And so the other thing too is, like Toby This is all the five and 15 year We got an estimate done at 1.7 million. We ended up getting a $2.1 So when you think it, I guess that's more than 30%. And I guess am I doing the math We're actually depreciable I means you, the investor. This is an investor who invested 50 K So if you look here, they got about a $21,745 loss per $50,000 invested, And what's cool about that is, is this is the cash flow They got about 3600 bucks a year So they made between seven, And that's taxable, right? This is taxable income, however, And then they made some sale for profit a depreciation of 21,745 bucks, you don't pay any taxes in the first basically shields your taxable gain Now, of course, I'm not a tax attorney, But, you know, basically can be offset by passive losses and and you can get more creative with it But that's not But these are basically ways to shield And that's So this is how we made it work, right? So this is kind of our typical value We basically said, Hey, we're going to buy this property, Right? We're going to We're going to raise the rents to market. We're going to give ourselves Right. But here's what actually happened. We got in there and we just said, Why would we not raise everybody's rounds to what everybody's And we did that and we actually raised So investors got more cash flow from that. And then we said, hey, you know, we're going to expand There's 20,000 square feet. We said, But, you know, we're just talking And they said it's more economic pull So if you're going to build 40,000 just build it all now. And so you know what we said, So we actually built because it's more economical to do it So what? That increased our revenue And then we had that So we told investors, Hey, this is our proposed plan on the left, And we said we were going after we got the NOI up to 670,000. But we ended up selling the property So huge gain huge value in in buying this. So I wanted to transition a little bit and talk about So the way we look at properties, this deals and this actually does which I saw somebody So this deal is actually just outside And I'm going to talk about So you can see this picture. This is a rendering of a property that we're just about to put a shovel And these are this is kind So we try to target about a 20 We're looking at ground up development. So this this deal projects and this is a six year hold. So if you're an investor in you're going to be in it for six years to build the property, with a yield on cost of 10.2%. That's effectively that we have going into the property And so you're going to 2.3 x your money This is where the property is out. If you're not sure But what we like is that this is our 17th So we already have a whole team there. We already have people built. We've already built units in the Georgia. We've already we already have managers So really it's it fits nicely into our And and this is kind of how we we build the properties We've actually been trying to entitle this property, we've actually got it So we started, we found this deal 18 over and then put it under contract And it took us 18 months And so now that we have all that in line, we actually went Now we're planning So in two months from now and then it takes us about a year that size, that that facility which gives us about 75,000 account for the elevators You can't run the elevator count towards your gross square footage. So 75,000 square feet That's like just enough revenue And it's a really efficient spot and then So if you're in an investment like this up, it's you're not just going to the day I mean, that can happen. We've had that happen but generally it's going to take a couple and then we get it stabilized in January 2028 Now, this property pays It doesn't have cash flow right away, and that's when you're That's So what we like about this property normally when you invest ground up, entitlements in hand. You have a land that you can actually put a shovel in the ground Right. And the other thing that we like This area, if anybody's familiar but there's a military base here The airport is right there. And Savannah is one of the most busiest It's like the fourth busiest. And Gulfstream Honda, I say Honda is building their plant there. It's already underway. So iron is coming in Gulf Stream and there's a huge population influx of workers to the region and developers residential units within five three mile radius of our site. And so that's people, people moving to an area that's where you want The other thing that we like is that, there's all these different companies And if you look at just I mean, it is J Curve where people are moving in to Port for all the jobs But we won't even touch a self-storage property We won't build a self-storage property $20 annually. So when we look at Port Wentworth, where we think like 18 the good base, So when you think about Port Wentworth, The other thing that we like about and anybody from the Southeast Now that's where everybody's going, right? If Publix is dropping, dropping anchor And you want to be in the area they're buying retail, they're going shopping, They're going to get there, So we're actually right across And then right down the street from And then we're right by a country club and you can see all the little brown spots And I can see there's So we really like this location and we and we're Now we're going to have the best property We're going to build and it just gives our our tenants to move into. So we talked about that. So usually what we do is we go out and we 45% of the investor equity into the deal So we put about a 45% down payment and then we'll finance it I believe we got about 7.75 on this. And then we'll do like a seven year loan The fixed rate that is really important, especially in time or interest rates Okay, So on minimums are 100 K, but You do 500 K or more. And so I'm not going to go into all these But, you know, whenever you're always going to have kind of a couple of different options And a preferred return basically means and you get that annualized So 9% or 14%. So this is kind of ground up. So this is like a really good example of where there's a ton of demand and we can come in and use our company to really build Now here's an example of a property. We just bought these two, Now, this was a crazy deal for us because we bought these. These properties were built in 2018 and. We got this rare inside line So I don't know if you're if you're paying We bought these at a 6.6% cap rate. These are brand new and fully at least 90% especially where we could get a rate, So we actually already bought this. And these this one, in this investment, but we we bought these last week, and I wanted to kind of walk through So first of all, three what we like about it was again, we already have properties in this market, one in Oak Harbor and Bellingham And so adding these three properties in Vancouver really kind of complement We like to have at least 150,000 And so when you think about Portland, some big employers in Portland Intel, etc.. And so it's kind of a kind of got the nickname Silicon for us a lot of blue collar jobs. There's a significant employment And I mentioned earlier about millennials. Well, the reason why we like this market So when you think about the customer it's millennials. And when you think about a target that really kind we also like the fact average household income across the three millennials are in class-A apartments here Just some of the things for our number two for fiscal youth best cities for young professionals, But what I love is I mean, there's a Pacific Northwest around right on the border of Washington this cool tax advantage get the no income tax and people And what's cool about doing storage here, it's kind of a blue state. It's easy to evict. Remember, we don't have a tenant we can infect our customers within 30 days The other thing we like You've got Mt. Hood to the to the east. You've got the coast to the west. And I'll tell you what, I go south to Oregon, Kanab Beach, tons of cool places to go. And that is what attracts Now, when you're looking at storage, So these are the three sites we bought. And when you look at the density of people those are your customers. And so you want to make sure strong population immediately There are three properties are literally buried and major metro areas, which is fantastic. The other thing that we like to look at is and between the two locations here there's over 25,000 new houses coming in That means more customers coming in within three miles of our property, And if you're looking at self-storage, hey, who's coming into the market behind? Me, That could be a competition threat. And the last thing that we look at for location is draft traffic counts. So I would say if you're looking never be anything less than 10,000 cars If there's fewer than 10,000 cars, it's Now, there might be some rare exceptions, property in a really, really small market But generally This one of the one of the facilities purchased, it has 156,000 cars. A tripwire today. That is a ton. Right. And so that gives you access I mean, that is your marketing, right? I would say when you think about 50% of your customers are going And so when they have a storage need. They're going to think, But I drive by every day right by my house a million miles going to go to the one and the other 50% of your customers So we emphasize heavily because people are going to search and they're going to just lock in I mean, that's like any American hey, what are the reviews What are people saying about this place? They're going to go for the high reviews So good promotions and and good ratings. And lastly, like I talked about this this place, So the average self-storage So that means that we're that suggests about a $10 million discount So we paid 44 million for it. And if you we it suggest that we could get as high So investors are getting value day one, which is a really critical part But anyway, that's all the But we do have time for Q&amp;A. And I know that people are dying So I wanted to make sure But you wanted to get in touch with me. That's our QR code. You can you can scan that to get our due I actually encourage this QR code to feel free to scan that or you can always email me Ryan at Spartan hyphen investors dot com to get in touch with me and there's a website so yeah with that Yeah let me put out because this is going to go up This is not a solicited portion You can certainly talk to Ryan and say like what type of stuff but that's not the purpose of this. The purpose of this is to educate let's talk about some things Number one, this is I'm going to start There are so many questions, Ryan. We're not I got to tell you that right Yeah. Prices What are they in that? I always like it The statement of fact. They've exploded. What are the considerations for purchasing land in building, starting a self-storage and then leasing it and selling? Do you do both? Yeah, we do. Yeah, we do both. I think it's I think we're living under And I think there's only, So if you're like, Hey, I'm going to ask you one question quickly get to a yes or maybe or no, what is the cost of a ten $260 per month for a ten by ten, You're not getting enough rent, right? So you want to get at least $18, $19 rent. So if you're not getting at least $160, at least that per month in rent, it's However, if you do find that market for 1.5 to 2 and a half million bucks, a main road, good traffic, And that's what we're doing. So that's Port Wentworth, right? 24. We paid 1.65 million for the land, That's where the park is going. That that is a great opportunity. We're finding properties in Eustis, Florida in Central Florida, Bought the land for I think 1.4. That's a great opportunity for buying existing. You know, it really just depends it's right now because a there's not a lot Still there's no discount. You might find a discount here and there, in self-storage is not like a lot of But there's opportunities out there. Don't get me wrong, the cap, rates are still really low So you might be doing the math this thing doesn't cash flow. And you're probably right and the cap rates are really low And I know I don't I'm going fast on it, make the deal work on, you know, on an existing property. But there are some tremendous opportunities So this is one of those things you're not an accredited investor, you're not looking to invest, You might be to make money. It really you could go out there. Bird put properties under contract and So if you don't only Yeah well we sold us. Yeah. You don't have to nickels If you're somebody that's going to be You find out what somebody is looking for There were a bunch of haters why not California? Like, and then a few from Arizona, Here's why not California? Ryan What the heck, man? Yeah, You know. I love California. And in fact, if I go to on vacation, I'm So, like, nothing, nothing against We just, you know, it's It's hard We just kind of stayed away sort of find us sometimes. And we just haven't We'd love to go to Phenix or Arizona again. We just you know, we tried and got outbid There's nothing wrong with it, though. You're not going to chase you're going to find the right deal at the right price That's right. That's right. I'll discriminate against the I'm I like it. I like it. Our Spartans offerings for So you do have to have a conversation you got to get to know us so so just schedule a call with us There you go. All right. And then some people are asking about And I have no idea. Yeah, So 50 But, you know, just ask us usually are we're okay with that, But yeah for Anderson folks a lower minimum. Yeah. Here we go. 700 million equity deployed through Market value of properties, market What zoning do you need? Do you build or only buy existing in Well, we already answered that. And how many units of existing I think you answered five. Yeah, You can be rezone. I mean look at ideally it's industrial zoned for storage like a lot of use. But like if you got, if you got some land off a freeway we'll buy it, we'll look, we'll look at, And the number of units, you know, unit We look for square, you know, we like, You know, they could be really big units So that might, you know, So don't look at the unit count. About 50,000 is what we like. Fair enough. Here's one. This is consumer use, right? This is a commercial warehouse. Is that you're doing correct. Sometimes we buy properties that have like a commercial industrial space But yeah, these are And then what's the exit? What's the exit for you guys, And then you answer that and, 3 to 5 years and we're selling to We'll sell to a local mom and pop who's We've sold to the big REITs, Everybody's buying these things. Yeah, 3 to 5 years. Yeah. It it is the hot ticket guys now. Yeah, that's, to, to build if you can find the land but you guys also have a fund Like don't Yeah. We have a debt fund. So if you just want to participate we have a debt fund for that from the that the loans 9% Yeah 9% paid monthly it starts right away. A lot less moving with interest rates How do you see this I love this question. So yeah, about 25% of our customers They're just not transacting because home value or home sales are 38 or, 28 year low, whatever it is, Everybody's on a fixed rate. No one wants to move. No one's selling their houses, Likewise, no one has distress, Right now. It's So I like to say like we're right at this we're still getting lots but we're missing like an entire customer So if you're a believer fine, If they go down, And guess what? Everybody who's been leaving their storage All of a sudden it's If interest rates go down, if you're like, going to go down, Okay, great. If they go up, you're going to get distress So the reality is, I think we're I think we're we're getting severe And I think either way, I kind of want I can't wait for it to start happening. So we could just get going, right. Which is like, can we just lower Just get it over with. And here's the opportunity in wide ground up development is it's A lot of operators They're losing their permits. It is hard to permit their and they can't get financing. So there is a huge cancellation That means that you've got all this and not as many people are building. So you're going coming up with storage in the future. So I'm pretty excited Yeah, I am too. I'm waiting for like the Fed keeps saying, They say we're going to interest rates Yeah, but then again, they also said that they thought inflation was going to stay Inflation was transitory right, Right. Driving us nuts. Yeah. They said, I won't say it. They're driving me if they're any rent control. How often do you increase the rents? Whenever we want. Every 30 days We just, we just raise rents There is no rent control laws. I is the wild, less It's a 30 day notice. Some states. Do they have easier laws to evict Yeah. So the only differences And that's it. There's no eviction laws. We can we can kick people out. Just to give you an idea go, right now Who gets the excess cash if the items are sold out of a unit? Do you get or do you give it to the state or renter. Yeah, the renter gets it. Yeah, fine. Nobody just mail a check and then if they I have no idea. I'm sure the our I'm sure you can company if they don't claim it unclaimed funds because I'm on all the entities collect that If I did right what you paying the property managers like 20 bucks Yeah, pretty typical. I mean, depends on the market. a little less in certain markets Somebody looked at your website already and they said, you have a map What's with that priority? that's interesting. Probably. Probably because that's Probably. Yeah. Or maybe markets that we're focused on. Yeah, could be. Yeah, I have no idea. I wish I knew. What I would do is reach out to your Point it out. Yeah. For always somebody says we. I want to understand the tax advantages I'm not going to belabor that. Where do I find listings Is there such a thing? Yeah. Self-Storage you Want you want just google self-storage is for sale. There is like 25 different Like there's not like a redfin.com Like there's like 25 different listings com I think is one. And I don't know if there's a you can buy them on, but just Google it. There's like there's no like one what's that commercial app that everybody Yeah. Who has access to the office if No no one is on site. No one does. Yeah. So we our offices are open So like you can access your units 9 p.m.. But when the office leaves, the office Yeah. So somebody is there, somebody is there Do you have any problems with break Absolutely. yeah. Yeah. Traffic is a is a real thing that they have to carry insurance on that so that somebody is not coming out saying, You didn't You're not going to be to stop people Yeah. You should plan for it if you're planning The same question. Where do you find these things? You already said? Do you ever have problems with people yeah, yeah, yeah. We kick them out. But, Yeah, we've had people that live Yeah. And when you find it, So if they say I have squatters know, fortunately not. You know. It's been pretty. Hey, you can't live here, you know, We'll But, yeah, I mean, you're going to have You're going to have all kinds of things And you got to have a team in place And I think I think, you know, about my presentation failed you're going to run into these issues that's why you want to make sure who's like well versed and well know, tenants in units and, you know, All right. There's a We're not going to get through But I'm just going to really quickly, Bucky So they were talking about how much makes it worthwhile assuming that you were investing it What makes it worth it? Do you have to have a whole bunch of self-storage or can you get by with I mean, if you want a job, a 100 unit in the middle of nowhere, answering all the phones If you want to scale, and make sure it has enough money generated to pay someone to be there and make sure it's making enough money that's going to set you back, But yeah, if you want a job buy you're going to be answering all the calls and doing all the work and figuring out But, you know, to make it to make it not a job. Right. To make it. You know, and we run into this problem We were buying properties from And they're like, yeah, and the properties in Tennessee and, this is a lot more work than we thought And so you just got to be really careful you know, I like say, this easy But I got an entire I got 150 employees Like, I don't I have someone like Little I don't you know, this isn't something on your first one, right? So make sure you have some scale Go to like assess the inside self-storage and take the classes and learn. And we spent two years learning this space We didn't just jump in, you know, Be careful about it turning into a job. Okay, How much capital do I need to start? It sounds like you could invest But yeah, otherwise zero. If you're going to go be a headhunter. Yeah. Yeah. Number of units too small. If you said 50,000 and below, Yeah. I mean, it depends, right? I mean, sometimes the average size of a unit is going to be, Right. So you know, you just want to Yeah, I would say minimum units generally So here's a great one with that How will the upcoming self-storage capacity? Well, that's a that's a good question. If you find the answer, let me know. Yeah. So, you know, I, I just But God, if they've been predicting the real estate Yeah. I got called a clown on one of these. Some guy was just totally trolling me market was going to crash. And I do believe that was three years ago. It's like, you got to be kidding me. Come on, nobody's got a crystal ball. No one's got a crystal ball. Yeah, I mean, It'll get harder, too. Like lenders are tight right, And, you know, so I think that's an impact moving a lot, right, because there's not And so that's lowering, you know, so who knows? Yeah, I just look at stats. Right. It's not like foreclosures are going to residential, But it went up 30%. And it's because, like, there was like Like, right, right. It's like, it's a really small amount, but commercial. No I know we have a whole bunch of resets and we have these loans they're going to have to refine at larger Yeah, that's going to cause some shakeout. Is it going to cause a crisis commercial? Just I think it got smoked during COVID. We're just not seeing it come back, you're going to use it. So storage really because of the weight loads, You probably can't do it, right? Yeah, it's a little bit too heavy. I think it's like PS125 per square foot to 120 or something like that. But yeah, if your bottom floor it's hard to make it stack, So there are going to be a lot of open commercial, That's the thing. As Americans, yeah, genius will fine Just yeah, really quick. I see a cost in there about question your self-storage facility for you as well across the country of the Seattle market and that's a We actually build around here but it really depends on your site. It just depends on where you're building. So that's a great one. So if somebody finds land, Yeah, we'll build it for them. Do you charge them We don't charge a set amount. We'll just give you a bid for the site. So we'll, we'll and we do most of the site I mean, we'll apartment develop it, take it through you know turnkey so and you know we're building around the country This depends on your site. Now Seattle, it's going be a little bit and some things like that. And if you're building And, you know, if you're building and utility costs and all that stuff, on where you're building and what the site Fantastic, Please share the brand and model. It's the same one that Joe Rogan uses. Is it a shoe? It's a sure, yeah. Yeah. Props to the for passive income so I got the How long have you been in storage Seven years. Seven years. And you've managed to get up to 700 Christmas and seven years of of storage. Somebody you should. I need to mention that there's recapture when you sell a 1031 or an installment Ray there's there's depreciation recapture any time you sell real estate So there's always recapture You could turn 31 exchange, and take that loss and offset A lot of folks So it could never affect When you sell a property that's passive and you have capital Capital gains. So actually you can use other But yeah, you should always be aware of your recapture, and especially That's something you need to calculate depending on what you're buying, If you had it for five, and there's no value that causes the recapture So yeah, which is why you keep a tax person you're you're running that by them. Do You guys all at the last question But I don't want to keep everybody here We're a little not 8 minutes over anyway. Does Spartan or their principles have any yeah. Hundreds of millions of dollars or millions of dollars invested in or own And it's our livelihood is really And if we don't if you didn't if we didn't QUESTION You can shoot your question to Ryan at Spartan hyphen I have a fun, fun afternoon So you beat me to the punch. Guys, if you have a question and there's reach out to Ryan. Or if you send it to my staff, that we get you an answer if you want to. Somebody says the link is not working. Abbie, I'd like you guys I'm just kidding. Our staff will take a look. The the Abeyta link. Let me just see. I'm going to go to it right now. Let me see. Yeah, it works. I just clicked on it, I was like, let's see if it works. All right. Maybe it works, but try typing it in or The length on the screen too, And that's the same thing as a link. Somebody says, Do you? I lied. Last question Yeah, well, you could probably. no, you don't have to, actually. Yeah So we actually will offer or some kind of entity sale of your investment into something else, So yeah, we've done that the last Your basis will stay at whatever. It's pointless. So there we go. Yeah. So here's somebody Leave the blue It's out of your present. We weren't saying. We Don't judge in self-storage. Bring them all you just bought in Oregon. Come on and buy now. I know. Hey, no, no sales tax, No excise tax, no tenant landlord laws for US shares. We invest anywhere where the numbers are Yeah, totally. You can invest in any state, and no state It's just some states little. I mean, it's funny, I mean, and the property taxes are insane People think, Texas, They'd crush you in property taxes attorneys, that's all they do is fight I mean, it is a bloodbath where they get You got it. That's exactly what you do every. And what is it? Yeah, every year. Every year they, they they reassess you and you got to go And it's like, wait, you know. Yeah. No income tax there either man, they crush you in property. So if you think that you know, the one in the next you know you got to be ready they want their tax money and any way that they can. So you just got to be ready to pivot, you know, however So and Florida is talking to Texas saying hold my beer right there. Some of those places. It's like I think Dade County is like 3%. Is this something? Holy cow. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. There it is. Some states are looking for money. Yep. You got to be careful. All right, Ryan, thank you for coming on. And thank you for sharing. You always do a great And for folks that You can reach out to our staff as well. Share this with anybody you think To learn a little bit about. Again, it's not a pitch. We're not trying to get you to invest, about an investment class Doesn't get a lot of the hoopla when But it's still it's really interesting It'll make you a better investor And and that's it. So thanks again, Ryan. All right.