How about lying down on the two eagles ? I'm fine. You two go to the dance hall and wait for me. I have to follow you . It's an agreement again. Let's go quickly . Be careful. I've seen your name in the newspaper. I injured the prison guard. He took away the silver dollars and drove the jeep. Yan Shuangying, the eldest brother of the Qinggang material generation who swaggered out of Nanshi Prison. There are very few people in the world who know my name , so there are always people who come to provoke me. Hahaha, yes, you are really powerful. I never thought that I would have such skills as you. He turned out to be Ma Zhicheng's friend , not mine. We have some interests . It seems that you have chosen the wrong partner. Why are you going against us? There will always be some ungrateful people who think they are powerful and think that this world belongs to them. Ma Zhicheng is The same thing happened to the idiot who came yesterday. So at this time, I will let them understand a truth. This world does not belong to one person, but to everyone. Think about it, will they understand? Yes, they have understood this truth now, but it is too late. It's not too late. As long as you haven't seen the ending, it's not too late. Now I finally understand why you became a business partner with someone like Ma Zhicheng . I'd like to hear it because you two have something in common, which is blind optimism. And stupid self-confidence hum You are so funny godchilla Now I have seen the ending I have seen it somewhere A few days ago in Ma Zhicheng's office in the Little Metropolis Dance Hall He handed you a few bags of silver dollars You gave him a box of counterfeit money At that time you Yes , I'm right outside the window , that's right. In addition to running the dance hall, we seem to be doing black market business. You know what the Communist Party hates most is stealing and selling silver dollars. The Communist Party won't know. Why do you think I will kill you for those of you who want to kill me? Of course people don't , but you can think of it like this. From now on, you are already a dead person. I just said that you are the same as Ma Zhicheng. Why do you always have this stupid self-confidence ? Ma Zhicheng thought he could kill , but in the end he became what he is now. Trust me, you It will have the same fate. Your knife is fast enough to kill you. Hey, hey, hey , hey, hey, hey, hey, hey , no god , hey, your kung fu is very good. Where did you learn it? Do you know how good this is for you? It's useful. I'm just asking casually. Judging from your familiarity with weapons, you have served in the army or some secret organization. I think that's right. I must say that your vision is unique and your judgment is accurate. You don't have much time. Do n't you want to talk about yourself? At least I will remember what you want to hear after you die. What's the use of knowing the history of a dead man before his death ? Is it a form of entertainment or is it just your weirdness? I'm just curious about Qingganglong . How come there are people like you? Take your curiosity and go to hell. Go ahead, go ahead . It's just you and me . How about now ? Do you still want to hear my confession before I die? Do you want to start here? What can't be changed if you are shot ? I will find a secluded place and slowly watch the enemy die bit by bit. That is enjoyment. I am a pragmatist and there is no such weird thing. As long as I can kill the opponent, I can do it anywhere. Shooting will cause panic and maybe innocent people will die. What does this have to do with me? You are really a cold person. You are probably not merciful. But I am still prepared to accept your opinion. Find a secluded place to kill you. It is a wise choice . Let's go , hey , hey, you 're going so fast. Where are you going? According to your words, go to a remote place. You can choose your own damn place . Maybe we can talk about the conditions. If you let me go, I promise not to look for you again. Why are you in trouble? Why are you about to die? Why should I be afraid that you will cause trouble to me? Have you ever heard of the Guangfu Society? Does this have anything to do with your life and death? Of course it even includes your life and death . Then I should really listen carefully to what you just said. What is the Guangfu Society ? It is a gang organization composed of members of the Youth Gang and the disbanded brothers of the National Army. Ma Zhicheng is also a member of this society, but he is a small role. He is a small role. You tell me . What's the use of these? Maybe you can join us. Let 's talk about it. Your agility and marksmanship can be said to be superb. Also, you are the eldest brother of the Youth Gang. Talents like you are urgently needed in the society. As long as you return the Little Metropolis Dance Hall, I will introduce you to the society. How about you ? Haha, why are my words ridiculous? Do you think I am a 3- year-old child? You can be deceived by making up a story, introduce me to the club, and return the dance hall. Who do you think you are? Do you think you are a light-speed shooter that everyone wants to join? You can reuse it. Is an organization like Ma Zhicheng better? To tell you the truth, the only thing you can do now is to think about how you will die . Hey, hey, don't be impulsive. Maybe I didn't explain the situation of light radiation clearly to you. There are thousands of people in the Photohe Society who have their own factories and businesses. The Xiaozihui Dance Hall is one of the properties in the club. Joining the Guanghe Club will only do you good and no harm. But if you kill me without knowing why, you will no longer have peace. People who kill you will come one after another until you die. The car in front of you Immediately pull over to the side of the road and stop . Immediately pull over to the side of the road. What are you doing when you stop on the side of the road ? Hurry up and drive faster. Go faster. I almost kicked my foot into the gas tank. Quickly turn left on Fanhuangdu East Road to Yuyuan Road and run towards Beijiang Road. Lanjiang Road, turn quickly. You didn't see it . You're just playing here. The car in front stopped immediately. Stop immediately. Stop immediately. How about getting rid of it? Isn't it still following? His grandma's turn. The car in front stopped immediately by the roadside. Pull over to the side of the road and stop immediately. Look ahead . Shut up and be careful. The car in front pulls to the side of the road. Stop immediately . Pull to the side of the road. Stop immediately. The car in front of you pulls to the side of the road. Stop immediately . The car in front of you pulls to the side of the road. Stop immediately . He's running over there . Get in the car quickly and chase him. Brother, the double eagle. Brother, the double eagle is back. Great. Brother , you are finally back. We are all anxious to death. Why? I am a cat and have nine lives . Haha. Haha, you're okay, don't worry, I'm fine . It doesn't matter if you're injured. It's a bit traumatized . Ouch, dear, I, mine , and outsiders are here. Didn't you just say that? Yan Shuangying is not a person. Everyone has the right to care about him. Orange, please stop. Let's go. I still have something to ask you. The attack you encountered in Dongshi this morning was carried out by the killer of Guangfu Society. The purpose was to hide back in the Little Metropolis Dance Hall. I saw that killer of Guangfu Society with my own eyes when I visited the dance hall. When he handed a box of counterfeit money to Ma Zhicheng, it was not difficult to tell from the conversation between the two that he was Ma Zhicheng's boss. This man was tall, wearing a top hat and holding an umbrella in his hand. Yes , you know his name is Duma . I only met him once and heard Ma Zhicheng say that he is the number one killer in the organization. He is proficient in all kinds of weapons and kills like a horse. He is very scary . Yes, he is indeed very powerful. The person who can be praised by you must be very amazing. Yes, today the two of us fought very evenly. No one can After taking advantage , the Communist Party was alarmed and then they left. It's really terrible for someone who can be on par with Big Brother. You just mentioned the Guangfu Society. What is the Guangfu Society? The Duma told me that the Guangfu Society is the Youth Gang brothers who stayed in Binhai and were There are thousands of stragglers dispersed by the Communist Party. Ma Zhicheng is also a member of this club. There are thousands of people . If we rob his dance hall , wouldn't we just stoke a hornet's nest? It doesn't take thousands , but hundreds of people to kill him. Come on , we are finished. Xiao Jingdi is right. They will not give up. They will definitely come back to you. Yes, I have thought of this a long time ago. Listen to my voice. Give them back the dance hall. Why are they too powerful? We I can't fight . I only know that the world in Binhai is dominated by the Communist Party. Only the Communist Party is powerful enough. What a widow snake , it's just a rat crossing the street. But open your eyes and see what we have. We only have a few guns and a few. Why should we fight with them ? Confrontation. For us, they are tigers, not mice. Now there is only one way, and that is to negotiate with them . Yes , I will make them regret what they have done. Good , I call 123. You teach the box and I teach the people 12 3. What are you prepared ? Follow me. The bomb is so suspenseful that it almost hit his path. You see, this is Yan Shuangying. He has been prepared for a long time . No wonder even you are so afraid of him. This person is really difficult to deal with. Don't stay in the land of right and wrong for long . Come on, let's go. Money tree and Su Peng are both ready. Don't worry. Press the computer and go. The gunfire stopped. The person named Jane must have been killed. I think it's the same. How can the box explode? The box won't explode . I put a bomb inside. Are you okay? This woman is not afraid anymore. The show is about to begin. When the bomb goes off, run immediately to the low wall next to the bathing table and hide behind it . Told you, score a goal and lie down. Brothers, hit me. He's not here . Go out and see. He's not here. Where is he? Where is he? What are you doing? Go out and see. Come on, brother, how can you run? Brothers, hit me hard. Beat him to death. He 's dead . Come on, come down, come down , brothers, kill them with good grenades ! Lupine, come on , take one more shot. How is he injured ? There's a lot of blood on his shoulder. Orange , orange, orange , orange. Thank you, are you okay? I'm fine. Orange , now you. Believe me, can I die for you? I'm sorry, I shouldn't doubt you. Orange, orange, orange, he's not alive anymore and needs to be rescued immediately. Get out of here. What should I do? Go from this gated lounge and go around to the front door. Get down in this room. There are at least 3 guns pointed at us in the lounge . They are called snipers. Hiding is their greatest skill. Although I can't tell the specific location now , I can clearly feel that they are in this room. What should I do now? Can I believe you? What does this mean ? Can I believe you? Of course I can . Take this gun and hide in the cupboard with the orange. No matter what happens, don't come out. Me take me away. I just tried it out. There are at least 3-4 people in the lounge. There is a bird's nest splashing stone on the sniper point , so it is stuck in all directions in the room. We just need to show our head. Don't worry. Take care of the orange. Are you ready ? Love , we are , hurry up . Why are you crying? If you cry, I will kill you if you bother me. Why is there no movement after just two shots? I'm afraid if he dares to come, we will kill these two women. You, you are here, are you okay? I am okay. Amen, we have to leave quickly. Orange has lost too much blood and will die if he doesn't get treatment. Yes, I didn't expect it. Orange , you woke up. What is going on? Stand up. What did you say? I asked you to stand up. I told you he was seriously injured. I say stand up again, why are you so nervous? You are so powerful . I am afraid that I will die if I am not careful. Who are you? I can tell you the truth now. I am an agent of the Guangfu Society . You are a member of the Guangfu Society. It is you. He has been deceiving me . Yes , he risked his life to save you . I did n't expect it. Shut up before you speak. I'll shoot you. Don't be impulsive. He was seriously injured and is no threat to you. I hate it when someone points a gun at you. But there are always people who do this. You know I don't want this . You forced me. Until now, I don't even know your true identity. How could I force you? You will understand soon . Come on, come on . You have such a capable person under your command . It must be good. I have always been unsure whether he can conquer you. Now it seems that my worries are unnecessary. Yu Ruping did not let me down. You finally fell into my hands. Hum just now, you said that if I don't reveal the whereabouts of the template, You will kill me and find the template yourself, right? If you don't believe it, you can give it a try . The reason why I stand here to deal with you is just to save myself some energy . Of course, I will also save some energy for you . You have many gunmen . There is no shortage of masters like Duma , but have you ever thought that you also have something to be afraid of ? What are you afraid of? Hum, I'm at least not afraid of you. That's for sure. So are you afraid of the Communist Party? What do you mean? I promised to tell you the whereabouts of the template . Where is the template? My hand will slowly reach into my pocket and take out something. Of course it has something to do with the template. I believe it is important to you. Okay, look at this. What does this mean? The person in the photo is called Xiao Jinyi . What you hold in your left hand is the fake banknote template you have been dreaming about. What you hold in your right hand is the contact list. Now he lives somewhere in Binhai City. As long as I don't go back before dawn, the Communist Party's Military Control Commission will be in the middle of the night. A few hours later , I received a template of counterfeit banknotes, a roster of contacts with gangs and the silver dollar black market near Nanjiang Road, and the secret contact point of the Guangfu Society. What do you think of Xiao Duge ? Is this story good? I told you that you will not regret it just now. I have said that although you are not afraid of me , you are afraid of the Communist Party and are afraid that you will kill me. It doesn't matter , but you will lose the counterfeit banknote template that you rely on to survive. You will lose the underground silver dollar black market near Nanjiang Road and the lurking subordinates. Of course, you will lose your secret contacts. I believe that the Communist Party will arrest your subordinates according to the pictures and dig them out one by one. Can you return the photos to me? How about you still want to kill me now? You are a Green Gang gangster who escaped from prison. What do you think? Will the Communist Party believe you? Of course not , but I heard that the Communist Party is now cracking down on the black market of silver dollars and counterfeit banknotes , but it is very interested in these things in the photo. In fact, the reason why I came here today is to see you and hear what you think. How to resolve the dispute between us ? However, the answer makes me very unsatisfied . I have to leave . Can we talk again? There is nothing in the world that cannot be traded. Remember my words. The more you want to regain what you have lost, the more you will lose. So if you want to talk, you have to show your sincerity . So what should we use to show sincerity? Now that the price has increased , in addition to the small metropolitan dance hall that belongs to me, you also have to use a few silver dollars from the black market on South Wall Road to share it with me. One point , if possible , maybe Jia Chao's sale will be considered as my sum . This price is too high. If I were in your situation, I wouldn't bargain anymore. Fortunately, you exposed it early , otherwise I might really fall in love with you. President, chase, chase. A bunch of rubbish, dozens of people can't deal with one person. Now I think about it, it's too late to chase the president. Then what should we do? I don't care about anything else. As long as the surname of Shazi is Yan Zi, he can take back the template and the Little Metropolis Dance Hall. As for what to do, that's your business. Humph, ancestors. Things are not going well. We are on the defensive now. I am afraid we cannot have a head-on conflict with the person named Yan. Otherwise, we will meet a terrible person. I can't believe that the person named Yan actually directed the Bird's Nest. If I hadn't reacted quickly, I would have died under his gun. It 's a pity that those snipers were all elites of optical radiation , and it ended like this . In 1943, during the Battle of Gharasu in Myanmar, I led 12 snipers and killed more than 200 Japanese soldiers under the big banyan tree. I didn't expect that today I would It's unbelievable to fall into the hands of a little-known Green Gang figure. Who is this Yan Shuangying ? He seems to be very familiar with sniper tactics , and he knows exactly where the snipers are hiding. We have known this from the beginning. They all thought that this guy named Yan was just a gangster from the Youth Gang. No one took him seriously. That's why things got to this point. Now I'm afraid it's hard to end. He was right. As long as the template roster and the small metropolitan dance hall were combined. Our losses to the Communist Party are immeasurable . Yes, you have just heard that the old man only wants results, but this is not easy. So many people have trapped him to death and they have not been able to kill him , not to mention that we are now trying to avoid being caught by others. Hey , Lao Zuo, what should I do next? Humph, there must be a road to the mountain. I don't believe that you, named Yan, have three heads and six arms. From now on, everyone must be very alert. As long as we deal with it seriously, there will be a way . Yes, let's clean up this place. It is appropriate for everyone to evacuate immediately Are you a doctor? Yes, I am a doctor. He suffered a gunshot wound and lost too much blood. Rescue him right away. Comrade with gunshot wounds , you know that we are a private clinic that can only treat some common diseases. You should go to a public hospital as soon as possible. He is seriously injured. I'm afraid he won't be able to survive if he doesn't get treatment. Doctor, please treat him quickly. Doctor, oh, this is not a matter of money. I beg you, doctor , please. Okay, thank you all the time . Okay, thank you.