Hey everyone, you may remember some debunks pseudoscience in the realm of astrophysics. content exposing creationists, they do result whining about how indoctrinated I am. One such dissect it for you, so let's get started. Unscientific", released last month on a channel the video didn't really get a lot of views, would any random flat earther. But in this case I example of the precise brand of anti-science a manipulative epistemological poison that has it's alarming how popular this type of narrative The basic premise is that real science, the kind satellites that are allowing you to watch this a tyrannical worldview wielded by the powers newer, better theories from super awesome rogue about me is towards the end, regarding my very quite a lot of build up, so let's leave that for Wow, lots of ancient stuff! I can see how Let's get a quick sampling of his general vibe. long video to convince most people that their deeply distorted. Those convictions serve a very establishing a person's sense of groundedness part of. And letting go of those convictions is For many people this video will probably feel which ground one's sense of religious faith. the narrative that everything you know is a lie, they are about to unload. And the first part of the one-time owner of Pergamon Press, a popular only purpose here is to manipulate the viewer. publishing that the world of academic journalism a very lucrative business model, as Maxwell's institutions such as libraries and universities. for such exclusive access to these academic itself was not granted public access to them. Maxwell and his family were able to become wealthy immensely flamboyant lifestyle, sailing the world named after his youngest daughter, Ghislaine Robert would expand his interests into the relations with Eastern European totalitarian state intelligence services. In 1991 Maxwell would to cruise in his yacht among the Canary Islands, later to be found dead floating in the investigation would come to reveal an immense and theft which would result in the utter significant for our current purposes is that responsible for how academic science came to be As he notes, Maxwell enriched himself by running the law and died a suspicious death. A picture of Epstein fame, is flashed to add more drama to a racket, associated with embezzlement and child why fixate on Maxwell? Did Maxwell create the It has existed for centuries and there are many Pergamon Press. Did he have a disproportionate any stretch of the imagination. But Formscapes to instill in the naive viewer the impression It's a sleazy manipulative tactic. Then he Academic institutions require their researchers are able to actually charge researchers for because under most circumstances the to actually dip into their own pockets to research grants typically include provisions for who actually pay for the racketeering practices those who followed in his footsteps. but the conclusions are fallacious. Scientific research institutions. This is refereed by then entrusted to a journal which publishes the to recover publication costs. The claim that is more or less correct. The first problem is available to the general public. Of course paper in the Journal of Theoretical Physics. But it hides behind exclusive and expensive portals. research organizations don't have enough funds so we are left with a Darwinian race for and the others are ignored or accessed only article. It is not an ideal world, but it works. or even that this constitutes a racket, is scientific publication costs money to provide, so that Netflix isn't free. They need money to make Nevertheless, they are legitimate problems, and have arisen. Here scientists and publishers work of these journals are of mediocre quality and the expensive ones, some articles are freely pay a small fee to make their article accessible In any case, publishing houses, which carry out refereeing, and publication of our best science and janitors and teachers and everyone else. It's an author has to pay a fee to the journal before you or I publish a paper in a scientific journal journals which do not charge. However, any paper stringent criteria of novelty and quality. To idiotic claim of racketeering, the video claims and there is a replication crisis: scientific work At this point we have all probably heard the "replication crisis" within academic research. The be of central significance within the apologetics replication is believed to serve as a means scientific research do actually point towards the reveal. If a finding cannot be replicated, then research actually uncovered such a regularity. based on a kernel of truth. As science becomes reproduce, and it is something scientists actually problem as a major crisis in science. Speaking chemistry procedures are hard to reproduce. A and sometimes one of them is not controlled may result in discrepancies. This phenomenon is experiments are never reproduced because they interest exists because of some broad industrial labs and eventually any discrepancy is solved chemistry. Now imagine a science like biology, of variables. Or clinical psychology, where quality of the results. Why is it surprising that science eventually gets clarified, and less in the literature, perhaps until someone decides, and they are eventually cleaned up or refuted. Imperfection does not make science invalid. on people who have never done science and have They have absolutely no clue what it is to do unencumbered by reality in weaving this ridiculous or agenda-driven. This is a shortcut for science as it's much easier to just pretend that the In order to substantiate this, some screenshots as though the entire body of scientific knowledge "fake news". This idea of most research being new reactions, and publish summaries of their and publish their findings. Molecular biologists and publish their results. Astronomers discover them. The overwhelming majority of scientific just "here's some stuff we did, throw it deniers try to paint all of science as a to prove anything wrong. They can just which is what this guy does for two hours. Here is If for example I am a sociological researcher, a possible correlation between political beliefs which seems to show such a correlation the majority of the people surveyed are people or who predominately belong to a specific economic research findings come up to misleadingly depict expectancy when in reality the patterns detected simply failed to take into consideration. which is not a physical science, and he just have to control for when doing research, as totally do those things. He is pretending that Reality is of course extremely complicated, of reality, it is never actually possible wish to study scientifically, which means that positives no matter how rigorous we try to be. it is "never actually possible to completely is totally moronic. If you're studying an ideal pressure, temperature, and volume. Hold two of the other two. This is an example from high experiments to ascertain something about gene processes, there are painstaking measures in place plasmids that have varying combinations of presence or lack of a particular gene empty vectors, and so forth. Scientists are But for now we simply need to be aware of the research can and does fall victim to such false to entirely eradicate fraud and malpractice, it research findings would still fail to replicate. to someone who doesn't understand science, upon a backdrop of stock footage featuring we looked in a microscope and now I'm pointing But the narrator said we didn't properly replicate this! Nobody else can look through if it wasn't so offensive. And now we get to A great deal of public and professional confidence that the research findings which are reported successfully replicated. Beginning with a series however, this confidence would come to be damaged crisis can be traced back to research published in Daryl Bem, within which Bem alleged to have extrasensory perception. Unsurprisingly Bem and in an effort to discredit his findings, Bem's methodological flaws in his research. Essentially statistical methods used by Bem in analyzing his his response to his critics, the supposed flaw in psychological, medical, and sociological research were to be thrown out on those methodological medical, and sociological research would need to That's right, all published science is wrong and manage to get published must be right. This ESP. Of course scientists pointed out what was baselessly pretends that he was unfairly or actually discuss the study, because he has no what happened is precisely what I described claim. So bold that many people tried to reproduce like psychology is much more complex than with tried to do it. Absolutely nobody could, so it this process corruption, but it's the opposite Sometimes extraordinary claims get published. Even polywater sensation in 1961. Benveniste and water in 1989. These are glamorous examples that the way. Because of the extraordinary nature of the be irreproducible despite countless attempts, and to represent real, viable phenomena, reproduction revolutionary, and scientists would pursue them history of science. It's not that hard to wrap ego in presenting themselves as the harbinger of eminent ones, hence the so-called Nobel disease. collectively hide new discoveries because asinine narrative to excuse delusional behavior. from magazines as though they adequately address paranoia for good measure. This is very deliberate The phrase "trust the science" is sometimes Nobody who advocates for science has ever said exclusively by science deniers who try to It doesn't. People who learn and understand aware of the reliability of empiricism, as in science are at this point essentially Professional journalists use terms like to slap on whatever group needs to be designated is being evangelized this week. of science are called science deniers. It's "science evangelicals" or "science apologists". try to explain it to those who deny it, In spite of how oft repeated and science is, the reality seems to be that Yes, you should learn basic science baselessly denying it all over the internet. unbiased inquiry which does not pay reverence promise of science is that of knowledge which one with nature, rather than knowledge which is and institutions. The very concept of scientific to the notion of pious adherence to a corpus of and authorized by an institutional bureaucracy. pretend to have reverence for science while authority to change the way we look at the cosmos! was Copernicus followed by Brahe and Kepler. not some imaginary scientific dogma. Geocentrism until a certain time where better telescopes were be made. He made astronomical observations astrophysicists. The "unbiased engagement and yet we will see him deny this obvious Within this notion of trusting science we can come to split into two primary currents. On of a continual practice of investigation. Actually to reveal the inner workings of nature. On the More stock footage, this time of fake students exemplifies the artificiality with which the science classrooms. Chemistry students don't in the lab and do chemistry. They run reactions, identity of what they produce. Physics students do physics. They replicate landmark experiments for themselves. This notion that science education idiotic narrative imaginable, exclusively peddled single science course in their entire lives. are authorized to believe, or even obligated academics whose sociological function is belief. Ultimately "the science" is in essence This is another pathetic aspect of this narrative. particular the 20th century saw unbelievable an enormous mountain of knowledge has been to learn about what people have already done. That science that has led to our current understanding. is somehow dogmatic is like pretending that at these priests, all reciting the same script are free thinkers, they just regurgitate their because that's what the words mean. This is how you learn science. You learn facts about what we and the context in which we learned it. If just admit it to yourself and keep quiet. Beneath the specific empirical claims made by which are formally sanctioned by textbooks, we specific complex of metaphysical assumptions can or cannot quality as true or real. It is the way we think about what sorts of opinions structure of "the science" comes to condition the Those who are well-informed and well-educated beliefs come to serve a sociological function And this is where he pivots, knowing that he's so he starts to blabber about metaphysics. He has which he refers to as a "belief system", and use to promote his fantasies and try to put them people who get an education actually learn things. can apply their knowledge to actually create degrees can build machines. People who get who don't study these subjects can't do these Many scientists aren't exactly all that eager to for example, the adequacy of Darwinian natural life, even though there are many reasons to us a complete understanding of how life speciation actually occurs. Yet to question the oneself with creationists or other structures He finally decides to make specific scientific Surprise, surprise, he's an evolution denier. about how natural selection doesn't explain onward would tell you that themselves. There are selection. This moron knows about none of them. He Discovery Institute. We've beaten this to death in But if we understand the controversy in of sacred knowledge, then the motivations at letter of protest against the New Trends in it was about "the science". The conception of affirms questions or denies such sacred knowledge particular ideological structure than it is Yes, if we look at it in the context of be responsible for pushing anti-science ideology involves pretending that the fruits of evolution is a denial of the field of biology, and charlatans will call that "adherence to to actually discuss science. Remember, Often times the rhetoric and apologetics an implied distinction between real science scientific media outlets and science popularizers between science and pseudoscience. Science can be somehow worse than false. Pseudoscience therefore it is not even worthy of consideration said to follow the ritualistic procedures He basically just defines pseudoscience and pseudoscience is charlatanry masquerading as from this famous clip where Sam Harris shits that people use the term to pseudoscience to science deniers just use words like dogma THEY don't like. Educated people can indeed homeopathy is pseudoscience, and have done so it and spew their anti-establishment script. that previously seemed mysterious? Do the ideas unnoticed? If yes, then we continue to use those impasse, at which our ideas are no longer adequate we simply go back to nature and back This is subtle but important. He's pretending footage of a telescope, and photosynthesis, and useful knowledge. But then he says that when an What is this impasse? And what does reevaluation something totally fabricated that science a real thing. And by "reevaluation" they mean successfully explain and predict many things. want to inject their pseudoscience into the some kind of crisis, something science can't and then pretend that their pseudoscience can everything that real science does explain. they hope that the viewer does not understand a progress, which is this: No matter what new no matter how dramatic a paradigm shift, new as well or better than existing science. You can't and replace it with absolutely nothing, something explains trivially. When you look at the advent quantum mechanics all break down to Newtonian Newtonian mechanics emerges from these equations metaphorically, this is literally true. When you a velocity that is negligible compared with the kinematics. Classical conceptions of momentum old paradigm is contained within the new one. mechanics. Far from it. It is an extension of the explain everything we already understood, but then realm of the subatomic and things traveling near useful in realms where relativity or quantum like macroscopic terrestrial motion. here's an analogy. There's a crime scene. You have some fingerprints, blood stains, and all kinds to figure out what happened by determining what this weapon was purchased by person X. Their a motive, so person X is likely the killer. This most likely explanation, and if someone wants have at least equivalent explanatory power as what tiger escaped from the zoo and killed the victim! tiger-related evidence? Did you find tiger hairs? escaping from nearby zoos? The victim was shot by the fingerprints and blood that match the suspect? by evidence, and an alternate explanation but also has no ability to explain the data as The detective will call it out as ridiculous not how to do his job and he knows when someone is The notion of falsification is often casually the lack thereof. But this idea is very rarely often than not the idea is simply gestured towards supposed to have a seat at the table. It is said pseudoscientific claims are those which appear to He then goes on a long rant about Karl Popper falsify scientific claims, and just generally some philosophy books and then pretend to know and the concept of paradigm shift, because science is nothing more than a failed paradigm which he implies is a newer, better paradigm, The early explorations of pre-science then within which the basic explanatory and conceptual concretize as a morphologically mature epistemological horizons which are delineated the beating heart of the paradigm. It is within tends to become essentially irrelevant. The frameworks which are erected around those core and as such, conflicting evidence tends accomodated by minor ad hoc adjustments He pretends that theories can only make ad hoc which is ridiculous. There are countless being falsified. When contemplating multiple possibilities may be put forward, and potentially falsify some of the possibilities. And most importantly, he pretends that because he can then point at any science he doesn't without basis. These are the trap doors that the modern scientific knowledge, amongst people to validate this knowledge for themselves. He evolutionary biology is undergoing some sort of is that because taxa can be rearranged, that the abandoned. In reality, taxonomy is a perfect masturbation totally breaks down. The tree of life its organization that absolutely will not change. phyla or much smaller taxa for which specimens decades, then there is more research to be done us place smaller clades where they ought to go, revised by zoologists, microbiologists, and other that such revision occurs at all, specifically being used in conjunction with novel techniques researchers to produce agreement about the of the "priesthood protecting sacred knowledge" and unchanging but also constantly going through If we are led to believe that there are no which underpin science, then we are much less or not those presuppositions themselves might be thus allowed the apologists of "the science" of elite priesthood of individuals who are the He then devolves into a seemingly never-ending fractals that can be summarized as "but how do crazy magic I want to believe". He again pretends are always revised to evade falsification, there have been countless instances in which abandoned. Spontaneous generation. Miasmatic static universe. Phlogiston. Geocentrism. in astrophysics, molecular biology, everywhere. when models are revised to fit new data, this is we are all supposed to learn about the evolution balls to Thomson's plum pudding model, to levels, to Schrodinger's conception of electron progress of science imaginable. None of these than the model that came next. Bohr's energy which is part of the system of quantum numbers all the way back, Dalton's laws of definite and the existence of atoms are still true today. it didn't render atomic theory obsolete, it became If someone wants to propose some alternate model be able to explain everything that every chemist science illiterate fraud on the internet tried to face, not because they're being "dogmatic", but the ability to see how preposterous the fraud totally incompatible with an enormous exists. Science isn't dogma. You're just stupid. this channel in previous videos, such as electric inheritance of acquired characteristics have been denounced as pseudoscience in such a violate the supposed rules of science. this guy pushes, electric universe. He can cry all is magic masquerading as science. The people who anyone at Thunderbolts, and no, not even SAFIRE. topic, so let's just see where he takes it. condition the manner in which science form of scientific theories themselves. came about specifically through efforts steam engines. As such, these laws prove they are but beneath the surface we can see that this Scientists came to generalize these laws to to think of the entire universe as being like First he goes on a long rant about how much was developed through studying steam engines, as a machine and misplace assumptions about how studied any thermodynamics. Chemical reactions associated with chemical processes. Energy is the natural world, and he knows nothing about it. the mechanistic manner of understanding nature molecules, and electromagnetic phenomena, could machines. But in the wake of this inadequacy, machine metaphor. The metaphor had simply become and moreover, Western countries were beginning to science was beginning to fully assume its role legitimize these social transformations through technological, and liberal democratic progress. pageantry about how the indeterminacy process of gathering scientific knowledge and dumb. He is labeling the scientific community as technology without bothering to acknowledge that our scientific understanding is valid. If our wouldn't have technology. We wouldn't have light and satellites and computers. Quantum mechanics contradiction here. There is no "sacred mystery". them and come to understand them. People who don't is profoundly counterintuitive, and can rightfully doesn't mean that it is a dimension of magic in order to sell books and meditation retreats, The vast majority of the things which history and structure of our universe, the vast proclaimed on public television by figures like are such inferences which are built upon the by gravity, and that gravity operates through history of the 20th century, following the would come to make many extremely confident the age of our universe, the expansion rate of the the ultimate fate of our universe and the black holes. Every step of the way, all of and the general public was repeatedly with extreme confidence on the basis of elite professionals using the most cutting edge every single one of these inferences was made incomplete at best, and at worst simply false. how nebulous our understanding of the universe based on relativity. Cosmology and the age of of stars, it's just a bunch of conjecture! It observation and calculation. This really is this. Because they never studied any science, they confidently assert their profound ignorance of observational evidence that supports figures being the cosmic microwave background radiation, in elements as well as subatomic particles, exist to them, because they refuse to learn negates the scientific process. He sarcastically and cutting edge technology that are all used to and just baselessly denies them. He pretends that worried about public perception of their work. science. They don't need the approval of some jerk learn about what it is that scientists do. came to be built upon a foundation which was professionalization and institutionalization incentive structures which strongly discouraged was a lot of money on the line, and resisting the ostracized by one's professional community, and This narrative never ceases to perplex me. He is tied to a specific theory. Grant money is means further corroborating a theory, the money the money is there. Whatever advances science into and could thus potentially be lucrative and clinging to a failing paradigm for cash is just so works, and how money works, that it discredits don't waste billions of dollars for pride. Period. to calculate the mass of distant galaxies realized gravitational force, which operates in then galaxies do not have nearly enough mass to to actually hold them together. In other words, expect these galaxies to fly apart rather they shouldn't have been able to actually phenomenon within the standard cosmological which idealistically assume that this would have led of general relativity. But for reasons which we to actually do so. And those who were willing to were typically ridiculed as out of touch quacks. matter as a way to resolve this discrepancy. matter, which will surprise nobody. It's all just science you don't understand and baselessly whimsy to refer to it as dark matter instead of pea brain into attack mode. Of course he makes observations that validate general relativity, stars closely orbiting the supermassive black gravitational waves, and more, because that If for academic doctrinal science, science which of sacred knowledge, this conclusion is simply For many decades now, science popularizers the knowledge which has been sanctioned by upon with certainty. Thousands of professional have come to be regarded as doctrine, and students and the general public as facts, In the end, this script all rests on this one over the world would continue to do science continue to magically appear all over the world intellectual toddler to entertain this notion. would keep trying the same failed model over while scoffing at other inventors that but for some reason never actually build it. Mr. Dave runs a very popular science YouTube sociological function as other forms of science regards to forms of scientific research which fall And now we get to the section about me. Oh goody! accepted doctrines! All of these lectures on Molecules aren't actually real, you see! Neither said, he's going to have a hissy fit about my very In this video, Dave tries his hand at dismantling theory, an alternative cosmological model, previous videos. Electric universe theory is the primary driving force in cosmic evolution rather than gravity. Electric universe theorists instead try to model phenomena such as star electromagnetic forces, rather than relying Electric universe is not a theory. It's correlates data and makes falsifiable predictions. charlatans spew to make money on the internet. or even partly by electromagnetism is electromagnetism is both attractive and repulsive, influence. Gravity. Bulk matter is electrically electric universe is stupid. But let's continue. our reality. We use it to calculate Earth and in space, and they are always Alright, so I showed Newton's law of universal predictions that are corroborated to high degrees uh". Where did you see that, exactly? Because probe that has ever navigated the solar system. it will, when we say it will. How do we do predictions, Formscapes? I know you can't, can't do it without it. We landed a probe on a we performed calculations so sophisticated probe from Earth and make it land on a comet. you land a probe on a comet? Can any electric Then shut your dumb mouth. Newtonian mechanics learn about it. Maybe one day you'll find of classical physics tutorials that can help that science isn't dogma, you're just stupid. least as well as we understand gravity. We of materials science, semiconductors, batteries, understand gravity so well, and electromagnetism is the other? But, in the end, electric universe as I will demonstrate for you here. Mr. Dave begins his entire deconstruction on essentially amounts to a reduction of gravity to all electric universe theorists presume that Then he flashes clips from Wal Thornhill and misunderstanding what they say. I'm not, at all. can be replaced by electromagnetism, or that doesn't matter the degree or flavor, it's just in the video in which I demonstrate conclusively when in reality he is flippantly ignoring the simple and intuitive ways in which researchers component to gravity with very simple experiments He has no response, so he just pretends I didn't model EU proposes, but there is none. It's making cave paintings about lightning in the appropriation of scientific terminology in ways prove that something isn't true, and you refuse you're the one hiding behind ideology. You're the the underdog must dethrone the evil authoritarian the actual meat of the video, so he doesn't script about how we don't know how gravity works, Come on, Formscapes. Why can't you do a point due to gravity changing predictably and measurably the gravitational field, both on Earth and other celestial body will be at any given time in the of objects with differing magnetic properties. A of stars which matches observations everywhere Line spectra. Magnetohydrodynamics. Doppler Why don't you have anything to say about any of to invalidate everything these EU nutters have a star, I expose inconsistencies like negatively star to power it and away from it in the solar inhabiting the same stream in the solar wind engage with a single concrete scientific point Because you don't actually care about science. seconds of my video where I summarize the insanity said in a video that's nearly half an hour of overlord who is afraid of science!" Exclaims the to actually discuss a single concrete phenomenon just say "nuh uh" to pseudoscience, when in you defend that are saying "nuh uh" to real with a single concrete scientific argument, and It's as though you're pretending that this even though I'm showing you that it does, and much better, no matter how many times I show acknowledging anything I'm showing you, science isn't dogma, you're just stupid. a scientist who calls out delusional understand physics better than real physicists. YouTuber, who goes by the moniker acollierastro. and in this video, this person articulates she deems to be crackpots, people who believe they or at least criticizing standard physics, but of lunatics who have lost their grip on reality. single clip of her saying anything concrete, any they're crackpots. He just mutes her and speeds she doesn't say anything. He then moves on to which again, I debunked to smithereens in another let her speak, and actually respond to anything where she talks about Avi Loeb, who does indeed scientists do that too. She doesn't really say actually show her talking. At all. Luc Montagnier full blown crackpot promoting structured water happens. Loeb pushes this alien thing for press. other scientists point out the baselessness of his discussing the periodicity of Oumuamua's rotation, but it's sped up and muted. How pathetic. side, and there really were no major reasons then why bother making videos like these? Why not actually be trusted? If the contradictions, failed give us good reason to believe that mistakes reduce onself to making fun of other people handling oneself with maturity and authenticity? ideas seriously, if you really believe that those That is exactly what I do, you idiot. I public how the science they aren't familiar just lying about it. The public is supremely and science denial is a huge problem, so you crystal clarity how you're dumb and wrong. Sing it Science is therefore the presumption that simply receiving the truth as it is handed down The further science becomes removed from such the more science ceases to be genuinely scientific more than yet another ideology conditioned technological, and institutional power. We cannot a set of beliefs which are legitimized by trust science. The actual practice of bringing our of revealing the inner nature of the world. same idiotic monologue. Don't trust the and climate change deniers, and all manner of result in the obliteration of the human race. delusional narcissists who desperately need to They want to be super special geniuses, who understand the universe as well as figures like can point out erroneous thinking in the work of comprehend in the first place. Give a guy like have a panic attack. What's wrong with this page, where the dogma is? Or this one, can you show me but it must be wrong because former computer an attempt to drag real knowledge down to his own own delusions above reality. He's basically a flat jargon. And his obsession with metaphysics does is some validity to the notion that science is a but nevertheless, if you can calculate at you can save yourself with science. If you invoke a representation and not actually real, there In summary, this portrayal of science as imagine. The precise imperfection and revision he and that theories change does not negate the build rockets, and send people to the moon. These valid even when better ones come along. And for new ideas. All the time, scientists propose community. If they stand up to scrutiny, abandoned. Things like electric universe do not which it would have to be in order to qualify for represent. This desperate attempt at validating revolution is a cancer upon the fabric of society, of their listeners. This is the real crisis in or become corrupt, but rather that science completely over the past century, leaving resulting in millions rejecting science out ignorance of the period before. Science doesn't or loved by the universe. Real science correlates science isn't measured by whether it gives you no matter how much you like how that feels. in that two hour turdfest is that your singular as "dogmatic", simply because educated people can you're just too much of a lazy coward to science isn't dogma, you're just stupid.