My name is John Pennisi. I'm a former made member [screen buzzes] This is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; [screen buzzing and Whirring] The biggest misconception and the people that are are people really believe loyalty, and respect. These three principles, which it no longer exists. Honor, loyalty, and by selfishness and greed. [screen buzzing and whirring] The rules for a member is and the rules of Cosa Nostra. And those particular rules are: You're not to put your hand You're not to go with or even girl, for that matter. You would need to be your mother and your your bloodline needs to be all Italian. But with every rule, there's an exception, and there has been people who slipped through the One of the rules is you shouldn't you should not sue people. And I know that there was a rule where you're not to get I'm not 100% sure if that's Specifically in New York, you were not to kill women and children or family members in the Mob. They were not allowed to such as bombs, because on the other side, in Italy and Sicily, they were known to use explosives to take out members during a war, or just to take a member out. They didn't want that kind So there's an exception to every rule. Frankie DeCicco, who was the underboss for the Gambino family, put under his car, and he was blown up as a result of that. The &quot;no drug dealing&quot; rule applies to all the Five Families, have drug-dealing Every family is going that are involved in the drug business and kind of turn a blind eye to it because it brings in so much money. Cosa Nostra members today have no problem breaking the rules on a daily basis, whereas in Carlo Gambino's era, you couldn't break the rules. Breaking the rules meant So all these rules that were put in place for reasons are now being broken. So when you have an organization that no longer follows its own rules, it weakens the organization. [screen buzzing and whirring] Before they created the Five Families, the head of each family So that's where they would And at some point, they broke and there was Five Families. So the Five Families in New York are the Genovese family, they were known as the Westside. That's how we refer to them. There's the Gambino family. There's the Colombo family And they're like the nucleus of Cosa Nostra for the United States. So as far as the Five Families they controlled the It wasn't only New York City. And then you have the which was the idea, who looked at it as a board of directors. The Commission consisted of the head of each of the families, and they would basically make decisions on anything that went on between them. Territories were divided, obviously, by what family represented It's kind of -- they But if it overlapped, would come in and make a ruling. [screen buzzing and whirring] So when they created the they set it up more like a military. From the bottom of that pecking order, you have the associates, who Anybody that's not a is considered a civilian. Above them are the made which are called friends. We call them friends in that life. Above them are captains. As we say, caporegimes. They're the head of the crews. The family is represented by all the crews that are in that family. And then above them are the The top of the administration is the boss, the underboss, and the consigliere. And that's the structure The word Cosa Nostra means &quot;Our Thing.&quot; And that basically of the Mob, or, as people belongs to them, the members of that life. [screen buzzing and whirring] The Mob picks you. That life, Cosa Nostra, picks you. You don't pick that life. So before someone becomes of a family, they become an associate. And usually how they become an associate is they're associated to someone who's already an inducted member. In order for an associate to be proposed, I think several factors take place. One is how good they get along with whoever it is that they're with, the soldier that they're with, you know, that they do what they're told to do. They keep their mouth closed. Once you're proposed, Who's conducting that a member or members of the administration. Along with them is going to be, obviously, the captain that's going A pistol and a knife are on and it's mostly there Your trigger finger, whether you are a righty Your blood is dropped on a It just symbolizes that the oath that you're about to take, you're taking it holding And they ultimately and you're moving that and you're repeating after whoever's conducting the ceremony. After which he is explaining [screen buzzing and whirring] My position within the Lucchese but there was times that in the capacity of an acting captain, specifically for a sit-down. The administration would pick The requirement to be a captain, obviously, would be good leadership, so they would have to see to feel that he could lead the crew. That captain is of the crew, but he's also responsible for all the associates that A consigliere position So, he is specifically handling not only internal what we would call beefs or struggles inside of the The difference between there's not a whole big difference with the exception of the title. Obviously, the boss is but the underboss holds in that family as the boss. Overall, a boss's position He's really in charge of everything that goes on underneath him, which goes through the administration, all his captains, all the all the way down to the associates. The way the life is structured, the boss is supposed to that the captains, his administration, the soldiers, and everyone A boss of a family or family together could bring in hundreds of There's many reasons to One, obviously, would be a One would be a boss passes away through health reasons, and, you know, there is a void in the position. But then, there's also reasons like in the Paul Castellano situation, a boss that they felt was being greedy and the family turned on the boss. There's different scenarios where a boss can be taken out, replaced for that matter. [screen buzzing and whirring] I think years ago, when the Five Families, there with having law enforcement on the payroll than as it is today. I think there's less of that going on, but that doesn't mean As far as political influence, obviously it would go in people's pockets for political favors. In present times, I don't the political power that they once had. I don't think they're able to corrupt the politicians as they were years ago. Initially, the Mob took They would put people in. Those people would corrupt the union, take over the unions, and that's how they were able to control most of the unions, But today, they have their in little areas, but they don't control the [screen buzzing and whirring] Cosa Nostra came to be in New York sometime in the early 1900s. This was an organization and structure that came from the other side, which means Italy, Sicily. When the immigrants from those countries came here to this country, the Italians were almost and they were discriminated So in the beginning, it But naturally, that turned into and criminal acts to gain a profit from. So when the average citizen of Cosa Nostra here, I believe that the first reactions were fear and intimidation. Because they feared and over this group of Italians, they were also fearful They were fearful to In turn, Cosa Nostra gained [screen buzzing and whirring] So I joined Cosa Nostra because I came from a neighborhood, both Ozone Park and Howard Beach, which was replete with guys in that life. And I believe that I looked up to them at that time and wanted If you are around people inducted members, at some And we were associated, my cousin and I, to the Gambino family And the time I'm talking about, I was around 14, 15 So sometime around 2012, and on record with the By 2013, I was an inducted I stayed an inducted member I ultimately winded up leaving the life because the family that I was a member of falsely accused me of being an informant when it wasn't true. They now were laying on me, which meant that they sent Usually when that is done, or B, kill you. I made my decision that to my former friends who turned on me. So obviously, my life has I'm no longer able to see my I'm not able to live as close I have to watch every and be very careful at what I do. And my plans have to be mapped out of where I'm going and what I'm doing. So my life took a big change. [screen buzzing and whirring] In my opinion, in 20 years from now, Cosa Nostra is hardly I don't believe that they're Cosa Nostra now, compared to years ago, has definitely declined. And the reason is these sentences that are being handed out, the government and specifically the FBI have unlimited funds. They're able to go after them. They're able to take out As far as earning money or doing various criminal than it was. So now, once you limit moneymaking and money earning, because money brings power, and the organized crime today than it was in years past. In the past few years, in arrests, and a large number Specific families are targeted, and the reason being is that it's hard for to operate without law enforcement, specifically the FBI, There are more people that They have people that are with the FBI, giving the FBI information. That's how they're dismantling families. Family by family, they dismantle them. Members of law enforcement now work very closely with members of law enforcement from people outside of the United States, They jointly create cases together. [screen buzzing and whirring] I made the decision to create a blog, and I started just writing So the first podcast I created is also the name of the blog, which is called &quot;Sitdown News,&quot; and that's all also the And I just recently called &quot;Unlimited Substance.&quot; In the next episode, makes money in 2022. Stay tuned. which is the laboratory where