Translator: Leonardo Silva Jim O'Hanlon: I've finally This is so beautiful, making sure I'd make it here to heaven, I really want to meet the big guy. Do you know who the big guy is? Kristin Saylor: Ah, they told you JOH: Are you the receptionist? KS: Yeah, no. Hi, I'm God. KS: Yeah, welcome to Heaven. KS: So, just a couple of questions JOH: I'm the perfect Christian. KS: Well, let's see about that. So, first off, I just that you have categorically rejected that contradicts even JOH: Absolutely, absolutely. KS: Great. And then, do you, based accept the existence of talking snakes? JOH: I do, they're in Genesis 2. KS: And what about talking donkeys? JOH: Numbers 22. KS: Unicorns? JOH: Numbers 23. KS: And what about hoards of suicidal, JOH: The Gospel of Mark, KS: Very good, I'm impressed. I have just one final question then, JOH: Alright. KS: Did you do as I told you and sell all your possessions JOH: Well, I ... Wait, what now? KS: Ah ... yeah. JOH: Were you serious about that? KS: Very serious. JOH: Oh ... JOH: You may think that there are people people who throw out anything science, history ... What this skit is asking you is maybe they're not Maybe they're very serious if they can use it to judge other people, if they can use it to shame somebody But if the Bible was used and they were to evaluate themselves if the Bible was to be humbling them, then they might not These people say that they want in its entirety it should and that's ridiculous, you can't do that. When the Bble says, &quot;God is our rock, when the Bible says, we can't take those literally. But there are people that the Bible needs They think it gives it some kind that they can win arguments, by saying, &quot;This is literal. It is cut and dried, They're these people who believe with their argument, people in positions of great authority. Just last month, a US congressman stood on the floor and said, &quot;The government wants us He says, &quot;In the Bible, it says God No questions marks.&quot; So he's got this idea that he doesn't want He doesn't want people as something distinct He's got this idea without any ambiguity, without questions, just keeping the status quo. He believes that he can use that by saying the Bible and it settles his argument. These people have &quot;God said it, I believe it, which they could probably &quot;I believe it, that settles it.&quot; Because that's what they're saying, they want these things It's interesting that people believe they can take the Bible because the Bible doesn't have The Bible does not speak with one voice. The Bible does not have It doesn't have one way of describing God. The Bible does not have one theology. We think if the Bible it would be consistent about the language we use The Bible does not have It doesn't have one model of marriage. There's no consistent ethic about The Bible speaks with these many voices. The Bible, really properly It's an anthology. It's really a library with a wide things that have different ideas The Bible has all these voices It's not just one book with one point The Bible has these many voices. And there are many stories in the Bible, and many of these stories are told from different perspectives KS: So given the amount of media with respect to issues of gay marriage, it would be easy for us that the Bible has a lot to say and it ain't good. But in reality, if you take and look at, percentage-wise, how much of the content is devoted it is less than one percent. Statistically speaking, And the few stories that do speak are often taken out of proportion One of the most famous examples of these which some of you might be familiar with. It's a story that has become famous because of anti-sodomy laws and this concept of sodomy And &quot;sodomy&quot; is a word without necessarily We might have an idea that it's somehow bad, when in reality, it has and it is any sexual act So that opens the door wide to a whole host of things And that's interesting to remember in a context where our society loves and use it for its own purposes. So what does the story Once upon a time, and there were two men traveling, trying to find a place to stay They were having zero luck. They were about to give up But a man named Lot took pity on them and let them crash Good thing he did, because not five minutes later, demanding that he bring his guests out, Now, when the Bible says it's not saying, &quot;Hey, nice to meet you! It's, &quot;Let us know them intimately, We're talking in this case And the story continues. Lot begs the mob, &quot;Please, I beg you, He then turns and offers his two which is all kinds of twisted. And then, the story ends when God and destroys the whole But what exactly was the sin of Sodom? Was it men sleeping with men, or was it an angry mob and demanding to rape his house guests? And you can see how quickly and how quickly that begins JOH: So what does the story say? The story describes an entire city for the purpose of raping Does that mean that this is who want to have who want to publicly affirm and their commitment to each other? How does it really connect it all to that that wants to have So you see this man, Lot, who sees this, one person who stands He sees these two people, they're traveling, they're far from home, they're people who could be preyed upon, they're foreigners, they don't belong. So they're weak and susceptible and he wants to protect them. And when the city says, &quot;Let them come out he begs them not to do this wicked thing. And when he stands against the whole city, they then turn onto him and say, You haven't been here all that long. You don't have the same beliefs like us.&quot; So this is Lot, a man who himself who's going to put himself out for someone And as we heard, he says, which raises the issue of: why would someone insist and you have to unquestionably in a way that you must be obedient to it? So when the Bible talks about you can look throughout the Bible: over hundreds of centuries, and how bad Sodom was but what is it specifically Is it talking about same-sex partners, or ir it talking about violence There's a part in the Bible, in the book of Ezekiel, where it talks about And it says in Ezekiel, &quot;Now, this was And it's saying &quot;sister&quot; These cities are all in a location. They refer to the population as daughters. But they're talking about the city &quot;Now, this was the sin She and her daughters were overfed, they did not help the poor and needy. They were haughty and did So it seems this thing that's used to target a minority group, to say that this minority should be when it's talking about how the people the people who need us the most, are people that we need So when people look at the Bible, they need to think about love songs, poems, people dealing with big life questions. There's all different kinds And when we read something in the Bible, we need to put it understand who these people are KS: So when we read the Bible especially in light that issues of the LGBTQ it's important to do two things. And the first is exactly to take the texts that do talk few though they may be, and really dig into them and ask, &quot;What do they really say And then, what does that mean?&quot; And the other thing we can do in all of its multiple &quot;What counter-voices could we lift up Now, that's different from saying that the Bible somehow because it doesn't. It really doesn't have any agenda. But there are different voices that stand in contrast to the ones One of the most powerful examples, which is basically the story in which people like Peter and Paul sharing what they've learned and encountering on the way a whole lot And one of those is when the apostle and he meets and Ethiopian eunuch. Now, what is that? Well, Ethiopian, in this case, is just shorthand for anyone with dark skin. So there you go: because of the way he looks. And a eunuch is a man and had undergone ritual castration, so that he could serve the monarchy without posing the threat of producing Now, eunuchs, in Judaism were not full members of society. They were subject to all kinds they were excluded ... So again, you have a double outsider And what happens? Well, he and Philip get to talking, Next thing you know, the eunuch is saying, &quot;Hey, look! Here's a pool of water What is to prevent me from being baptized, from becoming a full member right here, right now?&quot; And Philip says, &quot;Sure. Let's do it.&quot; He doesn't interrogate him He doesn't say, &quot;Oh nah, No! He just welcomes him on the spot. And that story is a powerful counter-voice that values inclusion and acceptance might have some parallels Another example that I'd like is from the letter to the Galatians, which is a very early piece in which Paul is describing And he says, &quot;In Christ, there's neither slave nor free, and there's neither male nor female.&quot; So he's radically just erasing that we put up among ourselves and saying, &quot;In the end, So my question to you is: to say that, in Christ, in a world where people &quot;No, actually there is male and female,&quot; and that affects what kind and that affects what kind And in reality, what the Bible says JOH: And why do we even care these stories from If you look at our society, we've made in terms of our understanding The medical community, was describing They've rewritten those manuals to no longer describe Now, it's one of a different Legally and politically, Just in the past couple of decades, just in the lifetime the Supreme Court has overturned the Supreme Court's said Why would we go back thousands of years, tens of thousands of years, when we've made so much progress in our understanding of human sexuality? The reason is because to base their values and their morality People still look and to the understandings they get they continue to undergird, they continue to be the foundation So we need to understand what are the beliefs and values And we see there are still people whose beliefs and values This congressman who stood on the floor doesn't want people talking He doesn't want people as something that can be defined And he wants to use the Bible to push across his point and tell people We need to be looking at the Bible and understanding that people should be getting from it, because people continue to discriminate We see gay and lesbian and transgender young people, high school people, harassed, ridiculed, tormented. We continue to see stories Just back in 2003, his roommate thought it would be fun to videotape him He ended up taking his own life. And there are many stories like this, In Greenwich Village, just in 2013, giving people a hard time because confronting them and tormenting them. Finally, he goes up to one man and starts to interact until he finally takes out Mark Carson, 32 years old, walking in Greenwich Village, just a few blocks away where the modern That's why these scriptures matter, and that's why it matters and that's why it matters We take these stories seriously, and we take the lessons We see the story of Lot, a man who stands against an entire city that believes that they can discriminate He stands against them he stands against them because they want to violate and we see this as a very serious story And that's why we stand here today, saying that we believe Period. Thank you. (Applause)