It's been a long announced our Minecraft movie. We've taken our time to and to create an original, universe. From us at Mojang, our and Legendary, our Jared Hess, and some We're bringing Minecraft you've never seen before, all capturing the by working with people who play, as much as you do. Let's hear from some and take a closer look Let's do it. And action. I'm Torfi, creative director I'm Jared Hess, the We're super excited to share about how we made this movie. To be able to celebrate that that is Minecraft. It was just like, We first started talking is over a decade ago. We really wanted And then spending like, three we've really We thought a lot about And we chose live action because been seen before on this scale. Creators have made and short films, and content and it was like, this is the to do something different. And also kind of because I've always what would happen if I would world, like, how would I survive The idea of being human going into this cubic and how those characters And it just seemed Everything is cubic, We had just an of talented artists. Our production he was the production of the Rings trilogy. We also are working with WETA. And they all had their with the game. So when they started it just really popped. [GENTLE MUSIC] What I like about that the choices you the story and the character. Part of that is because every player, they bring to what they're doing. It's very intentional is called A Minecraft Movie, as We have an ensemble these unlikely misfits that into the overworld. And we experience a of our characters named Henry. He's a young man going through and he literally has So I'm on the reading the script like wait, in his room, like, But that's what he is. He's like a maker Such a big part of Minecraft and modding. So we thought that the Henry basically the modder, the person and tweaks it and adjusts it. And then he comes into and he meets Steve. And Steve knows everything We've always said that Steve Like, Steve is what And we've all embodied and done different things. So our Steve in this He is such a huge After a long day up until the wee hours It was so funny because dude, we've Some build that he did happened to him. He just loves the idea his version of Steve to life. Play it from the Figuring out When the game came even-- there wasn't a recipe what if-- what happens if I When Garrett's character come into the world, they They don't know what to do. The Jason Momoa character, a world championship video gamer of peaked then, but he's He's got a little bit He's holding on to We want to show you a Henry and Garrett and Steve. Steve is kind of and then Garrett tries to Yeah, and Garrett's the noob. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] This is a crafting table. Here's how it works. You place these elements in You got yourself a sweet blade. [MAGICAL MUSIC] You want to see a blade? I'll show you a blade. Yeah. [RATTLING] Hammer. Kazam! [COUGHS] That's OK, bud. Buckets are useful here. When we were and talking about what we basically started at We looked at the looked at the in-game has this super pixelated there on the side. So obviously, that was built table. So we got this hammer we honor the three by and thought it would and gratifying to just and then have things appear. Remember when we were trying to that you break itself. When Steve holds a block, And there we actually found by one meter, which is like, is actually too big. So we scaled it is like 60 centimeters cubed, by two feet. And then in the background, we sometimes scaled But we would always honor powers and we like powers of two. We had to honor what you but also make it for our different are manipulating the and throwing blocks and make but still feel to what people and feel authentic in that way. That's a wrap on Minecraft! This has been so much fun everything that's gone into the point of view, and we cannot the world. Yeah. Super excited to see Yeah. [CLANGING] [EPIC MUSIC] [BUZZING] The filmmakers are still hard and collaborating closely as well as listening to continue to shape and fresh and new, but still of the game. Look for more [MINECRAFT MUSIC]