(dramatic music) - [Ray Dalio] The changing world order. The times ahead will from those that we've though similar to many times before. How do I know that? Because they always have been. Over my roughly 50 years of I've learned the hard way that the most important did so because they never These painful surprises led me to study the last 500 years of history where I saw that they had indeed with the ups and the downs of the Dutch, British, and US empires. And every time they did, it was a sign of the changing world order. This study taught me valuable lessons that I'm going to pass along to you here in a distilled form. You can find the comprehensive Principles for Dealing with Let me begin with a story about how I learned to by studying the past. In 1971, when I was a young clerk on the floor of the New the United States ran out of money and defaulted on its debts. That's right. The US ran out of money. How? Well, back then gold was the money used in transactions between countries. Paper money, like the dollar, in that it had no value other than it could be exchanged for gold, which was the real money. At the time, the United a lot more money than it was earning by writing a lot more of than it had gold in the As people turned these checks the amount of gold in the It soon became obvious that the US couldn't keep its promises for all the existing paper money, so people holding dollars before the gold ran out. Recognizing that the US was going to run out of real money, on Sunday evening, August 15th, President Nixon went on that the US was breaking its promise to let people exchange Of course, he didn't say it that way. He said it more diplomatically, without making it clear that the United States was defaulting. - [President Nixon] The is based on the strength And the American economy is by far the strongest in the world. Accordingly, I have directed to take the action necessary to defend the dollar I have directed Secretary the convertibility of the dollar into gold or other reserve assets, except in amounts and conditions determined to be in the and in the best interest - [Ray] I watched in awe realizing that money as we What a crisis! I expected the stock market so I got on the exchange When the opening bell rang, but not the kind I expected. The market was up - way up - and went on to rise nearly 25%. That surprised me because I never experienced a When I dug into history, I discovered that the exact and had the exact same effect. Then, paper dollars were which the US was running out of because it was spending than it had gold to exchange for them. And President Roosevelt that he would break the country's promise to exchange dollars for gold. - [President Roosevelt] It proclamation providing for And this was the first step in the government's reconstruction of our financial and economic fabrics. The second step, last promptly and patriotically confirming my proclamation so that it became possible in view of the requirement of time to extend the holiday and gradually in the days to come. This law also gave authority to develop a program... - [Ray] In both cases, allowed the US to continue simply by printing more paper dollars. Since there was an increase without an increase in the value of each dollar fell. As these new dollars entered the market without a corresponding they went to buy lots of and hence caused their prices to rise. As I studied more history, I saw that the exact same thing happened many, many times before. I saw that since the beginning of time, when governments spent much and conditions got bad, they ran out of money So, they printed more, a lot more, which made its value fall and made the prices of most everything, including stocks, gold That's when I first when central banks print a lot buy stocks, gold and commodities because their value will rise and the value of paper money will fall. This printing of money is to relieve the and in 2020 to relieve the And it almost certainly So, I suggest that you keep These experiences gave me to understand what is coming at you, you need to understand That principle led me to study how the roaring twenties bubble turned into the 1930s depression, which gave me the lessons that allowed me to anticipate and profit from the 2007 bubble turning into the 2008 bust. All these experiences led me to develop an almost instinctual urge to look to the past for similar situations to learn how to handle the future well. Changing orders. (man whistles) (machine beeping) Over the last few years, three big things that hadn't prompted me to do this study. First, countries didn't have enough money to pay their debts, even after lowering So their central banks to do so. Second, big internal conflicts emerged due to growing gaps in wealth and values. This showed up in political populism and polarization between the left, who want to redistribute wealth, and the right, who want to And third, increasing external conflict between a rising great power as is now happening with So, I looked back. I saw that all these had happened and nearly always led to changing The last time this sequence What exactly is an order? You might ask. It's a governing system for There are internal orders for typically laid out in constitutions. And there is a world order for typically laid out in treaties. Internal orders change at though whether within these orders typically change after wars. Civil wars within countries, international wars between countries. They happen when revolutionary new forces defeat weak old orders. For example, the US internal order was laid out in the constitution in 1789 after the American Revolution, and it is still operating today, even after the American Civil War. Russia got rid of its old with the Russian revolution in 1917, which ended in 1991 with a China began its current when the Chinese Communist You get the idea. The current world order commonly called the American world order, formed after the allied when the US emerged as It was set out in agreements and treaties for how global governance In 1944, the new world monetary system was laid out in the and established the dollar as the world's leading reserve currency. A reserve currency is a currency that is commonly accepted and having one is a key factor in a country becoming the With a new dominant power and a new world order begins. These changes take place in a that I call the big cycle. I'll start with a quick overview, then give you a more complete version and then direct you to As I studied the 10 most powerful empires over the last 500 years and the last three reserve currencies, it took me through the rise and decline of the Dutch empire and the guilder, the British empire and the pound, the rise and early decline in the United States and the decline and rise and its currencies, as well as the rise and French, Indian, Japanese, along with their significant conflicts as measured in this chart. To understand China's patterns better, I also studied the rise and fall of Chinese dynasties and their Because looking at all can be confusing, I'll focus on the four the Dutch, British, US and Chinese. You'll quickly notice the pattern. Now let's simplify the form a bit. As you can see, they transpired that lasted about 250 years with 10 to 20 year transition Typically, these two transitions have been periods of great conflict because leading powers don't So, how am I measuring an empire's power? In this study, I used eight metrics. Each country's measure of total power is derived by averaging them together. They are education, inventiveness and technology development, competitiveness in global share of world trade, military strength, the power of their financial and the strength of their Because these powers are measurable, we can see how strong each and whether they're rising or declining. By examining the sequences we can see how a typical cycle transpires. And because the wiggles can be confusing, we can simplify it a bit to focus on the pattern of that drive the rise and As you can see, better to increased innovation and with a lag, the as a reserve currency. You can also see that these forces then declined in a similar order, reinforcing each other's decline. Let's now look at the going on inside a country that produces these rises and declines. In a nutshell, the big after a major conflict, often a war, establishes the new leading Because no one wants to a period of peace and As people get used to they increasingly bet on it continuing. They borrow money to do that, which eventually leads The empire's share of trade grows. And when most transactions it becomes a reserve currency, which leads to even more borrowing. At the same time, this distributes wealth unevenly. So the wealth gap typically grows between the rich &quot;haves&quot; Eventually, the financial bubble bursts, which leads to the printing of money, an increased internal conflict between the rich and the poor, which leads to some form of revolution to redistribute wealth. This can happen peacefully While the empire struggles its power diminishes relative to external rival powers on the rise. When a new rising power gets strong enough to compete that is having domestic breakdowns, external conflicts, most Out of these internal and external wars come new winners and losers. Then the winners get together And the cycle begins again. As I looked back, I saw that these cause drove the cycles of rises and declines all the way back to the Roman empire. I saw how the stories of blended together with others in the same way as each individual to make the epic 500 year story that is our collective history. And like human life cycles, no two are exactly the They're driven by logical that progress through stages from birth to strength and maturity to weakness and inevitably decline. However, that's like saying takes 80 years on average without recognizing that and many are longer. While age can be a good a better way is to look One can do that with empires I found that by watching the I was able to see what which helped me to anticipate Now, I'll take you through Give me 20 minutes and I'll give you the and show you the similar patterns across the Dutch, British, US 500 years of big cycles. (wind whooshing) I'm going to describe the typical cycle by dividing it into three phases. The rise, the top, and the decline. The rise. Successful new orders that rise, are typically started by doing four things. First, they win power by gaining more support Second, they consolidate power by converting, weakening, or so they don't stand in their way. Third, they establish that make the country work well. And fourth, they pick or create systems that do that, because a great empire over several generations. At this stage soon there was typically a period because the leadership is clearly dominant and has broad support so During this phase, have to design an excellent system to raise the country's wealth and power. First and foremost, to be great they must have strong education, which is not just teaching but also strong character, These are typically taught in the family, schools and religious institutions. That provides a healthy order within society, low corruption, and enables them to unite and work well together. As they do this, they increasingly shift from to innovating and For example, the Dutch rose and become superbly educated. They became so inventive that of all major inventions in the world. The most important of which that could travel around the and the invention of to finance those voyages. They, like all leading empires, by being open to the best As a result, the people in the country and more competitive in world markets, which shows up in their and rising share of world trade. You can see this happening now as the US and China are roughly comparable in both their economic outputs and their shares of world trade. As countries trade more globally, they must protect their trade routes and their foreign interests from attack. So they develop great military strength. If done well, this virtuous cycle leads to strong income growth, which can be used to finance investments in education, infrastructure, They must also develop systems those that have the ability In all of these cases, the used a capitalist approach to develop productive entrepreneurs. Even China, which is run by used a form of this capitalist approach. (cash registers ringing) Deng Xiaoping, when &quot;It doesn't matter if it's &quot;as long as it catches mice.&quot; And &quot;it's glorious to be rich.&quot; To do this well, they must Most importantly, their That allows people to convert their savings into investments, to fund invention and development and share in the successes of those who make great things happen. The Dutch created the first the Dutch East India Company, and the first stock market to fund it, which were integral parts of the system that produced massive wealth and power. As a natural consequence, the the world's leading financial centers for attracting and distributing Amsterdam was the world's financial center when the Dutch were preeminent, London when the British were on top, New York is now, and China is quickly developing Most importantly, the and the military must work together. Not only did the Dutch work well together, they were one in the same. The Dutch East India Company was granted a trade and had its own officially to go out into the global The British followed with the and had a similar coordination of their government, business The US Military Industrial as does the Chinese system today. As the country becomes the largest international trading empire, its transactions can be making it the preferred and because their currency is so widely accepted and frequently used, people around the world making it the preferred And thus the world's The guilder was the world's when the Dutch led world trade. The pound was when the British led. And the dollar has been since the US led. Naturally, China's currency as a reserve currency. Having a reserve currency to borrow more than other countries. That advantage is huge. Think about it. People all over the and hence lend back their Countries without a reserve And when the empire runs remember the United States in 1971, they can always print more. The exorbitant privilege afforded by the empire's reserve currency leads borrowing to increase and the beginning of a financial bubble. This series of cause and leading to mutually supportive financial, political and military powers, bolstered by the borrowing have gone together since All the empires that became followed this path to the top. While in the top phase, most of these strengths are sustained, embedded within the are the seeds of their decline. As a rule, as people in these rich and that makes them more relative to people in other countries who are willing to work for less. At the same time, people in the methods and technologies which further reduces the For example, British ship builders had less expensive workers So, they hired Dutch designers that were built by less making them more competitive, which led the British to rise Also, as people become richer, they tend not to work as hard. They enjoy more leisure, pursue the finer and less and at the extreme, become decadent. Values change from during the rise to the top from those who had to fight to those who inherited it. (boy groans) They're less battle and accustomed to the easy life, which makes them more The golden era of the Dutch empire (glasses clink) and the Victorian era (glasses clink) were such high prosperity As people get used to doing well, they increasingly bet on and borrow money to do that, which grows into the financial bubbles. Naturally, the financial So, the wealth gap grows. Wealth gaps are self-reinforcing because rich people use to reinforce their powers. For example, they give greater like better education, and they influence the political This causes the gaps in values, politics, and opportunities to grow between the rich &quot;haves&quot; and the poor &quot;have-nots&quot;. Those who are less well-off so resentments grow. But as long as the living standards of most people are still rising, these gaps in resentments Having the world's reserve currency inevitably leads to borrowing excessively and contributes to the country building up large debts with foreign lenders. While this boosts spending it weakens the country's financial health and weakens the currency In other words, when borrowing the empire appears very strong, but its finances are The borrowing sustains the country's power beyond its fundamentals by financing both and international military conflicts required to maintain the empire. Inevitably, the cost of maintaining becomes greater than the So having an empire becomes unprofitable. For example, the Dutch empire and fought war after with the British and other European powers to protect its territory and trade routes. The British empire similarly and lost its competitive particularly Germany, soared, leading to an increasingly and world war. The US has spent about on foreign wars and their and trillions more for and for supporting military and it still isn't spending enough to support its military in the area around China. In this cycle, the richer countries eventually get deeper into debt by borrowing from poor It's one of the early signs This started in the when it had a per capita income and started borrowing from Chinese who wanted to save in dollars because the dollar was the Similarly, the British from its much poorer colonies and the Dutch did the same at their top. If the empire begins to those holding their currency begin to look to sell and get out rather than to buy, and the strength of the The decline. The decline comes from together with internal fighting or costly external fighting or both. Typically, the decline comes gradually and then very suddenly. When debts become very large, and there is an economic downturn, and the empire can no necessary to repay its debts, the financial bubble bursts. This creates great domestic hardships and forces the country to choose between defaulting on its debts or It always chooses to At first gradually, and That devalues the currency For the Dutch, this was brought about by financial excesses and paying for the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War. Similarly, for the British, it was paying for its financial excesses and its debts from the two world wars. And for the US, it's been three cycles of debt, finance, booms, with the central bank with stronger measures. When the government has when there are bad economic conditions and living standards for and there are large wealth, internal conflict between as well as different ethnic, greatly increases. This leads to political extremism that shows up as populism Those of the left seek to while those of the right in the hands of the rich. Typically during such times, and when the rich fear will be taken away, they move to places, they feel safer in. These outflows reduce which leads to a classic, hollowing out process. When the flight of wealth gets bad enough, governments outlaw it. Those seeking to get out begin to panic. These turbulent conditions which shrinks the economic about how to divide the Populist leaders emerge from both sides and pledge to take control That's when democracy is most challenged, because it fails to control the anarchy, and it is when the move to who will bring order to As conflict within the country escalates, it leads to some form of to redistribute wealth and This can be peaceful and but it's more often violent For example, the Roosevelt was relatively peaceful and maintained the while the French revolution, and the Chinese revolution and led to new internal orders. This internal conflict and vulnerable to rising external rivals who, seeing this domestic weakness, are more inclined to mount a challenge. This raises the risk of especially if the rival has Defending one's self and requires great military as domestic economic and the empire can least afford it. Since there is no viable system for peacefully adjudicating these conflicts are typically resolved through tests of power. As bolder challenges are made, the leading empire is faced of fighting or retreating. Fighting and losing is the worst outcome, but retreating is bad too as and signals that the empire is weak to those countries that are Poor economic conditions cause more fighting for wealth and power, which inevitably leads Wars are terribly costly. At the same time, they that realign the new orders to the new realities of When those holding the of the declining empire that marks the end of its big cycle. Of the roughly 750 currencies less than 20% now exist, and all of them have been devalued. For the Dutch, this in the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, when they weren't able to repay the massive debts they built up during it. This led to a run on the bank of Amsterdam and a desperate sell off, forcing massive money printing, which devalued the currency and the empire into irrelevance. For the British, this when despite their victory, they could not repay the to fund their war effort. This led to a series of and selloffs in the British pound as the US and the dollar emerged dominant and created a new world order. At the time of this recording, the United States hasn't While it has massive debt, and funds this deficit with more borrowing and printing huge amounts of new money, the big sell off in hasn't yet begun. And while there are great occurring for all the classic reasons, they've not yet crossed Eventually out of these conflicts, whether they're violent or not, come new winners who get together and restructure the losers' and establish the new world order. Then the old cycle and empire ends and the new one begins and they do it all over again. That's a lot of detail I just threw at you to paint a picture of how the Of course, not all of them but most largely do, so much so that it seems like the stay essentially the same and the only things that change are the clothes the characters wear and the technologies they use. So, where are we heading? The future. Most empires have their time in the sun and inevitably decline. Reversing a decline is difficult because that requires undoing a lot that's already been By looking at these indicators, which stage of the big how fit it is, and whether its condition which can help one estimate Still, these estimates aren't precise and the cycle can be extended if those in charge pay and improve them. For example, knowing that how fit they are, and a few other basic vital signs, one can estimate the person's longevity. One can do that with empires It won't be precise, but it and give clear direction on steps to take to increase longevity. It's most often the case that a nation's greatest over whether or not it can needed to sustain success. As for what we need to do, it comes down to just two things - earn more than we spend, All other things I mentioned - strong education, inventiveness, being competitive and all the rest - are just ways of getting It's easy to measure if we're doing them. So like people who want to get fit, let's get on the program Let's do that individually My goal for sharing this and a few principles is to help you recognize where we are and the challenges we face, and to make the wise decisions needed to navigate these times well. Since there is a lot more to you can learn more in my book Principles for Dealing with And I look forward to at economicprinciples.org and on social media. Thank you, and may the force of (dramatic music)