The most important question these days is how can we speed up I'm convinced we are going We've got this. But the question remains, Others have said we're kind of in a race. I'll give you the the shortest If I was going to give a one-slide That's the troposphere, And you already know why it's blue. That's the oxygen And if you could drive a car at highway you'd get to the top of that blue You could walk it in an hour. And all of the greenhouse gas That's what we're using as an open sewer. That's the problem. And it's causing a lot of second And we saw some of them including Detroit. This one's from New York City, And we have gotten used to the fact and huge rain bombs and downpours The really ingenious new has given us, for the first time, the opportunity to see We get these huge surpluses of water, the rain bombs and the drought And as you can see, And at both ends of our planet right now, Of course, you know, I've often said, every night on the TV news through the Book of Revelation. And just today, big flooding in Montpelier, Vermont, in southern Japan, in India. And I haven't done a complete scan, but every single day, it's like that. But in Antarctica, some scientists who are normally are getting a little bit freaked out, about the lowest level ever, And at the other pole, we're seeing literally So obviously, the crisis And the good news is, we are seeing tremendous progress. And it starts with the Inflation Reduction President Biden, the Congress, biggest climate legislation and it's said to be 369 billion. But the heavy lifting and most of them are open-ended. And the early applications already show it's going to be well over maybe 1.2 trillion. So this is really good news. And one month after that passed, Australia changed its government And it's now a pro-climate nation. A month after that, new president, new policies And throughout, the European Union to blackmail it into supporting its sadistic and cruel And there are other signs China's reached its renewables target It's still building a lot of coal, So there is lots of good news. But still, in spite of this progress, the emissions are still going up. And the crisis is still getting worse faster than we are deploying So maybe it's time to look that are standing in our way. I'm going to focus on two First of all, the unrelenting opposition A lot of people think But let me tell you, and the activists will all tell you this, every piece of legislation, the regional or provincial level, the national level they're in there with their lobbyists and with their revolving-door colleagues doing everything they can So speeding up progress means They have used fraud on a massive scale. They've used falsehoods And they've used their legacy political lavishly funded, to capture the policy-making process And the [UN] Secretary General said the fossil fuel industry is the polluted Now, that's not to say that the men for the last century and a half They are, and they didn't cause this. But for decades now, the companies They know the truth, and they consciously all around the world in order to calm down for doing something about it It's simple as that. (Applause) And now they have brazenly seized especially this year's COP in Dubai And concern has been building I remember when there were so many but by the time we got to Glasgow the delegates from made up a larger group And why? Why? Because they're helping? They're not helping, And last year in Egypt, they had more delegates of the ten most affected And now this year's host, has appointed the president of COP28, in spite of the fact that he has he's the CEO of the Abu Dhabi owned by Abu Dhabi. Their emissions are larger and they have no credible plan So this is the person He's a nice guy. He's a smart guy. But a conflict of interest And a matter of fact, they have a plan now to have Their plan is to increase by as much as 50 percent by 2030. Which is the same time frame when the world is trying by 50 percent by 2030. And the same person has been put in charge Direct conflict of interest. I think it's time to say, wait a minute, do you take us for fools? Do you think you can just completely The fossil fuel industry has captured And we need to do something about it. Now, they plan to increase (Applause) Getting all hot and bothered here. (Laughter) The head of the International about several oil companies who have publicly pledged and simultaneously pledged Do you take us for fools? You cannot do both And if you think we believe you we beg to differ. Last year at the COP, the fossil fuel petro states vetoed any mention of phasing down fossil fuels. They say, oh, that's not the problem. One of the secretary of state said, we don't see this Let me tell you, the climate crisis The solutions are going and collaboration And there's only so much longer and tie us down and keep us Now the director general working under Sultan Al Jaber, he was seconded for several He said, no, that's all changed. The fossil fuel companies They have changed. Yes, they have changed. They've changed for the worse this year. You don't believe me? Look at this, BP. They said, &quot;We're going to net zero, A few months ago this year, and they decided to roll back ExxonMobil. Oh, my God. This is minor compared to their But they've had all the TV ads on, about revolutionizing biofuels. &quot;You wouldn't believe what algae can do.&quot; Well, for 14 years they ran this program. And they spent 50 percent as they did on actually trying And then a couple of months ago, We're just going to cancel that program.&quot; The industry as a whole has not been acting in good faith. Shell reversed its commitment to increase They announced just a couple of months ago into expanding oil and gas So did they miss the memo? Well, no, they say They're telling us now It's the emissions from fossil fuels. And so all we have to do is to capture Now, I'm all for research and development into trying to capture emissions or sucking it out of the air But let's don't pretend it's for real. Maybe someday it will be. Maybe someday it will be. (Applause) This is the head of ExxonMobil it's the emissions.&quot; And Abu Dhabi, they have said they've already from producing oil and gas, 99.2 percent. The point two makes it sound (Laughter) Is that feasible? Have they really done that? Is their carbon capture technology Well, Climate TRACE can measure. Now, let's just look. There's their CCS capability. Oh, but they've got a great Seven years from now, they're going to have a 500 percent But here are the emissions And here are the emissions from Abu Dhabi, from the UAE. Now, the pathetic little sliver there compared to the reality, again, do they think we don't see don't understand what they're doing? A lot of people maybe just want Pretty ironic here in this country. You know, the coal-burning utilities have been given a new mandate You've got to clean up your act. Now, you can keep on burning coal and you can keep on if you use carbon capture Well, they scream bloody murder. Another story about it this morning, but they say, that technology? That's not feasible. It's not technically feasible, So they need to get So the technology of CCS has been around for a long time, 50 years, and we get used to technologies you know, with the computer chips Well, University of Oxford and some come down A few are in a category called And that's where carbon 50 years, not any price decline. Well, could we get Maybe. We're throwing a lot of money at it. We had to do that to get the compromise and we ought to continue the research. But again, let's don't pretend It's not here now. And to use it as an excuse, Now it's called direct air capture. These are giant vacuum cleaners It's technically feasible, And it also uses so much energy. But it is tremendously useful. You know what it's used for? The CEO of one of the largest had told us what it's useful for. It's useful to give them an excuse A few months later, she said, &quot;This gives us, this new technology, Some people call that a moral hazard. For them, the moral hazard is not a bug, it's a feature, as the old saying goes. And so let's just look, It looks pretty impressive, doesn't it? This is the backside (Laughter) I had the same thought. (Laughter) Now this, they're improving this. (Applause) They're improving this. And the new model, seven years from now, each of these machines to capture 27 seconds' worth Woohoo. That gives them a license and more oil and gas. Or so they claim. Well, they also say, the experts, that in order to be economically feasible, it has to come in The leading company says it may come down below So again, if this sounds it is not credible. But they're using it But I didn't mean it as a pun, And we can't fall for it. The biggest obstacle to direct And what I mean by that, CO2 makes up 0.035 percent of the air so we're going to vacuum to get that little bit out. Come on, really? Come on. And it doesn't even pretend or the mercury that kills 9 million people a year And that's why the climate are so down on this kind of nonsense. They say, here's one of them says, but don't do it by pretending to do it on the front line communities And that's why they have not ever And what about all Is it going to come Well, in case of Occidental, yes. But could it come Well, if so, why not use to replace the fossil fuel-burning plants that are putting all that stuff Doesn't that make sense? Am I missing something? (Applause) Anyway, this is the environmental that you can't do it without protecting downwind from the smokestacks, Now, some of the companies, of course, you say we're going And again, offsets can play five to 10 percent according the most authoritative source But, you know, Chevron It turned out 93 percent of them And that's too often the case. It's not a get-out-of-jail-free card. And their offsets were only aimed in the first place. Eighty percent just completely ignore which is the main part So they say that they the share of their spending on energy that goes to green technologies And yes, they have, they've increased And it's not even as good as that, because if you look at the windfall what have they done with that? Well, they gave it back through dividends and stock buybacks. So the amount of money the fossil fuel industry and carbon capture is one percent. Does that mean they are sincere actors, I don't think so. A lot of people still think so. They think they're on our side. I don't think it's in their nature I think they're driven by incentives But in any case, they produce no solutions or remotely feasible. And again, they have actively fought against the solutions that others I've seen it personally. Many of you have seen it personally. And it's happening all over the world. No progress. They've even gone backwards. Now, if a company says, look, we shouldn't be excluded we know a lot about energy. Here's a simple test. Do they actually have, does the company have a genuine phase-down plan, yes or no? Are they committed to full disclosure? Yes or no? Are they going to spend Yes or no? Are they committed to transparency? Will they end their anti-climate lobbying? Will they end their greenwashing? Will they be in favor so that the petro states on anything the world wants We've got to change that. In order to move faster, we have got to empower in a way that frees them that the fossil fuel companies And any company I'm telling you, ought to be prohibited from taking (Cheers and applause) What about the company that's led the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company? Well, it's rated one of all the oil and gas companies. It no longer even releases information on any of its emissions, no short or mid-term target scores, a pathetic three on 100-scale And the nation's plan They just put out a new one, So that's the first obstacle. Second one's a lot clearer. This one has to be removed But in order to remove it, we've got to do something and that is the financial system, the global allocation of capital Governments last year around the world more than a trillion dollars, That's five times larger Are we going in the right direction Well, there are a lot but this has to stop. And the 60 largest global banks have put 5.5 trillion extra dollars into the fossil fuel companies And preposterously, 49 of them So we ... Global allocation of capital. The borrowing of private for many developing countries. Nigeria has to pay an interest rate than Europe or the US. Political risk, corruption risk, it's rule of law risk. That's why the World Bank and the other are supposed to take And that's why we need Thank goodness so many fought and I'm very excited about his progress. Now, when these obstacles are removed, They'll still be problems, of course, but we have everything we need and proven deployment models in the next seven years. But we will still need better grids, more resilient grids, more solar and wind, much more regenerative agriculture. That's a way to really pull More electric vehicles and more energy storage. I'll show you that just And more green hydrogen, And these are all surmountable obstacles. Already, renewables account for 90 percent of all the new electricity generation Ninety-three percent solar And of course, the solar's and so are the electric vehicles It has grown so dramatically. You've got to rescale the graph to look Now, just seven years ago, I learned from one of you and had my staff research it, there are now 195 gigafactories So will we succeed? Some people fight You know, the old cliche, "denial Despair ain't just a tire in the trunk. There are people that are vulnerable. But let me close with what I regard What if we could stop Well, if you look if we get to true net-zero, astonishingly, global temperatures with a lag time of as little They used to think that positive feedback No, it will not. The temperatures will stop going up. The ice will continue melting but we can stop Even better, if we stay at true net zero, half of all the human-caused CO2 into the upper ocean So young people are demanding Do not be vulnerable to despair. We are going to do this. And if you doubt that we, please always remember that the will to act Thank you very much. (Cheers and applause) Thank you.