Holy mackerel! Call headquarters. Get the lieutenant. Holy Christmas! But that's incredible, sir. That can't be aircraft. This is Luckton at Ferris to Charlie Baker. I have a bogey at 200,000 feet. Reports are coming in from The government has not yet issued that there actually is a large, circling the Earth at incredible speed. This is Elmer Davis again. We still don't know what it is or where it It's been tracked around travelling at a rate of This is not another &quot;flying saucer&quot; scare. Scientists and military men Whatever it is, it's something real. We interrupt this programme to give you An object travelling at supersonic speed is headed towards the East Coast This is HV Kaltenborn speaking. Here in the nation's and concern, but no As a matter of fact, there are signs the tourist crowds around They're here! They've landed! Over on the Mall! - Get me the Chief of Staff. Hello. I want to speak to the president. I'm sorry, but you'll Good afternoon. This is Drew Pearson. We bring you this special broadcast in order to give you the very latest The arrival of a spaceship in Washington. Government and Defense Department in several large eastern cities. I am authorised to assure you that, so far, The rumours of invading armies and are absolutely false. I repeat, these rumours The ship, designed for travel landed in Washington today We still do not know where it came from. The ship is now resting and so far there is Troops have been rushed across and have thrown a cordon around the ship. They are supported by tanks, Behind the police lines The army has taken every precaution to Every eye, every weapon It's been that way for two hours, Just a minute, ladies and gentlemen. We have come to visit you Gort! Deglet ovrosco! It was a gift for your president. With this, he could have Get that ambulance over here. Take him to Walter Reed Hospital Mr Harley, sir, from the White House. - General. My name is Harley, I've been told you speak our language, Just Klaatu. The president conveys his Sit down, Mr Harley. Thank you. I'm sure I need hardly point out that Had you been travelling long? About five months. Your months. You must have come a long way. About 250 million of your miles. Naturally, we are very curious From another planet. Let's just say that we're neighbours. It's hard for us to think In the present situation - The present situation? We're very curious about that, too. - Would you care to talk about it? Not now, of course, with you alone. You'd rather talk personally This is not a personal matter, Mr Harley. I... I'm not sure I understand. I want to meet with representatives I'm afraid that would be a little awkward. It's completely without precedent. And there are practical considerations - I travelled 250 million miles. I appreciate that, but... I want to be frank with you, Our world at the moment In the present international situation, What about your United Nations? You know about the United Nations? We've been monitoring your radio That's how we learned your languages. I'm sure you recognise from our broadcasts the evil forces that have produced I'm not concerned with My mission here is not It concerns the existence Perhaps if you could explain a little... I intend to explain. How do we proceed, Mr Harley? Well, we could call a special meeting But the UN doesn't represent Then I suggest a meeting Believe me, you don't understand. I don't want to resort I merely tell you that I urge that you transmit that message I will make that recommendation But I must tell you in all honesty, Apparently I'm not as cynical I have been dealing in Earth's politics Good night, sir. It is now 2am, and the giant robot Engineers from nearby Fort Belvoir and metallurgical experts They're now concentrating on Getting anyplace, Sergeant? Oh, no, sir. This beats me, sir. I saw the ramp come through the side Now I can't even find a crack. Oh, Carlson. What's the report? No luck, sir. We've tried everything - What about him? - Has he moved, Sergeant? This is the toughest material For hardness and strength, I can tell you officially The skeletal structure's completely normal. The tests show the same for major organs - Yeah, and the lungs are the same as ours. That must mean a similar atmosphere, - How old do you think he is? He told me this morning - Well, I don't believe it. How does he explain that? Says their medicine's He was very nice about it, but he made I removed a bullet Well, what about it? I just examined the wound, and it's healed. What does he say about it? Said he put salve on it, - What are you gonna do with it? Then I don't know whether to just get - Afternoon, Mr Harley. Good afternoon. - Thank you. Have you any news? The president accepted your suggestion, Let me read you some of the replies. &quot;The premier wishes it will be impossible for him to attend &quot;unless the meeting is held in Moscow.&quot; &quot;The suggestion of the president would be unacceptable to &quot;Representation could be sent only Well, there you have it. Now you understand you'd like to discuss I will not speak with I don't intend to add my contribution Our problems are very complex, Klaatu. - You mustn'tjudge us too harshly. - Your impatience is quite understandable. My people have learned I'm afraid my people haven't. I am very sorry. I wish it were otherwise. Before making any decisions, I think and become familiar with the basis Under the circumstances, I must ask that you don't try Our military people have insisted on this. I'm sure you understand. - The man from the spaceship got away! Hospital authorities refuse to The descriptions of the creature are denounced as rumour He's not eight feet tall, as reported, There's no denying and we are dealing with forces The public is advised and to remain calm as we await... Officials have concluded that this ship comes from Thus far, scientists have refused until they've had an opportunity They seem to agree, however, that either Venus or Mars Not only are these the closest planets to they are the only two planets However, all reputable scientists Professor Havemeyer of MIT, for example, points out it's possible, The president has urged all citizens to be on the alert for any information and to transmit such to the police, the army or the FBI. While the president made no effort he urged people all over the country And I might add, that though he could be also a new-found friend. - Unfortunately, the only photos we have... - Hey, who's that? The president said the entire facilities are being brought to bear. He pointed out, however, He warned &quot;We may be up against - What is it you want? - Oh, I see. No, I'm afraid not. I'll bet he is. He's We've all been hearing - This is Mrs Benson, Mr Carpenter. And little Bobby. - Mr and Mrs Barley. And Mr Krull. And I'm Mrs Crockett. I have a very nice room on the second Can I help you look for the spaceman? He's got a big square head with three eyes. That's enough, Bobby. It's late. Excuse me. We mustn't annoy Mr Carpenter, He's really a dear little boy, - You're a long way from home, aren't you? Oh. I can tell a New England accent Now we take you to Miami Beach, Mr Heatter? And now on this Sunday morning that have been haunting Where is he? What is he up to? If he can build a spaceship and a robot that can what other terrors can he unleash at will? Obviously, the monster must be found. He must be tracked down He must be destroyed. But where would such a creature hide? Would he disappear into the north woods? Would he crawl into the sewers Everybody agrees there is grave danger. What can we do to protect ourselves? What measures can we take to neutralise Destroy it? Of course, but how? And if we do destroy it, - It's not a simple problem... I'm trying to concentrate. Why doesn't the government What can they do? People, my foot! They're Democrats. It gives you the shakes. He's got that robot standing there, This spaceman, or whatever he is. - Maybe he isn't at all. - Why doesn't he come out in the open? - Maybe he's afraid. Well, after all, he was shot - I was just wondering what I would do. you'd want to know more orient yourself in a There's nothing strange about Washington. A person from another planet If you want my opinion, And you know where I mean. They wouldn't come in a spaceship. I wouldn't be too sure about that. That fellow wants something, That right, Mr Carpenter? I'm a little confused. Oh, Mrs Benson, Oh, thank you. Excuse me. George, finish your coffee. I promised - Good morning. We're set. I put gas in the car so we can forget about the spaceman. There's one thing. I don't suppose Well... Well, we could. There's always someone here, I haven't any plans. I'd be happy to spend the day with him, Say, that would be great. Wouldn't it? It's awfully nice of you to suggest it. - Sorry. Mr Carpenter, this is Tom Stevens. Hello. Bobby and I had a fine time We talked and listened to the radio. I thought today he might like Well... Suppose I ask Bobby how he feels about it? Fine. - You think it's all right? That's my father. He was killed at Anzio. Did all those people die in wars? Most of 'em. Didn't you ever No, I'm afraid not. You don't seem to know much of anything. Well, I'll tell you, Bobby, Is it different where you've been? They have cemeteries, You see, they don't have any wars. Gee, that's a good idea. - What would you like to do? - All right. No fooling. Bobby, tell me, do you have - I've got two dollars. Mom gave it to me. Do you think they'd accept these? Gee, they look like diamonds! In some places, They're easier to carry and don't wear out. I'll bet they're worth a million dollars. Would you give me your $2 Well... Sure. OK. Let's not say anything to Mom - Why not, Bobby? Those are great words. - He must have been a great man. That's the kind of man I'd like to talk to. Bobby, who's the greatest man I don't know. The spaceman, I guess. No, I was speaking of earthmen. I meant - You mean the smartest man in the world? Professor Barnhardt, I guess. - He lives here in Washington, doesn't he? - Where's that? She's a secretary. That man they call the secretary isn't Mr Carpenter, If you like. I'll bet that iron guy's strong I shouldn't be at all surprised. I'd like to get inside that ship, see how A highly developed form I thought that was only for bombs. No. No, it's for lots of other things, too. Do you think it can go Yes, I should think so. - About 1,000 miles an hour? And outside the Earth's atmosphere, How could they make a landing? There are several ways You see, the basic problem Keep going, mister. He was fallin' for it! Thank you, Mrs Robinson. I'm sure we've all shared your fears I see a gentleman here with his little boy. It's the biggest spaceship I ever saw. - And you, sir. Mind telling us your name? Care to say a few words? I suppose In a different way, perhaps. I am fearful when I see people substituting Uh, thank you, Mr Carpenter. I see another gentleman in the crowd... Extra! Extra! Spaceman eludes police! Read all about it! Spaceman eludes police! Extra! Extra! Get your paper here. Army put in charge. Extra! Extra! Read all about it! You think they'll ever find him? I don't know, Bobby. Mr Carpenter, what is inertia? The property of matter by which unless acted upon by external force. Oh. I'll bet that's just the way Bobby, I have an idea. Let's go and find out You're kidding! - Wouldn't you like to meet him? Maybe we can scare him I like you, Mr Carpenter. Extra! Extra! Extra! Read all about it. Maybe he isn't home. Gee, I'll bet you this is where he works. What's that stuff on the blackboard mean? It's a problem in celestial mechanics. I'll bet he's the only one He doesn't know the answer. We probably couldn't get to see him Hey, where are you going? If he's that difficult to see, Did he do it wrong? He just needs a little help. What are you doing in here? How dare you write on that blackboard! Do you realise the professor's He'll solve it in no time now. - How did you get in? What do you want? Well, he's not here. I think you'd better leave now. Would you give this to the professor? I think he'll want to talk to me. I wouldn't erase that. - Mr Carpenter come home yet? - Tell him I'd like to see him. - Your name Carpenter? - Professor Barnhardt been looking for me? Thank you. - It was a wonderful day. You know how I feel, Tom, Boss goes to Chicago tomorrow. If I could tell him I was marrying You're a good salesman, A good insurance salesman - Good night. - Hiya, Mom. - Good evening, Mr Carpenter. - Uh, Mrs Benson, this is Mr Brady. Mr Brady's a government agent! - Have a nice day, dear? Yes. We went to the movies and had ice-cream - I don't know how to thank you. We better get going, Mr Carpenter. Aw, gee, you didn't finish your story. I'll finish it tomorrow. Good night, Bobby. - Good night. Come on, dear. Time to go to bed. Why did Mr Carpenter I don't know. Maybe it was a mistake. Oh. We sure had fun today. &lt;i&gt;and we went to see Professor Earnhardt.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt;- Professor Earnhardt'? Mom, do I have to go Yes, of course, dear. Gee. I was hoping I could Oh, come in. The professor's in his study. Thank you. This is the man - Thank you, Captain. - You wrote this? But I understand - I thought you'd have the solution by now. All you have to do now is to substitute That will reproduce the first-order term. But what about the effect Almost negligible. With variation How can you be so sure? I find it works well enough I am Klaatu. I spent two days at your My doctor's name was Major White. If you're not interested or we needn't waste any more time. You may go now, Captain. and tell him... You have faith. It isn't faith that makes good science, Sit down, please. There are several thousand questions I'd like to explain That was my first question. We know from observation has discovered And that you're experimenting Yes, that is true. While you were limited with primitive tanks and aircraft, &lt;i&gt;WE WGTG UHCOHCETHEQ .&lt;/i&gt; But soon one of your nations That will create a threat That, of course, we cannot tolerate. What exactly is the nature I came here to warn you your planet faces danger, I'm prepared, however, Would you care to What I have to say It is too important I gather that your efforts on I come to you as a last resort, Must I take drastic What... what sort of action do you mean? Violent action, since that seems to be Levelling New York City perhaps, Would you meet with the group You could explain your mission to them and they, in turn, could present it That's why I came to see you. It is not enough to have men of science. We scientists are too often We must get leaders from every field - I leave that in your hands. One thing, Mr Klaatu. Suppose this group should reject I'm afraid there is no alternative. In such a case, eliminated. Such power exists? I assure you, such power exists. The people who come to the meeting They must understand what is at stake. - You mentioned a demonstration of force. Would one be possible before the meeting? Yes, of course. Something to dramatise for them and their - Something to affect the entire planet. I wouldn't want you to harm anybody Leave it to me. I'll think of something. Maybe a little demonstration. Something dramatic, but not destructive. That's quite an interesting problem. Would the day after tomorrow There are no further developments, but police and the FBI are tracing every possible clue - Rummy! Did it again! - Take a hand, Mr Carpenter? No, thanks. We don't... No, thanks. - Are you going out, dear? Personally, I wouldn't go out But then I'm not courting, am I? Oh! Oh, Mr Carpenter. Everyone seems so... &quot;Jittery&quot; is the word. Bobby's the only person I know He has his homework - He's a fine boy, Mrs Benson. Warm, friendly, intelligent. Mr Carpenter... This is none of my business, They just wanted to ask me Bobby and I tried to see Professor Apparently they thought Excuse me. - Hello. - In a minute. - I was with Mr Carpenter. - Sh! Good evening. Excuse me, - Good night, Mr Carpenter. Thank you. Why don't you wait in here while I'm just tired of hearing - about Mr Carpenter. I don't like how he's attached himself What do you know about him? I'll go get my things. All you have to remember is first find Thanks, Mr Carpenter. - I'll say good night again. L.- - Good night. Bed now. You can finish that OK. Bobby. I think it would be better if we didn't see Gee, why, Mom? He's my best friend, He even helps Professor Barnhardt. Did you really go to see Sure we did. He wasn't there, And Mr Carpenter showed him Mom, is something wrong - What do you mean, dear? You think he's a bank robber, No, dear, of course not. I just think that he might prefer Now you go to bed and forget about it. - Good night, darling. Mom? Why would he wanna be left alone? Don't forget to brush your teeth. - Bobby, have you a flashlight? - It's a real Boy Scout one. - Here. All you gotta do is push up on it. What do you need it for? I've, uh... The light Oh. I must tell you sometime about a kind - Really? - Remind me in the morning to tell you. No tracks. Gort! Baringa! Come in for a minute. - Bobby, what are you doing up? - Tell me what? and where do you think he went? - Now, Bobby, wait a minute. It opened up and he walked in. That big - Bobby, you've been dreaming again. Honest. I promise you, I saw him! - Where'd you see all this? In that place with the Where were the soldiers? That big iron guy grabbed 'em I like Mr Carpenter, Mom, Don't be frightened. Here, we'll prove it to you. - Tom, ask Mr Carpenter to come down. - He's in the room next to mine. Think back. You didn't follow Mr Carpenter You haven't even been outside. - Yes, I have! - but you thought you did. He's not there, - Is it real? Mr Carpenter's got lots of diamonds. - He gave these to you? I gave him two dollars. This doesn't make sense. I think he's a crook. Gee, you think he's - You're going to bed now. Bobby and I have had - Do you think it's all right to stay here? Bobby's gonna sleep in my room tonight. Bobby, your shoes are soaking! Yeah. The grass was kinda wet. - I'm going now, Helen. - Hello. - Well, I'm just going to lunch. Well... Mrs Benson speaking. Oh, hello. I'm getting an appraisal on that diamond. Can I talk to you later? Oh, that'll be fine. Bye. I saw Bobby this morning Yes? I'd like to know what I really didn't pay much attention. Did you believe what he told you? I have a reason for asking this. There's another elevator we can use. - What is it you want? perhaps I should be - What happened? Just 12.00. We shall be here for a little while. - We can try pushing the other buttons. Why not? You see, the electricity's all over the world. Bobby was telling the truth, wasn't he? Yes. It's that spaceman. That's what it is. You should see it! Thanks. I am enjoying it right here. The city has stopped. What a brilliant idea. The people who are coming to Yes. I talked to them on the phone. Good. Did you speak to He'll be there at 8.30. Tell me, Hilda, does all this frighten you? - Yes, sir. It certainly does. I'm glad. As far as we can tell, power's been cut off And even these exceptions hospitals, planes in flight, I wish I could tell you more but, telephones, radio, cable, everything. I can tell you the president is prepared Eleanor, did you I tried, but the phone - Well, call the phone company. Is it worth anything? I have never seen such a stone - Will you tell me where it came from? But there are no diamonds like this - Are you sure of that? No. No, thanks. - I'd give you a very good price. I've told you more than I told Barnhardt because, in a sense, my life is I thought if you knew the facts, you'd see Of course. Of course I do. - You hold great hope for this meeting. If this meeting should fail, It must be 12.30. Yes. Just exactly. - Where are you going now? I'll be safe there for today. He's the only other person who knows... - No, wait. There's someone else. Tom. He was there last night Do you think he'd tell anyone? I think he'd talk to me Well, we can't take any chance. I'll get But I've got to talk to him. It's I don't know, Mrs Benson. He left before noon, I'm scared to death, Mrs Benson. I... No, he wouldn't tell me where He said it was something personal. Well, please ask him to call me Thanks. Before we discuss plans, I want a report When it was discovered I was directed by the Joint Chiefs We accomplished that this morning a new plastic material stronger than steel. - Isn't it possible he's broken out? He's locked up tight as a drum. All right. Now we concentrate on the man. Up till now we've agreed upon the We can no longer afford We'll get him, alive if possible, - Is that clear? Honest, Mary, I'm so I'd like to run someplace, Margaret, call the Pentagon. Find out Whoever it is, I wanna talk to him. Mrs Benson called. She says it's important. Get this other call first. - Oh, Mrs Benson, he just walked in. - Are you nervous, too? Helen, come on in. I've been trying to I have some terrific news - What about him? I had that diamond checked at three places. After what Bobby told us, Why is it nobody knows about him? All right, Tom, it's true. - You... How do you know? Promise you won't say a word to anybody. After what happened today? - You don't realise how important this is. And we can do something about it. That's what I'm saying. Believe me. He's a menace. It's our But he isn't a menace. He told... He told you? Oh, don't be silly, honey, You realise what this'd mean to us? - I'd be the biggest man in the country. Somebody has to get rid of him. I won't let you do it. - Yes? What's his name, Margaret? General Cutler. Yes. You mustn't. It isn't just you and Mr Carpenter. I don't care about the rest of the world. You'll feel different - I feel different now. - I'm not going to marry anybody. No, I don't want to speak to his aide. Tell him it's about the spaceman. That's right. That's where he's staying. - Yes, of course I'm sure. I'll want to talk to you further, Deploy all Zone Five units - Hello, Mrs Benson. Attention, all units. Attention, all units. When deployed according to Plan Baker, maintain station and remain on radio alert I'm sure Barnhardt can hide me - Where's the meeting going to be? Yeah, they got in a taxicab Thank you, son. Attention, Zone Five. Attention, Zone Five. Yellow cab moving north Man and woman in back seat. That's the one! Right. Attention, Zone Five. Hey. Looks like something big's going on. Attention, Zone Five. Report when - It's only a few blocks to Barnhardt's. I'm afraid of what he might do Gort? But he's a robot. There's no limit to what he could do. He could destroy the Earth. If anything should happen to me, You must say these words: Klaatu barada nikto. Please repeat that. Klaatu... barada nikto. You must remember those words. Klaatu barada nikto. Yellow cab, license number H0012, heading The target vehicle is turning west Yellow cab at Repeat, Columbia Road and Connecticut. Attention, all units, Block off all streets intersecting on a line from Wisconsin to the park. All vehicles close in. Let's go. Say, what's going on here? Drive... Get that message to Gort... right away. - Captain, hold these people back. See if they have a stretcher &lt;i&gt;Govt.&lt;/i&gt; Klaatu barada nikto. Klaatu barada nikto. Yes, sir. Yes, we have the body There's no question about it, General. I understand. I'll be right there, sir. Bring in a squad of men. Captain, don't let Yes, sir. Come along. &lt;i&gt;- Professor Earnhardt'? I'm very sorry, but I have to ask you Call it off? I know, sir, but the robot's on the loose, You have to get your people out. Hello. L.- I thought you were... I was. You mean... he has the power of life and death? No. That power is reserved This technique, in some cases, But... how long? You mean, how long will I live? That, no one can tell. Under the circumstances, And, since their concern is for our safety, I can do nothing I am leaving soon, The universe grows smaller every day, and the threat of aggression by any group There must be security for all, This does not mean giving up any freedom, Your ancestors knew this when and hired policemen to enforce them. We of the other planets We have an organisation for and for the complete The test of any such course, the police force For our policemen, Their function is to patrol the planets and preserve the peace. In matters of aggression we have This power cannot be revoked. At the first sign of violence, they act The penalty for provoking their action The result is, we live in peace, without arms or armies, secure in the knowledge that free to pursue more profitable enterprises. We do not pretend but we do have a system, and it works. I came here to give you these facts. It is no concern of ours But if you threaten to this Earth of yours Your choice is simple. Join us and live in peace, or pursue your present course We shall be waiting for your answer. The decision rests with you. Gort! Baringa.