"Most people can never, even for a moment, imposed by those around them, nor can they From the moment they begin to understand their the moment to moment approval of everyone, entire worth by what others think of them." Richard Taylor, Restoring Pride people think of us. We value social approval too highly and we criticism, and rejection. Instead of forging a path through life that we conform to the wants and expectations of Some of us even let our dreams die because them. In this video, we are going to explore how approval and overcome the life-inhibiting "I have never wished to satisfy the crowd; what they approve, I do not know." Epicurus, Quoted in Seneca, Epistles attitude to the opinions of others is to reflect approval we seek. Are such individuals deserving of our respect Are they flourishing or stagnating? Do they possess courageous, independent, and and forming and voicing their own opinions? Or are they cowardly conformists who uncritically are told by the mainstream news, celebrities, If an individual does not impress us, why them? "Why do you take pleasure in praise from Seneca, Epistles "What goes on in other people's consciousness and in time we get really indifferent to it, are most people's thoughts, how narrow their their opinions, and how much of error there Arthur Schopenhauer, The Wisdom of Life the approval of a single individual is one However, when in the presence of a group, can be especially strong, and sometimes this our capacity to flourish. When giving a speech or performance, we grow the best of our ability. At social gatherings we are awkwardly self-conscious And worst of all, the social anxiety that of groups inhibits us from following our conscience; is wrong, we sheepishly follow the crowd. According to the stoic philosopher Epictetus, on the nature of a crowd. For as Epictetus stated regarding the individual "...he doesn't know what a crowd is, or of the mass of people is, and what value it knows nor has ever studied. So here he is bound to tremble and turn pale." Epictetus, Discourses, Fragments, Handbook an entity in its own right, and so naturally However, in reality a crowd is nothing more in one location or else united by a common When in the presence of a crowd if we train rather than to the crowd as a whole, it is approval. For just as we should be indifferent to the not respect, the same applies to a collection together. Or as the Roman philosopher and statesman "What could be more absurd than to suppose when taken one by one, are of any greater Cicero, Tusculan Disputations composed of individuals with impressive minds Yet even in such a situation, what such individuals it should not be our concern. All we can do is carry ourselves with integrity is deserving of disdain, and then gracefully Or as Epictetus stated: "No good man grieves or groans, no one wails, will he receive me, how will he listen to Slave, he will act as he sees fit. Why do you care about other people's business?" Epictetus, Discourses overcoming the fear of disapproval, ridicule, We need to be able to maintain a state of of other people's scorn - be it online Epictetus advised that when we are the target should do is pause and allow ourselves to or reflexive reactions are often self-defeating. If we take a moment to compose ourselves, is appropriate to the situation. "Human freedom involves our capacity to in that pause, to choose the one response Rollo May, The Courage to Create "Remember that you are insulted not by the opinion that these things are insulting. So whenever another provokes you... try above away by the impression; for if you delay things to gain control of yourself." Epictetus, Enchiridion insults or ridicule is to "listen like a This involves reacting to the person as a In other words, it is to not react at all. We let their words fall on deaf ears, go about does not exist. This response is effective for two reasons. Firstly, when someone insults or ridicules a reaction. They want to feel their words have power over In listening like a stone, we refrain from by doing nothing, that their provocations Secondly, as our thoughts and emotions are a stone we become stone-like internally: "It is the mark of a great mind to rise revenge is to treat your adversary as not noble are those who, like a lordly beast, Seneca, On Anger "What does it mean...to be abused? Go up to a stone and subject it to abuse; Well then, if you listen like a stone, what Epictetus, Discourses with humor. Humor diffuses the tension of the situation; to lower ourselves to their level and respond of their anger. An especially witty remark can even turn an But perhaps most importantly, humor breeds to be amused by those who are mistreating Or as Seneca observed: "Some are offended if a hairdresser jostles of a doorkeeper, the arrogance of an attendant, What laughter such things should draw! With what satisfaction should your mind be mind with the unrest into which others blunder!" Seneca, On the Constancy of the Wise Man art of using humor to sweeten his dealings When insulted by a bald man Diogenes responded: congratulate your hair for having taken flight Another time someone informed him that a fellow so Diogenes replied: 'That's nothing to well." When heckled by a group of men, Diogenes yelled As they approached, Diogenes casually dismissed Occasionally, however, the humor we use should For sometimes insults contain kernels of truth. Rather than showing offence to insults that that, like everyone else, we have flaws, quirks, be the object of humor. If we stop taking ourselves so seriously and with the person who is laughing at us, and The French philosopher Montaigne wrote that and able to laugh" (Montaigne, Essyas). Seneca observed that: "No one is laughable (Seneca, On the Firmness of the Wise Man) "If you hear that someone has spoken ill said, but answer: "Evidently he didn't have spoken only of the ones he did." Epictetus, Enchiridion Ultimately, however, the greatest antidote of us, is to cultivate confidence in ourselves. If we are insecure and plagued by feelings on the approval of other people, and forever If, on the other hand, we focus our time and our character, achieving our goals, and sculpting of us - be it good or bad - will dwindle Or as Epictetus stated: "If you are ever tempted to look for outside your integrity. If you need a witness, be (Enchiridion) Epictetus, Enchiridion