The Spitfire is a beautiful automobile, a but it almost never happened. If not for a chance find in the dusty corner a "could have been". But Triumph produced a car that still inspires fanbase around the world, nearly 60 years Here's the Triumph Spitfire story! (music) The Triumph Spitfire story starts with the This was a cheap, fun two-seater that the The Standard Motor Company, that owned the They had made the TR2 and successors since cars like MG's MGA. What they needed was something more price they could produce something superior to the Standard already made the Triumph Herald, To save development money they believed they point, cut it down to size, and put on a sleek So, in 1960 the Triumph boffins got out their project that was codenamed "Bomb". The design of the shape fell to Giovanni Michelotti, of the 20th century. He'd designed iconic Ferrari's, Maserati's, National bus! He'd already designed the Herald for Triumph magic for the "Bomb" project. He created a beautifully balanced design that having a bigger, faster engine and more interior However, Triumph's owners were in dire financial Motors in late 1960. The "Bomb" project was forgotten as Triumph In fact, the Spitfire would have been lost Leyland manager who, while poking around the sheet and found the "Bomb" prototype. Leyland loved the idea and started the project It was brought to market in an amazingly short months after Leyland had found that dusty It helped that the chassis was already being surprising that it was completed so quickly. A little too quickly maybe, as owners discovered have unpredictable responses that could make Drivers found aftermarket solutions to fix be fixed on production models until the Spitfire The car was launched as the "Spitfire 4", World War and a reference to its inline 4-cylinder The exact reason why Triumph got to use the At that time the name was owned by Vickers, and there's no record of Triumph licensing One theory goes that Triumph made Spitfire war, so Vickers turned a blind eye, but there The engine used was the 1.1L straight out a glorious one-piece bonnet that opened with The car came with fancy wind-up windows (something a big plastic steering wheel as power steering soft-top that took a degree in tent assembly Optional extras included a hard top, wire It was more expensive than the Austin-Healy a little extra and soon the Spitfire was the And it looked the part - a pure racing machine, figures from such a small engined vehicle Think of the most underpowered econobox you That car can go faster from 0 to 60 than the But the Spitfire was about enjoying the open BMC, makers of the Austin-Healy Sprite continued always a little more underpowered. They also produced the MG Midget, but this the MG name. In 1964 they came up with an improved Sprite but it was still a smaller car and had less Triumph reacted in 1965 with the Spitfire It had more power (a whole 67 brake horsepower, and the interior was a little more comfortable Meanwhile in the USA sales were gaining a Triumph encouraged both Spitfire and their events, and heavily advertised any wins. The adage of "win on Sunday, sell on Monday" cars as thoroughbred road-going sports cars. The Mark III Spitfire, introduced in 1967, The front bumper was raised to comply with with bone in it's teeth" look. The car received a larger 1.3 litre engine top speed, although 1969 US emissions laws The do-it-yourself tent-like soft top was The dashboard received a stylish wood veneer In 1968 the 100,000th Spitfire rolled off over 75% of them were exported, 45% alone This really was turning into a British export Triumph was always in hard competition with Midget, but in 1968 both companies came under The competition between the two cars wouldn't 1970 brought the biggest changes yet in the Michelotti was brought in to do an almost a similar appearance to the Triumph Stag and It had flared wheel arches, the front was black plastic underriders. Enthusiast drivers were most happy to hear finally solved. The dashboard got a big change. Previous Spitfires had the dashboard in the make left- or right-hand drive models, but wheel, something that had been added to the The heater was finally standard equipment! But problems were just starting with parent As the seventies rolled on money got tight However, for now sales continued to be strong, to keep raking in the export cash from their In 1966 Triumph had introduced the Michelotti-designed a larger 2.0L 6-cylinder engine. The project had started out trying to make engine, but the weight of the roof made the It unfortunately also inherited the Spitfire's The Mk II GT6 was launched in 1969, with Spitfire The Mk III arrived the following year in 1970, Spitfire Mk IV. The GT6 never sold in the numbers British There was a constant complaint from U.S. sales cars for the UK market. They didn't understand the features needed For example, North American temperature ranges highway cruising. This affected the Spitfire less than other sales along the way. In 1974 the Spitfire was renamed the Spitfire produced a faster car than before, but in the new car was actually slower than the Mark U.S. front impact laws meant large black over-riders car ugly. However, handling was further improved, making British Leyland decided not to invest further It was probably down to the general lack of in 1975, but certainly news that impending make open tops hard to sell didn't help. Furthermore, Japanese imports like the Datsun sports car market share and competing with By the late 1970's British Leyland were the Spitfire was produced. It had built the Triumph saloon cars and TR moved to other factories. With the U.S. exchange rate making the Spitfire decision was made to end production in 1980. An Inca yellow Spitfire 1500 the last to roll Over 300,000 Spitfire's were made over 18 If you want to hear more car histories, then the bell icon to get notifications when they Thanks for watching and see you in the next