Welcome to Good Mythical More. Let's engage in a of would you rather scary Correct. Oh, Rhett, sorry, did exactly what we're doing? Did I just hear We did. Yeah, that was confusing. Oh, it was the voicemail. It was the voicemail. It's fine. It's fine. It's fine. Stevie was asking me if we were going to do, but, was just a one time thing. Mmm, okay. It was just a one time thing. Just, I wanted to see Okay. Well, it's time to Oh, come on! Link! Hey, what's up? It's neighbor Greg. Hey man, can you stop by You know, the package. It's getting kind of awkward. Wife's asking questions. Just swing on by. Grab it. No worries, you know, we'll we'll, we'll see you in the the package first, please. Okay, see you later, buddy. All right, bye bye. Neighbor Craig, out. Craig, thanks for for me, um. A man's gotta know when I thought you were hitting to tell me not to say Oh, I don't say what Is that what, he I was just turning to. He's like, don't talk I have a neighbor Greg. He goes by Craig on Yeah. Um. I say, you know, I have I see him when I'm Do they ever give Give you a package? I have vibrant connections people on my street. What are you trying to defend? It seems like you attacked by something. - No, I'm just trying to... I have vibrant relationships what you just randomly, okay. But they're all dog owners. So, one type of person. I'm just trying to I'm so jealous. That I have vibrant with my neighbors. I'm so jealous. I mean, he almost got neighbor over a palm tree. Um, I'm gonna share some And Link's gonna I have to. Let's start with a would Okay. So, scary versus awkward. Before I give a scenario. I mean, in general. So, for some people, awkward But where do you Okay. Oh. No, I'm just asking, like, rather be really scared or Uh, I I choose awkward No, no, I don't think I think awkward chooses you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. - I'm... I'm just a... I'm just a channel for it. I think if I'm really actually don't want to be. Yeah. Okay, alright. So you're leaning, you're Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, the first scenario. Would you rather. Go rock climbing without Awkward. - Get caught... Talking crap about somebody you thought you were muted. Oh wow. Oh. Oh man, you can't be talking Have you had any. accidentally unmuted scenarios I do not believe so. I've had one. Oh, tell me. I don't think I've had one. It wasn't bad though, group meeting and Cassie any lunch and I... said something like, I, you know, I'll, I And then somebody, I don't me and I was like, Oh, not muted and we hear Oh, that's fine. That was sweet. That was sweet. You weren't talking No, but it was like, this don't usually say, you No, thank you, baby. I mean, I, I have to I can't fall off the I mean, I think I would with the, the, the cliff. I'm super scared of heights, a little bouldering. You know what I'm saying? Just a little boulder. Once you're on that more precarious than when Right. But if I looked at something to go 15 feet up this thing. There's no safety equipment, like there's a 99 percent make this thing unharmed. I might choose that. I honestly might choose about somebody on a, on That's damaging. You can't come back from that. I just don't wanna die. I'm just gonna choose to if I had to wear a harness circulation to my... Package. Package. That my neighbor's currently might be something that I have to think really - Okay, so you're, you... So you are, you're, uh, I'm gonna do the climb. But you know what, I have an YouTuber, being a YouTuber, a regular nine to five. Like, I really think difficult compared to, I agree. I mean, um, you're You're constantly Like, if I don't, if I don't, watching what they want, Right. And I live in that - Yeah. You know, does A commissioner, huh? Does like a town - They live in constant fear. I guess they do, yeah. They're like, that's If it's an elected office. How about you just choose Alright, yeah, too late. But I do agree. Let's hear another scenario. Another, would you rather? Okay. Uh, would you rather get taken or say another woman's Oh God, uh, bank. I, I, I do have this, being at a bank robbery. I kinda am into the idea. And I just, I, I think this, I just think I would I think I would be super cool, I would do what they said. They're not there for me. They're keeping me hostage? I just don't believe But you might be I'm not saying I'm right. If they're gonna harm anybody. The first place my chill, honey bunny, and Oh, you call To calm myself down. I agree with you. I agree with you. I found myself I love you so much, I just So I recently read about origin story of Stockholm I didn't know. So it was, I don't know maybe, you know, 70s But, uh, it was some bank crazy story because this bunch of people into the Okay. And then he says, what I to go get my friend who is something else who's in prison and I want him to come here. I want you to get him So we can hang out? No. So he can help me out of this situation. Because the cops descended on the place. I can't remember exactly the cops immediately So he's inside the safe. They bring his buddy. other criminal, and they're in employees for several days. Oh, wow. It's like, dude, And I don't know what but when they finally let surrendered, all of the people All the hostages The guy's holding And that's where the Syndrome comes from. Because they literally bonded But it was on a psychological level? Yeah, because they did said that she was feeling robbers gave her his jacket. They knew how to like, So they, they could have nicest bank robbers ever. Right. But the reason I like the is because story because chances are Right. Chances are you're not, That's why, that's what I And if you do make it You got a great story. And what was the alternative? To say another woman's Oh yeah, I'm not doing that. Yeah, I'm not doing that. That also would be... Very weird for the two of have only been with their with their wives for so long. Right. No, it wouldn't. Link gets names wrong all the Sometimes he calls her Misty. You know, it just happens. It rhymes. Yeah, that's a little girlfriend's name, though. Oh. Oh, wow. Yeah, you get in You know, there'll The way I avoid that my wife during that. Yeah. I don't use, I tend to just, bellow into a pillow. Well, sometimes I use my I just say ma'am, Okay. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you so much I got another Okay, I agree with it. You know, I think that best to lightly spank each other. I'm glad you said that, You've been thinking the same thing? I've been thinking I mean, lightly. Lightly. Lightly. It's more like, um, It's Yeah, and it's But, of course it's not there. No, no, it's on the bottom. It's on the bottom. Yeah, yeah. It's just a little, it's a it could be a nice pick me up. It's just on the bottom. Yeah, that's That's right there. That's where it would be. I agree. That best friend should Show him how it's done. - But I don't... I agree with the opinion, do everything you say. What did you... Just so you know - What? Put your Okay. See? We'll start there. Okay, would you rather coaster that breaks down Wow. Ooh. Or. That's tough. Be at a restaurant with says something extremely Well, I've done You have said it? No, I've been with a something problematic. I've been in that So, I'll take that Yeah, because it's I see these, uh, TikToks. That's how I get my news. Of the roller coasters It's not good for That would be horrific. Too much blood in the eyes. A couple of times on this upside down for a minute. We outlawed it. That and glitter. Uh, I think going upside if somebody there is dead. Is anyone dead? Somebody in the roller Like, you don't wanna be laying Yeah, that makes it worse. That wasn't what we were you're not in good health, give you a heart attack. You'll have a heart That is the danger. Because at a certain won't go, it won't go The heart's like, Can't do it. I'm not used to this. I think that's I mean, how long can I just want, I want How long can you hang Like, hanging by the ankles. You get food and water? Yeah, you get food and water. And an interesting a bank robber. Unfortunately, probably a healthy person. You could probably be upside Okay. And it would just I think your blood vessels Ugh. At some point, you Oh, this is making Yeah, we're doing the I'm choosing the other one. I guess you could, what I'm Yeah, you could just upside down for too long. - Anyway... Death by inversion? Yeah. Any opinions? Yeah, um, you know... People who take out acoustic unfairly maligned, and we sharing the gift of music. Oh gosh, yes, I agree so many reasons why I agree. Yep, like? One of them is, it's hear Free Fallin Yep. And you know that's Mm hmm. I can play Free Right. Who can't? It's just the D chord With a little movement. A little movement, Uh, there needs to I think, um, I think, I think Guitar starts to be passed, Fallin Oh, look, it's Cindy's That could be fun. Right? You heard it here. It's Christy. Christy. Cindy! Christy, sorry. - Let's hear another Would You Rather. the cemetery alone or throw Cemetery. Cemetery. I mean, would you get scared? You'd get scared because Oh, I'm not saying It would be scary. It would be scary. I don't think it, I be scared to do that. - Well, I went to... I went to a cemetery And, um, there was Now, first of all, because cemeteries are pretty thick. You know what I mean? Pretty thick. Okay. They're packing them in there. They've been - And then on the exterior... of this entire cemetery were So, but it was like And you would go up to it And some of them were being were, like, really nice. And the door would be like the door to a bank. Oh. And they had and then you walk in. We couldn't get I tried. And, uh, you've got stacks Sometimes two, like It's like bunks in a tour bus. Yeah. And... So you could go in You'd have shelter. It was, but it was wild. It was just, it was kind of a, realized it was a graveyard, these cute little houses. That's what I thought as Then I was like, oh, oh, is a weird neighborhood. And then I got closer. Tiny homes. And I was like, oh, this... It's a tiny home The whole thing, and some of Or it may be older than Europe, and some of them, finishing them right now. You couldn't get in, though. But would you sleep those all night alone? Yeah, I'm not really I don't know. I'm not that scared I don't get scared I'm pretty good at going to that early, get it over with. But throwing up in an Uber? Yeesh. You've gotta, you gotta I've already got a pretty And I don't know why I'm - I'm a 4.74 Well, 4.74?! I tip every single time. Well, your, your, login, I'm telling you. No, Shepard's got But maybe that's what All right, let's Would you rather. Be handcuffed to a bed then your partner dies My partner dies? Yeah. Or mistakenly congratulate actually pregnant. These both sound really Yeah, they're not, Which awkward scenario? Those little handcuffs, you They're not, they're, not real good handcuffs. - But... And I know that I've woman on her pregnancy. I know I've done that. And I, and the fact that me think it was all right. Well, it wasn't all right. It wasn't all right. I haven't done it. Uh, I doubt that it Um... I can't remember what I did, felt like it was a little sly. It was like, uh, There's not really any way that I'm thinking about it. The specifics of the really heavy bed, really good place where no one was gonna accidentally assume pregnancy. I'll do that. But you're naked. You are naked, too. That's part of it. You can't take the put the handcuffs on. I'm naked when I talk Guys, I'll say, in one Oh, yeah, that, too. Yeah, that's not great. That's not good. Is our partner pregnant in just any random woman? Ooh, that does add - Oh, what are you... dies, a baby is born. Yeah, that's right. That's how the world works. There's a limited Get the Rhett and Join now at mythicalsociety.com