Gazing through the lone porthole, the crew were the excitement of the five people on board. As towards the wreckage of the Titanic, the pressure through the vessel- then the sound of cracking the sub imploded. It was over in an instant. we'll look at the shocking revelations loss of the Titan submersible. the external pressure on the Titan's would inch. Disaster would have likely started with the woven layers of carbon fiber making up the hull like it- would have been only big enough to be defect Oceangate were likely to be aware of, inspected submersible to take people down to structural collapse followed, microscopic cracks all around the carbon fiber hull. Propagating would still have no clue what was happening. pressure pushed against these cracks, the titanium cap at the front of the The crushing depths work most at the front missing. The walls collapse inwards, submersible where the aft titanium cap remains The incredible pressure of the ocean water traveling along the hull in fractions atmosphere also works on the bodies of the crew, towards the rear titanium cap. Five adult humans cap with so much force that their badly The water is now pushing the hull of the collapsing it like an empty soda can being the carbon fiber hull force the crew's with the water quickly following. The whitish paste that lines the rear of the It's all over in a fraction of a second, the horrible scale of the Titan disaster. And while the previous scenario is only speculation, The Titan submersible and OceanGate, the to the wreck of the Titanic, was largely Stockton Rush. Rush formed OceanGate back in an untapped potential- there was just which he deemed "understandable but illogical." 1993, which prevented dives below 150 feet passenger submersibles, Rush would say it safety over commercial innovation." despite what the regulations said. The Titan a wall thickness of 3 and a quarter inch. The from which tourists could marvel at the wreck of thick, and during deep dives, it was recorded as Trouble was already brewing from the design to dive up to 650 meters- well short of the wasn't the only critical design flaw. key to success. Thus OceanGate was staffed his laissez-faire attitude about government inspirational team who would innovate and dream with decades of experience operating Probably because one of these veterans would most controversial aspects of the Titan. material for its hull, which would revolutionize thin filaments of carbon atoms bonded and has proven to be an amazingly strong and as every applied sciences student knows, materials Rush would be warned against using carbon fiber in She warned that carbon fiber doesn't do well when for long periods of time. It also does not press in on it from all sides while filled with Rush waved the concerns away- even when a letter his submersible inspected by government inspectors letter by stating that quote- "the vast majority of operator error, not mechanical failure. equipped with an emergency locator beacon which wrong. And this is why it took so long to actually the surface vessel lost track of the Titan of the ship shut off the internet to keep anyone even guaranteed to find the Titanic. Simpsons hours to actually find the wreckage during one OceanGate would claim the Titan was built in and the University of Washington. All three of direct involvement in the design of the Titan- was built and tested at the University of any involvement by staff. Boeing also denied verify that any cooperation was terminated testing requirements from Boeing engineers. part of the construction, was also never subjected instead that it would rely on a real-time acoustic for the crew when the Titan ultimately signal to go off. An operations director raising various elements would ultimately be fired. on board the Titan on a solo trip, becoming the deep. In 2019, a crew of four would descend to would be very loud cracking noises coming from the time, raised concerns with Rush, stating that defect and that it was starting to break down. Rush would dismiss Stanley's suggestions and A new hull would be constructed in 2021, with testing of a new hull design, several scale parts of these imploded models for the real components could be compromised and weaken the recovery of the Titan were also added. This was body was not capable of handling the tension and Communication problems during test dives were hours at a time with its tender ship above. the Titan, and during a 2021 test dive made it 30 meters before multiple technical Gates would decline an invitation to join the Stockton Rush's disregard for government stage for disaster- so what exactly happened? and the skiff it was being towed on were was dragged out to the dive site. On another the Titan was stuck in a high sea state, battering on June 17th, the Titan passengers underwent a unaware of the fate that awaited them. from its support platform and began its long not have hardline communications with its tender text messaging application. At 165 meters the per OceanGate procedures. This meant the Titan responded with "k" as well. the Titan also relayed a constant 'ping' to the would continue operating even during most As the Titan continued its dive everything failure arose around 10 am, with the Polar Prince At 10:13 the Titan finally responded, stating that failure of the communications software. the Polar Prince receives a message a french Titanic expert. When asked if he the Titan simply sent a message back again communications failure meant that the Titan was though it's also possible that there may have been to confusion from carbon dioxide buildup. At At 10:47, the first sign of trouble arose. A This was likely a reference to the weights bottom of the sea. Now at a depth of almost 3350 weights as part of its slow down procedures- in Stockton Rush had smashed his vessel straight Six seconds after receiving this message, the it would normally get every 5 to 10 seconds. catastrophic implosion at this time. The even perceive their own deaths, with the implosion though that they probably heard the same sounds of as had been heard on previous dives. This time not tolerate the pressures and cave in on itself. the Titanic, one of extreme hubris and who believed that he was above the petty concerns experts. Yet his fate, and the murder of four government regulation may be restricting Now go watch I Was Trapped Underwater For