Building a few houses isn't enough to build the roads and sidewalks to connect them. Same with an integrated circuit. You can but they are useless if you That is what interconnects are for. They signals between transistors For over 30 years, we used to make these from aluminium and silicon dioxide, respectively. But by the late 1990s, it became materials. Big technology transitions to pull ahead of the rest. In this In this video, we are going to look at another one The transition to copper/Low-K interconnects. ## Metallization Since these interconnects are made from metals, the industry calls the process of As a &quot;back end of the line&quot; process, we do this metallization after we make The step where we produce called - what else? - &quot;the front end of the line&quot;. So at the start of metallization, we have etched into silicon. To get our of fine metal wiring - called "metal The metal layers are separated by material. The technical term for layers&quot; - which is as literal a We will also need to cut holes into to connect together multiple metal So initially, you might think of idyllic landscape of silicon circuitry. Wrong, my dudes. Today's advanced ICs are City. Layers and layers jumbled on top of ## RC Delay We just want our interconnects to work. Is that too much to ask? Apparently We need to talk about something known as RC delay. The &quot;RC&quot; in RC delay stands All wires have resistance in flow of electrons through the metal - A wire's resistance is dependent on its thicker, shorter, and wider And then there is capacitance - which refers Because the wires are so physically insulating dielectric layers in between Why? It is because the setup mimics a real-life capacitor - two conductors This higher, unwanted capacitance slows down So resistance and capacitance join up to create for an electric signal to travel through the longer it takes for signals A way that I have seen it explained is like how fast we can put water into the bucket. literal size. How fast it takes to fill the ## Local Interconnects A single microchip has several The lowest layers of metal wires to go on top of the transistors are referred As the name implies, local interconnects Kind of like the small roads and Since these interconnects don't have to go so far, we can make them thinner and put them so close to the transistor layer, they We commonly produce these local like poly-silicon, tungsten or aluminium. ## Global Interconnects Higher up on the chip, we have These are larger, longer connections that span that they are like city avenues or even highways These global interconnects are also used operation. Clock signals to synchronize the chip's Because they have to cover we want their resistance to be them to be as thick as possible and use In between the global and local metal layers, have a variety of names like semi-global ## Logic versus Memory You tend to find more metal layers Memories might have perhaps 3-5 metal layers. memory has a repetitive, very dense structure Second, memories tend to have a bumpy like trench capacitors - deep holes in the Logic chips on the other hand are device density. But it is more important so we generally need more interconnects ## Materials In the beginning, we used silicon dioxide aluminium for the interconnects The primary reason for this is that are very easy to work with in manufacturing. You can easily lay down a good, in between the metal layers thanks And as for aluminium, the metal has the copper, and gold. It also works well with the Here is how we do it, we start Now we lay down a plain thick layer of We then use lithography to transfer the And then simply etch away the parts we don't If we still have more layers to do, of intermetal dielectric on top of the this metal, polishing it down so that we can start Aluminium and silicon dioxide suit each other. on top of the silicon dioxide dielectric, the This alumina layer acts like a protective atoms from diffusing into the rest of years of semiconductor technology, this ## Getting Denser Over time, chips got more dense. Transistors got smaller. We were More transistors means more semiconductor designers scaled the They first shrank the size of pitch or the distance between two parallel wires. But this raises the electrical resistance of the wires. More resistance means more So engineers responded by simply making a limit to how much taller these wires can This step-like structure is difficult to trying to coat and etch such Not to mention, denser clusters capacitance. More capacitance means So let's just add more more metal layers right? These layers still have to go through the layers, transferring the pattern onto The more stacked metal layers there are, the more chances we have to mess things the worse the yield will be. And bad yields ## The Big Problem In the beginning, manufacturers and This is because the RC delay was smaller than But as time progressed and chips RC delay has become a more significant By the mid-1990s it became clear that things In 1978, IBM reported that the interconnect M2 - was about 20 micrometers. Remember M2 By 1994, the interconnect pitches on the highest global layers - which are supposed to New technological changes convinced the industry more generation - the 250 nanometer node which Looking ahead at the 100 nanometer it would take six times as long to long interconnect as it would to send it Lame. They might as well put ## Copper &amp; Low-K So we need to figure out a way to the scientists came up was to replace First, we change the low-resistivity metals in the This was an obvious choice. Copper lines have 35% Second, we can cut unwanted capacitance dielectric layer from silicon dioxide We measure a substance's ability called &quot;dielectric constant&quot; or &quot;k-value&quot;. So this new material needed to have a k-value silicon dioxide - 3.9 - it was referred Together, a copper &amp; low-K solution lets thinner wires - potentially cutting ## IBM's Big Announcement In September 1997, IBM shocked the semiconductor world when they announced that they had They had been working on the problem for &quot;red aluminium&quot; - ramped up, a team of IBM Engineer Ron Goldblatt recalled at 3 AM, wondering if he should &gt; &quot;There was a real period of time when we pay someone enough to make them do it. It It was a triumphant achievement, capped semiconductor history. Six layers IBM said that they intended to mass-produce the first chips going to its critical ## Copper Problems IBM's announcement was such a big deal because Aluminium and silicon are good friends, manufacturing-wise. This is First, copper atoms can quickly dioxide and accumulate there like well the chip can perform. They don't So the semiconductor manufacturer must barrier&quot; to block off the copper This barrier has to have special the copper and low-K insulation layers. able to easily and evenly lay it down. We ## Damascene Perhaps most troublingly, you can't etch copper. Copper does not have a suitable etchant. This just deposit a layer of copper and So we have to do something else. IBM decided to reverse the traditional sequence. We start by first laying down Then we do lithography to patterns - including the trenches After that, we etch the pattern into Next, we apply the aforementioned diffusion from slipping away. It is usually made from After this, we fill our trench with copper. This - an electrochemical deposition process that IBM But we are not done! No, no. Before we finish, apply a capping layer on top of the copper Because this method kind of reminds you of the the Middle Ages, this whole roundabout process The damascene method. Sounds complicated manufacturing is literally black magic. ## The Copper Road Behind IBM's ground-breaking announcement was a We needed to have first discovered tantalum and properties. Research on this started in the late And we needed to have which was not particularly intuitive. But the biggest sticking point to fill the empty trenches and vias with copper. IBM tried various traditional semiconductor physical vapor deposition, All of these methods left defects. This was trenches' side surfaces until the copper growth Finally in 1989, a small group came &quot;bottoms-up growth&quot;. Here, we fill as if it were a regular liquid. This In 1993, a small team at IBM mixed this damascene, and electroplating to This was the first inkling that we However, this first damascene production method and yields - particularly with the vias - Another IBM team led by Dan Edelstein It includes what is called a &quot;dual both the trenches and vias In 1995, this new recipe passed internal to high volume production. After two more years ## Bringing it to the Fab But Announcements of this or that breakthrough are Doing it in high volume would be foundry, which had suffered from Since copper can poison the silicon and rest of the fab. So tools on the copper lines be isolated. A tricky task to pull off since Oh also, copper easily dissolves into so we need to install new waste disposal ## Rumblings At the time of the November 1997 announcement, newspapers and others in the media declared IBM Then just 2 weeks after IBM's announcement, they too had produced copper interconnects. Before 1989, IBM was the only company in the But after then, the whole industry realized and that something else had to replace People also sensed through IBM's published was working on &quot;something&quot; with copper. Motorola started their copper work in 1990 - with IBM for the PowerPC chip. IBM never told changes that IBM made to the PowerPC design rules AMD, some time in 1995. They were slow but quickly time. Interestingly, AT&amp;T developed their entire Perhaps most surprisingly, Intel didn't start And that is despite their own researchers having published a paper on using electroplating to ## Rapid Catch-up So in the few years before IBM's big announcement, the number of published articles on copper Much of this research was done through that helps coordinate public-private Many executives at those companies also have they directed public R&amp;D funds to universities to into the public domain and the semiconductor So while IBM tried very hard to keep certain the copper fill part of it - the rest of the ## 180 Nanometers As I mentioned, the next leading edge node was 180 This major node saw a large series 180 nanometers - they called it 0.18 the copper interconnects but also another 30% Second, it was about the same time the DUV excimer laser lithography tools. So And third, the 300 millimeter wafer transition considering all the things that were of the industry opted to push that back In 1998, IBM kicked off the 180 nanometer The copper interconnects indeed sped up leapfrogging IBM to first place Coming up close behind them was Motorola. 250 and 180 nanometers, rolling out The first chips to come out with which powered Apple's classic Titanium It is important to note that the semiconductor then. Everyone had their own variant and so people picked and chose what parts of the An example of this is that Intel's 180 nanometer for two reasons. First, like I mentioned And second, Intel needed a process that they can for their PC CPU monopoly. About 112,000 2000. And at the time there were not enough Intel would not implement copper interconnects nanometer node. And even then those chips had ## TSMC and UMC Across the Pacific, we have the Asian foundries - They had started from even further behind they never even seriously considered TSMC had struggled with their 250 nanometer rival. UMC was rapidly catching up. Their TSMC's - putting the two companies neck to neck And critically, UMC was catching up in UMC had 1.7 million 8-inch wafers of capacity UMC CEO John Hsuan said: &gt; The trends indicate that we will pass TSMC it's a capacity game, and if we want to pass &gt; TSMC has stayed fairly while we are growing significantly TSMC Chairman and CEO Morris Chang wasn't going up 250 nanometers, he cycled through three VPs Dr. Chiang Shang-yi, who joined in mid-1997 and worked day and night for Hitting the next node - 180 nanometers - UMC had any experience in it. How this? The two companies opted for different paths. UMC decided to join an IBM-sponsored was the Semiconductor Research research on copper interconnects. So TSMC, on the other hand decided to go it scientists led a crash-effort to develop a The team was Burn Lin, Yang Guanglei, And of course, Dr. Liang Mong-song (Liang Meng Song ). I did Both methods worked to some extent. In 180-nanometer chips to fabless customers with This lagged behind IBM's 180-nanometer copper made from copper - but nevertheless it was a ## The Low-K Problem Now I want to shift gears a bit. For a while now, I have been talking about copper. Copper copper copper. Those of you you might have noticed that I have so Copper is just half of the half for addressing increasing wire resistance. We still need a good Low-K material for the intermetal dielectric layers for The big problem was that the semiconductor material to replace silicon dioxide. process flow. The materials just kept falling What makes the Low-K dielectric situation so that with copper, we know what we are dealing but ultimately it was just a But with Low-K we don't even ## TSMC Spins Around The semiconductor industry First at the 250 nanometer node, they doped the create Fluorinated Silicon Glass, or FSG. FSG's silicon dioxide - about 3.5 versus 3.9 - and At the 180 nanometer node, the industry silsesquioxane or HSQ. It has a lower this HSQ material onto the wafers Spin-on is exactly what you might think and then pour on the Low-K dielectric It was seen as a cheaper way The HSQ spin-on technique passed all the internal scale. Apparently because spin-on combined stressed the HSQ layer and caused it to This was a major problem. TSMC &quot;git reset --hard&quot;. Except it wasn't &gt; We found out at the last moment, And then it was around Christmas time and so again we worked days and at night, no no break for Chinese New Year. All the They were not alone in this grief. same situation as well. And even with all their ## The Legendary 130 The next major node after 180 nanometer node in between - was 130 Here, the industry expected to have completed a "true" Low-K dielectric layer material. The big UMC, IBM, and Infineon worked together on their again announces another technical breakthrough. material from Dow Chemical called SiLK - SiLK had a dielectric constant or K-value of fabs' needs for until the 65 nanometer node But several in the industry - including TI favored a different Low-K dielectric Applied Materials. Its K-value The catch was that Black Diamond deposition. You cannot apply it onto Makes sense. It is Applied Materials, after all. They'll use CVD to butter their So the larger semiconductor industry split into to go with for their flavors of the 130 nanometer Texas Instruments chose to go with fast race horse or a particularly pungent perfume. TSMC as well. In their case, Chiang personally swore that he would Intel for their part apparently second-generation FSG technique. Again In the end, the SiLK + spin-on setup failed. IBM failed to ship a product with it - a technical On October 2001, TSMC became the first to ship 130 nanometer chips with both copper To ensure customers like Nvidia got their chips, TSMC's primary fabs for this node It took some time. Yields for started off in the teens - but by late At the end of 2001 - soon after TSMC started IBM and Infineon, dropping SiLK for a CVD process Strangely, IBM said nothing about this fabless customers Xilinx very publicly announced that their higher-end FPGAs would be Their President Willem Roelandts Business Week interview - saying that it needed to improve its manufacturing IBM eventually switched to CVD too. with their CTO Bernie Meyerson saying in 2003: &gt; Quite bluntly, there were a lot of it looked like it had the potential No one else was doing it at the time, and &gt; Instead of throwing rocks at us, the you saved us from this' A disappointing close to a promising start. first hard-won innovative ## Conclusion TSMC's monumental 130-nanometer node set the The Taiwanese government awarded TSMC's Horsemen&quot; - the 2003 Outstanding Scientific and For years, TSMC was seen as a simple factory producers not innovators. People did not The 130 nanometer node changed people in the industry now knew that