Hello, dear viewers, thank you for your choice. Please stay with me until the end of the video. What you will see, keep Jalal Arad until I bring him some fruit. Please be nice to each other, don't fight. I am fine . Samane is talking . What are you writing ? This pomegranate is not good. You should make it together. Please bring me a pomegranate. The room you were in wasn't better. No, I was alone there. Jalal was also here most of the time. I talked to grandma. She doesn't like us living here together . Let's build Jalal together, let's go inside the same house. Semane's morals are not good. I became Jalal's wife to take care of my sister's children. I took care of these children for a year, and now that I am taking care of them, my name is in Jalal's birth certificate. Do you want me to bring him there , believe me? The weather was cold and I was alone. I had to be with my sister's children. You got married secretly and I didn't tell you anything . Jalal and I loved each other and we got married. It's been three months since we got married. Jalal is useless like that. Don't fight with me, well, I am your wife, I am older than you , be ashamed, if you are Jalal's wife, I am too. Sometimes you are good, sometimes bad, leave this program. He married me for the sake of his sister's children, Semane, I am now Jalal's wife, you should not say anything from the day you became Jalal's wife, I will fight with you till the end of your life, don't say anything until we live together , where should I go ? What do you want to do with this life, Jalal, let's go inside the same house, let's live here. I married Jalal because of my sister's children. Be quiet. Don't talk . It means we can't live here. I loved my sister's children . Let's come and live together in one of these rooms, this room is not ours, we have to go somewhere else, so where do you want to buy land, you don't have money, come, my son , these rooms belong to Hossein sir, and we have to go somewhere. There is no window here anymore , it's cold , we'll be here for a few days until we find a place to live, Samana, you have no right to fight anymore, get up, reconcile, be good together, I 've been taking care of my sister's children for a few months, I'm planning to go somewhere for work, don't fight, Samana It's not good together, you took the honor of Yemen with these pillows, come sit, you ruined my life, do n't fight, be good together, live together. Let's find a place. Samaneh doesn't respect me. Samaneh says why did you marry Elnaz. I was gone. You said yourself that the children have become dependent on you. Pour some water on some tea. Thank you . No, but be nice there, there is no window here and it's cold , no, we're going somewhere else, we'll make a house, wait until I tell you, be nice there , I'm going somewhere for work tomorrow, you must want to be like this , you're not a child, be nice in this where was the cold weather, it's fine here, she just wants to be in the window, but grandma won't let her , Elnaz, you're not a child, you two should live together well and not make noise, well, I don't have anything to say, Samane fights with me every day You are not a child, so tell him not to argue with me anymore, let us live well and happily, keep quiet, I can't live here with you, that land belonged to my grandfather, Jalal said, no one will take care of my children and they depend on me to get married. We did, didn't I tell you not to argue, everyone who has two wives fights like this , well, they have their own conditions, don't get on my nerves, hey, you call Jalal, it's no use like this, you have to provide a good life for us, come on. collect the things, I will fix it, go to your aunt, she is crying because of you, as if you are her mother, there is no window, no glass, I know that it is useless here, but I will find a good place, so get up, why are you sitting, your mother won't let you stay here because of me either you Be good together, I will fix it There is no point in living like this. I'm not satisfied. It's my grandfather's house. Go live somewhere else with Jalal. Samane is fighting because Elnaz secretly married Jalal and they're not compatible. Don't touch me. Go away . I 'm not going out. Jalal is my husband . Go on your own . you are crazy