Today on Sugar Spun Run, we'll be making my apple crumb muffins. Hey Sugar Spun Bakers, Sam here! And today, I am so excited to be sharing another carefully tested, well researched, and perfected recipe. These apple muffins are super simple to make, so let's go ahead and jump right in by preheating our oven to three hundred and seventy five degrees Fahrenheit. Now the first thing you want to prep for this recipe is the apples. You're going to need about one and a half cups of chopped apples for today's recipe. You can use whatever kind you prefer. I like to use gala apples. Granny Smith are a little more tart than I like for this recipe, but if you like a tart apple, that would be fine. We're just gonna peel the apples. And then we're gonna chop the pieces. I like to keep them between fourth to one half inch in size. You can see how large, or how small, I've cut mine right here. Alright, we'll set this aside. Now in a large mixing bowl, we are going to combine two cups of all purpose flour, one half cup of firmly packed light brown sugar, one fourth cup of granulated sugar, two teaspoons of baking powder, one teaspoon of ground cinnamon, and a half teaspoon of table salt. We'll whisk everything together until it's nicely combined. You wanna break up those clumps of brown sugar as you can. We'll set this aside. Now, in a separate mixing bowl or a large measuring cup, which is what I'm using, we're going to combine one half cup of either canola or vegetable oil with a half cup of buttermilk, two large eggs, and one and a half teaspoons of vanilla extract. You'll wanna whisk everything together until it's nice and well combined. You wanna make sure those egg yolks are nicely broken up too. And then we're going to add this to our dry ingredients. At this point, you'll want to use a spatula to gently fold the ingredients together. Once the dry ingredients and wet ingredients are about fifty to seventy five percent of the way combined, we're going to add our apples. We'll just continue stirring everything together until the apples are well distributed. You wanna be careful with this batter because if you over mix it, you'll end up with a dense, dry muffin, so you want to combine it--you wanna stir it until it is just combined. Alright, now these would not be apple crumb muffins without the crumb, so let's go ahead and prepare our streusel topping. This is super simple to prepare and is a favorite on basically all of my muffins. We're just going to combine one and one fourth cup of all purpose flour, a half cup of firmly packed, light brown sugar, one third cup of granulated sugar, one fourth teaspoon salt, and a half teaspoon of ground cinnamon. Stir all of these ingredients together until they're nicely combined, and then we're going to add six tablespoons of melted butter. This butter is melted, but it's not super hot to the touch. It's had a little bit of time to cool. Now I'll just use my fork to toss the ingredients together, sort of claw them together, until I have a nice, crumbly streusel and all of the dry ingredients have been moistened by that butter. You don't wanna over mix this or you're going to end up with a paste instead of a nice, crumbly streusel. Alright, now we can go ahead and divide our muffin batter into our prepared muffin tin. This is a twelve count pan. It makes twelve muffins and you can see I've lined them all with paper liners. I'm just going to evenly divide the batter and I like to use an ice cream scoop just because it makes the process a little bit neater. After you've divided all of the batter, we're going to top everything off with some streusel. Now I have been accused of using too much streusel in this recipe. I disagree with people who have suggested that, but you can use a little less than it calls for if you'd like. I like a nice mountain of strussel on top of my muffin. Alright, now we'll take these over to our preheated oven where they're going to need to bake for about twenty three to twenty five minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean or with a few moist crumbs. We'll let these cool their muffin tins for about five minutes and then we can carefully remove. And that is how you make these super simple, super moist, and flavorful apple crumb muffins. Really hope you guys enjoy today's recipe. And if you tried this one out, please leave me a comment and let me know what you think. I always love hearing from you. Thank you guys so much for watching, and I'll see you next time. These are good.