Of the world's 11,000 data centers, tract of land else. This is Ashburn, Virginia, also known And being here, where it got that name. There are so many data these highly secure, often unmarked buildings, for some of the world's They're the physical that enable us to zoom watch a tick tock bank or ask a question. And then the next five and businesses are expected as much data as they did in the last ten. As users and companies and more processing power to fuel an ever more complex Existing data centers here are becoming overwhelmed, causing the industry to try to accommodate Across the country, companies like Amazon are quietly infiltrating communities to build out massive compounds the next generation And it's all to make This is an inside stakes that will shape the future of the data center industry and probably with barely anyone noticing. I can't be here. I'm not disrupting the power So right now lot of the Loudoun This is Ashburn, Virginia, and I'm about to get All right. I'm going to So you might be wondering, so what does a data It's a fair question, since they're of the Internet, but remarkably hard to get into given the fact that data centers some of the most in the world in them. They often come of security, barbed wires and a stonewall barricade to people trying to get in. And I tried. Hello. Even the vice Infrastructure Services said even if I had to get into a data center, amount of security. Fundamentally, data center, store data, processed So storage disorder, that I could put it or I can upload it which is basically in a data center somewhere or backups As for processing data, on the Internet is being done So if you search not on Google, a computer in a data center looks through billions of nuts, tries to figure out which ones you want to see and organizes them for you to find your favorite nuts. That's something like that, which is the last major thing data centers do when all the processing or you request or you're on a face time Data centers with Internet service providers in little pieces of Internet cables underground And that's just scratching the surface They also host training models hold every Instagram photo, YouTube, video and X tweet and keep Data centers do so much. It's honestly pretty crazy. But all of this computing a ton of power, both to run servers and to keep them cool. And the rise of is requiring even more. According to a 2022 analysis, ten times more energy and that's before summary, which requires The rise of AI is expected to drive a 160% increase in data center power demand NVIDIA alone is expected to deliver 100,000 AI processing Despite this production here data centers have a vacancy rate of 0.2%, to the already low This lack of vacancy points the larger problem here we need more data centers, emerging markets are at or approaching full capacity. And among the data centers being built, 83% are already pre-leased. But new ones They require So where do we put them? I can't be here. Well, I would next to the two data there is these black and white SUVs that came up. And then eventually And they were following me for a hot second. So right now, I'm of the Loudoun County just waiting it out in the parking lot. Yes, there's So data but hard to make while I drive to my next Let me explain what to build new data centers. First, a data center especially companies handling enormous amounts of data. A good spot needs plenty of room for servers, cooling mechanisms and power This makes more suburban because they have lots available But all spaces aren't equal. The second factor, a potential space, is this location. Since data centers through physical data it behooves a company to where the lines And the longer a line gets, it takes for information So ideally, a data center should be to the people who are to reduce latency. Another point to consider geographic location. Since servers need to be you want to avoid locations that are subject or other weather events that might disrupt power, shake servers around, Then the third main factor deciding where data centers go is access to electricity. Depending on where you go, different places infrastructure So a rural area has less while a city is filled with power lines. But regardless, amount of power Most new developments need to the city's existing So when you consider together, data center companies can port in different ways Being in a city keeps and easy access to power, but limited space. Being in the countryside allows a lot of space, but might take longer infrastructure and will have So those are the main things the data center needs and the place is an example of somewhere those boxes. This is Prince William County, Virginia. It has tons of space, as you can see, just around 30 miles from Ashburn. So it's close to people After years of back officials here passes zoning change to make 2100 acres about 23 million square feet of new data centers right over there, the new largest data center But the plan is encountering And more broadly, some of the incentives to actually finding a place to put a data center here All of these people because this is the site which has stirred legal this time to stop data centers and other things Across the country, Data center NIMBY, not in my backyard as locals complain about environmental impacts. Someone once mentioned that living close would be akin or constantly running in your house. In addition to noise can take a vast amount amounts of water and strain local power grids. One common is the undue burden on taxpayers forms of infrastructure to support new data centers. But Aaron Ruby from Dominion this is a misconception, at least on the power side. Their rates reflect how much electricity and all of to deliver that electricity. But there are other reasons to question the arrival One analysis that the total value projects but they only provide 837 permanent jobs. And yet local governments in Ohio, Alabama, Utah and others shelled out $811 million in tax breaks Two penny striking companies a matter that equates to nearly per permanent worker. So many communities centers simply centers take a lot and don't Except they do give a lot in tax revenue. In Loudoun County, where the county estimates will pay $570 million in property taxes in 2024, half of all tax revenue These conflicting issues to spend a lot of time whether the tax revenue is worth offering Pieces of their city potentially noisy neighbors. Given the major hold up opposition can pose. Many companies have taken shell companies to purchase with local governments It's probably harder against Project Pine than it is against Google for taking I'm not even sure if all of the companies to come as the county officials the project due And the project's shows its address as a road. Despite these challenges, pushback from purchasing in hopes to secure enough space and power for current and future Just last year, the amount of data center space grew 26% and reached new heights for what's And while Northern Virginia the list of data center many developers have looked beyond the primary markets, in secondary and tertiary markets across the country. Areas around Atlanta, Dallas and Portland, fastest growing data center hubs in the U.S.. Among these new projects, service providers have made a big impact. We have some colocation data centers or even thousands And then we have the larger hyperscale data centers, which would be built and operated by some of the large cloud companies, business purposes And these hyperscalers their money Hyperscalers to build more capacity, and that number is expected to continue to grow until at least 2030. And looking across these companies the major deciding factors to suit their specific For example, Microsoft's Moines, Iowa, is expected to take up 132 acres. And for companies that want onsite power generation like solar panels that can Meanwhile, some companies in Manhattan for clients that need lower latency. Tech giants are also setting their sights overseas. Microsoft recently its first cloud region Amazon, Google and Microsoft are lobbying to allow them to build from solar and wind farms to new data centers. But the rapid growth in the sector for its environmental harms. Many major data center have sustainability But using more and more power with fewer efficiency advancements is making it harder to meet those goals. Goldman Sachs electricity demand from data centers will be 8% of total US power and predicts will still be coming And by 2030, carbon emissions from these centers 6% of global emissions unless technology advances at breakneck speeds. It's unlikely efficiency gains will be able to offset the increased use and subsequent environmental toll. And this is the paradox In order to move toward this sustainable renewable energy, you need to you need to extract that are needed to produce a windmill or a solar panel. Since the future of data on a few things currently whether they keep up with demand might come down For instance, two years ago, Microsoft run of an underwater which was naturally cooled And at one eighth, of a typical data center. But on a mass scale, still don't appear Another alternative right of energy for data centers on processing data need to be immediately like computers tools. Some companies have proposed attached to windmills A full crossover, but innovated or not. It's undeniable the industry which is why some say that the degree of desperation to build out more data that hasn't happened Either center is coming They might ruin your view or sound like a hairdryer and may soon be using But that's the price The internet is physical, and as much as it seems All physical things have limits.