April 2nd, 2017. Camping World Stadium, Orlando, Florida. The closing moments of WrestleMania XXXIII. A man lies motionless in the center of a ring, and surrounding him is a sea of people. They're shocked. They're angry. But most of all, they're just... heartbroken. Eventually the man struggles to sit up, and facing the crowd with tears in his eyes, before leaving his jacket, gloves, and hat in the ring. And moving with slow, heavy strides, he makes his way as 75,000 people chant in unison three words: &quot;Thank you, Taker&quot;. For fans of pro-wrestling, this moment was devastating. It was the end of a story we had been experiencing and one that had started when many of us But if you're not a fan, this scene likely doesn't mean Maybe you've heard mention of The Undertaker, perhaps a friend has vented to you over The Streak, but the specifics of why someone could become ...odd form of storytelling still evades you. Well friend, you're in luck, because as you may I have this borderline unhealthy obsession that wrestling is not only a legitimate form but also one capable of delivering narratives And granted, this video is probably a bad idea, people think I'm insane whenever I bring up and WWE tend to pursue their copyright claims with all But hell, we didn't get to where we are by So to start, I want to briefly talk about time, or more specifically, the unusual nature See, wrestling is the only form of ongoing fictional In any other form of media, it's the author, director, but because wrestling is still operating under the facade of reality means that it can only So if we watch Kofi Kingston on WWE Smackdown and then return the following week for the next, just as seven days have pased for us, seven days will also have passed for the making him a fictional character that is aging meaning that wrestling is a fictional ongoing universe I know that might not sound like a big deal but over time, it can be a powerful tool in storytelling. And I want you to keep that in mind, because One, to explore the idea of the professional wrestling and how it develops a relationship with the audience, and two, how the passage of time affects that persona, And so to do that, what say we take a trip right back The early 90s were a fascinating time The flamboyant powerhouses of the late 80s and move on to greener pastures, and so the creative minds of the WWF were desperate and this is what led to the era of the gimmick. If you're not familiar with the term, a &quot;gimmick&quot; A wrestler's gimmick is what makes them distinct It's the character they embody, and that embodiment from their wrestling style and moveset in the ring, to even their entrance music and cadence of speech. Gimmicks are so important that the right one For example, what you're seeing here is the current being rejected by fans in the most devastating with silent indifference. This was the reaction to his &quot;Stardust Genius&quot; gimmick, The gimmick lacked any real teeth, and so And so Naito, after a stay in Mexico, adopted in which he rejected the fans the same way treating everything in New Japan, from the audience, with a languid disdain, only for then his popularity to explode, as a Japanese audience empathized with his disdain And so they flocked to become one of his leading him to have the insane star power American gimmicks tend to be a little less subtle and especially in the early 90s. At this point, the popularization of mixed martial arts and so an audience at large had no real idea nor the kinds of people who participate in them, which allowed wrestling promoters to try out Any gimmick with a remote chance of getting over from professional gimmicks such as an evil repo man, the tax-collecting wrestler, IRS, to the infamous dentist, Dr. Isaac Yankem. This man is now the mayor of Knox Country, What is reality? Gimmicks would even heavily, uh... &quot;borrow&quot; such as Robert De Niro's performance as the being reimagined as evil wrestler Waylon Mercy. Just let that one sink in. My favorite gimmicks of this era, however, for their sheer Mantaur. Oz. This guy, who was bafflingly named &quot;The Yeti&quot;. This was a dumb, glorious period for pro wrestling, with many of these characters appearing before plummeting into the annals of But for all that fell, there was one that didn't. There was one that rose beyond anything It's bizarre watching The Undertaker's first entrance now. There's a genuine look of bewilderment to the audience as this 6-foot-10, 300-pound man walks solemnly as morose funeral organs drone in the background. This was Mark Calaway, a Texas native who had previously wrestled under And while he'd found modest success with each, The Undertaker was different. There was something so eerily convincing something in his movements that whispered maybe, That was the gimmick of The Undertaker, and it was that gimmick that drew inspiration in the form of 1978's horror film Halloween, and the character of Michael Myers. What made Michael Myers so terrifying as a serial killer He may have looked like a person, but he was also completely immune to pain and single-minded And it's those qualities that Bruce Prichard and fellow and that's exactly what his matches communicated. Any maneuver in professional wrestling requires both the person performing the offensive maneuver and the person taking the move to convey and that conveyance is known as &quot;selling&quot;, and selling that a move was effective was just as vital And here was the difference between the Undertaker The Undertaker didn't sell. There was no visual indication that his opponent's and it made the character feel eerily indestructible, never more palpable in the moments of his eerie sit-up, in which the Undertaker would be on the receiving end only to rise back to life. The sit-up was a trademark of any Undertaker match; the moment his opponent's momentum was broken, and they'd remember they were in the ring If that sounds silly, it kind of was. On the surface, there's so many things about This was, after all, an undead wizard, who, for whatever reason, had decided to join But it was also so much fun. Seeing other wrestlers interact with The Undertaker The nature of the character meant that WWF with the storylines featuring him. And those stories only grew more strange with the addition of the ghoulish Paul Bearer, who would carry to the ring a magical urn, which reportedly was the key to The Undertaker's And yes, that is ridiculous, but just listen to how much fun the two would have Bearer - Jaaake the Snaaake Roooberts! Bearer - The clock on my embalming room wall Bearer - Only three weeks awaaay to Wrestlemania! Taker - Now the running's over. Taker - Now... Three weeks. Taker - You meet the Reaper at WrestleMania. [funeral bell] If this is all starting to sound a little close to parody, But the thing that kills me about The Undertaker The Undertaker's gimmick should have been a joke. It should have been a disaster, one that disappeared But it never did. And the reason for that was Mark Calaway himself. For a gimmick to really work, it's vital for the wrestler to And this was the life that Calaway brought and what separated him from every other Here was the Undertaker, a character who spoke whose every move felt careful and considered. He was a 300-pound man who could fly through the air, and slow matches down to a crawl, and yet you couldn't look away. There was a brutal grace to how Mark Calaway and it let you believe he was real. There's an interview with the wrestler Gregory Helms once discussed how a wrestler should always wear but that The Undertaker only ever carried titles because The Undertaker's character was And it's such a tiny detail, but it shows you the level which in turn made that character real for the audience. And so fans believed in The Undertaker, and those reactions are what propelled the character and on his way, devouring legends like even scoring a rare pinfall win over Hulk Hogan. And so, The Undertaker's legacy began. In the years that followed, The Undertaker would be part of some of the most none more so than his brutal encounter with Mankind the image of Foley plummeting off the roof of the cell Not all Undertaker storylines were good, but what kept the Deadman relevant was his ability Depending on what part of the Deadman's career he could either be a mournful force of karmic justice striking down the evil that plagued the world or a satanic leader of a cult who, I shit you not, making them part of his Ministry of Darkness. He even spent three years riding a motorcycle changing his entrance music to Limp Bizkit's &quot;Rollin'&quot;, and somehow he got that over with fans, too. His ability to adapt and reinvent himself was part of why The Undertaker enjoyed but there was another reason, too. Everything we've talked about up until now was about But behind that illusion, there was the actual person; and the strange thing about Calaway is that It's rare to find anyone in the world of wrestling And if you're unfamiliar with the backstage controversy that is exceptionally rare. He's known as someone who would frequently often giving advice to younger wrestlers, and using his own position within the company And if you look at Calaway's championship runs, His title runs were never very long, often losing championship matches to younger talent something many of his contemporaries refused to do. Or, as former WWE wrestler Ken Anderson put it: This section is not meant as an endorsement I don't know anything about the man personally, But what I do know is that the world of wrestling one that brings out the very worst in people, the history of which is littered with men and women And I think it's awesome that The Undertaker That he chose to help those around him And to me, that's just as much a part of his legacy And so you had The Undertaker. A character loved by fans, and a man respected But over the years, something unusual Different stars would come and go, He could disappear for months at a time, but he'd and as the decades went by, he started to feel like Even in the years I kind of fell off wrestling, I'd always tune back into WrestleMania just to see And there was a kind of comfort to that. No matter what else was going on in your life, The Undertaker was always there. I can remember watching Undertaker matches when I graduated college, and even when I started making YouTube videos. And the thing was, just as I was growing He was a fictional persona, but he was also I've sat in arenas and watched The Undertaker. I've shared a physical space with this fictional character, which in some small way makes me feel like And after decades, it felt like that was a story And it was that feeling that led to &quot;The Streak&quot;. The Streak began in 1991 at WrestleMania VII, as The Undertaker scored a decisive victory WrestleMania is the biggest night of the year Known as the Showcase of the Immortals, it's where and as the years rolled by, a pattern started to emerge. The Undertaker had never lost at WrestleMania. In fact, come WrestleMania XXI, 14 years later, making the streak a testament to the enduring but also something else. It was a prize to be claimed; more valuable than any title. The one who could finally end the streak And so each year, a new challenger stepped forward, and each year, after a brutal struggle, they'd be sent hurtling back into the abyss, in the process making for some of the such as his WrestleMania XXV showdown seen by many as the best match WWE has ever done. But personally the match for me that really is his brutal showdown with Triple H This was the third time that Triple H had attempted and at this point, both men were in the twilight Both had achieved every accolade imaginable, Triple H obsessed with being the one to finally and cement himself as the greatest of all time, and The Undertaker fighting to keep that legacy alive. And what unfolded was nothing less than a war; the two men destroying each other in a violent, that is honestly a little difficult to watch. You can see the welts and scars the match has left both of whom gave everything they had to tell concluding in this beautiful moment when Triple H and in one final moment of defiance, like everyone is sent plummeting back into oblivion; The Undertaker going 20 - 0 at WrestleMania. After the match, the two men leave arm-in-arm. The war for their legacy is over. There is no animosity left between them. I really hope I don't sound like a crazy person to the non-wrestling fans who have made it this far but I think this was a really powerful story being told. One of the most terrifying things about achieving is not knowing when your time will come, not knowing when you'll lose relevance and cease And that to me is the story of The Streak. Every year The Undertaker is getting older, while his opponents were only getting younger and every year you'd watch this legend cling to And it could be so close, for a moment you'd think But it never was. The Undertaker was still immortal. He was still the Deadman. And nothing could ever break that. Enter Brock Lesnar. Brock Lesnar made his 2012 return to WWE as having defeated Randy Couture for the real-life and in the years that would follow, he'd prove leaving opponents in macabic pools of blood, even destroying John Cena in one of the most But now The Beast Incarnate had set his eyes He'd set his eyes on The Streak. But surely it wouldn't matter. The Streak could never be broken. ...Right? ...Right. The Undertaker gives the match everything he has. Every possible strategy, every angle, every move. Nothing works. Until finally... Announcer - Brock Lesnar into the cover! Announcer - Has the leg! The Streak... [bell rings] Announcer - ...is over. It's over. The Streak lies in ruin. The Undertaker has lost. I want you to watch this moment again, but this time, and look at the expressions on their faces. This isn't surprise at an unexpected outcome. This is something more. This is heartbreak, and accepting something That this was the beginning of the end Three years later. April 2nd, 2017. Camping World Stadium, Orlando, Florida. WrestleMania XXXIII. The Undertaker faces Roman Reigns, the divisive The two battle back-and-forth as the Undertaker, struggles to keep up with his younger, more dominant And then... something happens. The Undertaker attempts his trademark sit-up. But as he does, decades of matches and pain set in, and he collapses to the mat, exhausted. It's hard to convey the gravity of this moment. This is a move The Undertaker had performed a trademark reminder that he was the Deadman; And what killed me about this moment was it was the first time he had ever felt human. And in that instance, I knew. This was it. This was the last match of the Undertaker. The Undertaker would return for guest spots but for me, this was the moment that was the end And whether that was the story of the fictional persona or the actual person, Mark Calaway, it didn't matter. The two were indistinguishable at this point. Ending a narrative 26 years in the making, One about the creation of a legacy, the struggle to keep that legacy alive, and finally, knowing when your time has come. And that's a story the experience of which I think If you're not a fan of wrestling, you'll never experience As a constant, ongoing, real-time narrative over decades. It's already too late for that. But what I want to convey with this video is that because this is just one story in the world and dozens of others are unfolding right now, The fall of Kazuchika Okada. The rise of Becky Lynch. The ongoing saga of the GoldenLovers. It's stories like these; these real, unreal stories, and the reason I always will. Friends, thank you for watching my video. and particularly, if you do not care about wrestling at all, thank you so much for sticking around to the end If you enjoyed this video and want to help me you can support the channel over on Patreon And thank you so, so much to the people there and make putting a month into a crazy project A special shout out this week to: You can also find me on Twitch at twitch.tv/supereyepatchwolf, hosting the Let's Fight a Boss video game podcast, or on Twitter, @eyepatchwolf. Friends, take care of yourselves,