A fraction of a second ago, the electricity your television, your refrigerator, nearly was water, gas, wind, or some other form of of miles away. If you flip a light switch in Los Angeles, start spinning. Electric grids are considered some of the stretch across entire continents--but they're With water systems, for example, there's the treatment plant, and some extra supply to your home--supply only has to roughly electricity. Your lights, your TV, your microwave--everything just moments ago. For the sake of example, let's look at what library in the small town of Glenwood Springs, Now, what makes the relatively straightforward into electric power difficult is the huge and month-to-month. There are, however, some trends. On an annual basis, the peaks correlate to mark as many homes and businesses turn on ranks highest outright as the country battles The month-to-month variations are not that the highest and lowest demand months is less Most of the variability happens across a given In January, all regions of the US observe use spikes around 7:00 AM as people turn up as they wake up and get ready for the day. Then, demand peaks again when people return Meanwhile, in July, energy use is highest this does depend on the region. For example, in the sweltering Southwest, hour of the afternoon, when air conditioners In the more temperate northwest, though, which public library, fewer buildings have air conditioning by post-work use of appliances, lights, televisions, These trends then get further complicated on Superbowl Sunday in the US, demand plummets stop cooking, and gather together at others' This is all to say, when forecasting demand, season, location, and plenty more. Now, with whatever demand materializes, utilities To do this, they layer different energy sources Often, the lowest layer is Nuclear Power. Nuclear power stations aren't designed to take the better part of a day to shutdown to operate these in response to demand. In addition, considering how massively expensive inefficient to let these stations run idle. Therefore, they'll run nearly continuously for during planned maintenance. This means they provide the most stable supply Colorado no longer operates any nuclear power power stations. Like nuclear, most of these coal plants cannot to get up to temperature, so utilities will Coal and nuclear combined typically fulfill Their continuous production essentially equals minimum amount of power needed at a point So then, on top of that, utilities need production faster--they need to be able to produce the summer afternoons. The bulk of this job is completed by natural Of the 25 in Colorado, 13 of these stations This is the simplest means of turning natural the fuel is used to turn a turbine, which More advanced natural gas power plants recover too, but the startup process for these takes for applications where speed is key. Most can reach full power within 15 minutes, those short peaks in demand. Nuclear, coal, and natural gas are some of The recent proliferation of renewable energy of this system of base-load and peaker plants. That's because, when wind and solar generating free--meaning there's essentially no additional, or turbines are installed. That's not the case with natural gas fired one of their primary costs. So, this essentially creates a new bottom layer that's uncontrollably variable. One sunny, windy day could mean that a state its base-load sources, while one cloudy, windless to operate at full force. Solar and onshore wind power are now some because they rely on natural phenomena, they the traditional nuclear, coal, natural gas Therefore, grids are being reinvented so that least minute-to-minute. Of course, the way to do that is with storage, The average American household uses about Lithium-ion batteries currently cost around storage for one household would cost around all the additional infrastructure needed to Considering the average American household bills, installing such a system grid-wide Nonetheless, Colorado has four battery-electric minor scale. The largest of which is used to power Fort They charge up the 8.5 megawatt battery at rates, are low, then use the power during electricity use occurs. The system's savings should make up for by the end of its practical lifespan it's a million dollars in electricity costs. While such a system can make economic sense that won't pay off for more than a decade, right now. Even if there was the battery production capacity electricity use, the savings just happen too storage to be worth it. However, for entirely different reasons, in be purchasing massive battery packs--the With most forecasts suggesting that some third by 2030, a potential solution to the grid's A Rivian R1T, for example, holds a 135 kilowatt-hour power the average American household for four While EV's typically take in electricity, them giving that electricity back to the grid. So, the idea is that EV's could charge at then supply some of that electricity back plugged in. In exchange, vehicle owners would be compensated While the real-world, wide-scale economics of battery degradation, this vehicle-to-grid role in the transition towards a greener grid. Now, the largest current battery electric installation, has 8.5 megawatts of capacity. Elsewhere in the state, however, there's power over 10,000 homes at once--and it looks Water is one of the earliest forms of energy one of the best sources of electricity. Hydroelectric power is the best of both worlds. While there's certainly the potential for the carbon impact is near-zero, meaning hydro However, it's also reliable. In theory, hydroelectric dams can start and practice a minimum flow is typically maintained--so peaker plants, responding to demand. Of course, there's only so much water upstream--especially midst of a 20-year-long drought--but hydroelectric electric energy. There's no reason why that process can't That's what happens here, at the Cabin Creek When electricity's cheap--typically at at their peak--the facility uses it to pump Then, when electricity's expensive and in start flowing that water through its turbines, It's essentially a form of price arbitrage, out the peaks and valleys of wind and solar Now, no matter how well supply is matched Glenwood Springs, Colorado library until, Many have an image of power plants as something While that's how the earliest grids operated, Despite dramatic declines in the past decade, comes from coal. That means that nearly half of the state's just six sites--the state's coal power Therefore, the ability to efficiently transport Now, what makes long-distance transmission the more you lose along the way--typically Meanwhile, the more centralized your electricity economies of scale. Therefore, the task of transmission is all find an equilibrium. Now, houses, businesses, and other buildings current power. A big reason why this standard beat out its Westinghouse, and Edison is because it's higher and lower voltages using transformers. What makes this crucial is that the higher transmission. Specifically, a doubling in voltage quarters That relatively simple voltage transformation system. Colorado's second largest power plant is It connects to some of the state's highest head due south until the town of Rifle. Now, these lines operate at 345 kilovolts, or 120 kilometer stretch from Craig to Rifle, relatively minor amount, thanks to the efficiency Other more densely populated regions, which have even higher voltage lines, all the way voltage transmission standard in the US. Quite few of these lines exist in the US--there's then a larger system spanning between Illinois These can carry about six times as much electricity Rifle and, thanks to their high voltage, see kilometers. That means that, in theory, assuming the infrastructure electricity from New York to LA, and about end. That's why these high-voltage lines are But what's even more efficient than transmitting is transmitting a direct current. Of course, the difficulty with direct current more expensive than with AC, and for use in AC power, which is also expensive. However, compared to the absolute lowest 0.6% AC lines, DC lines see as little as 0.45% Therefore, when there's a need to transmit the economics can work in favor of converting it back to AC at its destination. Perhaps the most prominent application of Intertie, stretching between northern Oregon In the summer, the temperate northwest has a huge amount of cheap electricity thanks So, the Pacific DC Intertie sends this electricity during its hot summer. Meanwhile, in the winter, Los Angeles sees control, so it sends its excess electricity electric heating. Phenomena like this demonstrate why creating proliferation of long-distance power transmission seasonal trends, and to bring power from where Back in Colorado, though, its relatively minor eventually enters this more-populated area Here, there are a number of nearby towns that to each of these would not be efficient. That's simply because the higher the voltage, A 345 kilovolt substation might cost $10.7 million. Meanwhile, a 345 kilovolt line costs around kilovolt line just $2.8 million. Therefore, even though the transmission losses Rifle transform the electricity to 230 kilovolts, flow west, south, and east, closer to its About 30 miles or 50 kilometers to the east, steps it down to just 69 kilovolts and then Glenwood Springs. The power is then stepped down again to 12.47 it to 120, 240, or 480 volts--the voltages the public library of Glenwood Springs, Colorado. Unlike with electricity, the supply of domain for example--even as demand grows and grows. There are now more websites on the internet there's even a chance you will want to make your domain, before its gone. Our sponsor, Hover, makes that incredibly Whether you want the domain corresponding channel, or anything else, Hover makes finding creative and stand out with their over 400 domain. Plus, with your new, custom domain, Hover meaning you can stand out with a firstname@lastname.com Hover also has super-fair, transparent pricing, them definitively the best place to go to There's a reason why I've bought every too for 10% off by clicking the button on-screen be helping support the channel while you're