- Good morning my people, how are we? - We arrived in Paris - It's Lisan's first time here, the first time, - mine's second time and we rented a cubicle here of 10 m2 or so, - look where we're stopping, because the Airbnbs here are quite expensive - and well That's what we found for 130 EUR per night. - But first when we entered the door, I said, where is the bed - Because where is the bedroom? - It is and when I rented it I forgot to see, I said it must have a bed - But no, in reality it didn't have a bed, it was a cot-type sofa. - Look and now yes. - Look how crazy - Well, well - Everything there is the bed. -Did a screw fall out or something? - This is the bed and we sleep half, like that wound half sunk here. - So I couldn't sleep very well, but it was what it was. - Accommodations here in Paris are quite expensive. - Luckily we are not far from the attractions on foot. - And look at the bathroom, which is quite small, also the heater - it's almost bigger than the bathroom - really - and the very high shower. - Very high because it starts at about half a meter, no, but it has everything. - It has everything. - We can't complain, it was just a bit funny. - Nothing more and there it also has a kitchenette. - If we want to have a meal smile, Lisanna smile, smile. - Positivity - But first coffee, there he smiled more. - Let's go for the first time, Lisanna is going to set foot on Parisian lands - Croissant - And another funny fact, we are like in a cave at night, - when it comes it seems like you are going to a cave. - You have to enter here through this hallway to be able to access - the apartment where we are stopping. - And here we are going to go directly out onto the street, - sortie in French means exit. - There we go. - Oh it's a little cloudy, today it seems like it's going to rain, - but hey, you have to take advantage of what's there. - Where are we going? - For I don't know. - We are going to take the metro now to go to the Eiffel Tower, - a very easy way to get around here, 2 EUR each fare. - You must have a card. - They say that you have to be careful that there is a scam - that a person comes and buys the ticket. - When we arrived, I read that after we had arrived. - A person came and helped us buy the ticket - and even told us where to take the train and everything - and then I checked and the price we paid was all correct. - He charged us 2.17 EUR, which is what it costs and he showed us the way well. - I mean, then I don't know if it was a scam or now there are really people who work on that. - Look at 2.15, actually there is this and now charge mia. - Look at the door. - Uh-huh. - They are so big. - I think it's done that way so that people don't jump and get on the free train, you know. - Now I've never seen a thing. - The train here is different, you see a lot under the roofs. - And it's full of corridors everywhere, - imagine the meters and meters of trains down the ground that must be here. - Yesterday we got lost a lot and we also feel like we have to rush - and they don't step on you or get angry with you. - Yes, because the people here in Paris are very good people who live here, - they have 2000000 inhabitants in the city and receive 40000000 tourists. - So people here have to work, they have to go to school, - they have to do a job interview. - You have to go to eat, I mean, there are people who live day to day, - like in any city in the world - and tourists sometimes stand still, - they are looking up to the side. - And well, imagine those people having to deal all year round - they get angry with those situations - so one piece of advice they had when I got here is to walk quickly - and always look around, if you are not blocking anyone's path. - Like us now I stopped to look at the map - exactly. - One has to be attentive because people here, if not poor, lose patience. - But in England, despite all the people, - we were so polite that I never at any time felt like they were going to step on me. - Yes it's true, England really has another other city vibe. - The city has another atmosphere. - Which way are we going my love? - On the opposite side of this one. -But this one is going where? For there then we go there. - Here we are at the Bastille station - We are stopping in region number 11 of Paris. - Paris has 20 sections, we are in number 11. - Before showing the Eiffel Tower to Lisanna I wanted to pass on some important information, - the holiday season is coming and we all want to be with family - and do more things, so prepare a promotion - very good for the holidays that are coming - in case you didn't know how to dream that it is a virtual private network that will allow you to connect anywhere in the world anonymously and safely. - Using your phone, tablet or computer. - Apart from that, you can block a series of benefits that only a VPN can give you. - For example, you will be able to find cheaper tickets, areas, - rent a car suddenly cheaper, - also access better prices for your accommodation. - Unblock content that is suddenly blocked on Netflix in your country - or a football match that you want to watch that is available in another country - and apart from all that you will always be able to browse safely. - For example, when you connect to a public Wi-Fi, - in an airport or in a city, you will be able to protect yourself from any type of hacking - they put the link surfshark.com bar, MYL - you will get four extra months - and a price spectacular that will only be available during the festive season. - So in the link in the video description, - we leave you all the information and take advantage and unlock all your benefits - with surfshark VPN - Lisanna close your eyes because. - I'm going to grab you by my arm like this and I'll take you - and if not, I won't let you step into the water and when we get close, I'll tell you, open your eyes. - And there I want you to see the Eiffel Tower, - I will guide you by closing your eyes. - Don't open them, eh my love, keep your eyes closed, keep, keep. - Keep in mind that the time is coming. - I'm dizzy - Open your eyes, yes. - 123. - Here you go. - Okay. - We can't walk through the grass because they have closed everything there you have it. - You know something very strange that didn't cause me anything. - No. - How now? - That didn't impact you. - It's smaller. - Tell the truth what you feel. - No and aside, because everything is closed and. - Look what's happening? - Look, you can't walk through the grass, - everything is closed, they put up fences, they are renovating, they are repairing, - taking advantage of the fact that there shouldn't be a single tourist because there is no literal one. - There are very few people - there is not a tourist today, come closer to see it. -Could it be that the disappointment of Paris caught me? What's it called? - The Paris Depression, which is when people watch the movies, - create a very great expectation of Paris. - Well, the city of love, the city to fall in love, - where everything is beautiful, everything is perfect, I don't know what - they arrive and can find this. - Of course now we are in winter, it is cold. - The situation doesn't help, but of course, I'm sure you're expecting something. - Everything arranged picturesquely full of flowers. - I understand that there are no flowers this time of year, but I don't know how. - I don't even know what the well is. - You suffered the disappointment of Paris, Lisanna. You just suffered it. - Because they romanticize the entire flower-cafe type city. - Flowers the baguettes, the French with that beret and the striped t-shirt. - But it is not a city like any other in the world, - with its beautiful things, its bad things. - Look. - If you start looking at the Eiffel Tower like this, you say, this is not the Eiffel Tower. - the one I see in the movies. Look, here are the boys repairing the street, - they are cutting the grass, it is full of leaves here. - It is impressive to be walking below the Eiffel Tower - and that there is not a single tourist because I am not literally lying to you, - there is no one. The most famous monument on planet Earth - the boys are fixing it. - You were disappointed Lisanna. - A bit. - Yes, I feel like it's always like that. If there is a lot of expectation, - you get disillusioned and if you are going to go, expectation you end up falling in love - for example, Look at London, I went with 0 - 0, zero expectation below zero. - I had another image, I don't know why, but it was like perfect. - Here, yes, we already see some tourists. - But very few. - But if. - I already came here in the summer and it was one. - To the point that you can't even climb the tower, - but here you can almost see some tourists taking photos. - Here you can see it a little closer, we can follow my love until we go all the way down. -And how do you take photos without the fence? - Without the bars, I don't know if it will be possible. - Poor Lisanna is very disappointed - To make matters worse, today we bought a Tour because I wanted to go up to the Eiffel Tower. - I think it's interesting to do it. The first time I came I didn't do it - and the shift cost something like that, like 55 EUR each - because we paid to get to the top. - Even the third floor has 3 floors, the tower has 3 floors and well, - we had a tough day but. We do it the same. - The only thing that makes me sad is that Lisanna can't walk through the pastures there. - When I came you could walk around, - you could even sit down and have a champagne, - something to celebrate. Did you see - You came to the Eiffel Tower Look, here it is closer. - They also tried to scam me here the first time I came, - a lady came with a folder and made you sign - and after you signed she asked you for money. - Today there aren't even these - Here come those who sell bracelets. - Yes, so now what we are going to do we are going to go down the tower. - To do if you can see it closer. - Thank you friend, thank you, you know, thank you, brother. - Friend. - Here are the guys who sell you. - The little Eiffel Towers can be a bit insistent, - they get on you if you start chatting. They are good at the beginning, - but after you start chatting the guys get quite dense. - I prefer to go shopping in stores where no one bothers me and I buy what I want. - I remember in Rome, one of those boys threw one of Mateo's bracelets - about 5 meters away. - And I threw them back. - Matteo threw it back at him, what a show - there are the kids selling to the lady, see here we are more kids - you see they sell, they sell umbrellas, they sell you umbrellas for the rain, - you don't buy, you're very stingy. - The charity girl who wanted to scam me insulted me - because I didn't want to participate. - He insulted me about his scam, just as you heard, I don't know if it came out. - In the video there are sellers, so be careful, if you come to the tower, - I do not advise you to buy anything here or do anything. - Go to a store that will be much quieter. - Look, there are the girls who make you sign the petitions for charity, you saw them - Well, those are those 2 girls there who are with the notebook, they sell you charity. - I'll tell you something very funny. - First time I went to Greece, it is already a country like any other, not like here, yes, - and I remember it very well. It was my first trip that something like this happened to me, - a lady came and gave me a Rose and I said, oh, what a nice gift here - and then 12 EUR and I didn't want it. -I didn't want as a friend, what do you sell there? -Don't you like being filmed? I have also seen this scam here in Paris. - It is called the Rose Scam, it is a very common type of scam in many European countries. - It's not just here that you saw that they don't like being filmed. - But they also send their share, so I defend myself with the Chamber - well, look, here we have the Eiffel Tower Well, look below. - Look at what impressive structure impressed you the most below my love or not or. - Be it. do you see that girl? It is also with the scam requests. - The sad thing about how many people fall because they give me flowers because - I had never gone to a country where they did that to me, so I believed it - And today no more. - I never fell for it, you see, but because one is more or less a crook, - it comes from countries where there are many scams where many things happen, - but many Europeans here don't know or people who come from places out there that don't happen - this type of small crimes and they fall because those people - they have been doing the same thing for 20 years, well in a little while we are going to enter the Tour - and we are going to go up there until the top of everything - just Come Lisanna the other scam is that guy who has the gray cap, - there he is there he is offering it to you, look. - That boy look. - Did you see that? Give me the friendship ribbon, they tell you it's like a little ribbon - they put it on your arm, it's free, you don't pay anything. I don't know what. - And then get out. - When you put it on, take it off, they take the money from you. - We can see all the scams live with lisanna. - Dress. - today yes, today there are none, look at the entrance here at the Eiffel Tower. - Look, there is no line, there is nothing. - Nothing at all. You don't need to pay for the ticket with the fast pass, right? -Matthew. - What peaks, not closed due to wind - No. - I paid for that. -Ask the company now, do they have to give us our money back? - Where it says I can't believe it. -Are you with me? - Uh-oh. - What a disappointment everything is going wrong for us in Paris today, what is that - But I paid much more than that, you could buy it directly there, I can't believe it. - You can cancel, look a little to see if it can be canceled. - Let's see, I tried to cancel it, but it can't be done. - They don't give me anything back, I bought it on the internet because - I said that if I came here there is a long line that you can't get in, - that it could be that there is no ticket, this or that. - And well, just like the London Eye said the same thing on the internet - and that it's full all year round, but there's no one there, - I could have paid 35 EUR, I paid like 55, but ours comes with a guide, - that's why it's a little more expensive. It's not a scam, but because. - This is on your own. Now I learned that you can buy in the tower too - poor people look. - They bought a bicycle tour of Paris. - There was no cancellation. - For me in the morning everyone thought, I thought it would be today? - Well, there we are going to start the Tour, that boy who comes there with the black umbrella - and the green jacket. The tour guide, he is going to take us to the tower - and they ask me, why did I buy with the Tour - I couldn't find any other way to do it, - I tried to buy the tickets through the tower's official website and no, it didn't work, - I don't know why it was the one I found, so let's see, - he said he's going to explain to us up to the second floor and then he'll leave us after that - I paid to go up to the top floor, but it seems like it's closed for the weather. - How to see there is no refund if it is not? - But there are refunds if they give us our money back. - We learn something at least. - Yes, let's learn something. The kid seems cool, friendly. There is a group of more or less 8 people. - Let's see what happens, keep watching - over there. We passed a security check - we emptied all our pockets, left everything in a blue box - and now the rest of the group is passing through so we are inside the tower enclosure. - And the, The top the tip is still closed. - The little tip is closed, the first thing we can see when we enter the tower here - are the names that are written. - There are 72 names written on four sides of the tower - and it was the 72 thinking minds that contributed mathematicians and physical artists - who gave their contribution to build the tower. - Unfortunately the name of a woman is not there. - A scientist who also helped. - He gave his part here to build it, because in the 18th century, - when the tower was built, you know, I don't know, - there were no equal rights between men and women, - so they didn't put his name there, - but there was also a woman who contributed - and the most curious thing of all is that 72 men built the Eiffel Tower - and the Eiffel Tower, It is feminine, so it says that 72 men built a woman, that is the story. - It's not true, my love, - what I liked the most is that instead of putting men from Kings, - from emperors, from I don't know people from high society, they put people with merit, - that is, they emptied themselves into the visible meritocracy. Lisanna and here you can see the iron base. - Well, it's been more or less, I don't know, 20 minutes that we've been here in line. - And he just informed us that the elevator broke down. - Then the day will see if they open another elevator so it can be used - or we go up the stairs because there are 2 types of tickets too. - One can go up and down by elevator and another you have to go up and down the stairs - and the one I looked for has an elevator. - And it's filling up now. - Yes, now it's starting to fill up, look how it's not moving, - now it's filling up with all this. - And there we are going to try to climb the Eiffel Tower elevator, look what that is. - Uh-huh. - Go up, go up, go up. - We waited for more than 1 hour. - But why did it break? - 120 people enter the elevator. - They are hydraulic and are moved by water pumps. - Or it's full. - Look at the computer that the boy has here, everything he uses is stuffed there. - Hello, our Tour is over, the boy explained everything to us. - Now it's time for Mateo to explain everything he learned. - The spectacular view we have up here, - there you can see the Seine River, you can also see several famous monuments here - there is the tallest building in Paris that is given the middle finger of Parisians. - Yes, because you hate it. - They hate everything about tall buildings - and people don't like all that here at all. - You also see a famous person appear in almost all the movies you see about Paris. - Super famous buildings in the city and there is also a place that showed the financial part. - From Paris, but I don't know where it is, it's on the other side, Ah, over there. Look Lisanna. - If you want to touch a piece of history, one of the most emblematic and famous buildings of humanity. - They say that they paint it every 4 years and it takes 3 years to paint it. - They paint it every 7, my love, every 7. - Years, but since it takes 3 years for you to paint it, they paint it for 3 years - and they leave the paint on it for 4 years and then they paint it again. - Yes, and they paint everything by hand. 25 painters. - Hanging there and it goes like 15,000 brush strokes. - Aha the views are really worth it, they are impressive. Here we have another angle. - And what surprised me the most is where that famous love story comes from - Because they say it is the city of love, - I don't know how many couples come here to ask their loved ones for a commitment, - but the story they told us left shocked. - It really wasn't what I expected because they say that one of the builders - a bricklayer worked here. - There were 300 who built the tower, 80% were Italians. - His name was Alberto and when he finished the work he decided to call his fiancee - to ask for her hand. Like I did with Lisanna at the restaurant, he did ask for her hand. - The girl accepted, they popped a champagne and drank it all - when they went down the stairs of that little spiral staircase, the boy slipped. And he died. - And here come the love stories that ask for a hand here at the Eiffel Tower, - what many people do not know is that the first proposal was not very, it was not very happy. - I remember that before I met you, I think I always dreamed, - they were asking for a hand at the Eiffel Tower, but then when the desire went away, - when I started watching all the videos of Paris that it is not as romantic as it says. -And my love didn't seem very cliche to me and a very bizarre story also happened here, but very bizarre. - That one caught my attention a lot about a person who fell in love with the tower. - Look before I tell you, I'll show you there. - That is the financial area of Paris and it is the only place where Parisians did not complain - that they built those buildings. - But well, before I forget, there was an American who came here - and fell in love with the tower, married her, - kissed her, did very physical things with the tower, let's say that, and that's called objectophilia. - It is when a human being falls in love with an object. - Well. - He got divorced. - Everything was received. - Yes. - We arrived on the first floor, now from the tower we took the elevator, - we went down, there is a type, a kind of glass floor where you can see down - it is a little claustrophobic. Ah, no, it is not claustrophobic, as it is said, it is a little more altophobic - those who suffer from altitude are good, - it is good not to look down if they suffer from altitude, - but it is good to look here, you cannot see because of the water and it is wet. - There is a Restaurant here it also looks like - it costs 70 EUR for the whole plate, but if you don't have options for 50 EUR. - Appetizers plus dish 49 starter dish dessert 70. In other words, because of the location and the view and everything. - It's not bad and look how they serve you. - There are some people dressed there in full suits. - That girl greets you dressed all dressed up, - it looks crazy and here on the first floor is where they also have a Christmas market - which is coming now during the Christmas season - and here it seems that there is an Asian Culture event or Japanese. - Look, an event is happening in here. They are giving away wine. - There are people there making Japanese food, - it would seem, look, they are all dressed in traditional clothing - I don't know if everyone who comes to visit the tower can enter, - I don't think so. - This is probably a closed event - and here where that ball is, that's where they are going to have the Christmas market. - Imagine the number of people who are going to come to this event, - this is basically there. There is another restaurant too. - And this is the first floor. - What do you think if we continue tomorrow? - I think so, we're going to have to abort the video today because - first, my feet are all wet and I'm going to catch a bad cold, - I'm going to get sick and it's very cold. It's raining, you can't enjoy the day. - And tomorrow probably sun - So we cut the video today and continue tomorrow. - But first, what do we do? Choc choc? And the new day we found something. - Here is just the tower, as you can see. -And next door is full of these black boxes, what is that, lisanna - Rat poison. - Yes, because in this city there are many rats here, - precisely in this region where the Eiffel Tower is - you see a lot of rats, too, especially more at night, - they come out to eat and look.