Did you know? In Metal Gear Solid 3, the scene where Volgin and a lot more violent. This is, of course, the moment Snake loses In the game's final build, it's a one minute while Colonel Volgin electrocutes and punches him. But in a director's commentary published in thing was going to go on much longer. Eventually, we ended up cutting that back. We were also going to have an option as Snake either 'yes' or 'no' when Volgin commanded removing this feature because of things going things down in terms of violence.&quot; What was happening in the real world were they'd been doing to acquire information from to cut the scene down to its bare essentials. I'm David Hayter. A few months ago, I hosted a video on this Gear series -- and today we're gonna look Did You Know Gaming searched through thousands for old interviews, archived footage, and they could dig up even more ideas that, for cut. Some were victims of censorship, others got the discs just couldn't fit all the content Like in the original Metal Gear Solid -- it on the start menu, but Kojima's team actually Unfortunately, there just wasn't enough room A year later, they released an expansion disc wanted it to be 10x bigger, and hundreds of ended up getting cut. In the Metal Gear Solid: Integral strategy 3,000 [laughs]... How many was it we ended up making? Including the ones we cut.&quot; Then the VR Director tells him: &quot;About 500, [...] We had a lot of free time when we were half our time just playing around with the Then Kojima said &quot;I'll probably get in trouble around with the original game while working We eventually started making new VR stages it, we had a whole new set of them. [...] So I gave a presentation about it to a confession to make. This is what we've been doing all this time.' [Laughs]. They didn't look too happy about that, but they then asked us to make it into a proper They go on to say they made a lot more Mystery ones, leaving only ten on the disc. In another interview, Kojima said they wanted game of hide-and-seek... but ultimately gave The game was already way behind schedule -- Kojima only take a year to make, but active development And besides, even if they'd had all the time the disc was already packed to the brim. &quot;Metal Gear Solid was released in Japan, North than I could have imagined. I was extremely pleased with its success, sequel wherever I went. I was planning to create a completely new fate... I would have to direct the sequel.&quot; After committing to Metal Gear Solid 2, Kojima bigger than the first game, but only half Even the game's opening moments got cut. Sons of Liberty blew everyone's minds when flooded Kojima, all trying to get their 15 In a few of those interviews, he said AI would of gameplay, then use that data to detect Different people would receive a different how much blood, gore, and graphic content Presumably, that meant a grown man would have get. But even at its big reveal party, Kojima was to realize all his grand ambitions, and some of the ideas that wouldn't make the final They were right. The closest thing that made it in was just which only affected the ending -- the data them away, discarding the identity of the Talking to the Official Czech PlayStation ideas to make use of PS2's internet functionality, use of them. He went into more detail a few months later, but it's really up to Sony to realize these The first, basic step would be to implement via the Internet. My favorite idea is to have an Al program, or Mei Ling. They would monitor everyone playing the game, giving advice on how to proceed in the game. They could even give tips on life and answer Obviously our programmers are the ones who characters, so it would be fun if they could and fight the player.&quot; Talking more to the Czechs, Kojima said he The magazine mentioned that Sony was working Kojima was well aware of that fact, saying: technology into my game. For example, it would fit perfectly into Metal It would be enough to shout a command.&quot; The PS2 stealth game, SOCOM, later came packaged You could play online and talk to your squadmates, to AI companions. But it sounds like Kojima had something different Instead of directing teammates, players would Kojima had actually been talking about using MGS1. He lamented that controllers had too many to each one. It was confusing, but more importantly, it He explained: &quot;I didn't want the game control Because it is an action game, I wanted it In RPGs, you press a button and a window opens But I wanted to avoid this. Just one click activates some action. As a result, we ended up using every button it, then it will be convenient. However, I do think there are too many buttons difficult. Eventually I would like to see a voice recognition Maybe he would've had us talking to our TV's, call.&quot; But we like to think Kojima's a bit more imaginative He was aware that many fans had issues with some kind of verbal response could've replaced through different dialogue trees. That said, the only specific function Kojima magazine Hyper about how players could say them, hands-free. Kojima also mentioned an item that would've the PS2. He said: &quot;In the initial stages of development, items for the player to use. Unfortunately, many of them either take up or they ruin the game balance, so we end up We're playing with a great feature now that version. It involves being able to place your own surveillance them remotely. You have four extra screens, but that means Unfortunately, he was right. The cameras didn't make it in, and even adding polygon counts for characters and environments. At the next year's E3, just a few months before &quot;one more thing&quot; -- the spectacle of a flood to stay ahead of it. But when fans finally got their hands on the was noticeably missing. Kojima later explained the cut; Hyper asked he told them: &quot;...I was not able to do even Since this is an action game, I had to avoid any slowdown due to the PS2's processing speed. The PS2 is not the magic box. There was an event in the game in which you We really tried to include it in the game, He cut the flood escape at the last minute, When Olga reveals her backstory and motivations There was gonna be another sequence on the by sharks, and Snake'd have to spill his so he could escape before drowning. Kojima described several other sequences with Great White, but in the end, not even one A few months after launch, series artist Yoji was promoted with a lengthy online interview. [45] Talking about an unused &quot;Antarctic Snake&quot; penguin suit that lets Snake breathe underwater. But transforming it from a concept into an wouldn't have been worth it. Presumably, it would've come in handy in all In our last video, we talked about a few cut we missed one shown in this art book -- Ed According to Shinkawa, it's actually Ed Brown for 3DO. In Policenauts, Ed's part of the LAPD sometime space colony's Vice Unit. Meryl Silverbaugh got her start in Policenauts so moving Ed into the Metal Gear universe MGS2 would've shown Ed Brown in his younger mean him dying a few years before the events of time paradox -- so he got replaced with There were also a few scenes left out, mostly In the final game, there's a soldier who can't a fence, not realizing that he soaking Raiden. The Colonel and Rose call to express their when the mission's over. On a Japanese talk show, Kojima said he wanted This time, a guard backs up to a fence with god, is that guy about to blow mud all over But then, to their surprise, they just get Kojima thought it was hilarious, but none They all pretended to be &quot;too busy.&quot; There was another scene he wanted to include enters the Tanker. As you walk down the corridor, you hear the Psycho. The violin sounds gets louder and louder as terrifying is about to happen. When you open the door, bracing yourself for -- it's just a gag. But it cost too much to buy a violin and do get made. On the game's 20th anniversary, Kojima tweeted the scenes. In a Codec call with Rose, Raiden reveals fought in Liberia's civil war, and was shown Kojima acquired real-life footage of a child himself, but the footage was rejected by the In another tweet, Kojima said there was one too far and had to get dialed back. Right after Raiden reveals his dark childhood, The whole time he's using his hands to hide in combat, then &quot;what should not be seen, a game over. But the biggest thing that almost got cut In our last video, we talked about how large because of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. The original plot began with weapons inspections financial district getting destroyed. But after 9/11 happened, MGS2 was deemed too to avoid controversy. Shortly after our video was published, more work of The Kojima Archivist. In 2005, the Snake Eater Extreme Box set was book called The Shedding. Several pages are dedicated to 9/11 from Kojima's he originally wanted to cancel the game completely. In September 2001, development was pretty already placed pre-orders. Then a staff member came to Kojima and shouted Trade Center. A chill ran down his spine, he ran to the out in real life. &quot;I felt I could no longer release this game. The Twin Towers are clearly visible throughout We treated it as an iconic building. This is no longer a good idea.&quot; An emergency meeting was held the next day they feared releasing the game could provoke Kojima and his team. They were afraid of the US government too, who criticized the Bush administration were Sons of Liberty's villain was the president In Hollywood, war movies and action films left and right. Kojima wanted to follow suit. &quot;I personally thought MGS2 should not have I even intended to quit the company. It was only two or three years of hard work.&quot; But his team strongly disagreed and pushed Ultimately, all decisions regarding the American and hundreds of pieces were surgically removed. The game released in America two months after only got one complaint about ideology. It turned out most fans were actually pissed of Snake -- that was the big controversy. There were no terrorist or government attacks on to sell 7 millions copies worldwide, and culturally influential games of all time. After Sons of Liberty's massive success, Kojima before -- a realistic jungle. So he took his staff into the wilderness for personal experience, which turned into a life-threatening They were trained in CQC by combat specialists ground, and chopped them with dummy knives. &quot;I think I was thrown around thirty times,&quot; Another said they hit him so hard he almost The climax of their training was when the for the night. The combat specialists surrounded each group a knife and took him hostage, then mock-executed After their school of hard knocks, Kojima's brand new one from the ground up, specially They initially planned to use a dynamic weather the weather would change over time. But the mechanic was eventually cut, so in weather patterns. In a case of making things a little too realistic, with The End to last longer than the entire He thought Sniper Wolf was too &quot;game like&quot;, duel was over quickly. So Kojima aimed to make Snake Eater's sniper In a 2005 magazine commentary, he said: &quot;I'm where you have scenes in the mountains where each other for days. That's something I wanted to do in MGS3. So, finally, I get these two characters in to ambush Snake. When I explained what I wanted to do to my We also went into the mountains and did some My final direction to my guys was: 'If there wouldn't mind if five of them hated it to as the other five fall in love with it.'&quot; Kojima wanted it to take one or two weeks Two weeks in real life. After Kojima's programmers finished building playing for hours and hours and couldn't find The whole team hated it and started booing gonna work. Then they changed it into a much easier and today. Snake Eater has a variety of vehicle types, probably get to operate at least some of them. Closer to release, Famitsu Weekly asked if of aerial vehicles after he shot them down. Kojima said that was originally part of the if Snake could fly everywhere, so they stopped In the game's final build, Snake can't operate There were a few ideas Kojima considered, as others. In that same Famitsu interview, Kojima said weapons, which is pretty standard in first-person make the game unbalanced. He also considered Snake using mud to cool jumping in rivers to make attack dogs lose Kojima said: &quot;In films and novels, dogs lose goes across a river. In reality, I have been told that this is At this point, I am still contemplating whether flavor.&quot; The mechanic didn't make it in, so apparently The MGS 1 through 4 art book shows a few &quot;unpublished too early to be named -- so they only got Like the Medusa-themed &quot;Number Two,&quot; the tiny-handed like they'd be more at home in Silent Hill The book also shows some early sketches of like a pre-wheelchair, eye-patch wearing The There's also a middle-aged version of The blood. Probably the weirdest concepts are for The simply labeled &quot;black man style.&quot; Then there's The Boss, who's got a tattoo According to Kojima: &quot;She was a mentor, a They had a very complicated connection. But I knew that I would have to emphasize So when designing The Boss, I imagined a mother kind of mother-son nuance. So even with her breast exposed she would When I first designed her, in the area around So, when firing a gun, her breast would shake, There would be this legend: that when you be over.&quot; But the tattoo and its backstory ultimately scar from a cesarean section she had while The climactic ending with Snake and The Boss It seems this was a pretty late change, as In the final game, these are her last words. But unused audio on the disc reveals it was -- seemingly with the player in full control, begs Snake to end her life. Ultimately, the player's freedom and all that over the trigger. After Snake Eater's development was almost the Japanese and English versions. It was the first game in the series to drop It happens when Volgin calls EVA his precious Here's the Japanese version. And here's the toned-down English version. Later games weren't so shy about dropping the early 2000's. Post-release, a couple dozen new camo designs Most of them were eventually added into Subsistence available in Japan. Like the E-DEN camo, designed by manga artist a hippy. Also the New Years camo, with a rising sun year's beginning. And the Yodobashi camo, based on the Japanese They were all included on a 2006 bonus disk PS2. But the most difficult to obtain was the WonderGOO store where they had a machine that uploaded None of these four camos were ever made available A year after Snake Eater, MGS3: Subsistence Metal Gear Online. Kojima originally wanted to include some girls but the producer of the wrestling series Rumble Kojima would've preferred girls from Dead by Konami and he felt kind of obligated, so If not for that, Metal Gear Online might've But arguably the biggest piece of content remake. It added a few new features like the Camouflage in real life and turn them into custom camos. But in 2017, a dataminer called Pliskin Hunter Extra Ops. Peace Walker released a couple years earlier, VR Missions, with objectives like eliminating and getting from Point A to Point B with perfect Each mission only took a few minutes, but performance, so there's a lot replayability What Pliskin Hunter discovered was 69 brand Eater 3D. Yeah, 69, a fitting number for a game called We got in touch with Pliskin Hunter, who was his game to get this footage. There were 4 Ingredient Capture operations, 4 Eliminate Enemy in the Time Limit, 4 One 5 Perfect Stealths, 5 True Perfect Stealths, Attack Chopper Battles. There were also 16 boss extensions -- 2 each Fury, Volgin, the Shagohod, and of course, With hacking, a lot of these Extra Ops are For example, there's no proper menu system, booted out with no fanfare. And instead of a ranking, there's just a placeholder If Extra Ops mode was finished, it would've and done even more to make Snake Eater 3D Portable Ops follows Big Boss six years after But the game was initially conceived with We recently spoke with Ryan Payton, who worked was a PSP game that let you relive the series' The game would've run on the Subsistence engine, He said: &quot;Those initial ideas probably only being more boss focused. This is just my interpretation of what was do we create an authentic Metal Gear experience perhaps more than the Acid series up to that And also how do get that game out the door So [the idea] was to dust off existing boss as well, but those ideas didn't last very ended up becoming Metal Gear Solid Portable After they changed the game's structure, Portable there wasn't much time to ruminate on huge Also, Kojima wasn't as closely involved in series, there wasn't the deep well of ambitious But there were a few interesting regional Portable Ops had a feature that required a to specific real-life coordinates, and there Ryan told us how Kojima likes to make use this geo-cacheing mechanic was right up his Unfortunately, the GPS was only released in that feature. There were also 8 soldier types you could WonderGOO who'd worked out a promotional agreement Metal Gear games usually released in Europe Konami gave them extra content to make up For Portable Ops, European versions got a additional soldier types and careers, and So not only did America get less content than of all the regional differences, nobody got And with so many of those online features chunk of Portable Ops is completely inaccessible, time. For the franchise's big finale, Kojima dreamt even was completely different from the game that He said other PlayStation 3 games were just Kojima wanted the next generation to push ecosystem. Every tree would grow from a seed, shed its &quot;There should be life in that tree. If we water the tree it will grow, if we burn I want to create this kind of simulation world.&quot; He laid out his vision for Metal Gear Solid &quot;I would like to create something that we Up to today, creating games was almost like You have the set in a studio, but a set is And also, everything is completely fake. It looks pretty, it looks like the real thing, Some creators might think, how can I expand How can I make it a bigger world, is what Even if you do that, though, I think that's the trees are still &quot;plastic,&quot; everything the look of the jungle, everything is a fake... I would like to go after the 'real'... I would have the trees with life inside... you don't water the tree it might die. Then I would ask the users, why not play hide A core theme he brought up again and again In short, while other studios were improving was evolving the gameplay by focusing on the But those ambitious goals bear little resemblance Looking back after release, G4 asked Kojima final product. He said: &quot;There were differences from the stage -- to the final product. But in the midst of development, when we saw that, we changed our vision and goals... At the beginning we only heard rumors about it, that it was a monster machine. And so we set our dreams too high because But when we saw the actual machine, of course, were things we could do and could not do. It wasn't about the PS3's power, it was us A couple more examples he described from that the chemicals affect other parts of the environment; point a flower would bloom in that exact spot. Another core concept was Snake playing three We covered that concept pretty in-depth in said you could ally with countries A, B, or If two countries in a particular area were against the other to wipe them out, so only Or you could just wait until both sides wiped Play your cards wrong and you'll have both If one army gets destroyed, maybe they're occupied. Whose side you were on was constantly changing made the game highly replayable. Kojima also said the maps would be huge -- the full of all kinds of nooks and crannies. But they'd be much more fleshed out. He pointed to the houses in GTA, saying they're of Metal Gear, people actually lived in those Civilians and bystanders, he hinted, might Another feature -- touted as early as the Kojima said they wanted to make most of the pretty much everything could be destroyed. But in the final game, destruction was minimal However, only shadows of those ideas made Kojima blamed the PS3's lack of power, and with his management duties in the newly-formed was developing Acid 2, Portable Ops, Portable graphic novels. He told Edge magazine he wanted MGS4 to take it only managed to take one step forward. The moment-to-moment gameplay wasn't up to a matter of development talent, rather than Just before MGS4 hit store shelves, he said: because it really fulfilled the basic concept go anywhere in the environment and also you At the beginning of the concept Metal Gear push down a direction things go automatically If a bullet comes you don't have to manually We kind of gave up on this because it was came out, we saw that they accomplished what I have to tell you that my staff and I were came out.&quot; Assassin's Creed was Kojima's favorite game added Altair's cloak into Guns of the Patriots Those were the big ideas, but a few small like PS3-to-PSP connectivity. At E3 2005, Kojima told interviewers that He later said he wanted to connect with Portable also considering letting players, maybe even PSP. Kojima tried to implement driveable vehicles enthusiastic for them in Guns of the Patriots. He was a big fan of Halo 2, and pointed out drive pretty much anything, and yes, they MGS4. None of those ideas made it in either. After release, Kojima told a Chinese magazine but only ended up with around 70. 108's a very specific number, especially since that actually made it in. 108's also a culturally significant number, goal. At year's end in Japan, a bell's rung 108 year and open the page on a new chapter. Each ring represents one of 108 earthly temptations And thus, the 108 weapons represent Snake's the game's final message... to put aside the Okay yes, I am speculating on the meaning, Snake to have 108 weapons. In another interview, Kojima also said he customizations with each other online, but Another more bizarre idea, which was probably incorporate smell and even taste into his Before the Sixaxis controller was revealed PS3] comes with a controller that allows you I am interested in what new experience I can The problem is that most games limit you to Personally, I think this is a fundamentally Everything that surrounds the player in one be involved in the process.&quot; He'd actually been talking about the idea But even if he couldn't incorporate smell, game, like switching the controller port in the back of the real-life CD case to find In fact, smell'd been on Kojima's mind even game Snatcher, he wanted to coat the disc got hot, it would melt and players could smell But, up till now at least, he's never been a smellable game. And of course, it wouldn't be Metal Gear without When asked if Snake's injections were a gameplay bit of friction against first-party Sony rules. At first, I had plans to have this injection But with the ratings, and even team members to do that.&quot; Apparently Sony wouldn't tolerate performance-enhancing downgraded to a plot device. At a signing event, Kojima revealed that the gonna appear buck naked, and Yoji Shinkawa actresses do motion capture in the nude... There was also a subplot in the Naomi tracking of women's clothes leading you in the wrong At the end of the trail you'd eventually find as well. When we talked to Ryan Payton, he described Big Mama motorcycle chase and running into He said: &quot;There were some things that definitely a sequence in Eastern European. There was an underground tunnel sequence that kind of an escort scenario. That was cut fairly late in the process. So I always thought if there was ever like the team would dust that off. It was probably 60 or 65% complete... and it was behind schedule. You were escorting Big Mama in a callback injured after a big motorcycle sequence. So here you were helping an injured Big Mama motorcycle chase, as a callback.&quot; You can see the cut in real time when Snake walk about fifty feet, then turn right and The tunnel was originally a lot longer, and By the way, I'm David Hayter, the guy narrating Some of you may not know -- I was Snake's We actually recorded about 4 minutes of dialogue Here's a few small pieces. Ryan also told us there were some ideas the and as they were cutting them, the developers back] in an eventual MGS4: Substance version.&quot; Like the tunnel sequence, and Ryan also talked like what the Rat Patrol was doing behind-the-scenes But after development was finished, the team the Fox Engine, so that definitive edition If it was up to Kojima, Raiden's hack n' slash &quot;I wanted to go for Frank Jaegar or Gray Fox, had to write the script and then be really I want to pass game development to the younger to do so for quite some time... they wanted title with some Katana action and Raiden in respect that.'&quot; A month after launch, Konami released a DLC But the Japanese version of the DLC gave fans sword called Hebidamashii, which means &quot;Snake Canonically, it was forged through the latest in order to pass on the wisdom of the legendary Snake's Japanese voice actor, Akio Otsuka, talks to Raiden as he fights with it. If it'd been localized into English, I guess &quot;Cardboard huh?&quot; &quot;You get it, don't you Raiden? It must be used with care, devotion, you need You can't just handle it roughly.&quot; &quot;No man who loves cardboard can be bad.&quot; &quot;This isn't training, this is life or death. There are no heroes out here, if you lose, That sword was the only part of the DLC that Snake's voice, it was functionally identical So it seems the voice was probably the reason a few months before Ground Zeroes. I don't know for certain, but I can tell you And I don't remember ever being asked to either. It's been like ten years though, so it's possible Y'all know I do stuff besides just voice Snake, Go buy Wolves on DVD. As far as Rising though, I guess you could Metal Gear Solid: Rising was scrapped almost transformed it into Metal Gear Rising: Revengeance. But Did You Know Gaming will be covering Rising never made public. So we'll leave that topic for another time, today's video. Meh, let's not do this one actually. 5's already been done to death. Hey guys, let's do the Wild Geese thing. ... Yeah I know we said we weren't gonna do ... Okay cool. ... In 1978, a movie you've probably never Some mercenaries are hired to infiltrate a a political hostage so he can be exchanged The mercs are hired by a merchant banker -- Sir Big Boss. They HALO jump into Zimbala, but they're vastly silently kill the enemy soldiers. The mission's successful, but just as the the Big Boss betrays them and is revealed Their plane flies off without them, leaving nowhere. Hideo Kojima loves this movie, and the story the Metal Gear franchise. The original 1987 Metal Gear was initially trying to escape, but during development, infiltration. In a series of tweets in 2011, Kojima revealed Metal Gear into a team-infiltration game, But the MSX wasn't capable of making Kojima's to make Metal Gear a 'one man against the If the MSX was a little more powerful, or it would've been a completely different kind would've been different... For the past 35 years, underpowered hardware's games he dreamed of making, but at the very thanks for giving us the Metal Gear franchise We have more Metal Gear content like this miss it. Until then.... Did you know Kojima wanted to let Snake name If you wanna see more Metal Gear cut content, not spoil, click one of the videos on-screen. Special thanks to Nitroid, Shaine Smith, The everyone who made this video possible. I'm David Hayter. Thanks for watching.