Welcome to Good Mythical to design our ideal road funds and these options. And our imaginations, but To the Native American to aid in their mission families living on tribal by providing basic necessities fuel, and medical care. And you can join us Alright! I love a good road trip. We have some options here. Uh, we got snacks. We got drinks. You know what? Let's look at each other's, our backs together. We got snacks, we got drinks. We got music. We got companion. Companion, and I see that, Mm hmm. So is Britney Spears. My wife, your wife you, and you for me. We're cheaper than cheaper than our wives. - Let's start with this, because... I think your, your company the most important choice. I'm not starting I, I, I disagree. Okay, so. I think the most important - Which um... It's. not on here. So I've been on a And? Not interested. No, I'm just saying. I mean, we've been on Been there, done that? We're probably It'll probably be I love my wife, I love But. We would have a great time. But if me and Britney That'd be fun. Think of the stories generated just by that. She is such a wild card. I know. Like you never know when the car and like spin around. You know how she spins around? Have you seen how she spins? Gotta keep those doors locked. And, uh, I just think that, did a road trip... What, we're gonna So she can't get out We might get sponsored. So you need child proof locks. Sponsored by... - I don't know. I don't know what... All kinds of For me... a me and And it's not, like, I'm I'm in love with my wife. I'm not into So you're gonna, alright, Yeah, it's, and it's, In this scenario. Right. Well, I don't know a lot think I'm into her that way. In what way? The attracting, Okay, well, I'm sure I don't watch her... anything! Watch her spin a couple Is that gonna make me like her less? It might make you I don't know. I don't, I like, part of me Can we show Link a... Yeah. A Britney spinning? Part of me just wants to see the, if the traction remains after I don't know if it will. Just to be... I don't know if to show me stuff. I think you'd have to Yeah. Is there any way Nick? We have completely While we're waiting for I'll wait to go with that. Yeah, hold your decision I'm gonna go with music, the Gathering podcast. We have Stevie's playlist. Oh, man. Better lock them doors. Yeah, those are both But Stevie, can you I could curate her a trip. I have playlists on my various different road trips Okay? I don't know. I just don't know I'm gonna find I'm not talking about I'm talking about like, in her house. Now I could go with - that's, I mean... That's pretty heady music. I like it, but, um, So I would be repeating a lot. Okay, I'll show you this one. Of course I have to I have to. I have to do that. Okay Link. You know? It's the one thing that Here's one. So this is her And a bikini. And high heels. Filming herself in a mirror. She's not spinning. Oh look, here she goes. Yep, here we go. What? Her pants are very low. What is she doing? Well, that's great. What do you, what do That wouldn't be positive. Oh, no, no, yeah, I want, I Is your attraction growing? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. With every spin. You do you. I mean, that is charismatic. Now she's on the beach Why does she pull She keeps pulling. Oh my gosh. Why does she keep pulling her.... Like, oh my gosh. They're about to She's pulling it. It looks like her off, but it's not. Now she's got sand. What? Is that really her? Could you imagine Did she make that edit? I don't know. She probably has editors. That's so weird. We'd be on a road trip. She'd be out there in her Yeah, yeah, yeah. And we'd have a sponsor. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, if I choose her, it's But I'm not into it. I'm just telling you interesting and I think Well, I'm gonna tell So, that probably means Let's go to drink. Hold on, I haven't Stevie, you like pop music. I haven't done companion. I think there's some taste, but I think you stuff that I might not like. Well, and Link's over there lesbian music, and then that I listen to as if there's Give me, give me a I don't listen to it The thing that I like about happy and it keeps you awake. And those are two things You can't be listening to can't go to sleep, you know. I think I might save Sounds a little one dimension. I might save some money here. I'm definitely not going And I'm, I actually playlists because I don't I like playlists to be person or an algorithm. So I'm gonna let Stevie be the That's right. Let me be the algorithm. Me and Brittany listening This is really shaping up. Oh! I forgot to tell you, we common I've discovered. Uh, I went to the eye doctor. Did I tell you this? I don't think I told you this. You have eye things? And I, you know, was going of the different machines and then the eye doctor and she's like, dry eyes? And I was like, I, you know, whatever. And she's like, no, you have dry eyes. And I was like, oh, and she's of your misshapenned eyelids. And I was like, oh, wow, - Misshappened? Are you on hitting me? So now I have multiple heat mask situation. We can share! Yeah. You didn't I didn't even know it! Are you seeing an improvement No, and that's the thing, I'm assuming if you have dry of, uh, you know, a drop. Yeah, you don't typically So, do you have MGD? Did they say that? No. Miller Genuine Draft. - I just thought it was like... It was, uh, it was unexpected. You know? Wow. So we also, you might like my Maybe we'll meet at Okay. Uh, drink Frappuccino, Coffee, Apple Juice. I'm actually nostalgic for gas because my introduction to Yeah, but it's, I'm gonna, I'm gonna go this because I want it. It's so expensive. I want a nice, I need nice my, you know, I'm like Silaine. You know, I gotta have Maybe my boss will buy it. You remember, yeah, you cappuccinos, and those, well don't have to remember them, - Ever really had coffee... that kinda got me into coffee because it was just so, so And so I'm a little So I definitely Frappuccino, so So many calories. Slurpee, it's just icy. Apple juice. Yep, yeah, you don't get an unsweetened For snack... - We're ten dollars here? Yeah, $10. Funyuns are nice, but for carrots are good for the for the sunflower seeds. I'm a, I'm just a Gives my mouth Well, I can't afford to Link, you're out of money now. Oh. Oh yeah, you did two. You, you can't even, you I can't drive anywhere. You can't go anywhere. I'm gonna be in You completely miscalculated music and nice drinks. Wow. You can't have nice things. I can't even go alone. I don't have any nice things. I have no nice things in mind. But I am gonna get sunflower It's a whole food. I'm gonna be listening to sunflower seeds. - In your yard. Did I miss, where did Car equation for you? In the frappuccino cup. Oh you you finish the - Sunflower seeds And then you would have to if you're holding the steering as you spit into the cup. - I'm just saying there's like a lot of logistics No, Brittany The passenger It's constantly spinning. I'm jealous. And every time she comes I'm jealous of what you've And I spit in that thing. Man. We're gonna have Send me a postcard. Oh my gosh. Can I redo something here? Maybe I don't want the the gas station coffee and that now I still can't But I could go with I mean, we do this a lot. Okay, sure. I don't wanna go. I love a good solo trip. I don't wanna go. So now I've got, I got So, here's a couple of are gonna do for fun. Every time we get get out, and I'm gonna get a - Adjusting her bikini? And with every state that of her bikini is gonna Just like in her Instagram. And again, I'm not interested her thing, and so I feel Yep. The next thing I'm gonna to read Michelle Williams me as we go down the trip. So you don't need In between Stevie's playlist. That's for all If you know, you know. Stevie, you know. I know, I know. Well, if you need Okay, cause you'll Ready to go. Ready to go, listening There's a fungus among us. November's Pin of the only at Mythical.com