Doing this in a forest was a mistake. So, the Vikings! They may have been vicious without them. They changed our language, top In this video, I'll tell you how the Vikings I'll show you the words they left still. Words like sky and skull and people and everyday objects that Hear how we used to confuse our eggs for our eyes, why the Vikings complicated our clothing, wnd what role they're still All that and loads more coming Now, this video was made in collaboration with Rosetta Stone - the immersive I wanted to work with them because my life so deeply and Rosetta Stone has I recently got married to a wonderful able to give a speech my wife's family one or two people from my side of the family too. Learning a language also gave me the confidence to in Germany now - and I've been using Rosetta been learning some hip German slang. "Alter, It's different to other apps. There's no all about listening, speaking, reading, making you ready for real-world conversations. So if you want to begin your immersive click the special link in the discount. There's also a 30-day refund, Why not start learning a new language today. So what have vikings got to Well as well as ransack our monasteries, assault our womenfolk and steal our precious There are still around a thousand from the Scandinavian invaders' just the ones we're certain about. ...the problem is that Old Norse and Old that we can't be sure which of the two You see, English is a Germanic language and on different branches of the Germanic family automatically understand someone speaking Danish. Some say Old English and Old meaning the Anglo Saxons could And that probably helped with the biggest love! Or at least... intermarriage. The Vikings may have introduced themselves but eventually they put down their axes They dominated an area of England known as alongside the Old English speakers there. As their to some extent. Old Norse words started to So let's talk about where those words are now. First off: pronouns. Perhaps the clearest sign of into the foundations of English I've been speaking Viking And by mentioned them, I mean mentioned THEM! Because all the TH pronouns - they, and they began with that favourite Old English had its own third person which occasionally resurface when we say things The modern usage of the third person plural wouldn't have been possible without the wouldn't have helped anyone would it? The next major way in which Norsemen Why are Vikings called Vikings? Oh no wait, that joke's I'll tell you why I got confused. One of the It's hard to imagine a more profound way in than by changing their verb "to be". The literally changed the way we say who "we are". Indeed, the sentence "they Another verb we took from Old Norse is... take! which will have a ring of familiarity So those are two of the most and they are they way they are because of the We got lots and lots of other verbs from are just a few of the others. Verbs covering Although the Vikings did offer us words As per their reputation, the Vikings loved a good fight And that's reflected in Without the Norsemen wouldn't have have "club" or "knife". And we wouldn't the Viking Berserkers, who would enter But to only talk about the words of war that As I said, they may have got off to a grim start but the Danes in particular soon settled many more non-violent words from them. There are words that speak to daily if you see a word beginning with SK, suspect skill and another one that's Did you know a shirt and skirt are the same get SHIRT from the Old English word scyrte. a SH sound in modern English. Fisc became the Old Norse equivalent word, skyrta - with a Both the Old English and Old Norse words other word they're related to... And this is why it takes me so Anyway, that divergence between SH and SK in Modern English, including shabby and scabby, shatter and scatter, and ship and skipper. Shell There was a lot of doubling up between words. In some cases, the Norse word For example, the word egg is from today still use a similar word. which is similar to the Dutch and German of the breakfast table, maybe because people But where some Old Norse words others sat alongside their Old English from Old French would do a few centuries to their Old English counterparts, That's why we have the words "bathe" and "bask", Very similar in some cases... but different. Oh god, there's a bee. It's a wasp. It's very keen on me. Another massive way in which the indeed England - is in place names. To know where the Danes settled in the British Isles It's thought there are still in central and northern England My hometown of Derby, smack bang in the places ending with -by, which to Ditto any place ending in -thorpe Or places with thwaite in the name. That In the city of York, which the Vikings called "gate" which is Old Norse for street. This gates - in its old city walls. But those gates confusing, because York also famously has a lot I was there for university, next to Micklegate There are still parts of England Viking name. That's because they were in Danelaw. But the Danes weren't the only Vikings to make were regularly raiding parts of Scotland - and Places including the word -wick, such as Wick coming from an Old Norse word for "bay". Whiskey-lovers might be interested to know that Jura in the Hebrides gets its name from And there are many more. You can also get an idea of where the Vikings areas. A lot of dialect words - so words England and Western Scotland are left over And you can tell, because some of these words are In part of the North East of across the sentence: Bairns leck in't beck. Oh god, I wish I hadn't done the accent. Sorry. That means, "children play in Swedish is... That! And is pronounced See how similar they are!! Once a Viking, always a Viking. Now we've talked about place names. So what sort of a mark did the Vikings Well if your name ends with -son, then you can It's a trace of the Scandinavian "patronymic" taking your dad's name - his first name They still do it in Iceland - where There are also a lot of Scottish surnames The Mac parts of these names is from the second parts are all derived Now so far, I haven't mentioned the ultimate Well perhaps because the Anglo Saxons that played such a only became possible once the invaders their would-be wives. I.e. Christianity. But the Norse gods are not we get a weekly reminder of Or should I say "Thorsday" - because the Norse god of war, Thor. Before the Vikings came along, the Anglo Saxons to thurresdaeg was most likely down to the Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday all gods. But the Saxons who gave us Old English also had a history with these Gods - so their They were kind of similar So there you have it, we ARE where we ARE with hope you've enjoyed this long-boat ride through and subscribe, and why not share it with a friend? Leave your comments below, I always like