This is Chapel of the Pines, a more than a in Los Angeles. It hosts the remains of numerous be found here in the columbarium. But if you you'll recall that the majority of stars away in the private vault, inaccessible to we're teaming up with our friends here at look inside the vault. This is the story of Chapel of the Pines is located at 1605 S. Cemetery, not far from downtown Los Angeles. Greek architecture was built around 1903, Crematory Association. The earliest recorded in 1906. By the 1940s the crematory was bought Brothers Crematorium. Finally, around 1948, Chapel of the Pines. In 1991 it was bought finally in 2006, Chapel of the Pines was bought Circling the chapel on the second level are radiate out from the center of the building. of Chapel of the Pines were inurned, in beautifully Later decades saw the corridors on the main level, and then the chapel, host niches for cremated Here in these columbaria we found a number video on Chapel of the Pines. Let's take Hall South, there's husband and wife, Stuart of stage, screen, and television, nominated Parade. Stu had his own TV show, Trouble with which co-starred his real-life wife, June as Jean in A Face in the Fog, and Gloria in A few columns in on the left is a name you Busch. Her career began in the silent era, like The Unholy Three. In 1929 she began her playing Hardy's shrewish wife, appearing Edgar Dearing was never a leading man, but productions. He was often type-cast as motorcycle Came from Outer Space, and his final appearance series, in the episode "Mr. Garrity and Lyle Wheeler was a prolific art director in productions in his career. He was nominated 5 for Gone with the Wind, Anna and the King Diary of Anne Frank. Willis O'Brien was an early special effects responsible for some of the best-known images in movie history. Most notably, he did the 1925's The Lost World, and 1933's King His visual effects for 1950's Mighty Joe Young won the Oscar. His work would inspire Kathlyn Williams was an actress and screenwriter, as a spry blonde beauty whose daring antics adventure serial, 1913's The Adventures dramas, like Our Dancing Daughters, appearing the screen in 1935. Kathlyn also wrote 6 screenplays, Into the chapel now we find the niche of Leonard Carey, an English actor known for often playing Hitchcock's Rebecca. He appeared in more Into Diodora Hall North now. Here is where we find the niche Lloyd Ingraham -- a distinguished He appeared in DW Griffith's silent masterpiece, In addition to his 300+ acting credits, Lloyd silent westerns. Just a few rows away from Lloyd is the niche of Nigel Bruce. You fans of Sherlock Holmes in the Sherlock Holmes films of the 30s and "What brings you from Northumberland at "Bad business Holmes, very bad business. "Elementary, my dear Watson." He's also known for his roles in those classic Hitchcock films, Rebecca, and Suspicion. He We're upstairs now in the older columbarium. didn't always get screen credit, but worked The Lost World, and It Happened One Night. There was one notable Hollywood pioneer that I was unable to find for our first video here. We're down in the lower level, the Hall motion picture pioneer William Selig was inurned H, and after scouring every single nameplate, his wife, Mary Selig. Curiously, just above which looked like it had fallen off, and been several of these simple acrylic markers had to tape some of them back on. Well, I had had fallen off, as had this one belonging on in the wrong place. I believed that it wife Mary. So, I asked Chapel of the Pines so we could confirm this... and lo and behold, in the niche above his wife. So we moved Leslie's be, and I had a new nameplate made for William, of having found him, who was William Selig? early days of film. Early in his career he Selig, a name which he would use the rest Selig created one of the very first film production film The Tramp and the Dog, produced that film set in Chicago. By the early 1900s Selig Billy Anderson, and was one of the first filmmakers right here in Los Angeles... partly for the Thomas Edison's cartel monopoly on filmmaking first permanent studio in Los Angeles. Throughout films, including the first film adaptations The Adventures of Kathlyn, starring Kathlyn William Selig was given an honorary Academy the motion picture industry. He died months age of 84. Heading outside now, out front of the main building you'll find the Garden of Memories, featuring names of those whose cremains were Colin Clive, an actor famous for playing Dr. Frankenstein, and The Bride of Frankenstein. "It's alive! IT'S ALIVE!" Other films include Mad Love and Christopher and died from tuberculosis at just 37. This reportedly scattered at sea. added to the wall, including Bess Flowers, Garden. Her name was misspelled, but they use movie magic to fix it. Bess Flowers was Extras, becoming much in demand by the 1930s. the background that don't have any spoken in more than 1,000 productions. She holds nominated for Best Picture - 23 in all, died in 1984 at age 85. in the records room... but it's unclear - Chapel of the Pines," could mean scattering vaultage, but we didn't find her in the addition to this memorial garden wall. Jean in Singin' in the Rain, for which she was Actress. She also played Margaret Williams three Emmy nominations. She was just 54 when Other stars were cremated here, and their Napier, who played Alfred on the Batman TV estate. And Jay Silverheels, remembered for ashes were scattered on the Six Nations Indian Seville, creator of the cartoon band, Alvin his ashes were sent to Ararat Cemetery in Even silent vamp Theda Bara was cremated here But for close to a century, thousands of cremated the columbaria, or taken elsewhere by the vault. years ago for our first video here, I was What this elusive "vault" was that one imagination. In my mind, I pictured an average dingy shelves and a few hundred haphazardly wrong. The only thing that lived up to the a vault door, with a combination lock and to discover was that when speaking of the it's not just one room, but actually a network they spilled over to the next, and the next. I was instantly struck by the sheer numbers... on shelves floor to ceiling, two stories high, it made me think of Ollivander's from Harry Each of these box urns, neatly labeled on like a book on a shelf -- a book of life with the metaphorical aside for the literal, these are commonly called ashes... something of consist mainly of bone fragments and minerals. but very well lit, and for the most part, There was actually a strange sort of beauty Time, the elements, and pests, were not kind date back over 100 years, most of them were still legible. When the current owners took There was an entire layer of mud on the floors on the bottom row tended not to fare as well improved lighting, a sense of dignity was place. long-term storage of ashes like this is no the vault as is. The latest cremations we in vaultage stopped. Nowadays cremated remains by the family. Any cremains left unclaimed So these vaults are a vestige of a bygone see anything like this today... in fact, there in all of California. The state inspector seen anything like this. A site like this, such a way, is truly one of a kind. Well, the answer to that question is not so that these were all unclaimed remains, but many aren't. In fact, many specifically to be placed here in the vault. Some had no their urns were never retrieved or sent out limitations -- this was the most affordable temporary holding site, with final arrangements another. And some may have just assumed that ashes would have been scattered, and may not vault. Cremation was a relatively new concept was not always clear what would be or could Most of those resting herein are placed in Intermingled with the standard box urns are each a literal time-capsule from the past. walls, were numerous very fancy and expensive intended for private holding or placement in an inaccessible basement vault. Yet here There are as many stories as to why an individual's urns in these rooms. And for most in here, "why?" And though long-term storage of community of the dead, in the eyes of the tomb. It is and will remain these folks' permit ordered by family, or a court order In 2022, Chapel of the Pines began to undertake efforts to organize and digitally catalog this site down in the vaults. Jessica Wahl, friend of Hollywood Graveyard, and owner of to spearhead these efforts. "Number one?" And naturally, I volunteered to help. This which as mentioned earlier, are off-limits was a daunting task would be an understatement. and the cataloguing is still ongoing, we estimate cremated remains here in vaultage. by one, some names dating back more than a saying, something along the lines of: "Each body dies, the second when our name is spoken relevant to what we were doing, and we tried aloud as they were entered into the database, only for a moment. had the added pleasure of pinpointing the yesteryear, who have been hiding in here for one, and see who we can find. Vault 1 is the original vault, once referred to as the "Dark Room," so I felt right began way back in 1907, back when cremated I guess in time they determined "cremated fifty years, these shelves slowly filled up, Over that time, a handful of classic Hollywood a few of them: films between 1908 and 1941, the final two in 1940. Notable among them are roles in the Wilfred was also known as a director, including He lived to be 69. silent era. He's best known for the first Sea, in 1916, which was revolutionary for Century audiences were spellbound, many of time. Paton spent much of his career at Universal, the Motion Picture Country Home at age 61. matinee idols. At a time when many actors a disreputable profession, Florence became early stars like Florence Lawrence, Florence Hollywood, where their names drew in crowds of the prestigious films of the early silent A Midsummer Night's Dream, as well as alongside College. Florence also wrote and produced come the age of the talkies, her starring 30s and 40s were small and few. She retired she passed away at age 61. King of the Silent Serials. He appeared in Desmond became a major action and western for his serials, as his nickname denotes. but generally in smaller roles. He passed Resting just above William is his wife, Mary silent era, and also performed on the Vaudeville Paddy O'Hara, alongside her future husband, on screen together. Mary retired from the for a 1925 appearance in The Burning Trail. Her ashes were placed here in vaultage, but according to be sent to her husband. They never made We found her ashes on a nearby shelf, and reunite them. an actress she appeared in a handful of films Maude was equally well-known as a playwright was dominated by men, she wrote numerous successful Maltese Falcon, as well as the Broadway play, at age 69. Vault 2 is right next to vault 1. It's one of the smaller rooms, covering the years 1957 rest in here, and like room 1, among them Kurt Neumann was a director who previously Home of Peace Cemetery. Truth is, he's right in the 30s through the 50s, known for low-budget best-known films are Rocketship X-M, and his "It will be alright now. I know it worked!" But Kurt would never know the success of The Fly, passing away suddenly at age 50 just Alma Bennett was a silent-film actress, who often as alluring vamps. Among her best-known Pants in 1927. Her career ended with the talkies, Patricia Mallory was known as Boots Mallory She began her career as a Ziegfeld girl in in films. The following year she'd be named include Handle with Care, and The Wolf Dog, when she died from throat cancer. and sound eras. He was nominated for an Oscar also saw him in the perennial Christmas classic, greatest success during the silent era was King of Kings. Warner passed away from a heart Heinie Conklin was a prolific actor of the 500 productions. He's remembered in the with his distinctive mustache. He'd go on the sound era, and would have bit parts in All Quiet on the Western Front. Broadway stage as a Ziegfeld girl before moving and dancing, but by the 30s she became better Crazy alongside James Cagney, and Smart Money, died after a battling breast cancer. Van Zandt. As an actor he appeared in more His notable roles include Mr. Rawlston in he appeared in Three Stooges comedies like at age 53. here in vault 2, who managed to elude us: So these shelves here correspond to the dates Gwenn of course is famous for playing Santa hopeful that this is where he would be. But the hope at this point is that perhaps he just have to stumble onto him as we continue because all of the other stars that we have more or less where they were supposed to be Edmund somewhere in these vaults, then he Vault 3, known colloquially as the Rose Room, challenging. It tore at our heartstrings, this room is dedicated to infants and children. 2000 infants who were stillborn or who died lived hours, days, or weeks. Tiny boxes, and boy and baby girl. Little lives who were never Vault 4 was the second largest, after vault 1. It mainly comprised the years around 1969 hodge podge from the entire 20th century. was the least organized. That was because been shipped in from other locations for storage Southern California's universal storage know what to do with them, they sent them allowed to store cremated remains, so if any Pines vault for storage. We found boxes and and funeral home in the area, from the Forest Rosedale. There were even some from out of was a panoply of curious stories. We found elsewhere that were never fulfilled for unknown there's little the current owners can do engraved; there were unknown remains; there picked up the wrong ashes, so his wife's we even found a section dedicated to amputations, of so-and-so. The stories in this room really where the elements seemed to have wreaked But amid the disarray of this room, we did old west. "Broncho Billy" Anderson is first cowboy hero. He began appearing in films Broncho Billy would star in hundreds of silent direct, and produce. He paved the way for Tom Mix, and John Wayne. In 1958, Broncho for his contributions to the development of The last vault is vault 5. It's a smaller two stories high. It comprises the years around being one of the smaller rooms, it's packed tested finding some of them, climbing to the as old as many of this room's residents. Hobart Henley was an actor and director during the film that marked Bette Davis's screen Roger's debut in the 1918 film, Laughing can be seen in films like The Evil Women Do. name familiar to you fans of classic horror: standout on the stage in New York, where she making her way out to Hollywood. Helen is lead, in 1931's Dracula, alongside Bela "Count Dracula." "I had a frightful dream a few nights ago, and I don't seem to be able to get it out "I hope you haven't taken my stories too "Stories?" Other films include Outward Bound, Christopher Strong, and her final film, Mr. Boggs Steps to dedicate more time to her first love, the bleeding ulcer in 1965. According to her birth actually 57. is a name familiar to you fans of the Marx seven Marx Bros films, she's sometimes thought among her films are Duck Soup, Animal Crackers, died after suffering a heart attack in 1965. Parker. She was a pioneer of female cartoonists were dominated by men. In 1937 she created would run in hundreds of newspapers nationwide. herself. In addition to her comics, Gladys from lung cancer. actor is best remembered for playing "The series of films in the 1940s. He's also of this era, like Cat People, and I Walked the liver at age 62. several of the biggest films of Hollywood's out down here. Thomas Mitchell died in December corresponds to December of '62. We scanned disappointed to not see him. I began to climb Jessica pointed out that there was one urn loosely slipped into a plastic bag. She said suppose the odds are that it's this one?" Mitchell." I thought she was messing with show me, I nearly fell off the ladder. It legendary actor played Uncle Billy in It's in Gone with the Wind, and he won an Oscar Stagecoach. "Well well, how are you Mr. Haycock." "Peacock." familiar name, and anon a name. I never forget Mitchell was the first male actor to win the Thomas Mitchell passed away from cancer at in vaultage after he died, so it was a conscious simply unclaimed. The family of Thomas Mitchell where he chose to be, this is where he will Weeks later, before we finished up in here, But if we can't find Edmund somewhere in "But I'm warning you, I don't give up September 11th, 1959! He's not lost. He's not lost! He was just misplaced. And he's in a nice urn. Look at this urn. And in a beautiful urn... look at that! Jessica, what have you found? I'm still in shock. I'm holding Edmund looking through one of the vaults, this was to see what the nameplate said, and I read you didn't believe me... So I said it again, you still didn't believe up to you... we were both in shock, like, Because we had looked in every vault, he was It was a bummer to see that he wasn't where up hope that we would find him. I still had the hope that he as misplaced, still in shock that we found him, but I'm He is no longer lost. How long has he been hiding in a paper bag 1959. And he was placed in this beautiful urn. And up in a dark vault for all these years? Over the decades, numerous individuals have in the vault out of the darkness and into We mentioned Mae Busch earlier, star of Laurel in the Chapel of the Pines columbarium. In had gone unclaimed in the vault. The Sons society, paid for her to be inurned in this "I'll put you in jail first! And you too, Sons of the Desert!" In 2005, a biographer of the classic screen will, Ann had requested to be laid to rest were still in the storage vault at Chapel to have her ashes retrieved from the vault, Forever Cemetery, some 38 years after her "The Oomph Girl," films noir and crime dramas. She's known in They Drive by Night, Laury in Angels with "I like me, just the way I am. Nora Prentiss, six songs an evening and the occasional drink Ann was working on the show Pistols 'n' Unbeknownst to us, at the same time that we were cataloging vault 5, a group of fans, Bob Satterfield and the Sons of the Desert, some stars from the vault for placement in cataloging some of the last urns in vault urn, which we had already cataloged here, given that Jessica and I were the only ones eventually informed by Pines that she was In April 2023, Margaret's urn was removed in this niche just right of the entrance to come visit her in her new final resting place. "Yes, with your back to me. When I invite my face... that's the price she has to pay." This same group of fans who raised money to the same time. You'll recall we had found 1. The prolific actor was seen in more than DW Griffith films. In April 2023 he got a Margaret, after 83 years in the vault. It was a thrilling moment when Jessica found the urn of Edmund Gwenn, Hollywood's beloved role that would earn him an Oscar for best "Would you please tell her that you're is no such person." Mrs. Walker, but not only is there such a He's also remembered for the comedy Mister and for appearing in a number of Alfred Hitchcock something of our own Miracle on Catalina Street. to notify the next of kin, and efforts are in a niche at Hollywood Forever Cemetery, As a fan of the classic 1931 film Dracula, urn of Helen Chandler. Helen was actually in the vaults. Her funeral expenses were covered to the limited funds, her ashes were placed urn, I reached out to her next of kin to inform brought to the Chapel of the Pines by her simply unclaimed. But in our discussions with be in a place where her fans could visit her. retrieved from vault 5. Helen, we've found you a new home. Driving Ms. Helen through the streets of a the 1960s... en route to her new home. With the help of generous donations from you beautiful new resting place, where she can her all these years later. And I'm excited to unveil for you the new urn and new niche of Helen Chandler, here Mausoleum, just down the hall from other Hollywood So, if you're looking for a special Halloween Chandler, bright-eyed star of Dracula, and time in more than a half century. Hollywood loves a happy ending, and for us here at Hollywood Graveyard, this has been I hope for you it has been enlightening, educational, As we wrap up our time today, and close the Forever Cemetery for helping us give a new the vault for decades. And of course, a huge the Pines for opening their doors to us and the Pines wanted me to be sure to make it to the public. So if you'd like to come public columbaria during regular hours M-F, of names of individuals in the vault is now below. So anyone doing family history can family down there, and would like to retrieve held, you can contact Chapel of the Pines Thanks for watching, we'll see you on the Do I look like a ghostbuster with this thing on my head? As one does.