Happy Sunday everyone! Jake is always the first to wake up also, he is my alarm. &quot;did you come to wake me up?&quot; - approval face lick - &quot;ok, let's go&quot; Are you loving Jackie boy? He's always down for a good &quot;HI Jake!&quot; in the comments :) It's Sunday, I'm hungry, and I want Lasagna. whole milk 1.5 lt the real lasagna Bolognese it'll take a bit, but it's totally worth the effort. If you want to check out my favorite knives all my kitchen equipment is linked in the description - totally in love with The Cooking Guild knives - they are beautifully crafted and razor sharp 1 onion 2 celery stalks 2 carrots we're gonna finely mince everything to obtain the mighty... Soffritto, aka the holy trinity. time to chop some meats I'd say the Vermont Pancetta isn't really authentic Italian but hey, let's find good ingredients also where we live right? at the end of the day, that's what Mile Zero Kitchen really stands for. 200 g of Pancetta ...Italian Pancetta ;) mince well, almost to a paste and susbcribe if you can, it really helps this community! ops, I forgot to turn off the milk let it cool down for 15 min then you can discard the cream we won't need that. I'm already hungry I love these smells remind me of home. olive oil in a pan 500 g ground beef 250 g ground pork brown the meat, roughly 10 min I won't salt anything at this point as the Pancetta is already very savory add the meats to the veggies it's time to make it smoke. pick a good white wine you can always have a good glass with your lunch! white wine 200 ml after the alcohol evaporated you can put 2 big tbsp of tomato paste if it's double concentrated, even better! get some of your whole milk from before and add 500 ml in parts this will make the ragu a little sweet, rustic and very tender that's already a good secret right there. garlic and bay leaves I'm going to scrunch the garlic a bit and tigh it with the leaves so it doesn't get lost hopefully, it'll work goodbye, garlic. simmer for a minimum of 4 hours onto the bechamel sauce. butter 100 g 100 g flour whole milk 1000 g proportions for the bechamel are very easy! 1:1:10 you can't go wrong. once it simmers for about 10 min you're ready to add parmigiano 50 g salt and pepper and a touch of nutmeg don't go too crazy, this is a powerful spice bechamel sauce done. use some plastic wrap, so the bechamel won't dry out I forgot to add the parmigiano rind to my ragu but it's never too late. if the ragu gets dry, add more milk! rind time Time to make some damn good pasta. 00 flour 400 g you can find all the ingredients I use in the description down below! 4 whole eggs making fresh pasta is very simple I could do this staright on the bench but I don't want to make a mess so I use my Ikea salad bowl once the dough is formed, I'm gonna knead it for 10 min fingerprint test it springs back. cool, time to rest it for 30 min I'm gonna let you enjoy this part, cause it's one of those classic Italian moments. The Pasta Making. just worth mentioning: I stretch as thin as my pasta machine can go This is my type of Meditation. Pasta water is boiling: let's salt it. some olive oil let's boil our sheets for 30 sec they will lose a bit of their starch making them less sticky during the baking process Station cleaning time. I'm getting tired, but we're close to the finish line. it's assembly time. another trick: add 2-3 spoonfuls of bechamel to the ragu now this ragu has become basically a sex machine and you can't really resist it anymore. last chance to salt it to taste you know the drill here layer of sauce, layer of pasta, another layer of sauce, spoons of bechamel, grated parmigiano, and so on. isn't it gorgeous? all this hard work it's about to be crowned with an awesome lunch bake 30 min at 365 F or 185 C her majesty La Lasagna We made it. Let's take a shot in honor of this beautiful cooking session. I love gin. what's your go-to liquor? Such a work of art Thank you so much for watching guys and to stick around, it means a lot to me. Happy sunday. See you in the next one.