Amir: Yeah, I'm here to talk about &quot;The Infinite But before I talk about the infinite dream, As a kid, I always wanted to be a pilot. I used to go to the airport all the time, My father was involved in aviation, so it I always wanted to fly. But I didn't fly, I didn't get to fly. I got really bad grades at school, I failed. You know, when you get your grades, when they're was called 15 and under, like, it's called I got 15 and under. So that's like, it's not worth grading, we'll I wasn't stupid, however, I was actually quite I had my parents break up and go through a started rebelling, I was always at the school So what, fuck it, I'm gonna go make money. I'm gonna become an entrepreneur. But the problem was, I had no money. I had no one to support me to be able to get grandmother and told her about my dream about And she put her house on the loan and put what? Go and fulfill your dreams.&quot; My first business was an Italian restaurant Nine months later, I lost the business, went So, I thought, well, what do I do from here? All right, I'll go borrow some more money. I went and borrowed some more money. My second business was a communication company. I had a fun retail store in Hudson Street Then the communication company went into liquidation. I went bust again. This time I said, &quot;I'm not gonna borrow any My accountant was like, &quot;Well, you gotta declare I said, &quot;I can't. I have my friend's grandmother's house on If I declare bankrupt, they take her house.&quot; So, what I decided to do is take the $100 of debt that I was carrying still and start But this time I did things differently. I started to write my goals down. I wrote down everything that I wanted to accomplish. I wrote down how I wanted to dress and what to give back to society. And I wrote down, you know, the cars, the things down. And this time things changed. With $100 I became one of the biggest promoters, promoting some of the biggest international But here's the fucking problem, I was still Yeah, I was fulfilled when I was doing my Yeah, I was happy when I was consumed in doing But when I stopped, man, I felt an emptiness I felt like there was a carrot dangled in this carrot. It didn't matter how much money I made, I Didn't matter how many cars I had, I needed Didn't matter how many women I had, I needed No, I'm joking about that part. And I said, &quot;This is the rat race they talk I don't wanna play this game.&quot; I mean, I wanted to become accomplished or I wanted to do all these things so I could I had freedom on the skin, people thought Who's ever felt that sense of incompleteness? Like I'm talking about there's gotta be something missing. Have a look around the room. Those who haven't put their hands up, you're I'm serious because I believe every single of emptiness. Like there's got to be something more to this. But we disguise that emptiness, we consume So, we don't stop and fill that emptiness. Now, that emptiness is not a bad thing. Sometimes we get on the drink and sometimes sex, whatever it is to avoid feeling empty. That emptiness, what I later discovered, what myself. That emptiness is infinite energy. You see, something that's infinite is completely You know, sometimes when you find everything but within the nothing, you feel everything, Ever been happy for no reason? Like, you're sitting there and you're, like, It's that experience, being completely happy, That's the emptiness that I'm talking about. And your mind kicks in and goes, what are Oh, yeah, I've got all these fucking problems. I shouldn't be happy, and it doesn't last But that emptiness, that happiness is your You see, I didn't find that part of myself So, I said to myself, &quot;I want out. I don't wanna play this game. I wanna find myself.&quot; Yes, I came here to live a big life. Absolutely. Our natural state is a state of expansion, So, you didn't come here to live small, yes, I'm not saying to live small. But I wanted to find the largeness inside So, I said, &quot;I want out,&quot; but you know what Besides this carrot in front of me, I had The moment I said I want out, how are you cars and how are you gonna pay your bills? How are gonna...It's like you couldn't get Long story short, I got out. I thought to myself, I didn't care if I go I will get it back but I need to find myself So, I went on this journey of self-realization. That's what I call this, a journey of self-realization. And I wanna share with you today what I realized. In this short amount of time, I wanna share And this is what I realized. All our goals are driven by five human agendas, agendas. I want to share that with you. They were recognition, appreciation, acceptance, So, to have recognition, to be appreciated, So, all my goals were driven by those things. And there's a sixth element, which was control. And I would control and manipulate everything appreciation, acceptance, approval, and security. If I had all those things, I thought I would That's where all my goals were driven from. So, what I wanna do is having this conversation looking for? Because we've spoken about all week here, It's not the car, it's not the business, it's If you peel the layers of the onion back, I've just described were recognition, appreciation, But I think if we peel that back even more, So, what I wanna do is do a little experiment So, to do this experiment, or let's call it on stage with me. Who's willing to come up on stage and share Okay, those who've put your hand up, put your Those of you who failed to put your hand up up. What's your name right at the back? Can you come up on stage? Are you willing to come up? Give her a hand, guys. All right. Oh, you're a popular one. Judy: I don't know. Amir: What was your name? Judy. Okay, so Judy, give her a hand, guys. Okay, so Judy, we're gonna do this experiment And all I want you to do is be as authentic And just be completely open, all right? Seems like everyone knows you already. So, I won't get you to say a little bit about When we do this, you're gonna feel a lot of And you may feel the need to mask that, like, you know. What I ask you to do is not, okay? I want you just to feel this energy that's And guys, I need your help here so stay with embrace it. And then tell me what you felt, in as few Are you ready? Okay, I'm gonna hold the microphone, I'll Okay, close your eyes, ready? I'm just joking. No, no, no, stay up here, stay up here. That part was a joke, but everything else Guys, I need your help to do this, right? What I wanna do is get Judy to experience is recognition. So, what I want you to do, guys, is take a you as well, place your attention. If you feel like, &quot;Oh,&quot; just put your attention Take a moment, take a deep breath in, guys, I asked you to do this because I need loads Do it again, take a deep breath in, and a Guys, when I say now, I want you to give recognition, I wanna feel the energy up here, I want Judy I want you to put everything that you can, and clap and cheer and whatever else you wanna or whatever you wanna do, okay? So, ladies and gentlemen, let's put our hands right. Awesome job, guys, take your seats, awesome stay in the moment. Okay. Just stay here, tell me what you feel. Judy: I'm just speechless. I feel so honored to be part of such amazing, your kindness and love and... Amir: What word describes what you felt? Judy: What I felt, I felt awoken. Amir: What else? Judy: I felt loved. Amir: Judy, thank you. Give her a hand, guys, thank you. What's the two words she described? What are the two words? Awaken and loved. Fucking love, man, fucking love. And when you feel love, you feel fucking awake. That's what I felt. I spent months, gave up my company, sitting on a park bench going, &quot;Why am I here? Who am I? Why did I come here? And where am I going?&quot; And there's only one word that I realized It's not recognition you're looking for, it's She felt loved when you gave her the recognition. What do you feel when you feel appreciated? What do you think? Loved. What do you feel when you feel accepted? Loved. When someone approves of you, what do you What's the one damn thing you feel when you You feel safe, you feel secure. Think about it. When you're in love, you don't care about It's like, man, like you're in love with someone, the world. You don't care. You're no longer...and I use the word care, gonna unfold because you have love. And what I'm trying to say is that all that really looking for was love. But I was looking for love in all the wrong I was looking for love from a bunch, I was for love in my physical things. And again, I'm not saying here that...because we shouldn't have physical things? Fuck no, you should live big, that's what But don't expect the bigness, that bigness Everything outside of you is there just to it's just for fun. That's why you're really here but you got those things mean nothing, they're just temporary So, can I tell you what the infinite dream The finite dream was driven by an agenda, and security, and control. The infinite dream is a dream that arises When I say I didn't choose, I as this physical chose it. And you know, when it's I as the infinite, it came to you. I didn't choose to become a pilot. Like, I wanted to become a pilot, right? But I didn't get there. It wasn't like a school day and they go, &quot;What Like, I already knew I wanted to become a How did I know? I don't know. It just it was there. There's no logical explanation of how I knew You don't actually choose who you love, do I know some of you, &quot;Yeah, I do.&quot; No, you suddenly realize that you love them. I mean, if you were choosing to love them, Yep. They have a good booty? Yep. They make good money? Yep. They make me laugh? Yeah. That's the logical explanation, that's not Love is when you realize you're in love with why. Some of you are probably going, &quot;I'm in love why but I love them.&quot; That's love. Can I give you another...I'm gonna use relationship Human-made love is what's driven from an agenda. But here's the thing, love that's infinite A human-made love is this, an individual will there's a part of them that doesn't feel whole missing. And then they go and try to buy lots of shoes, When all that doesn't work, all those addictions missing and then the brain kicks in and goes, So, then they go looking for their soulmate Do you know why they assume they found their Because they found someone that loves the And then the individual feels loved and goes, But that's not love, that's need. You might as well say, &quot;I need you to love when you love the part of me that I don't That is what I like to describe as the human-made And you can take that towards wealth, towards It's not just in relation to relationships, You see infinite, the infinite dream is the you might have asked the question, what is But the answer didn't come here. You ask the question here, the answer was My time's up already. Damn, that went quick. So much more I wanna share with you. Are you gonna give me five more minutes? I must be good then. I tell you how I live my life today. You know, I've been meeting people and everyone's What do you...?&quot; &quot;I don't much.&quot; &quot;What's your vision?&quot; &quot;I don't I really have a vision.&quot; And I just wanna be honest because people All right, good to meet you.&quot; It's kind of hard to describe but the more the less I needed something else to fulfill You know what I realized? Purpose is not in what you do. The biggest question I get asked as a coach, as a coach and a speaker for now. I don't do much coaching and I don't do much I have to give myself a title. But let's just say that the biggest question What do I need to do? I just wanna do something, I wanna change I wanna find my purpose.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Purpose is not in what you When you realize who you are, you become purpose, You don't need to love yourself, you don't you give purpose to what you do.&quot; You see, I give purpose to what I do. Today, my purpose is now in this moment and People go, &quot;What's your goals?&quot; It's kind of difficult to describe but I don't And I'm not saying I don't accomplish great But seriously, seriously, how many of you even your goal? Where the fuck did that come from, man, seriously? No one was asked...you know, I speak in different question. I talk a lot about being in the flow, my main And I say to people, &quot;What is the flow?&quot; And the audience...we don't have time to have outcome and we say the flow is when you're Because when you're in the moment, things Doesn't mean it's not difficult. Your moment might be climbing Mount Everest, mean there's no risk. It just means there's a risk worth taking. Doesn't mean you fail, it just means it's But when you're in the moment...and I asked can you plan the moment?&quot; Please, anyone, tell me, how do you plan this You can't. You can connect to this moment right now. You know, I don't plan this talk. People are like, &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; &quot;Oh, you know, we'll see.&quot; Consciousness, you know, because I wanna share share from the moment. I'm gonna leave you with this one final thing give me an extra five minutes. I do lots of interviews, well, no, I lie, From time to time someone's interested in magazines and all that. And it just sounded better when I say I did And they always ask me, &quot;What are the tools I was like, &quot;I didn't use any tools.&quot; &quot;What's your philosophy?&quot; &quot;I didn't have anything.&quot; &quot;Didn't you meditate?&quot; &quot;Yeah, I did but I meditating because I thought And then I realized, well, hang on a sec, fucking meditating.&quot; I mean, if you feel to meditate, of course, to meditate. And they're like, &quot;But there's something you do? And I said, &quot;I'll tell you what they can do. I will share with you the greatest advice ever given, but it's the least taken.&quot; You know what that advice is? When you care for someone like a child, or always give you this advice, they say, &quot;Honey, But here's the thing, what does be yourself Be yourself means you're not living with an So, you're not doing something or saying something Do what you love means you're doing something and an agenda. You know when I know when someone's really I go, &quot;Hey man, why do you love what you do?&quot; You know what they say? &quot;I don't fucking know, I just love it.&quot; What they say is, &quot;I don't have any logical Yeah, it made me money, yeah, I'd become famous, primary reason of why I'm doing this is because It's all about love. That's what I realize. But really, what is love? What is love? Is it the human-made love we've been talking You know, I'd rather be a failure and be true myself, I am being free, than to be successful fucking slaved to the very thing that made Today, I'm a speaker, I'm a coach, I'm a pilot. I'm a fucking pilot now, but on my terms. I'm not working as a pilot, I'm not working do it whenever I want to. So, I wanna show you one last video, one video, My mate just put this up the other day on I took him for a flight and I just thought a pretty cool flight. So, thank you so much. Enjoy the video. Thank you so much, guys. Highway to the danger zone Highway to the danger zone Highway to the danger zone Highway to the danger zone Highway to the danger zone