Hello everyone, and welcome back to Royalty Now, where we bring you face to face with figures from the past and talk about their history. Mary I is a somewhat forgotten figure in Tudor history. Her five year reign was squeezed between those of her half siblings, Edward VI and Elizabeth I. Mary's religious zeal has earned her the moniker "Bloody Mary." But was she really the bloody despot that history remembers? We'll also talk about what Mary looked like, analyze her portraits and reveal our facial reconstructions at the end of the video. So let's go ahead and get started. On the 18th of February, 1516. Princess Mary's life began with stinging disappointment. Her parents, King Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon, had been praying for a healthy, living child for years, and even though Mary was healthy, she was not the boy her father desired. Henry VIII knew that a daughter wouldn't guarantee the Tudor dynasty security on the throne, and a woman had never ruled England. In fact, the last time a woman had inherited the throne, Empress Matilda in the 12th century, a long and bloody civil war resulted. However, Mary was still loved and could still be useful to her family as a marriage pawn. By the age of six, Mary had already been betrothed twice, first to the Dauphin of France and then to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Fifth. But neither arrangement had been successful. Her mother Catherine loved her deeply and devoted a great deal of time to her education. Luckily for Mary, education for girls had recently become fashionable, if you can call it that, thanks to the influence of her intelligent mother. Mary received a comprehensive humanist education with the Catholic religion at its center. By all accounts, Mary was a solemn but confident child. She was small and delicate, with the famous gold-red Tudor hair, intelligent, bright blue eyes and a beautiful rosy complexion. It's hard to tell whether Mary's quiet, mostly serious demeanor was just her nature, or whether it was a reaction to the turbulence of her childhood. She must have understood on some level just how disappointing she was to her father, and she must have felt the tension between her parents. The whispers of Henry's discontent around the court, Henry's infatuation with having a son had slowly overtaken him, and by 1527, after several miscarriages and stillbirths, the marriage of Catherine and Henry was irretrievably broken, and his affair with a woman named Anne Boleyn was becoming more intense. Henry was convinced that Catherine's "inability" to give him a male heir was a punishment from God, and he was taking dramatic steps to divorce her. By 1531, Catherine had been banished from court, leaving Henry, her daughter and her home for the last 20 years behind. For Mary, it must have felt like her life was falling apart around her. She became frequently ill in bed, constantly with horrible menstruation symptoms and depression. After the king finally received his divorce and his marriage to Catherine was declared void. Mary was deemed illegitimate. She was swiftly stripped of her title as Princess, becoming known as just the Lady Mary. Henry's divorce had come at a high price. A break with Rome and the Catholic religion, with Henry himself becoming the head of the new Church of England. This in and of itself was enough to devastate Mary, whose personal faith had only grown in these last few trying years. But to make matters worse, Henry began to pressure Mary into signing a document that would not only have her acknowledge him as the head of the Church of England, but would also force her to accept her own illegitimacy. It was a slap in the face not only to her, but to her loving mother and her own religion. Mary would refuse, but she knew there would be consequences. Mary's personal household was dissolved, and she was sent to join the household of her new baby sister, Elizabeth, at Hatfield Palace. The king restricted her movements and forbade her from seeing or writing to her mother, increasingly punishing her in an effort to force Mary to acknowledge his supremacy. Even when her mother was reportedly gravely ill, Mary was still not allowed to see her. When Catherine passed away in 1536, Mary was inconsolable. After just three years of marriage and one daughter, Henry's second marriage had also dissolved. Only this time Henry was not as patient with the divorce process. He whipped up some false adultery charges and had Anne Boleyn executed. He would go on to marry a woman named Jane Seymour. Just two weeks after Anne's execution. Jane had seen the devastation to the royal family and to England that the last few years had brought, and she urged Henry to consider reconciling with his eldest daughter. But Henry's attempts at reconciliation were rough, to say the least, and it's not hard to see why. Mary had always been a disappointment to her father, and the way he treated her mother would cause anyone to grow a deep rooted resentment. Henry would once again demand that Mary sign the document, acknowledging him as the head of the Church of England. Although Mary had held out for a long time trying to call his bluff, there was now too much at stake. She would sign the document with historian James Froude, saying that she "disdainfully set her name to the paper." I'm struck by the complexity of Mary's life and the many famous characters in it. I wonder if she had the sense that her life and story were going down in history. If you're looking to be immersed in another great story, look no further than today's sponsor, June's Journey. It's a hidden object murder mystery game that takes you back in time to the glamorous 1920s. Follow June Parker as she tries to solve the murder of her sister, and gets herself out of many sticky situations on the way. The first thing that struck me about this game is the beautiful art style. I audibly gasped when I saw the lovely island, which is the home base for players. I immediately started to rearrange and redecorate my mansion and garden. The main way you move through the game is by finding hidden objects in these meticulously illustrated scenes. I'm always looking for things to do that don't involve just scrolling social media. And this was such a fun and relaxing way to spend some downtime. I love the historical angle of the game as well, from the Art deco style of the scenes to the historical costuming of the characters. The murder mystery is really intriguing and a fun one to solve. June's Journey is free to download and play on Android, iOS and on your PC through Facebook Games. Download today by scanning the QR code on the screen. Lady Mary was allowed to resume her place at court. She was granted a household and her expenses showed that she lavishly spent on fine clothes and card game bets. Now 21, her life seemed to finally take shape. She had her friends and family around her, and Queen Jane Seymour had been especially supportive of Mary. With the two becoming especially close. But Mary's contentment didn't last long. In 1537, Jane Seymour gave birth to a healthy son, Edward. As the realm, and Henry rejoiced. Jane was becoming deathly ill. She passed away just a few days after the birth, probably from childbed fever. Although Jane's death was a tragedy, she had finally given Henry the Protestant male heir he had always wanted. Unfortunately, it had also raised religious tensions in England to a fever pitch. Catholic rebellions and plots were becoming more common, and Mary, who was still a fierce Catholic in her heart, felt like she was in danger when her godmother, the Countess of Salisbury, was executed. As a result of one of these plots in 1541, Mary realized just how bad things were getting for Catholics. Mary spent much of the next few years in Hertfordshire, avoiding London and her father as much as she could. Henry seemed to be going off the rails. He'd already been married twice since Jane Seymour, with his most recent marriage ending in the execution of his fifth wife, Catherine Howard, in 1542. By 1543, even as his health began to fail him, Henry already had his eye on a new wife who would come to be his last: Katherine Parr. While she was Protestant leaning, Katherine did much to mend the relationship between Henry and his children, and she became close with all three. Katherine was also influential in Henry's new Act of Succession, which put both Mary and Elizabeth back in line for the throne after their brother Edward. Even though the three Tudor siblings disagreed on matters of religion, they enjoyed a close relationship. Although Edward had grown up living with Elizabeth, it was Mary who had become his favorite. In a letter to his eldest half sister, he sweetly wrote that he loved her most. But as Edward grew older, their relationship got more and more complicated. In January of 1547, King Henry VIII died and King Edward VI succeeded him, at just nine years old. It quickly became apparent that Edward was determined to be a defender of the Protestant faith. While historians disagree about how much Edward personally did during his reign, his rule was devastating towards Catholics. He banned many Old Catholic rituals, such as the use of rosaries, the casting of holy water, and pilgrimages. He even abolished mass. Mary and many of the people of England could no longer freely practice their religion. The tension was so great that the Holy Roman Emperor, Charles the Fifth, even attempted to intervene. He demanded that Edward and the Privy Council allow Mary the ability to worship freely, even threatening war with England if they didn't comply. A Spanish ship was even docked in Essex, ready to take Mary to safety in Spain. But leaving England would almost certainly mean exile. At the last minute, she decided to stay and fight for her claim to the throne. By 1552, Edward and Mary, who were once so close, were now bitter enemies, poised to become figureheads of a long and dragged out conflict. Yet only a few months later, Edward became very ill, and his doctors agreed that the illness would likely be fatal. Not wanting Mary to take the throne after him. Edward would devise his own plan for the succession. He would deny his own sisters, calling them bastards, and instead choose his Protestant cousin, Lady Jane Gray, to be queen. After his death. All evidence suggests that Jane herself did not desire the throne, but simply had it thrust upon her as a matter of circumstance and by the power hungry men around her. Mary was summoned to London to say goodbye to her dying brother, but soon she heard news that would chill her to the bone. The visit was just a plot to capture and then present her so she wouldn't stand in the way of the new succession. Mary immediately fled to her estates in East Anglia, where she had safety and support. On the 6th of July, 1553. After only six years as King, Edward VI passed away following the news of her brother's death. Mary sent a letter to the Privy Council demanding them to recognize her as Queen. The Council didn't listen. But as Queen Jane was being led to the Tower for her coronation a few days later, London was eerily quiet. There was no cheering, no celebrating in the streets. The people wanted Mary. King Henry's divorce and separation from the Catholic Church all those years ago was a very unpopular move. There were still plenty of noblemen ready to support a Catholic monarch, and most of England agreed that the succession had been stolen from her. Very quickly, Mary had amassed enough support to ride into London and claim her crown. After just nine days as queen, Jane Gray was overthrown, arrested and sadly later executed at the age of 37. The Lady Mary, her father's disappointment, became Queen Mary I of England. and after a life of being told what to do, how to act and who to be, Mary was finally in charge. Her early reign was spent reversing many of her father and Edward's Protestant policies, and although Mary issued a proclamation stating that she would not force the people of England to be Catholic, this platform didn't last long. By 1553, high ranking Protestant clergy were imprisoned, and in her first parliament she obliterated Edward VI's religious laws, and soon, in a move that made English Protestants extremely nervous, Mary revived several acts against religious heresy. In addition to reforming religion, Mary had also set her sights on marriage. It would be necessary to produce an heir, and she was beginning to leave childbearing age. Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Fifth suggested a match. His own son, Philip of Spain. While it was a powerful match between two countries, the people of England were not as keen. There was a fear that naming Philip King would allow Spain to have too much power in England, and that he could easily manipulate his wife. After some negotiations, both parties reached a compromise. Philip would be styled as the King of England, but Mary would not be obligated to provide Spain military support. For Philip, the marriage was not a love match, but a political need. But Mary, it seems, had great love and desire for her husband. She also had the great desire for a child of her own. In September of 1554, it seemed that her prayers were answered. She started to gain weight and experienced pregnancy symptoms like nausea and a missed period. Her physicians and court rejoiced, but several months later, many were starting to doubt the queen's authenticity, and Philip even wrote to his brother in law, saying that he didn't believe Mary was actually pregnant. As the time passed and her predicted due date came and went. Mary's abdomen receded and everyone tried to quietly move on. It appears that Mary was suffering from a false pregnancy, sometimes caused by hormonal imbalances, but usually caused by the extreme psychological desire to have a child. This part of Mary's life is just truly heartbreaking to me. She had such a turbulent journey to this point, and the tragedy of this must have just broken her down. She fell into a deep depression. It's unclear how much Mary's state of mind influenced the coming events, but in February of 1555, executions began. 283 Protestants were burned at the stake that year on Mary's orders, leading to her infamous nickname: "Bloody Mary." Soon, Mary's depression had also turned into health issues and weakness, possibly from cancer. She experienced another heartbreaking false pregnancy in 1557, and it became clear that she would not be able to have a child. In the cruelest of ironies. Mary would be left without an heir, just like her father. But unlike her father, she would not betray the family she had. Despite their difference in beliefs and their fractured relationship, there was still love left in Mary's heart for her younger half sister, Elizabeth, who was the only other person in the world who knew what it was like to be the daughter of King Henry VIII. She could not and would not deny her. Mary would keep Elizabeth as her rightful heir and successor to the English throne, already weakened by her constant illnesses. Mary's condition worsened during an influenza outbreak in London on November 17th, 1558. Queen Mary I died. Although short, Mary's reign was not seen as an unsuccessful one. Her Catholic policies were greatly welcomed in a country that had whiplash from religious turmoil, and she was beloved by the people for being a strong, forthright monarch whose faith was unrelenting. She was also the first woman in history to rule England in her own right, paving the way for her younger sister Elizabeth to become queen, which in turn led to a golden age in England. In the end, Henry's disappointing daughters would go on to become some of England's most important figures. So what did Queen Mary I really look like? So what did Queen Mary the first really look like? from Mary's lifetime, starting when she was very young. This Horenbout miniature was painted when Mary was just six years old, for one of her betrothals. Although she looks older than six, in this portrait you can see the qualities that were remarked upon throughout Mary's youth that she had golden hair that later darkened to red with a rosy and smooth complexion similar to that of her mother, Catherine of Aragon, and the blue eyes of her father, Henry, her betrothed, the Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Fifth, said of this portrait she promises to become a handsome lady. Although it's difficult to form an idea of her beauty, as she is still so small after this image. We don't have a reliable portrait until 1544, when Mary was 28. In this image we can see how small Mary was. It was frequently remarked that she was very thin and had a delicate build. French Ambassador Marillac said Mary was "In face like her father, especially about the mouth... But her beauty is mediocre." The most remarkable and detailed portrait of Mary comes to us from her reign. This 1554 image by Anthonis Mor is made from life. It's one of the best and most lifelike Tudor portraits I've ever seen. Like her Tudor relatives, Mary understood the importance of portraits for political means. She's painted here with plenty of pomp, but also an admirable amount of authenticity. She doesn't appear to be artificially glossed over or smoothed out. She's just herself. One vanity Mary did have was in clothing and jewels. She liked to dress in the embellished French fashion, which was very decorative and considered gaudy by the Spanish. One disapproving Spanish source said "The Queen is not at all beautiful. She's small, with a white complexion and has no eyebrows. She's a perfect saint and dresses badly." A slightly more favorable description of the Queen during this time comes from Venetian ambassador Serranzo, who wrote "Her eyes are white and large. Her face is round, with a nose rather low and wide, and were her age not on the decline. She might be called handsome." One of is the large pearl hanging from her necklace. It's a 64 carat, teardrop shaped jewel that was mistaken for hundreds of years as a famous Spanish pearl called "La Peregrina" At the time of its discovery, La Peregrina was the largest and most magnificent pearl ever found, and it was thought to have passed to Queen Mary during her marriage to Philip of Spain. La Peregrina eventually made its way to Sotheby's auction house in the 1960s, where it was purchased by Richard Burton for Elizabeth Taylor. Upon looking into the history of the Pearl, Burton even acquired this portrait of Mary I, thinking that the pearls were one and the same. But when Burton realized his mistake, he sheepishly donated this portrait to the National Portrait Gallery, where it hangs today. This pearl is now known as the Mary Tudor Pearl. I've used the lifelike Anthonis Mor image for my recreation, and then also created a younger version of Mary from it as well. So let's see the face of Queen Mary, the first brought to life. Now. Thank you all so much for watching. Don't forget to download June's Journey and start your hunt for clues today.