Let's imagine that we've been given the freedom of houses. Should we deliver a high voltage, we don't want to deliver a voltage, that's so going to deliver 22 kilovolts to a house, to choose from. Should we choose the higher there are really two considerations here that let's think about a high voltage house and a Let's assume that the people living in the two the amount of power used in a house depends on all so we're going to assume similar uses of power in since power equals current times voltage, we're electrical lines going into the house for current passing through the wires, then those the high voltage house is going to be a little bit in the power installation. Now, let's talk about in this case, then the wires used have to be expensive to install the wiring in the low voltage somebody were to be accidentally shocked, they're, with the high voltage house. So, we have a world the trade-off has centered around two 110 or 120 volts has historically been used. In the rest of Asia and Europe, a higher voltage, that the higher voltage case. What we can conclude in the rest of Asia and Europe than they are in in North American homes and Japanese homes is a order to give a little bit higher voltage to those a further optimization has been made, and it's to look at in this particular video. Let's take looks like in North America, so we can see connections are usually up here at the top of the over here on the side. These are called bushings the top - one for hot and one for neutral - and the top. The neutral would then be tied to that and more dangerous-looking than the other bushing, bushing for the hot connection. The high voltage up to about 20 kilovolts, but the low voltage side from one side of the transformer to the other. split phase AC and the reason it's called &quot;split secondary side of the transformer. This center connection is also normally earthed. If we measure connections on the secondary with respect to this these two connections are going to be out of phase these waveforms would look like coming out of the of both these waveforms are 120 times the square for both cases, but, as you can see, they're example, in red I've plotted the voltage between The black curve, then, plots the low side of possibility of tapping power across the two phases If I take the red waveform and subtract the black The amplitude of this waveform is 240 times volts. All three of these lines coming off of a in North America. You get two hots and you get most of Asia and Europe, where you only get two 230 volts and one neutral. The advantage of the for most appliances, that is, you only have 120 Now, for some appliances like a dryer or a stove, run to that particular appliance. Therefore, in a the time you have lower, safer voltages, but you Now normally, these houses are wired so that the of the light fixtures in one part of the house on light fixtures in another part of the house on to balance these two phases out when they wire connections to see how these are typically phases of electricity and some might only carry This is an example of a pole that has only a here about this photo is that a bird has built a probably a pretty nice dry place for the bird to that. But when we talk about animals, sometimes gnaw through one of the hot wires. And, of course, especially if they happen to be sitting on the wires. There are a lot of wires here in this all of them and see what they do. Since this is a hot going into the transformer at a high voltage, and then on the secondary side of the transformer, these cables here in this photograph? We're the transformer. When you only have one phase the lower side, and the hot will be on the higher voltages, then quite often you'll have a neutral but usually when you only have a single phase on a the hot side is usually a few kilovolts, up to about 20 kilovolts or so. There would be two hots and one neutral. Normally, the neutral the neutral wire would be at the top, and the two is also typically earthed at the pole, and a lot going down to the ground. Now that doesn't mean Some customers might get their service through hots and neutrals going down the side of a pole. this transformer is made right here. This and then this hotline leads to the primary bushing to this transform transformer over here on the wires twisted together, one neutral and the two direction and they're getting their power through connection over in this direction. We also see conduit. Let's take a look at another example of a customer, but where the pole has three phases on top of the pole. Now the static wire is there were to strike the cable, then you wouldn't want back into some transformer and start a fire or What you would want is for the lightning strike to sense to put a ground wire, a neutral, or in this You won't find these for the low voltage single but when you have the taller poles that then you'll often see the static wire here up at This is a typical, three-phase power distribution one of these three phases in order to deliver that we're going to deliver is going to be split into another. We can see where the primary side of this We can see the fuse, and then finally, the At the secondary side, we can very clearly see transformer and then they're finding their way to even more electrical lines on it. You'll see has multiple voltages on it. We have higher further down towards the bottom. I can tell these a little bit bigger. Neither of these three phases It uses one of these three phases. Again, we see a the utility company, a fuse, and then a connection secondary side, I see three different connections. and I see two hot wires coming out on either the three connections are delivered to customers This neutral is earthed in multiple locations network stability. We have a whole series in order to help students learn the liked watching this particular video, then you