I'm about to show you what a I promise this is going In this video, you will find out to simulate going to space. Why it costs $50,000 to explore Whoa! It's coming right at us! And every other experience I'm standing on top of the Oh my God! All the way down to the Riding a camel. How long can I ride One dollar, two minute. Deal. That's a Hold on tight. Wait. Oh my God. I wanted to ride camels in Egypt, So I'm gonna throw Yo! Yeah. It's beautiful. Dude, this is a workout I mean, I'm so Now you know what it's Okay. Well, $1 only got us two Let's go have dinner in the sky. For $10,000, you can with a chef who uses this You can see the shadow from Dude! This is a little higher than I But this isn't your everyday This Michelin star chef uses the to literally cook the food MrBeast. Oh. Yo! That's our next Now, we're about to with the fire from the Oh, thank you. Oh my gosh. Jimmy, this is amazing. Look how beautiful it is down there. This fish never dreamed If you got an extra ten grand and want Every single one of these ten But I still had one As a Michelin star chef, what do Very good on balance. And Feastables is now Michelin star approved. Amazing. Up next is the 50K and Karl have no idea what What do you think of the yacht? I think it's beautiful. Yeah. Do you think it costs No. Okay. So look over there. We're gonna go on a Oh my God. You guys ready to explore Yeah! Okay, let's do this. - What? Let's head over. Okay. Come on. Yeah! Let's go explore the - Okay. This is awesome. Whoa! Look! We haven't Look it's a barracuda! You guys want to scrape the We can do anything. We have this entire submarine to Let's do everything. Except crashing. Okay. And to make sure we got the We paid scuba divers Isn't this cool? Let's communicate everyone freak out. Got'em! While we're underwater, are also on a $50,000 And we're gonna see if we see than they do over there. Spoiler. This is gorgeous. All right, let's go find We cannot leave Africa until we I do understand. Why did Look, look, look. Oh, warthog! Yo, it's Pumba! You scared him. You scared him. I'm sorry, I shouldn't yell. Zebras! I feel like zebras Like if I was a lion, I'd always go What? Bro, this is so worth $50,000. Yeah. This is so Wait, Karl, what if instead of We're taking this Wow, look at how close Is it okay? How close we are? - Yeah, it's okay. But we weren't the only ones Zebras! Where are you going? Hey, buddy. Tareq, let's talk about There's two right behind you. They are unnervingly close. They're very close. Oh, it's awfully close. We just got charged Oh, it's there! -It's the coolest thing ever! That thing is a unit. That's my dad. This is way cooler I'd rather see this than a fish. Also, my heart's beating And that was the 50k experience. What This thing pales the $250,000 zero This company will fly creating a zero gravity The $250,000 Oh my water! Wow. Oh my God! I'm upside down! Oh my God. Oh, I Go long! Oh, that was awesome. Oh my gosh, this is sick! On this next drop, we're Turn on zero gravity. -Oh, yeah. I'm winning! I can't go anywhere! Nolan's losing. We made it! -We made it. Guys! Turns out racing without But luckily, Karl I'm gonna test All right, wait for it. He's spinning! Oh God! -He's actually spinning! Oh my God. And before we turn We're gonna try to make some of our - You ready? Nolan, let's I created the coolest toys ever. All you have to do is shake it and you'll find I'm gonna squirt some water. Give me some! We're getting swarmed This isn't as easy as I thought. Anyways, You can find Swarms in packs available at Walmart, Target, and everywhere around the It's my favorite toy! -I'm weightless. These are the most and they're Karl, catch! Make sure you buy MrBeast Labs That's going to be cool. Hold on, Nolan, catch. Yeah. Body slam! I have no idea how the $500,000 But let's go find out. And after going all around We're at This is the craziest view ever. Unlike any spectacle seen my friends and I are about to can allow you to experience in the most The city of Dubai, a place carved And at the end of one of the few to stand on top of the We went all out. It is Let's go have some fun. How are we here? So after we found our way we made our way over Wow. This is insane. Water in our backyard. The first two floors of this But the coolest one, by far, is the Oh my God! Welcome to Atlantis. We love Sorry, man. He went into a thing with For the record, there is And later in this experience, we're And for the cherry on Come on. We're going to go skydiving. No way. Yes! Dude, falling from thousands Don't worry about that. Yeah. What better place to do so Home to some of the Just grab whatever car - All right. And I called up some of to have a field Let's have some fun. They're going so fast. And this is just the first of many We are just getting started. I'm ready to race! We're about to lap someone. Oh no, Jimmy! No, no. Come on, grandma. I don't think my mom I don't think she could That's illegal. Okay. While my friends and I were Woo! Karl was getting ready to drive I look so cool now. Off to a rocky start. Oh my God, I'm driving a formula car! For the price of this we actually got to keep I want to enjoy it a little bit. In case you were curious, Let's go to an NBA game, But to be honest, guys, I'm around sports cars and So, I'm just going to find Do any of you watch Yup! That says subscribed! I'd prefer someone What? What the Hey, sir. Oh, he's subscribed! Yeah, please. All right, get in. This is I am actually shaking right now. This is why you gotta I'd hate for you to Hey, boys. What are you doing? I am so happy. With the Lamborghini I gotta sit courtside at a pro But instead, it just ended Nice to meet you! Then afterwards, I Nice to finally meet you! How you feeling? I'm doing good! -Y'all good? And with $200,000 worth Up next, we got to take Somehow in the middle of the I heard you're the alpha. And since that wasn't enough, I am now in Hello there, sir. Hey! Hey! Come back here! He's like Buzz Lightyear. Whoa! Oh, excuse me, sir. I am Aquaman, the My first decree is the Agreed? Oh, attack Karl! That is a dinosaur! I am your leader. Attack him. No! That should not exist. I think they just Well, before this guy turns let's go get our own dinner at a restaurant Hello, everybody. Jimmy, you're sitting there. What is this, Jimmy? I don't know. I don't at a restaurant this far Gentlemen, prepare yourself We will start with our first Cheers. Cheers. What if I don't like it? Is it good? This is amazing. That whole plate Yeah. Okay. Whoa. What? It's like a Am I getting hacked? I thought this was a I don't know what's going on. This nine course meal interactive visuals that Whoa! Wait, does it, oh, Boy's we're now defending Earth. I'm impressively bad at this. But even though the Dude, they're getting tripped up It was the one of a kind food and drinks You can touch We got to try nine mouthwatering Whoa! Oh my God. To golden wagyu burger. You approve? Oh, yeah. Hey, we found They even had one final Who is that? Thats Chandler. That is not... Bro, that is not me. But anyways, let's keep All we have left before and climb the is to test my fear of heights Look at this view. Jimmy! Oh my God. Are you kidding me? Whatever you're seeing right No way. Standing over 600ft in the sky, this gives you a breathtaking view Let's hop on in boys. Yeah, I'm getting in. That island behind me is man made. Now we're going to stick Jesus, man. Check out the view. Is that not amazing? We're on top of Dubai. All right, guys. It's time Dude, you're No, you're falling to Oh my God, Buckle up because what I never thought I'd Literal maniacs. But what would a video without attempting to face Falling out of the sky. If I don't make this This is getting real. No! I have a family! Prepare for takeoff. It's getting real! I know. I can't believe we're This is nuts. What are the odds I die? I don't know. Oh my God! Approaching We are so high. I'm not ready. Jimmy! I'm not ready. Go! Come on! You're going first. Jimmy, I hate you! Oh, my God. Yeah! Oh, God. I'm scared! Bye Jimmy! I don't wanna do this! Oh my God! I'm not going! How was it? I'm scared. You're scared. Yeah. We're still This is probably Oh, gosh. Okay. I'm not dead. Where's Chandler? Where's Chandler? Chandler either didn't jump Oh, God, I hope Sorry Jimmy, I'm not doing it! Well it's a good thing I didn't on the biggest experience Behind me is the Burj Khalifa, the tallest building on And to wrap up this experience, I'm The first step of reaching is taking a series of into the sky. But as for the but to climb to the top myself. That is a lot of ladders. I underestimated how But even after a full hour of climbing, there was still a lot of I thought I finally made it to the top, This thing never ends. whether I really I don't know if I'm going to make it. Take that as a no. But I reminded myself that this was my ever to experience standing on I knew there was no turning back. Alright. Homestretch! I made it! I'm standing on top This is insane! Holy crap. I'm high up. Oh, this is terrifying. Oh, I shoudn't have looked I'll admit, Feastables tastes better on the I'm not on the verge of passing out. I find time and time again I usually end up enjoying it I'm very grateful for this encourage you guys to go Do something you I think you'll end up enjoying it Thanks for watching! I hope you enjoyed I love you guys!