This is the Apollo 10 crew getting ready to This was an important step before the crew could return As the explosive bolts released, This caused all of the air to rush out making Snoopy shoot off much faster than expected. In the blink of an eye, the crew lost track as it went into the sun's glare. This was the last time the lunar module A few hours later, NASA lost track of the spacecraft and its location remained completely But in 2018, astronomers discovered an object flying by Earth that might just be this But where had it been this entire time? In this video we're going to look at and how a astronomers might have managed We'll also be giving away this Apollo 11 poster, so stick Over the course of the Apollo missions, a Two were used for testing around Earth and eventually On the famous 13 mission, one served as a Lifeboat for the crew before also burning up in Earth's atmosphere The rest were purposefully crashed into the moon after but Apollo 10 was a bit different. Designed as a rehearsal for the upcoming Apollo 11 Mission Apollo 10 did everything apart from once in lunar orbit astronauts Thomas Stafford and Eugene Cernan descended to just After testing out Snoopy's systems, the bottom half and eventually crashed into the moon. Now with just the top half, the astronauts returned to the Command Module and prepared to leave Snoopy behind. But after releasing Snoopy it disappeared behind the sun's glare and the astronauts lost track of where it went. Because it was following the same path as the crew and collide with the Command Module. However, it still had a lot of fuel left over and so instead of letting it crash into the moon NASA decided to fire its engines and send it on a Snoopy continued burning until it Despite losing track of it actually saw Snoopy performing its burn. Many decades went by and astronomers started but in order to find Snoopy after 50 years in space they needed to know exactly where it went after leaving the moon. Searching for an object in space is extremely thanks to PayPal Honey; Honey is the number one tool in America for online shopping. It automatically searches for Shopping for good deals can feel like a daunting Interstellar quest, but with Honey's little button at the top of your browser you're just a few clicks away from unlocking exclusive deals and discounts that you might have never found on your own. With an average discount of 18% you'll be able to put towards your own sub-orbital trip to space, or at least upgrade your telescope and look for Snoopy yourself. I recently saved fifty dollars with cashback on these earbuds. Adding honey to your browser is completely free, and with its advanced algorithms you'll never want to shop without it. Join the hive at joinhoney.com /primalspace To understand where Snoopy went and Moon were positioned. The Earth orbits the Sun counterclockwise The moon orbits the Earth counterclockwise And so relative to the Sun, the Moon also moves The Apollo 10 crew were orbiting the moon clockwise, so in the opposite direction to the Moon's orbit around Earth When Snoopy did its final burn, the Moon was around This burn added an extra 1 km per second to its Moon But because this velocity was in the opposite Snoopy's speed relative to the Sun was now This burn effectively slammed on the brakes while the Earth and Moon carried on as normal. This meant Snoopy now had a little bit less velocity and so its orbit got pulled in. Now traveling mostly on the inside of Earth's orbit Snoopy was completing Once every 342 days. This meant it started to race ahead Snoopy continued racing around the Sun for another 15 years before it finally made a close flyby of Earth. When this happened Earth's gravity pulled on the spacecraft We know where Snoopy went after it left the moon, the problem is all of this is based on just a few days worth of data after Snoopy separated, and every future adding much more uncertainty to its location. But knowing these uncertainties allowed astronomers to limit their search to a specific part of the sky but this was no easy task since astronomers would have to search for a 4 meter wide object in an absolutely massive area of space. Nonetheless, finding Snoopy became the holy grail for astronomers and it was only a matter of time According to the predictions, Snoopy would have made several close encounters with Earth with the most recent That is when astronomers discovered this very faint object flying through our night sky. Initially thought to just be an asteroid astronomers became suspicious after Asteroids typically have a more oval shaped orbit, Initial calculations of this object showed that it had a more circular orbit around the sun. On further inspection, the orbital plane of but in fact, perfectly matched the orbital plane of Earth. This meant it was more likely to be something The object was also moving at a very similar speed to Earth whereas an asteroid would Another important giveaway Astronomers had calculated what an object with Snoopy's shape, size and material would look like at various distances and the light from this object seemed to match that. Amazingly, astronomers discovered this object but this meant it was too faint to really analyze. In the past, NASA was able to identify a long-lost centaur This works by measuring the light from an object at different wavelengths and determining what material it's made from. Different materials will absorb and reflect By comparing these spectroscopy graphs with we can identify what material the object must be made of. This object is too far and dim for us to perform measurements like this and we will have to wait until 2028 for Only then will we be able to do spectroscopy observations Snoopy is the only spacecraft once occupied by humans to still be traveling through space. Despite going off on a crazy Journey 54 years ago, the laws of physics mean that it will continue to call home every now and then. Perhaps in the future we will have the and finally bring it back to Earth where And now time for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of this awesome ISS Lego model is Alan Cardenas. Congratulations, but don't worry if you didn't win. In the next video we'll be giving away this amazing Apollo 11 poster. All you need to do is sign up at the link below and leave a comment saying what kind of condition you think Snoopy would be in now. Thank you very much