ANDREW HUBERMAN: Welcome to where we discuss science for everyday life. [MUSIC PLAYING] I'm Andrew Huberman, of neurobiology at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, my guest is Dr. Chris Palmer specializing in psychiatry He is the world expert between metabolic disorders He treats a variety of including psychosis, including as attention deficit disorder, obsessive compulsive and depression among others. He is best known the relationship and these various disorders And indeed, today, only his own fascinating journey but also his clinical using diet that is in order to treat various He describes some of individuals and who have achieved tremendous of psychiatric mentioned a few moments ago, as as to how metabolism interact to control Indeed, he raises the in many cases, is the dysfunction as opposed of a metabolic dysfunction During today's episode, his overriding hypotheses that mitochondrial function in mental health and how various particular ranging from the ketogenic diet and adjustments in can be used in order to and bring relief for various He also highlights the that various diet interventions, were not first developed but rather were for neurologic conditions, Today, he shares that we eat alone and in both intermittent fasting can interact with the way to strongly control the way What's wonderful is that the science and his but also points to various that people can take in order I'd like to mention the author of a The title is Brain Energy: in Understanding Mental Treatment for Anxiety, I've read the book, and I came away from this book with of how the various psychiatric described, as well as And it has completely about the possible origins of and the best ways to both with medications but also If you'd like to learn work and the book, please We also provide and to his website in Before we begin, I'd that this podcast is separate roles at Stanford. It is, however, part to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with to thank the sponsors Our first sponsor is Thesis. Thesis makes custom nootropics. And as I've said many times I am not a fan of because it means smart drugs. And frankly, there are no in the brain or body for Thesis understands this. And they've developed that are designed and body into the state you need to accomplish. They use the highest things like many ingredients about before on this podcast I've been using Thesis And I can confidently have been a game changer. For me, I like their I use that before And I like their and I often use that in particular, workouts To get your own personalized go online to Take their 3-minute will send you four to try in your first month. Again, that's And use the code to get 10% off your first box. Today's episode is also Eight Sleep makes smart mattress and sleep tracking capacity. I've talked many about the critical relationship temperature. That is, in order to fall throughout the night, needs to drop by And conversely, when we that is, in large part, by 1 to 3 degrees. Now, people have different And they tend to run colder or Eight Sleep allows you of your sleeping have the optimal temperature sleep. I started sleeping on cover about eight months transformed my sleep. I sleep so much deeper. I wake up far less during the And I wake up feeling far after the same amount of sleep. If you want to try you can go to up to $400 off their which includes their Eight Sleep currently Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia. Again, that's Today's episode is also ROKA makes eyeglasses that are of the absolute The company was founded by from Stanford. And everything about ROKA were designed with I've spent a lifetime working on And I can tell you that to contend with an enormous for you to see clearly-- for instance, when you move from and back again, whether or not close or often to the distance. ROKA understands the and has designed their accordingly so that you always ROKA eyeglasses and designed for activities And indeed, they are Most of the time I that they're on my face. They're so lightweight. But the important thing to and sunglasses is can be used during they also have a And they can be used just as to dinner, et cetera. If you'd like to try ROKA you can go to ROKA-- and enter the code on your first order. Again, that's ROKA, roka.com, at checkout. And now, for my discussion Chris, Dr. Palmer, thank CHRIS PALMER: Thank you, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have a And I'm really excited because I think most people or they have some Most people have some Fewer people certainly those things can interact. And I think everybody is of a food or the making them feel good When we eat a food that or that we associate then we feel good Whereas, when we eat food poisoning or maybe even taste that great or with a bad experience, we feel But I believe that very or are familiar with and our mental health interact even causal, way and that over long periods of time. Meaning, what I ate yesterday even 10 years ago, could that my brain and body So if you would, I'd love about a little bit in particular, your the relationship between And then we can dive into of ketogenic diets and some of the truly that you and others with based on real patients who suffer and then find relief CHRIS PALMER: Sure. This story really starts And I don't need to But to set the stage, I definitely had mental A series of events My mother had a horrible and all sorts of adverse She and I were actually I went on to have subsequent all sorts of things. But somehow or another, I through medical did quite well in got an award for being and then was doing my internship And at that point in with metabolic syndrome. So I had high blood and pre-diabetes. And I was doing everything I was on a low-fat diet, and And year after telling me diet and exercise. I kept asking him, what diet? What exercise? I was doing everything Everything was getting worse. My blood pressure And at some point, you're going to have I need to put you on something something for your cholesterol, pressure. So three pills out of the gate. And I'm like, I'm ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: No. Technically, no. I had a gut, so that's a sign of I didn't know it then. And he actually kind of leaned do your parents have diabetes? Yeah. Do your parents have Yeah. Are your parents overweight? Yeah. Oh, I'm really Basically, you're screwed. It's your genes. You're just going to have to And as a physician, I I knew that I'm in my on three meds for I'm going to be screwed And I'm probably going to And I'd heard through that the Atkins help people improve their I actually didn't I was highly skeptical. And I believed everything I Why would my They knew what they Low-fat diet was And the Atkins diet was But I had been trying the and it wasn't working for me. And so for whatever this is going to be my last And then I'll just bite So I tried the Atkins diet. I did my own special I still avoided red meat because I tried to do a healthy more like the South Beach diet. This was before the South But within three months, was completely gone. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So blood lipids normalized. Did your weight change? You mentioned that you but that you had a CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --fat. CHRIS PALMER: I lost I probably lost about 10 But everything got normal. And when I went back to He actually said, what ANDREW HUBERMAN: you switched to this new diet, if you don't mind me asking? Because it sound like was metabolic headed towards more You mentioned OCD. I actually am As a kid, I had a low level And probably me, obsessive although not full-blown so I can relate somewhat. If you're willing, of all that before and after CHRIS PALMER: So before I was still struggling with Again, it wasn't with my ability to function at a high level. Anybody looking from the You just got into one of actually, at that point, it was program in the country So they would have looked But I wasn't. I was actually on medications. I was trying trying to figure out how to stop obsessing so much, And I found that they actually came with than benefits. I was on Prozac for a long time. It totally messed up my sleep. And then the you need pills to And I'm-- I just-- I'm like, that doesn't-- that's not really resonating And I'm now a psychiatrist. I'm in my psychiatry residency. And I'm thinking, you know what? That's just not that you're going to prescribe the side effects And yet at the same time, And I was learning This is what we do to get You're supposed to And so I was taking my pills. I was in psychotherapy. I had been in psychotherapy I had received much when I was younger. And that was essentially It actually probably just caused ANDREW HUBERMAN: Psychoanalysis? CHRIS PALMER: Various psychoanalysis per were psychoanalytically-oriented I was actually I had been put on lithium is a tricyclic antidepressant, And they were actually horrible. They were horrible. They did nothing I gave them a decent I really wanted to feel better. So at the time that I certainly wasn't I wasn't struggling that much. But I was-- still have was trying to feel better. And the thing that was after doing the diet was not the fact that my That was my goal, and it achievement because I with one dietary change. But the thing that I noticed in my mood, energy, I-- for the first I started waking up and feeling rested. That never happened I was meticulous about and how many times I could to be on time for whether it was school or I had it. I had this good system. I was never late for anything. But that was shocking to And one of the things that I've to the diet, I always felt of people in the world. There are &quot;haves&quot; There are these who just are so positive, And they have the to work hard and play hard. And I always understood I totally got that because and I understood the And you got to do something But I never understood who like who's got energy for that? Aren't you tired How on Earth do these to go and play hard? And I assumed that of the &quot;haves&quot; in the world. And they were just They either had good had good childhoods or something-- something ANDREW HUBERMAN: The in the yearbooks. CHRIS PALMER: Yes, exactly. ANDREW HUBERMAN: [LAUGHS] CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and by the way, I you sharing some of because I think it is to hear and understand who are extremely high that the road was-- from everything I'm hearing internally at times, a lot in order to get there. And also, have been sounds like a very long to figure out what doesn't work to finally and then make that the that you're doing I think it's very important share with you this are indeed two and then fated-to-be And it speaks to the fact that-- your story, rather, speaks is not always what's going on this notion of there the happy or the haves can't be the way that it many more people and that there is an to overcome that suffering. So I really just hear you. Even early in our want to extend a genuine of what I hear from people and mental health, But that clearly that many people are And even the people who of great childhood and for themselves and then So thank you for that. I want to know. At the point where you can play a profound role in a large number are still a student or a CHRIS PALMER: I was a resident. ANDREW HUBERMAN: At decide that you were this in a professional context? CHRIS PALMER: Not yet. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. So what was the journey that you're doing now? CHRIS PALMER: So the had friends and saw that I had saw that I lost some In particular, I remember they got really pissed because I could resist all the and everything else. They were like, how the How are you resisting And I said, I don't I don't want it, I'm fine. I'm just-- I'm having And that's good enough for me. So I got them to do the diet. And they too noticed dramatic and energy, and sleep, So within a few years, the is this powerful And now, I'm an I've got all these patients with treatment resistant I'm in a tertiary care hospital. So I almost never get with their first Out of the gate, as I get treatment resistant So I get people who've already therapists. They've usually tried dozens They've been in decades They've often had And nothing's working. And I'm thinking, of out of options for And this diet is having this effect. I think I'm going to try it and are game to try it to see Sure enough, it did. Didn't help everyone was interested But some of the ones ended up having a remarkable and One woman actually became And she had been nonstop for over five years-- chronically depressed, suicidal, And I saw her become hypomanic. And I'm thinking, is a powerful This is amazing. This is like a medication but is working for her. But I laid low at that point we didn't have many clinical or efficacy of the Atkins or diabetes, let alone And so I really actually felt And this is not going to be So I'm just going to lay low. I'm going to offer And I went along that ANDREW HUBERMAN: And may When you say &quot;Atkins diet,&quot; so low carbohydrate diet, CHRIS PALMER: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And was Were you tailoring it to depending on their whether or not they were I'm assuming you're so how did you plan for your patients? And what was involved that they adhered some of the things of who was more willing to Any observations CHRIS PALMER: So early And I was-- the it was try this Atkins diet. I want to see ketosis, so ANDREW HUBERMAN: So they and they were doing CHRIS PALMER: I didn't know if they existed back then. So I was-- we were ANDREW HUBERMAN: Which but still useful as a general CHRIS PALMER: True. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is that right? CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. CHRIS PALMER: So I was strongly achieve urinary ketosis. And the interesting thing that when they were trying the they often did not get It was once they that I began to notice and the powerful ANDREW HUBERMAN: So probably that elevated ketones in the would say, this or they would say that was a step in independent of exactly what eating to get there, At that time, probably, Thanks to the incredible work-- I think it's incredible, and And I know there's a lot of But I think, for many people, For others, it's --of Satchin Panda and others. But fasting certainly will and get you into ketosis. Correct? CHRIS PALMER: It will. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Did you or do intermittent fasting? CHRIS PALMER: I did. I had some patients who did what where they eat primarily fat. So they either fast and/or to try to get into So for some patients, quite easy to get into and obese patients. They have a lot of fat and actually limiting usually results in high ANDREW HUBERMAN: feel better too, I we limit our starch to excrete a lot of water. People can get some that even though it makes them feel literally and maybe a little Is that right? CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. And as the years went on, more research was coming out. People were getting a with blood ketone monitoring, of ketogenic diets. And I was evolving my practice. The thing that completely that I knew as a psychiatrist, a patient in 2016 lose weight. So this was a patient, with schizoaffective disorder. He had been my patient ANDREW HUBERMAN: for people what I'm not a clinician. But as I recall, it's like a So there might be some If I met this they're kind of different, But they would not scary to me and to And I mean that with But oftentimes, people can seem just like-- know how to interact with so altered because they have symptoms-- hallucinations, talking to people that no Is that schizoaffective? CHRIS PALMER: So no. So schizoaffective is the same The only difference with superimposed mood episodes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, so it's CHRIS PALMER: It can be. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. So I have it backwards. CHRIS PALMER: So is essentially schizophrenia ANDREW HUBERMAN: Ah, maybe CHRIS PALMER: Schizotypal kind of mild paranoia, or and other things. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. Folks out there, I have Schizotypal is the, &quot;low level&quot; schizophrenia Schizoaffective is CHRIS PALMER: plus full-blown ANDREW HUBERMAN: And now, who the clinician [LAUGHTER] Thank you for that reminder. CHRIS PALMER: No worries. So this man had He had daily auditory He had paranoid delusions. He could not go out in public He was convinced that there that they had technologies that They could broadcast his They were trying to hurt him. They had targeted He wasn't quite sure why. He had some suspicions when he did this bad thing when they decided to target him. This man was tormented by It ruined his life. He had already tried 17 and none of them But they did cause him ANDREW HUBERMAN: These for schizophrenia-- the receptor blockers-- huge increases in prolactin. That's why sometimes men-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --will And they'll put on And they'll be catatonic-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: They I have to imagine, most things that release that blocking dopamine makes people feel lousy. CHRIS PALMER: Horrible. And it's a huge challenge in our don't want to take them. And then you get If patients are on them and then they stop they can get wildly end up aggressive or So that's him. He weighs 340 pounds. And for whatever reason, I'm never going to if I don't lose some weight. He also recognizes, to get a girlfriend I'm schizophrenic. I live with my father. I have nothing going for me. But I could at one of these awful, horrible And maybe I could So he asked for my help. For a variety of deciding to try Now, at this point, I that the ketogenic diet for his psychiatric has schizoaffective disorder. That's not depression. Depression is very different. They're totally So he decides to give it a try. Within two weeks, not only but I begin to notice this He's making better eye contact. He's smiling more. He's talking a lot more. I'm thinking like, You're coming to life. Like you're-- I've never I've never seen you so I haven't changed The thing that that I knew as a psychiatrist he spontaneously you know, those voices They're going away. And he says, you know how I all these families who were and out to get me, and And I'm thinking, oh, yeah. We've been talking about We can talk about that again. He says, you know what? Now that I think about it, And now that I say it, It probably never was. I've probably had like everybody's been And I think it's going away. That man went on-- he's now lost 160 pounds ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. CHRIS PALMER: He was he had not been able to do He was able to complete He's able to go out in He performed improv in at? One point, he was able to and live independently. And that completely blew And I went on a to understand what in ANDREW HUBERMAN: That I'd like to take a quick one of our sponsors, Athletic Greens, now called AG1, drink that covers all of your I've been taking Athletic so I'm delighted that they're The reason I started taking I still take Athletic Greens is that it gets that I need for gut health. Our gut is very important. It's populated by communicate with the brain, the all the biological to strongly impact our And those probiotics are optimal and vital In addition, Athletic of adaptogens, that make sure that all of my are met. And it tastes great. If you'd like to you can go to and they'll give you five really easy to mix up you're on the road, in the And they'll give you a year Again, that's to get the five free travel of vitamin D3/K2. I have a couple of questions. First of all, did of antipsychotic or If so, were the dosages while undergoing this Because as we know, or medication or nutrition And then the other question I think about someone with who's suffering from that you described. How does somebody like that to stay on a ketogenic diet? And I say this with all the I think there are who do not have schizotypal who have trouble, they claim, It's not the easiest diet. Certainly in its it's not the easiest So how did he do it? That sounds like a And I'd also like to just about adherence to things when mentally. How do they get motivated So the questions were, If yes, dosage And if people are or full-blown how does one ensure that they CHRIS PALMER: So in he has remained on medication. So early on, I wasn't I was just in disbelief and I didn't know what was going on. Over the years, we tried to taper him off his meds. He has been on meds for decades. He started medications His brain is as to all sorts of And it has not been easy We continue to try to And it's challenging And I just want to say getting off your meds is And you need to do with a mental health because it is dangerous. When people reduce they can get wildly symptomatic. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is that CHRIS PALMER: It's true for The brain makes to psychiatric medications. And when you stop some people are fine. But I wouldn't because I've seen patients-- I've seen patients get within three months. I had one patient, because she became convinced and it's all because of my boss. And I know that she's just And she's abusing me. And I was like, I think this is related We got her back on her she said, oh my god, I I almost quit my job. And that would have been the decision I've ever But somehow, it seemed so And now that I'm back and it doesn't mean But it doesn't mean It means that meds need to and cautiously, and gradually. So that's the medication piece. The adherence piece was not easy It is very rare that I have do the ketogenic diet. Come see me in 3 months, and That almost never happens. It has happened, I ANDREW HUBERMAN: But that is, if perhaps not you-- but do with medication. It's, here's your prescription. Let's talk in-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --a CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: So that's worth us exploring as the conversation continues. CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: and making micro adjustments to medication or CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. So with this particular was actually pretty adherent. I was seeing him once a week. And so I could do I was weighing him. I was checking his ketones. I was checking his At that point, I had a blood So I knew whether he which is so beneficial and research on this diet. It's the only diet can have an objective biomarker ANDREW HUBERMAN: Such brings to mind, for me, the A patient can say they're and unless they're in where somebody's checking under they very well could not be And you and I both draws for neurotransmitter because you want to and what's functional And then we have to imagine that drugs for any number of conditions are not giving talk to their psychiatrist No? CHRIS PALMER: No. On that front, when we've the majority of somewhat noncompliant with It's not on purpose. They forgot. They take it at night. They were out late. They were off their routine. They forgot to because that's when And so because it was crashed when they got home. They forgot to take their meds. Happens all the time. If it's a medication that people the noncompliance rates are easy to forget. So it's not that people their doctors or anything else. It's just hard to remember every day. ANDREW HUBERMAN: When you I want to drill into because it does seem that and somebody being, quote it turns out to be Certainly, in your book, that's although there were many that people get into ketosis. Do they have to stay in ketosis? So for instance, I don't any longer. But I've tried, in the past, diet, where every third some pasta, or rice, et cetera. That was interesting But to stay in ketosis, what do you like to see What is the range that you think CHRIS PALMER: So it really and what I'm treating, And I don't think every patient For some patients, simply can make a huge difference in ANDREW HUBERMAN: So a junk food, food that could last on CHRIS PALMER: Highly that are usually high in and carbs, and fats. Those seem to be That combination-- seems to be the for metabolic health. And lo and behold, we've got that strongly suggests, it's Depression and anxiety are the And so we have the best But we actually have a lot of and schizophrenia that insulin and insulin signaling is impaired in people with kind of across the board-- all the way from chronic to bipolar, to schizophrenia, We know that patients with have impaired glucose metabolism system in the brain, which signaling in the possibly be playing a role. So to step back from that, I might just want to decrease And I can do that by For other patients, with schizoaffective disorder disorder, especially if I'm using it as then I do want a ketogenic diet. And I usually want reasonably Usually, for depression, I than probably 0.8 minimal. For psychotic disorders I usually want to see That's what I'm shooting So yeah, I think ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, so-- and sorry, I didn't that people need to to see some mental health their diet. You make very clear and we'll go into that avoiding reversing insulin resistance, to reverse what as this metabolic is a bunch of different And for some people, getting and focusing mainly on processed foods For others, going straight to will be of most benefit. I'd like to back up a and get to something which I which is epilepsy and of ketogenic diet and And the reason I want to kind of is that, I think that for a out there who are familiar or changing your impact sleep and weight and it cascades into that makes perfect sense. But for a lot of the idea that changing or using or as a treatment tool mental illness, is still that to them, it OK, well, that's like a woo Now, obviously you're a or psychiatrist at arguably one in the world, Harvard Even though I'm on the we acknowledge our East Coast-- CHRIS PALMER: ANDREW HUBERMAN: --friends. CHRIS PALMER: --of ANDREW HUBERMAN: We're OK. CHRIS PALMER: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: We're CHRIS PALMER: Or we're the ANDREW HUBERMAN: That argument a number of times. You're a serious clinician And you're a serious thinker. But for a lot of the notion of using think, ah, well, that Or I think there's a category didn't Atkins die I hear that a lot. That was crazy. People immediately for that reason, which I do with the bathwater. But it's an interesting And then I think that sit in the middle science and medicine come up And I have to say, I'm very earlier, which was-- you never off their medication go on a ketogenic diet and You're certainly CHRIS PALMER: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: saying, if I that nutrition needs one of the major tools in the and that it can evidenced by the And there are many as well of truly So let's talk about epilepsy and just used for of the oldest, if not of the use of nutrition of the nervous system debilitating, even deadly. CHRIS PALMER: Yeah. And the reality is and this clinical history, and was the godsend that I needed Otherwise, I would have Chris Palmer is claiming can influence schizophrenia That's impossible. And he's a quack. But the thing that immediately didn't focus on it as a diet. I did a deep dive into So the ketogenic diet, was actually developed a by a physician for one to treat epilepsy. It wasn't developed It wasn't developed as the diet follow. And the reason it because of this since the time of Hippocrates, Now, fasting is Fasting is the So we now understand a Most people think going And they equate it But in fact, when it causes tremendous both brain and body metabolism. And it puts the body into a mode of resources, and all are beneficial to human health. And this is why as a therapeutic intervention in almost every religion But for the most thought to be That was just crazy talk. And those stupid people God cured everything. And so they fasted. And they just assumed that Well, in 1921, one physician on a child with seizures and this religious folklore It actually worked. The problem with can only fast for so long And that's not a very ANDREW HUBERMAN: And this child CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: It was just CHRIS PALMER: Food elimination. ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. CHRIS PALMER: So But the problem with is that as soon as people start their seizures usually oftentimes, with a vengeance. And so it can be a good The fasting can take a take a few days to get ketosis. And then you can get some But it's not a good because, again, people As soon as they start So it was actually Dr. Russell who developed the ketogenic diet He wanted to see, can we this special diet, to see if it And lo and behold, it worked. Early results were 50% of patients who became seizure-free. And another 35% had a in their seizure frequency, ANDREW HUBERMAN: I didn't mean to do that there. Was it just for or for adult epilepsy as well? CHRIS PALMER: So we didn't have many And a lot of adults So they were using it on By the 1950s, pharmaceuticals And we had many more And there's no question, they That's great. And taking a pill is so much So the diet pretty And nobody was using it from But lo and behold, even to about 30% don't respond that we have available. 30% will have treatment which means they no matter how many even if they've It just doesn't And so in the 1970s, was resurrected at Johns Hopkins cases. And lo and behold, it works-- not for all of them, about 1/3 become seizure-free. And these are people who've working. So 1/3 become seizure-free. Another third get meaning a 50% or greater frequency. And the other third, it It's not always clear if or if that's because the But about a third, seizure freedom, or it just doesn't work. And so the reality, is that we have decades on the ketogenic diet and We know that the ketogenic diet levels-- in particular, It changes calcium channel levels, which is really of cells. It changes gene expression. It reduces brain inflammation. It changes the gut microbiome. Gut microbiome is a And there are some argue that is the primary it's changing the gut So it's doing a lot of things. It obviously improves It lowers glucose levels, which improves The key for my research that is that this diet stimulates relate to mitochondria. It stimulates a process which is getting rid of old and replacing them And it also stimulates mitochondrial that after people have done the months or years-- many of and brains will have And those mitochondria And I believe that is the reason a powerful treatment not for people with chronic ANDREW HUBERMAN: Would a few of the mental disorders? And I know this is not but we should distinguish and neurological The fields of hopefully someday But for instance, is presenting with looks like they'll talk to a neurologist. Whereas, if somebody is like schizophrenia, bipolar, But if you wouldn't could you just of the neurologic and for which ketogenic-- or let's just say-- have been shown to improve And then maybe we can dive as well as get more deeply aspects of mitochondrial and turnover. CHRIS PALMER: Yeah. In terms of nutritional And it's in its infancy, If you're looking for randomized efficacy in large numbers of we don't have them. They're underway now. But we don't have them yet. What we do have We have a lot of by some of the leading and psychiatrists in the world-- and neurologists in the this is everything we know that These are the of people with these chronic disorders. So we know that But the disorders range we've got a trial We've got one trial from the of Health for the ketogenic of all things. And we can go into We've got a couple of pilot for Alzheimer's disease. And those are randomized We've got case studies for chronic depression, bipolar The largest study that we've is a pilot study of 31 patients 28 of those patients and stay on the diet. So 10%, off the couldn't do the diet. So we need to include that. But of the 28 patients and these are 28 patients with disorders, chronic depression, Of the patients who were able 100% had at least some 46% had remission of illness. Remission of illness, happen with current treatments. And 64%, I think, were than they went into So it wasn't that the people and that's why. They were being discharged We've got at least-- again, a lot of the hard core show us the randomized with hundreds of patients. And we've got five randomized funded primarily I can tell you that-- we've talked about But at this point, I have now And I've heard from who've been treated by other or I've just heard from who have shared stories of long, chronic like bipolar disorder off of psychiatric meds. Some of them-- not all are able to get off and remain in remission. Again, I think I But it's really For people who with the mental health field and the reason that it's such is that we use in psychiatric patients of people. So a lot of people but I'll list off some names may have heard of. And they probably know But in fact, these Depakote, Tegretol, or gabapentin, Valium, those are all medications And many of them were developed But we, in the quickly steal them and start of people, even if So that means, we don't have that they're effective. But we go ahead because the reality is far too better with the that we do have to offer. So psychiatrists are just And we're just throwing and we absolutely include So in many ways, using as a treatment for is nothing new at all. It's an established for epilepsy. We use evidence-based across the board for a wide And so in many doing with the ketogenic diet. It just happens to be a diet. [CHUCKLES] ANDREW HUBERMAN: I love it. I love it. And I should say, I had a guest on here early He's a colleague of He's a bioengineer, and a scientist and Deisseroth, who won the Lasker And he made a really which should have but wasn't until was the psychiatrist has tools, tools. But the tools are language Those are the dissection going on in someone's brain. And then as a familiar with the and neuromodulators. And you mentioned that-- and there are these tools of are of the sorts of off, or antidepressants, that fall into these dopamine or adjusting of dopamine, serotonin and on, and on, and on. And it seems to me, it's But that the field is still that it wasn't about a hundred measuring bumps on the head as and that there's still And so when I hear you say, people into a ketogenic state highly processed foods, taking care of and then observing in clinical syndromes of-- or symptoms, rather, of it makes perfect sense to me. It's yet another And a tool for altering If I think about the landscape, of-- again, there seem to be these saying, of course, and social connection, stress, that's the good stuff. That's the stuff And then about a third of And then a third of if it's not a it just has no And hopefully, that's changing. And certainly, the is going to be important that I think we will see. I'd like to talk about mitophagy I think most people learn that factories of cells and As a neuroscientist, them is that they are present Not just in the but you can find mitochondria of neurons. And neurons can be In fact, meters long or more including us. Depending on how tall somebody or several meters rather. And that mitochondria do a produce energy, hear &quot;mitochondria,&quot; &quot;energy,&quot; these patients felt better. They lost weight. They had more energy. And then they're doing better. But here we're talking of auditory hallucinations, and then changing their is something they can deal extremely well, and et cetera. So maybe we could just for a moment. And then talk about What are some of that mitochondria are important other cells of the brain? Because as an access I think it would be great a little mitochondrial biology. CHRIS PALMER: So I guess the is that this field is one of in medicine right now. 20 years ago or so, I think the thought of more than little batteries. They take food and oxygen And that's really important. Yeah, we get that. But they're just That's all they are. And so one of the reasons it's because it combines in the metabolic field And we can start to pair and neurological health field. So mitochondria-- one He said, if you think of a lot of people as the power cord because they're And they are, in fact, the But actually, is the motherboard So mitochondria are directing throughout a cell. That is their primary function. And then they happen to And so to give some mitochondria play a direct role and regulation of some including serotonin, dopamine, Those are pretty powerful ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I would consider those the-- I know you listed But the sort of primary CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Any one of is going to have on a nervous system. Or it's going to alter the way think, move-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: So mitochondria of the building for some of those part of the Krebs, Some of the actually go into making Much more importantly, provide the energy of those neurotransmitters. And fascinatingly, mitochondria to the release of ATP alone is not enough. There have been some research found that the membrane of the synapse of neurotransmitters, and that from the synapse and researchers neurotransmitters usually Mitochondria are We don't entirely even doing or how they're doing it. But they're doing other things Another really that mitochondria are actually of epigenetics. If you look at any one factor-- so one study actually responsible for the of the genes in a cell. And mitochondria do of ways that have been known So mitochondria are to the levels of reactive They are managing calcium And we know that those in epigenetic expression. We know the levels of ATP to And mitochondria are But it turns out, doing much more than even those in terms Mitochondria at in all of the aspects of So when humans are physically or are several things that happen-- increased cortisol increased inflammation, and gene in the hippocampus-- occur And one group of genetically modified in four different that all of the stress buckets of stress response were implying that playing a role in those. In terms of their we know that have the enzyme required for the So that includes cortisol, and progesterone, some heard of. so that means that are in short supply the production of those hormones Mitochondria play a direct And they turn the or they at least play a role in both on and off. I'm not going to be able and author. But one paper in cell actually as the key regulator in turning and that when you inhibit those cells don't turn off, of reactive oxygen species to turn the inflammatory Another study found so macrophages are an that play a role in healing. So if you cut yourself, send inflammation that way to try to heal your skin. And macrophages play an One group of researchers how do macrophages between the different because the macrophages in the different phases And the conclusion of was that it's mitochondria. Mitochondria are sending that change the state to induce these different So I've just talked about epigenetic expression, For anybody familiar with they know these are some of the have been struggling with for how do these fit together. We know that all can be disrupted in people And our field has but how do they fit together? How can we make sense And I believe once the science of mitochondria, connect all of the dots of ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'd like and thank our sponsor, InsideTracker is a that analyzes data to help you better and help you reach I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that your immediate and can only be analyzed from The problem with a lot of however, is that about metabolic factors, lipids, But you don't know what InsideTracker and makes it very easy what sorts of nutritional, supplementation-based you might want to to adjust the numbers of those lipids, and other your immediate and those numbers into the and indeed optimal for you. If you'd like to you can visit to get $200 off an ultimate as a special Black Friday of November. Again, that's and use the code Super interesting little these mitochondria are. I come from a field where into lumpers and splitters. And I'm somewhere in between. For those of you who are people that like to lists of no more than three areas into no more than three. Splitters are people into a ton of detail. There's a history of scientists to be able to name things CHRIS PALMER: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: to go around if you're splitting But we are doing neither here. What I'm hearing is that to being important sources of in cells-- which, of course, they are-- probably have other roles. Maybe someday, what we call be two or three different little There may be little that are controlling gene in there that are controlling But at least for now, And thank you, by the some of the other things in the landscape of oftentimes, people will There'll be a picture or flexing its muscles. People go, OK, mighty mitochondria. And then they'll just sort of like a dumb They're not doing And everything you are doing many sophisticated So I think how things are actually has an impact-- and but on the medical field Anyway, that's more But now that everyone that mitochondria are doing a things in a very regulated way, A few years ago, because a Nobel sometimes called autophagy. Look, people, you can People will know hopefully what which is the gobbling that are dead or injured. And this idea of being eaten up within a system-- nervous system or other system-- has come up again and again. I actually wasn't aware be such an important lever. So tell us about mitophagy, is the, intentional or not, presumably to replace them with Is that right? CHRIS PALMER: It is. So in many ways, mitophagy But it's got its is specific to mitochondria. There do appear to be some compared to autophagy Mitochondria actually are itself. And this makes sense because of autophagy is stimulated or fasting-mimicking states. So when your body senses that it actually hunkers to recycle dead old parts orchestrated way. And it takes them to lysosomes. They get degraded. And then those get used for either energy Autophagy is always But you can really through fasting, fasting-mimicking And this is why fasting is so kind of such hot topics It's because they've been And we think it's probably that you're stimulating lean and conservative in terms And the body doesn't just along with the old dead stuff. It has these processes that parts first. And they go first. And that's what's beautiful And that's why fasting So mitophagy we know plays a so there's this term called which some researchers are and move away from mitochondria do so And different mitochondria may very well be specializing And mitochondria from are sometimes doing like not all mitochondria That's specific where those genes are So it's not like are producing cortisol. Just the ones in your are producing cortisol. But there is this term And it has long been that mitochondrial dysfunction that ails us essentially. So in the 1950s, we that was based on And that's where all for you comes from. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And where all CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: it was like, it Not to say antioxidants are the be-all-end-all of health. CHRIS PALMER: They are not. But that's exactly where is that researchers in on these reactive oxygen correlated with all of and poor health outcomes. It turns out, they're also with all chronic mental So researchers used to see if, well, somehow tame these we'll improve health outcomes. Doesn't seem to work. By the 1970s, our and their role in the production expanded. And that led to the So in the 1970s, we had this based primarily and exclusively Fast forward a that was disproven oxygen species aren't all bad. They actually serve They're a normal part and cellular function. So they're not all bad. But we still know high levels are bad for you. Fast forward to just, I with this expanded role of mitochondria are doing. So David Sinclair in one of the cell saying that, oh, the unifying link of everything Mitochondria are the cause-- or defective mitochondria function, mitochondrial is possibly the and all of the aging So mitophagy is trying It's trying to say, We don't want defective we get rid of old and replace them with new ones. And I think the most that we have right now is, It's calorie restriction. That is the oldest, truest, kind aging in a wide variety fasting and And again, you can only do And then fasting-mimicking stimulate this ANDREW HUBERMAN: Before we talk if-- and I certainly accept are extremely important and mental health. That's, for me, is a at this point, based whatever and And if various diets, including fasting, reducing sugar can assist in mitochondrial and that's at least one of can positively impact mental can we conclude that about low blood The sort of common pathway of ketogenesis-- for some people, maybe they-- maybe some people have so just removing brings down their blood They don't need to go in order to relieve a or something like that. Seems like the that glucose levels to be reduced, which because neurons love glucose. There are some One that I can think was published in look at the tuning of a neuron, represents some visual image here, we can just more action potentials, from the neuron with better high It's sort of if everyone's and then someone is the one responding And these neurons just, they are faithful of what's out But then when you they become less of what's out there. And yet when I've done and I do a kind of my mental clarity is I've had a big bowl of pasta-- probably for other to serotonin and tryptophan. So I think for the typical I have to imagine, it's got We hear neurons love glucose. They live on glucose. And here, we're saying, let's Or let's just bring Or let's switch the fuel source to ketones. And now the brain really works So this raises a little bit like why would it be the case and yet if there's too they become sick? And of course, with any as I would say, I wasn't And I'm going to weren't consulted the design-- CHRIS PALMER: I was not. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --phase either. And that if any of then we are probably the So I think there's There's delusion-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --right? OK. I threw out my first correct So how do I get my You've got me sold not that I needed to be sold. But that's an easy yes, The idea that diet can and physical health-- by way of mitochondria-- But then neurons love glucose. So what's going on? Or what do you CHRIS PALMER: I am not convinced Glucose may, in We know that parts there have been a couple of in the last couple documenting that actually play a key role in glucose And it appears to be a metabolic implies that the mitochondria are probably playing a key role play a key role in They play a key role in from the pancreas. But mitochondria in playing a role in how much glucose is around. And so it's a difficult question high glucose levels of metabolic dysfunction And when I think about, In my mind, most of is pointing to somewhere in the body or brain. That is the most likely of glucose levels. But we know that if you of junk food, sugar, that you can get dysregulation The conundrum, though, a universal response. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And what I've never really liked Maybe as a kid, I can But I was a sandwich for And as I've changed and maybe a small piece of like that, I feel far better But I do eat carbohydrates. I eat starches But I tend to do some very during the day. So I imagine I have OK. That's me. I only mentioned that as far as I know. I haven't-- unless you I haven't done the blood So what about the an omnivore eating some salads, people that are eating of sugar but have in kind of moderate range? Do you think-- and here, Do you think that those or even a little were in a lower glucose state? And I ask this are a lot of people from full-blown depression. But there are also who suffer from moodiness subclinical depression. CHRIS PALMER: Yes, burnout ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, or just and then other days, they they don't understand. CHRIS PALMER: Yeah. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And those make And yet I have to assume net a large fraction CHRIS PALMER: So the way that and I'm probably getting But I kind of break what's the actual root cause-- and what are And I really see them Just because the ketogenic does not imply that the was eating carbohydrates. And I think that's a really There are many people who There's no doubt about it. And everybody's sugar is the cause of Or carbs are the cause of If everybody does a low carb and then they go to, so it must I don't see it as clearly Calorie restriction, carbohydrate restriction are in the brain and body. And regardless of what they are inducing that can be really So let me just give a clear of this. And then I can speak that you brought up about The easy example of being an effective who was not following a bad There are lots of infants who They are drinking breast milk. To the best of our is the primary, most an infant could be consuming. Now, some might say, well, whatever, I don't buy that. The mother's breast milk is, in for that infant. And yet that infant If we put that infant a lot of those infants It doesn't mean that the was a bad diet. But it means that can change brain metabolism in that person. So going to your broader modern-day, the real this conference in College of obesity medicine That's not the name. But it's something The conclusion of that invited the greatest the overarching conclusion don't know what causes obesity. It's really important We don't know what ANDREW HUBERMAN: excess caloric intake beyond is causing obesity? CHRIS PALMER: Some And so some will say yes, But why do we have an ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh. Well, that's the CHRIS PALMER: Yes. Some will say, it's But we had junk When I was growing up, I grew and King Dons, and HoHos, and-- [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: I'm rewatching I love that series, And I happen to know someone They researched and the costumes, everything, And if you look at the It was mostly-- of excessive amounts of But the diets were terrible. It was pre-packaged foods. It was frozen dinners. That really came to prominence But even in the '50s and, from in the '30s and eating grass-fed with a little bit of That's not the typical intake. So something out there-- are at play to increase obesity. CHRIS PALMER: And at the some will call this speculative. But I actually think we've got that continues to point I believe that to the obesity something in our environment. So that is either our food, levels, poor sleep, not getting you want to speculate on, all of are known to impair And if parts of your brain that regulate eating behaviors are it means that they will Or it means that your rise to the challenge because some people and go on staying ANDREW HUBERMAN: Although, I would that it seems to me that up-- and again, I haven't there are fewer and fewer of Just as when I was growing up, that were quite overweight. And then there were some But most were of healthy weight. Nowadays, that's The landscape is dramatically It is rare when I encounter one people. I know one, he's actually He's in our media And this guy, when I take he's in his early And he's incredibly lean. He exercises a little bit. But he's one of these mutants and eat, and he's lean it's wild. And he's an expensive lunch. CHRIS PALMER: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: But those And even those kids CHRIS PALMER: They're And that leads me be epigenetic factors so that kids are actually coming ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, that because I had a note But I'm going to to capture this moment. My understanding is that-- well, as everyone We get genes from And they mix. Although there are incredible lab at Harvard and others have entire regions carry neurons that are of depending on the brain region. This is a wild finding. But it's accurate. And this has actually been known of disease, et cetera. Maternal DNA, DNA from mom, not to place blame My understanding is that come exclusively through Is that true? CHRIS PALMER: So it's And I've been asked this before. And yeah, psychiatrists are And some might say that I'm and blame mothers again. ANDREW HUBERMAN: The I'm not trying to Mothers play an essential But if it is true are the linchpin of all this and the mitochondrial DNA, I to look. CHRIS PALMER: It's an And the answer is That's not the way it works. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Well, that was asserting that. CHRIS PALMER: And so So mitochondria have 36 13 of those genes code for some of making ATP. And the other 36 play roles play roles in whole body So that is what you're It's the mitochondria and those But the majority of proteins over, I think, 1,300 genes are actually encoded And so you inherit a copy and your father. So the majority of people who or rare mitochondrial could inherit them because it can be a defect in for proteins that The much bigger issue when-- so when I talk about being a primary driver of mental it's not that people inherit or mitochondria that just ruins That's actually not The beautiful thing is that it connects that we already know play but also metabolic health. Sleep disruption impairs function. Stress, high levels impair mitochondrial function. Drug and alcohol use, in terms of the smoke-- and marijuana-- THC, in mitochondrial function. ANDREW HUBERMAN: THC CHRIS PALMER: THC directly. Those studies have been done. So mitochondria actually have And various of studies from Nature this, that the mitochondrial kind of primary points of on human behaviors and effects. Because when they remove CB1 these changes don't happen. So the CB1 receptors-- we've got some large who use a lot of marijuana. And the areas where the number of CB1 receptors that actually are atrophied to normal healthy controls. So that means their brain It's shrinking prematurely. But the CB1 receptors also seem to play a role in can be induced from THC. And they also play of lack of motivation, the from THC. Now, again, for people that's what they're looking for. They don't want to They don't want to think. They want to be spaced out. They want to relax. That's great. But it's important that they're actually harming cells. And that although there's to repair mitochondria to stimulate so you can get it back, but if you're probably not helping health. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah, I'm We did an episode on cannabis. We also did one on alcohol-- probably lost some When you look at the I'm not arguing the effects of these But it is clear based on the data that have read about red wine, that going to be healthier and that the thresholds for start to negatively is about one or two per week. And then THC, because of of THC that are present vaping and smoking that it can be problematic. You mentioned adolescents and brain atrophy, In any case, because because it is a I heard you give I think I have this right-- the way that the brain which may disrupt one's make alcohol seem more rewarding So drinking alcohol more rewarding to the but that it also might that basically alcohol is Do I have that correct? CHRIS PALMER: You do ANDREW HUBERMAN: OK. What happens if you take an drinks two to four of drinks, which I think and you put them on Has that experiment been done? CHRIS PALMER: That ANDREW HUBERMAN: Ah. CHRIS PALMER: It than a woman named is one of the leading researchers in the world. She is the director of of Drug Abuse. She's been hot on the trail in the brains of people with I will just refer because that's what So she's been hot on this And as you said, it turns in particular, are metabolically And the metabolic compromise means they aren't getting The interesting thing is that your liver converts alcohol That acetate travels up to the in particular, some pathway cells more than others. And so chronic alcoholics of energy in these cells. And so Nora Volkow and other Institutes of Health did a to see if we can change in alcoholics. Will that affect clinical And will it do anything? It's clinically useful. And so they actually controlled trial, admitted Half of the patients The other half got the And then everybody got the same detox protocol. The patients who got required fewer benzodiazepines Despite that, they had from the alcohol. They reported fewer And the researchers which showed improved brain that they were looking at. And their brains of neuroinflammation, they were really interested in. And so that one study says to would think alcoholism has alcohol is just It's a matter of willpower. Or it's somebody They've got an and it's that simple. You come out of the womb with And those people are novelty And they have no patience. They have no discipline. They can't sustain any kind ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or There's a-- CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --story there, But-- CHRIS PALMER: And there may be. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. CHRIS PALMER: But what that suggests-- and again, yes, maybe we need But this is one of the leading who's hot on this trail. This is what she believes. And this is what I believe. It's that if we can correct from chronic alcohol be able to help people be chance. Or give them an edge that we can use in their There's one caution to that I really do And so now, I'm going from all the keto community. ANDREW HUBERMAN: That's OK. I admire you for talking because anytime one you're going to get CHRIS PALMER: So the is that as part of the research doing, they actually what will happen if an animal consumes alcohol So they didn't do This is a fairly So I'm hoping somebody But they instead put on a standard diet and half And then they exposed them of alcohol. The rats who were on had a five-fold increase Five-fold increase. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or-- CHRIS PALMER: No. ANDREW HUBERMAN: --it was CHRIS PALMER: It was The rats all got the ANDREW HUBERMAN: So for people I'm chuckling, but who are alcoholics, please because it's so detrimental. But I guess does this mean that to get the effect of alcohol CHRIS PALMER: Cheap dates. Cheap date is what You only need a half a drink ANDREW HUBERMAN: I would think you for this unless they somehow industry. CHRIS PALMER: The as a caution is that if anybody and thinks hey, I I need a lever to pull to give this stuff up. I just find myself going back. And if you're telling me my and this might help it, And yes, that's what the And that's what I'm saying that if you relapse while you better not drink the that you think you can drink. ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: It and/or it could be really-- yeah, deadly to you or someone a lot of times they get behind the wheel. And they think that they can And they think, well, and have two glasses of I know myself. If you go to a don't drive with because it means your if it models anything that your blood alcohol levels than they would normally be. And that means you And you're probably ANDREW HUBERMAN: is true for drinking on CHRIS PALMER: Yup. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Yeah. Now, it's a very And thank you for raising that. I hear this again about blood glucose, you And for those of you-- that earlier astrocytes in the brain, a glial cell type known for popularizing the which include astrocytes. And I'd be remiss if I didn't the cells that hold everything and are kind of But they do many I think now people appreciate as important as the neurons. And certainly, for implicated in warding off Everything that you're that the brain can regulate in the body, metabolism, et et cetera, to me, that's not surprising. All of it just screams hypothalamus because it's regulating these basal It's regulating how And of course, in motivation and craving. There are other areas, too-- other areas of the But I would imagine or has mapped out where the are in the brain. And I guess that raises one goes on a ketogenic or low has anyone observed Has anyone had neuroimaging under conditions of ingesting whether or not suffering from a I would think that's CHRIS PALMER: We do have When you do a you can measure a lot So one thing with can measure glucose metabolism. So a researcher, doing that research in disease patients and Alzheimer's And that's because again, a common with Alzheimer's disease is some people are signaling impairment. And so some people are At the end of the day, signal that we aren't getting enough energy That is something that I say that's backed by There's debate in about whether that's a I happen to believe it is. And if you ask the why would cells not be getting You have to focus because they're the fuel from that glucose. So you somehow you have in that process Others will say, no, that's causing Alzheimer's disease. So Stephen Cunnane has gives ketone supplements. ANDREW HUBERMAN: These CHRIS PALMER: Yeah, ketone And it has actually found that can be corrected, by giving a ketone supplement. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is this also ingesting Because I confess, I've I probably did it wrong. This was years ago. And then the cyclic But in the last year using liquid ketone esters. And I do eat some usually in proportion to how I'm doing. Those liquid ketone at least subjectively-- increase my energy levels and And they improve my sleep. This is my observation but just, again, subjectively. So in this example, about people taking salts on a backdrop or on the backdrop of CHRIS PALMER: So he's done both. So he's done studies where anything special with the diet. So they're eating eat, absolutely a ketone salt or ester, immediate and direct of these metabolically as measured by PET imaging. ANDREW HUBERMAN: These are not Sorry, I have-- P-E-T, positron emission Although, I'm sure that who have their dogs, or their pet kangaroos, on ketogenic diet. OK. CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. So he's actually moved further. He's done a pilot actually, where he did on a ketogenic diet. He simply reduced at breakfast and lunch. They still got the same And simply reducing at breakfast and lunch resulted in a statistically significant ANDREW HUBERMAN: Oh, I love I just have to highlight this. I'm a huge believer in to specific portions one needs to be less and yet can replenish glycogen. Limiting carbohydrates most for me, has been a game alertness, et cetera. I'm not aware that I have But then again, I would-- people CHRIS PALMER: Let me say, There is no way you have ANDREW HUBERMAN: Although as a six-year-old-- CHRIS PALMER: If you have we're all screwed. ANDREW HUBERMAN: of flaws and impairments-- documented by people But this is very in the context of everything because could it be with liquid ketones liquid ketones to people disorders-- or things of that even if they are not to a ketogenic diet? CHRIS PALMER: That is the right now. And we don't have good My speculation, my hunch, with patients, is it It's not the same thing. The bigger reason for my is that we've had available for over a decade now. We have tens of thousands of are following a strict, diet to control their epilepsy. Those kids would love to Their parents would love to have ANDREW HUBERMAN: They had no CHRIS PALMER: There of any child controlling exogenous ketones without I just find it hard to of those people haven't I do know some patients and even schizophrenia who on a ketogenic diet. They have tried to switch exogenous ketones. Their symptoms came back. And so they found that Now, again, those are anecdotes. My scientific is because the ketogenic diet is ketones themselves. Ketones are one of a And so when people they're also improving-- They're improving They're ramping up mitochondrial in the liver because make ketones. That's where they're made. And they're primarily made So when somebody is or on a ketogenic diet, go through the roof because It's like, hey, body's Get to work. And so the mitochondria-- the cell senses we need fat to turn it into ketones so to the brain and keep because fatty acids Only ketones can. Now, so my sense is that-- and everything, the so if you're eating and drinking a the donuts are going from lowering glucose levels. You're still going to levels from the donuts. You're still going the impaired insulin signaling. You're probably still have some inflammation from of that food. And so just drinking ketones I think for people who are include you in that, I think beneficial role, no doubt. I think exogenous proven valuable in who maybe can't follow a but maybe could do And then given the happening with I could imagine a the million dollar wants to go out and get this, to be true. I could imagine a scenario with alcoholics. And that every time they have they drink ketones instead. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Which sort The ketone esters, when I take Sometimes I'll put And I'm not a big I might have an alcoholic I just don't ever crave it. I just do it every maybe-- I think 2020 was the last So obviously, I'm not a But the ketones And they obviously They do seem to flick on my My understanding is that they source. Meaning, they are going by the brain when there's a If there's glucose there's circulating the ketones would be used Is that true? CHRIS PALMER: I think Some research that we have areas or brain cells that ketones. So 100% of the brain cannot as we can tell. So there are some areas And that's probably the to keep the body going and keep But when ketones are available, the way I think about are the preferred fuel goes to the wayside. But the way I think have a range of degrees of metabolic health. And some of those to be extraordinarily healthy abundant mitochondria. And those cells to continue to use But if ketones sure, they'll use that, too. Why not? But the real money compromised tissues, brain cells or we're talking about the brain. So if you've got metabolically because it's not Like with Alzheimer's there are specific regions compromised than others. And that's why we see patterns regions. It's because those regions are for whatever reason. And we can get into But my sense is that if you've cell, that cell is sending That cell is calling resources Give me something. And if it can't use it is going to suck and then start running on all And that process is so is that if that cell by on 60% of its it means that it doesn't have and repair functions. As soon as you give that or close to it, even to 90% of its preferred it can start to repair itself. That's the beauty in living organisms, have a priority list of If that cell senses that defective proteins need to be replaced, it will start repairing ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank you for that I'd like to talk and age-related cognitive I know many people terrified of losing their Memory sets context, et cetera. And many people suffer from Alzheimer's or I've heard that the it can be very to offset some of the and age-related In fact, I even have a friend who's the chair of of all people, asking whether or or whether or not I knew of ketogenic diet for Alzheimer's. And I thought, well, why don't in neurology? But his response was He said there are many books out There are a lot of online There are a lot of and some animal studies. Again, these are his words. There are very few, if any, exploring the role for the treatment or and age-related I'm hoping that statement incorrect-- because those but he said, yeah, the people about the important role in ketosis for Alzheimer's, they just won't do And that's been frustrating So this is a very educated, who's a physician of to something else But what is the story there. And for goodness' sake, why on ketogenic diet I don't expect you to be But goodness, I would be the obvious thing for NIH. I'm on study section but not Why isn't money just avalanching the anecdotal evidence that CHRIS PALMER: So of small pilot clinical trials. The best one was a I think it only included 26 randomized to 12 weeks of a 12 weeks of ketogenic diet. Some of the participants got Other participants And that trial actually were in ketosis, they had improvement in activities of life. And they did have improvement But it didn't reach that improvement did not. We've got other trials. We've got several animal models can improve biomarkers in Alzheimer's models. So it can reduce can even improve cognitive And we've got a couple trials of ketogenic showing that it improves to, say, the low fat diet or diet. So we've got those. I think one of the that I'll just share openly-- and this is-- I'm passionate about this research. And I believe it has But Johns Hopkins' to do exactly this kind of a ketogenic diet American Academy of Aging-- or something like that-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: has starches in there. CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I think CHRIS PALMER: Probably ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: Whole grains, ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: And they spent, They screened over 1,300 At the end of the got 27 people to enroll. And only 14 of those ANDREW HUBERMAN: Wow. CHRIS PALMER: Despite found was that the subjects had cognitive improvement. But people on study to look at a study like that there, if you can't get why would we spend money to get people to do this diet? ANDREW HUBERMAN: study section is this closed There are many of these panels. Different divisions in the use different panels. And then grants are because of the size of the a very small percentage. Usually, about 10% of The rest generally That is very informative. What you just described because now it There's no conspiracy. It's not big pharma, is trying to suppress on Alzheimer's because the first thing that is to see that study done. So they didn't have to. And then the moment it was done, they'd probably want and wrap it up in something CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: there's any active I think pharma would probably because they could capitalize the studies are But the treatments are by pharmaceutical companies So I don't believe there's That is very interesting. And it's kind of amazing, of earlier, which is that was having schizophrenic managed to stay on this diet. So is there something special and people with age-related Presumably, they're to cook for them I think that this is almost for getting this study done. CHRIS PALMER: I think So again, I got patients-- I get patients with bipolar extraordinarily impaired and stay with it. But it's because I'm providing And I imagine this that kind of intensive support. In the pilot trial that they actually got, I with the different So some of it is going to group. And does the research group it's not like Here, take this pill. And take it every day and And even then, we that the patient took We just assume they And studies say they So I think when we think we need to think about and education. And that support could be a It could be a dietician. It could be education It might even be providing That maybe for six months, with ketogenic meals-- once a week, put Microwave them when needed-- to make this diet as easy Because if we can get if we can get them through most people can learn More importantly-- I But the number one reason I patients to stay on is because of the consequences That is the reason I can and bipolar patients whereas other people can't being to do it for weight patient doesn't experience when they break the diet. Oftentimes, they are rewarded. They eat something And they get a little bit And they're off to the races. They're like, I'm going to-- I'll cheat again. I'll get back on it someday. And they never get around to it. My patients, when they start hallucinating or 24, 48 hours. And they quickly realize that to do. That piece of cake the torment that I'm So they get back on the diet. I suspect with we might notice Some of these people So maybe they won't of a reinforcement, negative But I think some of them will. Some of them recognize that And if this diet could if this diet could help and again, that's what is activities of daily living. That means these to the bathroom on their own. They're able to get Whereas, they needed help Those are actually to both the patient And if they go off quickly revert into a that might be reinforcing to figure out a way to And if we think is an effective we need longer trials, because there are in the medical field where spectacular and promising. And then larger trials just I believe, based on all mitochondria, glucose I believe the science makes has real potential. So people will call me biased. That's fine. I've got my bias. ANDREW HUBERMAN: No, based and extensive clinical I think biases that want to feel a certain are worth critiquing. But bias based on I should mention that most of was sparked by one patient, was living in Harvard Medical, There are many hospitals But one patient, the the hippocampus with memory the hippocampus damaged for epilepsy treatment. So this idea that a randomized clinical Of course, that's And it's essential. But there's so much information in particular, that are gleaned studies or from three-patient or something of that sort. So to me, I'm still there's this insistence on Clearly, what you're that you're doing clinically, and in public communication, I have a question about-- or more of a statement/question Based on everything seems to me that the is a very interesting as is intermittent even though it might just be that occurs with fasting. But then in some of the ketogenic are a bit of a decoy That's where their mind goes. This person lost X Maybe that made Maybe that actually I think you've talked about it. For some people, it can actually I'm glad that we got into the description of because it really is a has a side effect of be used to treat obesity But it's really about And that raises a question we've been talking about the But I've heard you where just as a physician will ranges of a given drug, you ranges of a nutritional It's not one thing. It's not necessarily or 100 grams or 50 grams. It depends on the patient I've heard you list off Maybe you could just briefly is, because I think it means eating a lot of But it might not be that. Fasting and then some mentioned Atkins earlier. We don't have to go into And I know in your not just the science and some actionable steps that So they can refer But for somebody depressed-- they've had Maybe they're on and they want to try Obviously, this has to be done observing all this. But what is the typical thing Just like with a with 20 milligrams of a drug. What's your typical initial Terrible languaging, I realize. And I'm criticizing But I think people get the idea. CHRIS PALMER: The real a one-size-fits-all So the first thing to assess with the patient is, What is their current diet like? And what are they willing to do? I try to meet them So if somebody-- and You mentioned the of this diet, which to as the carnivore diet. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Very CHRIS PALMER: There is Some people swear by it. They swear they've tried other and only when they went did they get benefits. But there are vegetarian of the ketogenic diet. So in my mind, about the diet wars versus plant-sourced foods. It's about inducing a is mimicking the fasting state. That is what it's about. And you can do that by by fasting and/or And you get your results. So no diet is a ketogenic diet. So it's not about the that you're eating. It's about inducing The first variable I'm going to or prescribe this is the If somebody is obese I'm going to use different for those two situations. In the obese patient, they on their body already. Usually, it is a goal of theirs And they'd like to if they're going to try a anyway. And so I'm going to use that. So that person, really, the diet And that usually is a ANDREW HUBERMAN: Both meaning sugars CHRIS PALMER: So no added sugars, essentially. You can have added natural fruit. You might use Years of doing recommend steer away can because I think cravings for high carb foods. So if you can kind of get without sweet things, will go down. And it'll make the diet easier But let's say you can have if that's what you really want. So I'm going to say less for those people. They can have all the They can have vegetables. And they can have all But I'm not going to I'm not going to tell them, eat because I want to use the fat at least early on. ANDREW HUBERMAN: healthy fats like like olive oil? Are you encouraging people butter, et cetera? CHRIS PALMER: I tend a wide range of fats. And it's going to A lot of times, people come to But I'm going to tend to nuts, which are even by the American healthy sources of fat. The more controversial like coconut oil or coconut Association might say I kind of disagree with it's unhealthy at all actually. And when you look at the of saturated fat or causing adverse outcomes, at 10% to 15%-- at best. ANDREW HUBERMAN: can people ingest, anyway, diarrhea-- no joke-- tired of coconut oil? Anyway, your point is taken. But they can eat meat CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Or Or if they don't they could eat sardines I personally can't-- I can't even stomach the-- I don't even like I have nothing against But that's just me. But obviously, people have-- I say this because people have CHRIS PALMER: Yes. ANDREW HUBERMAN: But I'm not going CHRIS PALMER: And I'm And again, there are vegan people can eat tempeh So that's the obese person. It's carb restriction as The thin person is going because they don't have a lot And if I want them in I'm going to have So that's the person to say, make sure olive oil, butter, So heavy cream is delicious. It's a delicious way I have one patient who to just try to get it in. ANDREW HUBERMAN: I get it. I've never had an I absolutely love When I was in high So I was able to do this. But I used to drink Sometimes I wake up in and drink it just because CHRIS PALMER: It So if they're on I'm going to push them and toward heavy whipping cream. So you can whip that up. You can freeze it. It turns into ice cream. You can add vanilla. You can add cocoa powder. You can add all sorts of things. And you're off to the races and mousse, and all sorts With any of these patients, is I have objective biomarkers. I'm going to have them And I'm going to adjust the diet and/or the clinical benefits If it's an average person, under psychiatric care, not but is saying, I'm burned out. I'm exhausted. I want some of that brain is talking about. He talks about feeling good. I want some of that. I'm probably actually the protocol you let's see if we can just and see if that produces I have one-- he's just somebody who read my book. I didn't tell him anything. And he came away he was ready to start an He had chronic anxiety, was trying all sorts of things. Nothing-- those He was ready to go on He read an early He took it upon himself without carbohydrates alone. He did not go ketogenic. He is a vegetarian. He restricted carbs. Within three weeks, need prescription medicine. I can't believe how And all I did was cut foods in my diet. So I think for some people, For people with serious if they are chronically on lots of prescription disabled by their if you're bipolar or have those are the people them to work with a because meds may They need a real It's not like weight loss. Weight loss, everybody wings it. And either you're You look on the internet or even the colleague he's probably just reading-- who knows whether it's and just winging it, and For people with serious I want you to treat it like you have a serious brain disorder. It's impairing your ability It's impairing your You deserve a competent And we have that. We have a hundred-year We've got dieticians like the back of their hand. They can monitor your They can help look for vitamin that can be a and make sure that you're They can help tweak They can give you ideas if every morning. They can give you ideas for And if you're using it to I think you need serious help. ANDREW HUBERMAN: A a little more detailed, will have this on their mind. Is it ever the case somebody the ketogenic with intermittent fasting? So eat keto but eat of, whatever, 11:00 AM and That's the first question. CHRIS PALMER: Absolutely. And I have one patient with depression. And he will try to follow And sometimes, his blood And sometimes I either intermittent fasting or fast. And it is shocking. When he does a three or four or two, he feels like crap. I'll just say up front, an important meeting or Don't be-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: So this CHRIS PALMER: This is ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: I usually tell him or tea. But-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: You CHRIS PALMER: I have But when he does it, his blood his blood sugars But the last time he did it, at one point. And he said, I feel great. I want to keep going. I can't believe But I am not hungry at all. I don't miss food at all. And at seven days, I I was like, no, no. We're done. ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: ANDREW HUBERMAN: You got to eat. Well, I find it that the intermittent controversial at some level, it's just beneficial by way because it is one way to whether or not has But I'm very interested And it does seem can start to take on its where people get from eating, as but from abstaining from food. Now, this can be pathologic of anorexia nervosa, which deadly psychiatric illness. But for non-anoxerics, interesting to note that its own rewarding properties to weight loss. But in the short-term, feeling-- in other words, feeling of abstaining from eating. CHRIS PALMER: Yes. And that's actually-- it that I haven't mentioned yet. But at least in but even in some use the keto diet I have seen definite hypomania. ANDREW HUBERMAN: that aren't sleeping very much. Are they also getting thinking they're going CHRIS PALMER: No. So the distinction between so mania, you might become Mania, by definition, It's causing a problem And if you have it's definitely called Hypomania, for something every human So it is feeling It's getting by on less sleep. But you don't need to sleep. Who needs sleep? I've got things to do. My brain is running I feel so creative. There have been lots through the ages who have been And some of their most whether it's art or or what-have-you, were probably ANDREW HUBERMAN: So what I'm obsessed with getting It's a kind of a repeating and many of my And I always recommend then exercise, viewing at appropriate times, artificial light exposure, for people who and still struggle with One of the things that is that for people who are diet, that inositol, can be helpful for probably because it's a bit of an anti-anxiety effect. But presumably, there are The magnesiums will A hot bath will do that, But what you're talking about what, a day and a Or they're just two CHRIS PALMER: So saw was actually a mental didn't recognize it initially. He went six months with every night. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because they CHRIS PALMER: He was was getting by on two to four did not initially recognize He was feeling great. He was feeling that keto high. And he was actually going for 10 to 20 He finally stopped the ketogenic because he said, I can't I'm losing too much weight. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Sorry, I I was just thinking there personalities associated that might be hypomanic. I'll let you do the So what does somebody So I don't know that But as I mentioned done a very high intensity and I need to replenish I typically eat meat, fruit, and minimum amounts And then at night, I switch It really helps me sleep. It replenishes glycogen stores. I sleep really well, wake And of course, this goes that, oh, you're not late in the day and [MUMBLES]. This is what works for me. And so I do it. For somebody like this mental is hypomanic, would going off be the best idea? Or could it be they eat their carbohydrates in order to make alert and great during the day? Maybe not hypomanic have a four to eight-hour a to four hours a night, which CHRIS PALMER: Yeah, it's not-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: It CHRIS PALMER: It's not healthy. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Even if you I imagine that the CHRIS PALMER: It is. And the body is suffering. ANDREW HUBERMAN: And are suffering. CHRIS PALMER: The body is And so yeah, it's-- if it's somebody who they're not a mental They're not using as a mental health treatment. They're simply doing I actually start with Let's start with And the first You need at least six Period, end of story. That's non-negotiable. If you're not getting at least we need to consider So figure out a way to For some people, that's They don't get out It might take them an hour They fall back to sleep. For most people, if you can get in a row, the That is the way And then they still go on They feel great. Their brain feels good in motivation, all of those things. But they're not And then I might use that you mentioned, And for some, I will recommend eat some carbohydrates before you're going to bed. Either have them at dinner before you're going to go before you're going to try to calm your body When I'm using this as especially with patients I actually want them in a So I'm not going to do the I'm going to try But if they still can't over the counter probably going to go with medicines, as a to try to get them three to That usually breaks And then they stay because it ends up resulting in that I've described. Their illness can sometimes ANDREW HUBERMAN: Is it low prescription? CHRIS PALMER: I would I would actually because it's an antidepressant. And they're already hypomanic. And I certainly don't So as long as it's somebody I'm going to use or either commonly called zolpidem or Ambien or ANDREW HUBERMAN: Those tap GABA opioid? CHRIS PALMER: GABA. I usually start with something or something like that-- probably Ativan because And again, I'm only looking I let them know that up front. We're looking for three to And then we're going to try And usually, people and can sustain it well. ANDREW HUBERMAN: A Many of the Huberman Lab any time we're talking about or a drug treatment or people will say, what How is that impacted by this? How does the menstrual cycle Carbohydrates and have been implicated in are known to interact So what do you do if you have or could have but let's go with depression more familiar to most people-- and then they're on or full ketogenic diet, but How do you deal with And I guess we could and say, what about Because some caloric my understanding is that so weight loss testosterone-estrogen ratios But for someone to go on a sub-caloric diet, testosterone levels and-- probably not render but certainly adjust So what about interactions et cetera, and the CHRIS PALMER: The I don't think anybody knows. And there's not a because I've seen examples. And I'm aware of science to back So the first general I know so many couples, boyfriends and girlfriends, who have tried the ketogenic ANDREW HUBERMAN: And No, I'm just kidding. [LAUGHS] CHRIS PALMER: No. Almost universally, the men than the women. It's not across the board. But I know so many examples I couldn't tolerate that diet. It did not make me feel better. It actually made me feel worse. And I think in those does relate to hormones. I'm aware of animal in particular, ketogenic One researcher shared with me, is that the female on the ketogenic diet. Whereas, the mice were just having And it was just On the surface, it makes sense. The ketogenic diet is Women who are should not be fasting. If your body is in it probably does not metabolic resources, calories, to creating a baby being threatened &quot;fasting&quot; or starvation. That even though is a sustainable, we're really using the body into thinking that it state. And so just from a kind it makes sense that have significant changes to prevent pregnancy be having a baby when I know of examples of women who have benefited from the ketogenic schizophrenia, bipolar And I do actually know of A woman, infertile, had been trying for three She went keto. Within four months, How do I make sense of that? I don't know. And unfortunately, I have good control data on what to male hormonal systems, what to female hormonal systems. But clearly, I think I don't have a way to If somebody else has great But I haven't seen ANDREW HUBERMAN: It's because when things are all over depending on one I think it screams for and more descriptions and anecdotal data, too. So I think it's an It also calls to mind the announcement that because of that you described, fasting or the ketogenic of contraception. CHRIS PALMER: [LAUGHS] ANDREW HUBERMAN: I have a final to something that is very much and maybe more so hang out in the Twitter But there's a new think initially were but are now being evaluated to treat obesity. And these are the semaglutide they tap into these glucagon And it is a story that we've on the podcast before. But many people, I haven't heard that conversation. I would simply like to know what They obviously adjust the way managing energy, both in and can produce weight loss. So that to me, when I look But a good logical shift could achieve But a lot of people So the question I have on semaglutide and other GLP-- I think I might have said GLP-1 related compounds? And do you ever prescribe with these dietary shifts? Because it seems fall right in with the that you have available. CHRIS PALMER: The I am not at all an expert ANDREW HUBERMAN: But what They seem to be not unlike the fen-phen then were banned because a few CHRIS PALMER: They are. We had fen-phen. And even before and '60s, and '70s, Dexedrine-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: Amphetamine. CHRIS PALMER: Amphetamine-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: --was, of choice for women to keep their slim figures. And we created addicts But they were widely used and because they work. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Because CHRIS PALMER: They My overall thoughts are this. There is zero doubt in my is a threat to human health and If it keeps going at it is a threat to our species. We have to figure out what and what can we do about it. These medications, are highly effective That's promising. I am worried, though, the root cause of obesity. If the root cause being some kind of poisoning in the brain or body-- and I would argue that probably and mitochondrial function-- I have every reason to believe helps you lose weight may not And therefore, may all of the negative health we call obesity. So obesity, in it that excess fat can and can cause problems, But I actually see I see obesity as a symptom in the body or brain. And that is why And that if we're really we need to identify that metabolic derangement. Using a symptomatic treatment to the best of my that core problem. And we're just ignoring it. Maybe I'll be wrong. And maybe these will saved the human will be thin and healthy I'm not hopeful, because had so many promising Fen-Phen, Dexedrine, we've had so many And at the end of try to muck with a single processed I can't think of even one for large numbers of people. Certainly, life-saving for people So that would be an example. But giving massive to people with type 2 diabetes, I would much rather see people their diabetes through And that might be a ketogenic or exercise or good sleep, All of it. I'd much rather see people try to control their even though it's a we know that thats results consequences, results of cardiovascular rates of mental rates of premature mortality. Do I think GLP-1 molecules No. I don't have any reason to So that would be my two Time will tell. ANDREW HUBERMAN: Time will tell. Meanwhile, I want to what is, without Again, I'm not a clinician. But I've been around to know that indeed there There are drugs that certainly in some individuals. But that lifestyle and in in particular, in the diet and, the ketogenic diet, can have incredible in some individuals. And positive effects might not be of but nonetheless are so on behalf of myself, and the just on behalf of everybody out need to be concerned about whether or not they have them Or otherwise, because Just really want to thank that you're doing because And it's brave. And I can see now, based on our You've given us a lot of hints that suggest as to And you're going to as to how it has worked worked with. And this field is I think this is an area in general. Meaning, behavioral, that is expanding very fast. So thank you for being brave and it in such a structured way, here today. And with the general and your online presence. We will certainly point of those valuable resources. Thanks so much. CHRIS PALMER: Yeah, I know. ANDREW HUBERMAN: CHRIS PALMER: Thank you, Andrew, on your [LAUGHS] show-- ANDREW HUBERMAN: And a pleasure. CHRIS PALMER: --and for ANDREW HUBERMAN: Thank you for with Dr. Chris Palmer. I hope you found it to be and exciting in terms of that we can now think about for psychiatric disorders. Once again, if you're interested Brain Energy, I encourage That's chrispalmermd.com. You can also find by Chris Palmer on Amazon books are sold. And we provide links to the in the show note captions. If you're learning from please subscribe to That's a terrific zero In addition, please subscribe and on Apple. And on both Spotify can leave us up to If you have questions about topics and me to include on the please put those in the I do read all the comments. In addition, please mentioned at the beginning That's the best way to During today's episode, we But on many previous episodes we do discuss supplements aren't necessary for derive tremendous for things like enhancing augmentation, and so forth. The Huberman Lab with Momentous Supplements of the very highest quality. And they ship internationally. And in addition single-ingredient allow you to devise the most effective and most If you'd like to see the on the Huberman Lab to LiveMomentous.com/Huberman. The Huberman Lab also has that you can access. It includes summaries as well as summaries for mental health, physical You can sign up by going to hubermanlab.com. Go into the menu and look for sign-up. You just provide your email. And I assure you we do not And again, it's Again, go to hubermanlab.com and Newsletter. And if you're not already we are Huberman Huberman Lab Lab on Twitter, And at all of those science and for mental health, physical Some of which overlap covered on the But often which is distinct on the Huberman Lab podcast. So again, that's Huberman and Facebook. Once again, thank for today's discussion And last, but thank you for your [MUSIC PLAYING]