- This is a brand new Windows XP netbook. And today I'm going to be First of all, can my childhood dreams of using a netbook actually come true? Which, hopefully the answer will be, I will be happy and with this incredibly underpowered And number two, what is it Let's not forget that Windows Oh, I don't like that. I don't like that at all. Well, I did the video. I built a super high-powered gaming PC with Windows XP as a meme. But since then I had not used XP. And obviously, for that, I really just kind of did it for the meme. So, this would be my first time properly using Windows XP in 15 years. (upbeat music) - [Ken] Is there a reason why you're running Windows - Yeah, as we all know, If you haven't seen, I got which strangely had basically that is at this point, Look, I'm gonna be honest, Windows XP is a very old operating system. And every bit of malware is designed to destroy it. So, I'm a little afraid to This looks like it's a fairly So, let's see here. Performance &amp; Maintenance. Oh, my goodness. Dude, I have not seen these in so long. That's weird how I have and I remember some of this stuff. Oh, we're Service Pack 3 Wow! Wow! So, we've got ourselves at 1.66 gigahertz and You couldn't give me one gigabyte? Come on. So, I just like how on the splash screen, it now says &quot;Turn off And I will not be doing because Austin's Happy So, I know I have 160 gig hard drive. How much space is actually left? One of the things I'm tempted to do, I know I literally just but I'm kind of tempted to - [Ken] Windows Vista Basic? - No, that's a downgrade. I'm tempted to maybe throw in an SSD, because I think that actually even though the CPU is egregiously slow. And I'm also tempted to So, this comes with one gig, which is actually not bad for XP. I think most of these netbooks - [Ken] Upgradeable RAM, really? - Yeah, this thing is actually designed back when your computers were upgradeable, like, on the back you can get the RAM, obviously, the battery pops right out, and you get access to the the hard drive. I'm not gonna put this online yet. I know it's not actually But I'm mildly terrified and immediately catch it on fire. Oh, should I go on a tour of Windows XP? Oh, look at that little - [Narrator] World of digital media. - Optimized for games and DVDs. Can I play Halo on this? I have Microsoft Works. I think that's, wait... - [Ken] No, Works was, the - Yeah, it was, like, the lite - Yeah. Programs, I've got Excel, Let's open up Word. Microsoft Word 2007. So, this totally works. Let's do a little keyboard test. This is a test of... Oh, boy. So, something I never really this keyboard is pretty small. We actually have a lot of stuff. Wow, we have a ton. We have Windows Live or Webcam and video web camera. Oh, my God, wait. Oh, it does have webcam. Oh, I'm gonna open up the webcam. Let's see if the... It works! Okay, we are now recording on this high quality eMachines webcam. I can't wait to hear But boy, oh, boy, have I been transported back to 2010? I'm not gonna say shocked. I mean, it's not good. But it's actually not as bad as I thought. It reminds me of the webcam That was 480p and looked kind of bad. And this is significantly older. Intel Matrix storage console. Games! (upbeat music) Power. (upbeat music) When I die, play this at my funeral. Dude, I used to spend so I really expect this to It's really not that bad. Netbooks had such a bad reputation. No, no, no, no. I'm just gonna stop stalling. I'm gonna put this online. Here goes nothing. So, this does actually have Wi-Fi, but I'm sure it's gonna or even B potentially. It's not gonna be good Wi-Fi. So, I'm just gonna bypass I will get on Wi-Fi later. But for this initial setup, I'm gonna plug it in via ethernet just to give it it's absolute It's funny, it's such a small laptop, even by today's standards. The fact that we've got ethernet, VGA, two USBs, audio in and out, as well as an SD card slot, actually, not bad. We are plugged in, Oh, interesting. It's flickering on and off rapidly. All right, we'll deal Why don't we try Wi-Fi? It does see networks. It keeps giving me a notification that it's seeing wireless networks. Let's try that instead. We're online! We're online! Okay, the floodgates have opened. The first thing to do, Windows update. (Austin laughing) All right, Windows update. Please give me good updates. Windows Update was in Internet Explorer. Oh, my God, I forgot about that. Dude, look how slow this is too. (Austin laughing) &quot;When you send information it might be possible for Do you want to continue?&quot; No, keep me off the online Here's a problem. We're not able to get because our clock is probably way off. What? What time does it think this? Adjust Date and Time. January of 2009. Boy, I wish. This computer currently Let's update it, and get it on 2023 time. Certificate error, still not working. What is wrong with my certificate here? Oh, wait, that's Google. I got Google running. I need to spend some time not only just what it's but more importantly, I need to get Windows XP because I think it's if I'm trying to use because this is very vaguely functional. But say I go to, I don't know, what happens, if I go to No, nothing is gonna work. So, I need to spend some what it's gonna take to... Oh, wait, is it loading? Oh, wait, YouTube's I don't think Internet This is before that was even invented. To give this a proper try, I'm going to upgrade which is going to be adding some more RAM. So, we've got a bunch as well as throwing in an SSD. I think that's gonna make a difference. We're still gonna be limited Because again, it's one of those things where Windows XP does kind of work okay. My concern is almost entirely, I just don't want it to get Linus-ed. But on top of that, as well as the additional, faster SSD, I think, actually will make All right, let's take a So, first up, I can remove my battery, which is very helpful. And we've got a... Okay, so we have our Wi-Fi card. And we do have the hard drive, which is definitely a SATA drive. That will be fine. What I'm more concerned about is the RAM. So, let's actually see what's in here. All right, inside here Okay, cool. I can work with that. So, we have a single, Samsung, one gigabyte DIMM, DDR2 6400. Okay, I actually think I might have... Okay, that's some DDR2. So, I'm gonna just try to and see if it works. All right, we've got our BIOS, which is very old. Two gigs of RAM, look at that. Am I just smart or am I smart? There we go! So, we'll go ahead and boot into Windows. And then, assuming that it all works fine, I'm going to clone this There we go. It loaded into Windows XP, no sweat. (upbeat music) I did that, and I saw the editors adding Okay, give me that two gigs of RAM. So much RAM! So much RAM! Now let me go ahead, and Which one is it? Is it tool-less? Oh, my God. It's, like, a tool-less hard drive. Are you kidding me? Well, technically not tool-less, because I'm gonna have to take it out. Look at that. Here is our WD Scorpio Blue, Now, I'd just like to point out the advancement in technology. So, this is a WD Blue SSD. It not only has but this probably costs, I don't know, $60, $70 when it's new. This costs about $20, and So, thanks technology. So, now my friends, let's see how usable So, the first thing I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna open up our web browser, which in this case is K-Meleon. Let's give this thing a try. Wow, it actually loads, which I know shouldn't be But you saw earlier, when I it would take, like, 45 Let's go to Google first, and see how fast that is. Yo, this is an actual usable system. This is an actual usable system. Did you see how fast that was? Let's go to YouTube. Okay, so let's go into the mobile site, which actually is probably not a bad idea. Look at this. Look at this. This is a real... Wait, we've gotta actually Let's actually watch a video to make sure that this is working. We got an ad! The problem is though... Oh, we're lagging now. Wait, wait, wait. Hold on. Wait, we might not be Hang on a second. If I can watch it at, like, 240p, I'll consider that to be a success. What resolution are we at right now? 480p, please. We need 240p. All right, so we're gonna Can this play actually correctly? Okay, let's give it a second. It's a little laggy. But this is a YouTube video YouTube existed in 2010, so maybe that's not the most We'll say that YouTube is somewhat usable. I shouldn't do this. I'm gonna try Internet Explorer now. Oh, it does work. Okay, all right. We'll take that. Let's go to YouTube. Let's see if actually Oh, no, it doesn't work. Can I just go anyway? No, and YouTube doesn't even... It just, no. I mean, let me try Firefox. Oh, look at that old school XP logo. All right, let's see here. I know this is older. It actually doesn't look that bad though. Wait, hang on. I'm on Firefox 46. If you wanna download Firefox today, you are on version number 112. I have now updated to version 47. Oh, my God, we're... Okay, we're now updating again. We'll be right back after we download 73 more Firefox updates. So, we are right now on and I can no longer perform So, if you open that up, basically it just says that Firefox, if it wants to load, has ended support for So, it looks like Firefox stopped supporting which is an old enough version of Firefox, which would basically make for anything important. But this is at least a certainly better than Internet Explorer. I mean, think about it. This computer came out in 2010. Windows XP came out in 2001. And yet, I'm running a 17 years of support. One area where I will say it's is with the keyboard. So, for reference, on a I can hit around 100 words per minute. This one, I am probably 88 words per minute! What? Wait, I don't understand that. Every time I've used this I've like... Really? I can't believe I just did that good. I mean, that's better than I've done on some brand new laptops. Now, my friends, it is time to do the thing that I basically have made We're gonna play some specifically the only game that matters. We're playing StarCraft. What, did it just load that fast? Sorry, I'm exiting that. Excuse me? Can we just show that one more time? All right, I'mma load StarCraft, ready? And...is there a cartridge slot? Is this an NES? How did that load so fast? Oh, my God! All right, let's go. I'm ready to go. I'm ready to go. Oh, my God, I have no shortcuts. Okay, to be fair, I definitely spent way more than StarCraft one. But where are my shortcuts? Oh, man, I've gotta remember how to make my keyboard shortcuts. I can't... I've got depot here. All right, we're building a depot. Look at that. Okay, we do have keyboard shortcuts. Can I just go in crushing dudes now? There we go. Suck it, Zerg! So, this runs amazingly, like, legitimately excellent. We're sending our dudes back to base. Should I just send all my SCVs in too? Sorry, I'm getting really This thing's great. I'm just so happy. This has no right to There's two takeaways I have here, one of which is, Windows XP is definitely Nothing supports it anymore. No one should be using for anything more than playing You really, honestly shouldn't have a Windows XP But if we put XP off to and talk about the netbook, yes, it's underpowered. But with some very cheap, very simple upgrades that you can do today between the SSD and the RAM, you can do this entire if you find some used components. And it completely transformed this laptop, because when it first came out, people made fun of them that, while they were cheap, they were slow, they were laggy, they could hardly do anything. But if you treat this less as an actual real and much more so as a to type up your old documents, to use MS Paint like the good old days, this is so cool. I'm so happy with this. I'm gonna go crush some Zerg, and live a happy life. Go, go, go!