(clock tower ringing) (thunder booming) (dramatic music) - This week on BuzzFeed Unsolved, we discuss what may be the oldest mystery in the United States, the Do you know anything about this one, no? - Colonial intrigue. - It's pretty much an entire - Poof. - Without a trace. - They poofed. - Yeah, I guess you could say it that way. - Yeah, we heard about - You learned about this in grade school? - I went to a very grim grade school. - That explains a lot. Let's get into it. On May 8th, 1587, left England and sailed to Roanoke Island, off the coast of what arriving some time in July 1587. The governor of the new was John White, an explorer and artist. There were a few small attacks from local Native Americans and the colonists reportedly John White to return more supplies for them, such So on August 25th, 1587, White sailed back to leaving behind 115 colonists. 87 men, 17 women and 11 children, including his own daughter, who had just given birth to a daughter, and White's granddaughter, Virginia Dare, the first baby born in North - [Shane] Whoa. That's cool. - [Ryan] Yeah, and she's kind of like, at least the name Dare is kind of etched into all of our history, - Yeah, I'm familiar with that. It's such a pain in the ass to have to go back to England all the time. - I've done things where I forget something at home when I go to work. I forget my laptop at home Could you imagine if you and you realized (snaps - Food. - (laughing) Well, looks like See you in three years. - It took three fucking years? - (laughing) Yeah. Unfortunately, White's timing was poor. England was on the verge (cannons booming) which had a particularly strong armada, and he was unable to return It was not until August of that White would finally make To his bewilderment, when White arrived, he found that the entire colony had vanished without a trace. The only clue left behind carved into a fence post, If they had the foresight why not leave more clues? - [Shane] They didn't have like a fridge that they could put a - [Ryan] (laughing) No, I mean-- - [Shane] Did they have quills? - [Ryan] They obviously that they could carve into. Why not carve a little map? - [Shane] They could have just - [Ryan] Something like - [Shane] FYI went to Croatoan. - [Ryan] Be back never. - [Shane] TTYL. - [Ryan] (laughing) See you soon. - [Shane] Your fam. - [Ryan] Or not, 'cause we're dead. - If he's sailing back to and they get surrounded hey, you're coming with us. And they go, oh you think so? Let me grab my knife. Oh, we don't have the knives yet. (Ryan laughs) I guess, where do you want us to go? What do you want us, oh you You got it. I'm saying, I'm doing - So you think they lined them up and walked themselves into the ocean. - I think they said, get walk into the ocean. - [Ryan] White then to sail south about 50 miles now known as Hatteras Island, However, according to White, both trips were foiled by storms, and he was forced to turn back each time. Because the boat White was he was unable to try He returned to Europe where he passed away in 1593, never knowing what became of his family. - [Shane] What if they hated him? - [Ryan] What? - [Shane] What if they just hated him? - [Ryan] The entire colony hated him and decided we're just gonna bounce-- - [Shane] Yeah. - [Ryan] And leave without - [Shane] I mean, they seem - [Ryan] No, because they that was the purpose of-- - [Shane] Right, I'm saying yeah, you better leave for three years. - [Ryan] Oh, you're saying - [Shane] Yeah. - [Ryan] You think they - I think they were doing a bit. Good colonial razz. Just like, he's buying it! He's going to that other island! (Ryan laughs) - Oh my God. - We got him! He left. They all came back out, - The locals are in on snickering behind the bushes. (Ryan snickers) - We got him good. - Look, he's sailing away! - What an idiot. (spooky music) nobody knows for certain the fate of the lost colony of Roanoke. Even more chilling, despite no bodies or signs of a mass Historians have theorized in the hundreds of years that have passed and plenty of people online have pointed to supernatural causes. None have been able to That being said, let's The first theory is that the settlers were murdered by a local In fact, a previous attempt to colonize Roanoke Island years before between 1585 and 1586, but after attacks from some they encountered, as well The governor of the first was not known for his diplomacy Lane would actually go on to kill the king of the local tribe, Wingina, in an attempt to prevent the Natives from rising up against the colonists. - [Shane] Not the best diplomat. - [Ryan] (laughing) No. - [Shane] Not great negotiation there. - [Ryan] I think this of a situation where it's sour grapes. He came, he thought he because he's this English lord. - [Shane] Yeah. - [Ryan] And when someone he gets a little pissed off. - [Shane] Mm hm. If I'm a native, and I got - [Ryan] Yeah. - And I'm saying, hey, you You know, I'm getting You're bumming me out, also, you don't own this fucking land. Maybe you could leave. And they're like hm, no! We're waiting for our friend! He's gonna bring us blankets. (Ryan laughs) I'd be like, alright. Let's kill these dudes. I kill 'em. I wanted 'em out of So yeah, I'm gonna take a mop up their bones, (thunder) - [Ryan] This prompted Sir Francis Drake to come rescue the colonists As you know, a different would return about a year Though, as mentioned or any large scale number of that might support the idea that over 100 people had been murdered. - So there was an attack - Yes. - I mean, I think we're done here, right? - Why do you think we're (Ryan stammers) - There's a lot of animosity there. - Yeah, but there's no evidence - Where do you want the evidence to be? It could be anywhere. - I want-- - You got a big, wide-open You can stuff bones anywhere. - I mean, I'm sure they've excavated it. They've looked for it. - They've excavated the whole-- - It's an island, it's not like it's big. - They could have moved - Sure, but there still was no signs that there was a mass attack. - Did they drag the ocean? (Ryan laughs) - I guess not. - Also, I mean, it's not like there's forensic teams back then. - Yeah, I guess-- - They're not like, - I guess no one's at their desk-- - The year is 1600. - (laughing) We're out - We combed it as best (Ryan laughs) I got on top of a large hill and did this. (Ryan laughs) Didn't see bones. They vanished. (spooky music) - [Ryan] The second theory is that the English settlers Native American tribe and assimilated. One possible Native American ambassador was a man named Manteo, who but also made a second between the two Roanoke expeditions. In fact, he sailed back and the new colonists in on the journey across the Atlantic. Furthermore, after Manteo was baptized upon his return to Roanoke, to be the chief of the whom the English called the Croatan. This guy, on the way back - You will be chief! (Ryan laughs) I say so. I'm a white man. - Yeah, well if John says There's your crown, there's your chair! - What a piece of shit. - [Ryan] However, Manteo was not the Roanoke tribe. He could not control going back to Croatoan possible returning at to take the colonists with In 1888, 54 Croatan Native Americans petitioned congress for as a remnant of White's lost colony. A few months later, the directors responded writing, quote, traces of white blood could be some among they having gray eyes. It is probable that the greater number of the colonists were in keeping with Indian usages especially women and made captive and subsequently End quote. In 2015, archeologists of European origin on Hatteras Island, where the Croatan tribe resided. This included broken bowls from England, the hilt of an iron rapier sword (sword unsheathing) and a writing tablet made of slate, that may have still had And aglets. The sword is of a type used and the hilt of it would have belonged to an Englishman of high standing. The writing tablet would have been used by educated, upper-class Europeans. Aglets are small copper tubes used before the 17th century Therefore, these findings to the presence of colonists of roughly the same time period and class However, most of the European were among other objects that about 100 years after the disappearance of the Roanoke colony. Last but not least, this the carving Croatoan that perhaps as a clue to their whereabouts. - So John White didn't look This-- - He tried to but then the storm. - He failed. So they could have and then eventually were like, well, hey I heard other a couple states over. - I guess. - Near Philly. We're gonna go check that out. - Possibly. - [Ryan] Which brings that the lost colonists but instead, moved inland. If you'll recall, John White, was also an artist. He was also part of the original and between 1585 and 1593, he created a detailed watercolor map end quote, that shows and includes both Roanoke which are colored red. The cartography of the map is thought to be extremely accurate, quote, the most careful, detailed piece of cartography for any to be made in the 16th century. End quote. And, when compared to of the same area, the only are the naturally changing Yeah this guy wasn't - [Shane] No. - [Ryan] He was like, I don't I guess I'm not a-- - [Ryan] I don't know - You don't. - You absolutely do not. - [Shane] Well, yeah. - [Ryan] I think if you of Hollywood right now, I would - Sometimes, if I'm figuring out how I wanna rearrange furniture, of my room and then, you're like, oh, I didn't even include the closet! I forgot there's a closet here! I can't even map my apartment! - Wait, you've-- - You've never done that? - You make maps of your room? - I think we had a map off, I would win. - I would be, I'd be devastated. At a glance, this seemed but upon closer inspection, to perhaps hide secrets that seem straight out of the - [Shane] I was gonna say! - [Ryan] I knew you would It's one of Nick Cage's best performances. - [Shane] It stinks. - [Ryan] The Declaration of Independence. In 2012, a nonprofit organization called the First Colony Foundation requested that the British Museum reexamine two small patches on the map. Using patches to cover mistakes or damage was a common technique in because maps took so much that starting over wasn't a viable option. Using x-ray spectroscopy, infrared light, and other imaging techniques, was able to determine was covering a four-pointed and filled in with red. According to the British Museum's report, quote, while the detailed is beyond the scope of this study and is best left to experts in the field, it seems certain to represent End quote. In other words, the star of a fort inland from Roanoke Island, on the western side of Albemarle Sound, where the colonists could have resettled. He covered it up and they and I'll, here I'll demonstrate this. I actually prepared this for you. This is the map, right? - Yeah, I know how light works. - Yeah. That's the map. - Yeah, you put a light - Yeah, look how dope this is. Just a little map that - I know what light looks like-- - It's so cool! - When you shine it - But like, I'm just saying, - You didn't prepare enough - There's a-- - Oh. I actually couldn't see it. There you go. - Now you could see the star. Yeah, it's pretty good, right? Good work. - [Ryan] Further adding to the mystery, when examined closely, it was discovered that there are actually light markings of this possible fort on The British Museum's faded over time, but it one other possible if is that these lines could reflect the use of an invisible ink. An ink that would only be usually by applying heat, end quote, as demonstrated in the These invisible markings by using milk or lemon juice. - [Shane] Great. I'm on board. - [Ryan] I will say this. - [Shane] What? - [Ryan] I tend to lean mainly because, why did they only to write on top of it - Right. Like, he was like, I'll put this here. Oh, shit. Maybe I don't want people Patch it up. Maybe I want some people (clicks tongue) - Yeah. - Then he gets to-- Doot doot doot doot. - And then he gets to Nick Cage it. - Yeah. - [Ryan] If this fort was why the secrecy? Some speculate White could have wanted to hide the colony's location which may have contained spies. Whatever the marks indicate, supports the idea that the settlers could have left Roanoke Island Interestingly, John made an oblique reference to a location 50 miles inland from Roanoke of what happened when he returned. Excavations on this site have turned up evidence of Europeans, including Surrey-Hampshire border that was discontinued soon and aglets, the aforementioned copper tube used before the early 17th This is the best indication to Roanoke colonists, without a doubt, be dated Even if it's eventually moved inland or to Croatoan Island, many possible unanswerable such as why did they leave Roanoke Island? And what happened to them afterward? Since no definitive existence of any of the 115 lost colonists was documented after August 25th, 1587, to point to supernatural causes. - Oh. No no no no no no. - [Ryan] What's wrong? - I'm just, I'm bracing - [Ryan] Whatever truth comes out here? - Don't. No. - [Ryan] Is that what you're scared of? - That's not what I'm expecting. Look, I mean, once you get through the stuff that makes sense, - [Ryan] Which brings That the colonists' of mass abduction by aliens. Some believe aliens would explain why the colonists' bodies And if Croatoan was in fact a then why did the colonists not offer any other substantial clues, Perhaps, because they and not on their own volition. And while I'm going off the deep end, let me end this theory What if the hidden symbol on the map is not in fact a fort, but rather, a craft to signify a landing spot? Obviously, if this were be something that would be hidden. - [Shane] It's mass abduction! Maybe they all lined up in a row and just got in the - [Ryan] Yeah. - [Shane] That's like and they, it's one of those little chutes. Just people lining up to get-- - Oh yeah, just go into the-- - [Ryan] Just sucked up into the tube. - Thoonk. - [Shane] Thoonk. Thoonk. - That's a knowledge bomb right there. - No, that's not a knowledge bomb. - I just did a airstrike. I did a flyover. You're down there going, yeah, And I dropped the bomb right on top of your big, stupid head. - I don't think that's-- - And now, you're startled by the truth. You're dazed. - I think you have altitude sickness. - There's stars away - There's no stars here. I think you're insane. - No. Don't you think that's pretty cool? That that could in fact be - Yeah, but again, if that these people wrote on a tree something without any context, why is he not gonna write on the map, hey, we saw something weird here, instead of just putting - Because maybe they assimilated and it's much better there. - [Shane] No. - They're on the prairies and eatin' little alien berries. Eatin' alien popcorn with half - You're hearing yourself You're committing to this. This is what you want to be known as. - [Ryan] Shockingly, aliens is not the most outlandish theory. - What did, wait. Wait, hang on. It didn't even occur, I didn't even, I didn't even hear the when you said, brings because I thought that was - I told you, you have no And with that, we have our fifth theory, that the lost colony of Roanoke disappeared due to a zombie plague. (Ryan laughing) Hear me out. I got some, I got some, - Read it. - [Ryan] A researcher named Andre Freeman, from the Zombie Research Society, believes zombies would explain Quote, a sudden undead the unprepared colony would quickly become a horrific, violent feast, leaving not a single man, woman or child alive. End quote. Roanoke was after all an island, so it would conceivably to the confines of the shoreline. Before you tune out, Harvard claims he actually discovered evidence that would suggest mass Granted, Roanoke was experiencing in the area in 800 years, so points to the fact that plain old cannibalism rather - [Shane] You think - [Ryan] Maybe. What if this is the only and because it was on an so therefore it would never happen again? - What if, it's not? There's nothin'. - There is that bath salts thing where someone thought - He was alive! He had a beating heart. - Yeah, they were poppin' him with bullets and he was just taking them. - Yeah, 'cause he was on drugs, Ryan. - He was getting peppered. He was like, feed me more bullets! Yeah! In the end, the mystery of Did they simply relocate, perhaps joining a neighboring tribe? Were they killed due to Or, does the answer lie The true fate of the legendary remains unsolved. (creepy music) - Hey Ryan, I like your shirt. - Thanks, I like yours too. - Thanks. - [Both] Buy it here.