- This mechanism is absolutely genius. It's an example of an automatic siphon and you might know this, but I am already a huge The siphon is embedded in the container so when the water level rises the siphon automatically primes and the container empties itself. You can even use automatic siphons to add binary numbers Link to that video in the but it pains me to admit that automatic siphons have a huge flaw. Look what happens when I fill Instead of the siphon priming, the water just dribbles over the edge, no seal is created, and so the siphon never starts. You could just make the siphon channel narrower so that even if you're filling the container very slowly, the surface tension of water will ensure that there is a seal and the siphon will begin. The downside of that is the water flows out of the container very slowly. What if you wanted to have a container that you fill very slowly, but that empties very quickly? You might think that's a but the problem has actually Look, I'm very slowly and then at some point, suddenly the whole thing and what you're looking at If you've spent long enough you'll be familiar with that moment where all the urinals around you suddenly start flushing at the same time. You might be wondering why I chose such a poorly maintained To be honest, I just didn't whilst I was filming a urinal so I chose the worst toilet in Beckenham. This simultaneous flushing thing might be uniquely British, I'm not sure, but the idea is instead of each urinal having its own manual flush mechanism, they're all connected to the same system and the system empties periodically. And if you want a container well, an automatic siphon seems like the perfect mechanism to use. But we don't want these urinals to be flushing too frequently, so we turn down the flow of But now we have that dribbling problem and we can't just make the because then the flush So we need some way of getting a good seal around a wide siphon, even when the container and that's exactly what and this is my 2D version of that. Just a quick note on the 2Dness of this. I've mentioned in the 2D versions of things, you can end up creating Typically an automatic siphon would sit in the middle of the container. But when you flatten that, you end up splitting the container into two regions that aren't connected. So when you drop down to 2D, it makes sense to put the siphon mechanism to one side of the container The issue with this about three different and you can't push them all to one side because they'll block each other. So there's actually an You see that around the back, so you've got the main and then this kind of at the front here with a white background. So strictly speaking, this isn't 2D. I mean, strictly speaking, none of the mechanisms I've ever built are 2D because of the universe we live in, but you know what I mean? Just to say by the way, this video would've if it wasn't for this video My design is based heavily Link in the card and the with their excellent analysis. To explain how it works I've but I am gonna speed it and pause it in different places to match the explanation that I'm giving, but I'll show it all the and at 1/3 speed at the end. So here's how it works. As the container fills up, so does the siphon chamber. That's because air is able to escape from the siphon chamber but ultimately via this hole here. When the water level reaches the bottom of that inner chamber, it's able to enter through so the water level rises And just to be clear, the reason you are seeing water here is because it's part of and you can see that by When the water level reaches the bottom of this channel, The water continues to rise as before, but look what happens when the water level reaches the bottom of this channel. Now the level of water in the main siphon chamber stops rising. That's because all exit for the air inside the main siphon chamber so no more water can get in. But this surface and this surface are open to the atmosphere, so we should expect of the water in the main container. At this point, it becomes clear why there's a U-bend down here. If there wasn't a plug of water here, the air in the main siphon chamber would always be able to escape and in fact, you can see is slowly going down and that's happening in such a way that the difference in matches the difference in which is what we would expect because the pressure difference between the inside of the siphon chamber and the outside atmospheric pressure should be the same in both positions. In Mr. Matt and Mr. Chay's animation, there isn't a substantial and the water level doesn't change during the course of the animation. I figured out that that wasn't right after You just need to make is longer than this length, otherwise you'd get air bubbling through and you'd end up back where you started with water trickling over the inlet. Another mistake I made actually was having the height of this and the height of this two close together. That's because I assumed once the height inside the main stops going up completely. But actually because the water that allows for a slight So in this failed version, as soon as the water starts you reach a kind of equilibrium where the water coming in and nothing's ever gonna happen. But anyway, the really clever As the water in this a siphon is initiated and because this channel is so narrow, the siphon initiates even of water coming into the system which is the whole point. This hole is small enough quickly enough to replace the water that's being siphoned out and so the level of the water in this inner chamber goes down. And because the water level has gone down, it's no longer blocking this channel and the air that was trapped now has an escape route like this. And crucially by this point, the level of water in the main container is all the way up here. All that additional pressure pushing down means that the level of is going to rise incredibly has a way to get out and crucially that sudden is enough to create a and so the main siphon is initiated. One quick thing to clear up. Look, this was one of my earlier designs. Stupidly I thought that small inner siphon and air inlet tube could be vented directly to the outside like this, but that just means that will always have access to once that smaller inner And because air can get in, the water level inside drops down very quickly until it's and the siphon breaks. Whereas in the working design, those two channels merge so that once the main siphon is activated, that route is blocked for In other words, we only want air to be able to get out for a brief moment so that and over the main siphon channel. But once the main siphon has started, we need to stop air from because that would kill the siphon, and by having the air inlet and priming siphon join the we can achieve that. So let's just pair everything up to the real-world 3D device. So this is the same as So this siphon sits inside the system and this would sit inside the system. Around the base, there's that is that gap there that lets the water and I've loosened it already And inside so you've got this kind of box bit here, this open box. That represents this inner cartridge that I've created with This is the air inlet, so you can see what's going on there. So look, that's where the air can get in, so that's that entrance That sits at the bottom in there and so the air has to come up and over here in the same way that the air has to go up through there and over into there to get out. And then the copper pipe, this one here, that's the primer siphon. That's this one here. You'll notice that the funny box bit has a hole in the bottom there. That's equivalent to the little hole in the bottom of the inner and this is the main siphon, so that's the up and over there. This U-bend bit here is inside. Here's one I broke earlier. There you go, that's that U-bend bit and you can see those two holes there. That's the exit for the air tube and the exit for the primer siphon, and just like in ours, they both feed into that As promised, here's the whole (upbeat rock music) And here's the whole (light jazz music) This was a really tricky because I needed light so I'm illuminating the back wall to get light coming but I also needed that and that needs to be lit from the front. So of course, my camera was set to manual and I'm playing around with frame rate and aperture and so on. And it got me thinking between point-and-shoot because there are so many things Like making bread, for example. You could use a bread and you get some bread out at the end, but it has its limitations. You don't have as much control over things and then there's the slightly where you kneed by hand and bake in the oven. Another example, and you're because it's just such an to the sponsor of this video, another example is razor blades. Look at the blades on a cartridge razor. See how they're flexible? And that's by design because you're supposed to be able to just drag the razor down your face without worrying about and as a result, you end But just like the bread machine or the point-and-click In this case, razor burn and ingrown hairs and just try shaving if grow out a little bit. A cartridge razor just Before the bread machine, there was oven and before the cartridge razor, there was the safety razor like the Henson AR13. The Henson a AR13 is friendly That's because the firmly-held blade extends just 30 microns and you very quickly learn by following the contours of your face. It's interesting, isn't had that simple skill whereas I'm only just learning it since Henson started sponsoring my videos. And it really fits with that I've been trying to do recently. You pay a fair price for a precision engineered that has also made parts and then that's yours for life. The blades themselves are If you're interested, go to and use promo code stevemould at checkout to get 100 free blades with the The link is also in the description, so check out Henson Shaving today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit Subscribe and the algorithm thinks (light bright music)