The Z-transform, depending on your pronunciation, that converts discrete into its Z-domain And this is what the looks like. And we can interpret We start with a that is sampled periodically We then multiply each sample to the negative sample number. And then we sum the result The output, x, is now a function So mathematically, this equation It's just a bunch of And I'm going to this equation for a in this video. However, understanding the math of the the important part. The important part, I why the math is and what are we actually the Z-transform of a signal. And so that's what we're going on in this video. So I hope you stick I'm Brian. And welcome to a To begin, let's solve the Z-transform for and systems. So let's start with a system. And let's say that we apply a That means that the of 1 for the first time step and steps. The system is affected and then outputs measure with a digital sensor. So it's a discrete For the first system let's just say that it's So it's a value of 1 This means that the output is So the question is, what is of this system? And to find that, we apply the Now, there is no data since the system that and, therefore, only Therefore, we can start the And for n equals 0, has a value of 1. And we multiply that by z to And now we add to that the equals 1 times z to the minus And then we continue until n equals infinity. However, since the time-domain the final result is just 1. So the Z-domain representation But now let's say that delays the input by one sample. It's a one-sample delay. In this case, the is also delayed by one sample. And the Z-transform is 0 times z to the minus 1 plus 0 times So a unit delay in the Z-domain And if the delay was the Z-transform would In this way, a would just be z to the minus n. So now let's assume that an integrator. This means that the output of the input, which produces Here, if we multiply each sample and then sum them all up, is this infinite geometric to the minus 1 plus z to Now, working with an isn't terribly convenient. And so we can use and refactor this into So this is the of an integrator. Now, finally, we can also on a difference equation. For example, let's say that by this difference the input is just some arbitrary We can take the Z-transform of Now, to find the we just plug it But since that's literally the the output is just y of z. Same goes for u of n. It becomes u of z. Now, for the middle term, we're But that output is And we know that a So this becomes 0.5 And now we can put And with a little get the Z-domain representation So hopefully, you can see is pretty straightforward data or a different equation. But again, the question isn't really how It's, what is the What is z? And why are we multiplying So to understand the I actually think it's about the discrete-time The discrete-time converts discrete signals to the frequency domain. That is, it represents a signal content. And you can see that it's pretty In both cases, we're by some other signal So I think that if we can doing, we can better understand And to show you walk through the discrete-time with this MATLAB This is a discrete-time And we can tell just that the signal is of a single one dominating frequency. So we might ask determine what this frequency all we have access to? And one way to do this with another signal and see if the two If we find the right should reasonably to be highly correlated, be less correlated. And mathematically, here's To get a sense of can multiply the data and then sum the result. are off from each other, there's going to be times or both are negative. And when you multiply these, and they add to the total sum. But when the two signals the product is negative and And these adding and will tend to cancel And the result, So there's less correlation. We can see here that samples at a frequency is just about 0. But watch what happens in frequency. A larger portion will start to match signs, which And then the summation And we can see here that the summation is about 5. And then if we keep where they line up perfectly and correlated and the sum is the for 0.5 radians per sample. And then as we pass through the result gets low again. So in this way, we're of the possible frequencies. And we're getting a graph that signal correlates to all frequencies. Now, the signal is a pure frequency signal. But as you can there is correlation to these And this is the result of There wasn't enough data to of the positive and when the frequencies are close. But watch as I increase We're giving this whole process And therefore, the peak gets sharper and taller. It's already off my chart. And if I had infinite would be a perfectly peak at this one frequency. So in this way, more data means of the frequency makeup since there is less leakage So we got there. We found the frequency by a cosine wave and However, a cosine isn't good enough because And the frequencies can occur at different phases. If the phase of different than the phase then there's going to be lower And we can see to the frequency in The correlation with the as there are now some positive in the product. And at one point, disappears completely And clearly, this isn't the frequency is still Therefore, instead of we can probe the that are offset from each And to separate them we can make the sine Now, as we adjust the phase we get two responses, a the correlation and an imaginary the correlation to a sine wave. Now as I adjust the phase we can see that the between the real and The magnitude of the is the absolute value And the phase shift is the So we're actually multiplying by cosine omega n But we can simplify by recognizing that sine omega n is just equal And the convention is to make doesn't change the overall It just swaps negative And check this out. We've arrived at the transform. And that's pretty cool. Hopefully, you can see how how correlated the of the different frequencies with sines and cosines and Analyzing signals However, sometimes more than just the frequency We also want to about the system itself If we could then not only do we understand but we can predict be for different inputs. And we could figure out how to to get the output And an understanding itself is where the Mathematically, the as the discrete-time Fourier to the e to the we also multiply it by r is a positive real number. And when you raise r to you get an exponential curve. And when r is less than 1, the And when r is greater decreases exponentially. So we can think as a function that is between the discrete-time from the e term and And if we combine these two and simplify it a bit by pulling we get r times e to the raised to the minus n. And now we can just that we call z equals r And we've reached the Now, why is this important the system itself? Well, if a system can shift-invariant then we can guarantee namely, that the output will and exponential content because shift-invariant contains both of And if we understand the makeup of the response then we can know that generated that response. Imagine if the impulse looked like this pure It doesn't really make this with a discrete-time We are going to get But it doesn't really mean representing the dynamics Ideally, we would want no oscillations in this signal. There's no important But instead, it's just because we know what produces an impulse is a pure exponential decay. So if we're looking for it might make sense to just like we did with transform. That is, let's probe this signal functions and see if we can exist within the signal. And mathematically, this is We're probing the data signal i omega n and r to see how well correlated it of oscillations But this simple additional adds some new problems that the discrete-time namely, convergence. For example, let's take the impulse response. And let's set omega equals And so we're really to the minus n and then r is greater than 1, then decays exponentially. And if we multiply these we get an even stronger decay. And the sum is just It's not very important But as we start to decrease starts to decay less quickly. The product of the two is And so the summation is growing. It's still just a boring But at some point, grows at the exact same rate And when that is just a perfectly flat line. And the summation right at It no longer converges. It is this infinite value that matched the exponential. There is a pole here since the And in this case, the pole which means that this The energy in x of n So the Z-transform is really of different frequencies to see where the summation And it's also looking for 0, called zeros. But we're going to talk in the Z-domain video. So this is all good except that can cause confusion. If we keep decreasing r, grows faster than the And the summation is, In fact, it's even which I know doesn't But it's growing faster. So we can't really that the interesting when the summation doesn't It's only right at the moment to nonconvergence that gives us exist in the signal. So this region of because outside of the don't make any sense. And this actually if we want to take of finite discrete data. If we only have finite will always converge except and z equals infinity. Even in this example, if our then you can imagine that this here is very much not infinity. So we can't tell if we've of a finite signal the result goes to infinity-- that is, unless we make an is doing for the rest of time. Remember, at the beginning, on finite data. But in each case, I about the future data-- namely, that it was Without that infinite just isn't as useful as In fact, this is why in MATLAB, function can operate But there isn't a corresponding that will do the same. The Z-trans function in order to have of that infinite data. But despite that is still really to the discrete-time With the Z-transform, that created the data by looking content. With the Fourier transform, that the system produced. And we do so just by looking I hope all of this you understand the Z-transform. We're going to be making that answers the even going into the What's so special about it? And we'll link to that But in the meantime, you can videos across many different at MathWorks.com. And if you liked might be interested to learn be represented in the S-domain So I hope you check that out. Thanks for watching. And I'll see you next time.