- I have one of the most popular both on YouTube and Google, and millions of people have made that foolproof recipe year after year. But if you don't wanna cook an I've got the next best thing for you. And it is my roast turkey breast recipe that is equally delicious, just a little bit smaller. So if you're hosting Friendsgiving or a more intimate Thanksgiving dinner, you can still entertain the idea of a festive turkey on the table with this super delicious To get started, you'll need two teaspoons of freshly chopped thyme and two teaspoons of Now, when I was pondering this recipe, I thought about coming up with profile from my rose turkey, but the simple fact of the matter is that you guys love that recipe. So this turkey breast is honestly of that recipe with ingredient proportions to suit an average sized And when it comes to thyme and rosemary are your top two herbs for flavoring turkey. So once you've got those chopped up, just set them aside. For the turkey breast, I'm using about a six pound My recipe calls for a six but mine is a bit smaller today because that's what Now, the most important thing which is the same as is to let it come to room temperature. Whenever I hear stories of people saying their turkey I know that either they or they did not let their So make sure to not skip that step. Once you've removed your turkey you can also get rid of any cheapy little temperature because an instant read and more accurate tool. And I'll link one for you Then grab a few paper towels and pat your turkey breast dry to remove any excess moisture on the bird. And set it aside. For the herbed butter mix, you'll need half a cup of unsalted butter that's been softened to room temperature, and mine decided to plump into And then you'll also add your and two teaspoons of chopped rosemary. You'll also add half a and a quarter teaspoon of You'll also add four cloves of garlic, and I got a little to mix this without adding the garlic, but thankfully remembered because you certainly cloves in this recipe. So add those to the butter and then use a fork to Also, pro tip on the butter, because this is a question I and that's how do I spread the butter so easily onto my turkey? And the key is to make sure it's really soft at room temperature. And of course that your turkey isn't cold, but if your butter is too cold or too hard, it just So even if you need to to soften it up, you can go ahead and do that. Use your hands to separate and just go slowly here because sometimes it does and don't try to expedite or anything sharp because puncturing the skin. Your hand will eventually of the turkey breast, and will look like something But if that is the hardest I think we're all good. Take a small handful of the herbed butter and spread it between And if it's hard getting it you can just sort of plop it in the middle and then use your hands on the to spread it evenly in between. And the beauty about this layer what helps keep the while cooking and allows you to not have to baste the turkey if you don't want to. So think of it as a self-basting So after you've spread about half of the butter mixture under the skin, you'll spread the remaining until the tricky breast is evenly coated. Transfer the turkey and no, you do not need any racks or additional veggies of any kind. You can just place the turkey breast as is straight into the pan, then pop it into a for about one and a half to two hours until the skin is golden brown, and an instant-read thermometer reaches 160 degrees Fahrenheit when inserted into the Mine is a little less than that today, so I'll cook it for a few minutes longer, then remove it from the oven and let it rest covered with foil for about 15 minutes. And in that resting time, the concept of carryover cooking happens, which means that the turkey will continue to increase about five hitting that magical which is the perfect internal When you're ready to carve and slice it up, again, it's a very similar process to a whole bird, yet simplified because you're just slicing up the breast. So lucky you. Using a sharp knife, start just off center of the breast bone, and sliced down and out to remove the turkey breast meat. And once you've got that removed, just set it aside, then flip the turkey breast around and do the same thing on the other side. If you're serving this recipe you can then thinly slice the breasts, and I just use my fingers to hold that skin in place while I'm slicing because then each slice gets of that deliciously crispy skin. And once you've sliced you can transfer them If you wanna zhuzh up the platter or rosemary, you can do that. But otherwise, this easy recipe is done. And while this recipe of course surges and popularity during Thanksgiving, you can really make it any time of year when you'd like I've got a whole slew of that pair wonderfully with turkey breast, but today I'm serving it up and my balsamic bacon brussels sprouts, which are a reader favorite recipe. And with that, I hope you guys love this and a very happy Thanksgiving to you all.