- This video is sponsored by Brooklinen. Hey, guys, welcome back to my channel. I'm Alexandra, and you the series where I tackle under 500 square feet them beautiful, stylish and organized. I just think it's so funny that you got a makeover to do so. Wow, that looks stunning. Oh, my god. Let's get started. (upbeat ambient music) We are steadily climbing subscriber number, I'm so excited. It feels, it feels close. But I need your help, so please if you're watching on little face in the circle, If you're on your phone, it's even easier. I've actually been receiving a lot of DMs on Instagram recently have been following me which is absolutely wild. And if I could get all of you in a room to do like a big collective I just got goosebumps actually that would be amazing. My hair was like. Today I'm helping Nadine. I'm gonna hop on a call with her, get to know her and her space and see what her dream space looks like. - This feels very surreal. It was my birthday last week, so I feel like this is of a really good birthday. - I'm just so excited for you, congrats on winning a makeover with us. - Thank you so much. - To get started, I would love to know how long you've been in your studio. - This year, will be 11 years. Yeah. - In the same apartment? - In the same apartment. I moved here with the for a couple of years but I honestly can't afford to move. It's way too expensive in This place has become a a big breakup, a massive career change. So this like new year for me and now on my 11th year, I'm I'm not tied to anything, - That's amazing. - I'm welcoming this new grownup energy that I feel like I have. - You've lived here for a long time so you know what's functioning - Yeah. - Just talk me through what you wanna see change in that regard - During COVID, I had to, so I'm here like 85% of the time. - Got it. - I've managed with it, but like every time I take video calls, which is all day long, it's like this and I'm sitting on an angle But if I sat comfortably at my desk, like, you can see my whole house. - That makes a lot of sense, yeah. - This setup is not ergonomic. The desk that I have here is so tiny that I'm like I don't even and I sometimes I'll spill my coffee over. Actually, a lot of the - So we will try and find But that brings me to where your TV is, 'cause I feel like that nook is so cute, is your TV working there for you? - [Nadine] I love it there, of my space. - The layout that you for the space. - That's good. - I know you were mentioning a lot of prep space. - [Nadine] My mom doesn't - I don't know how you do either. - I bake, I cook, I use like the stove as my prep space sometimes. Nice to have would be a little but I love that like that I also wouldn't wanna overcrowd this space just to have that. - Yeah, like I mentioned, the Even though the kitchen is narrow, I love that you kind of have Like, it's at the end of your bed, but it still feels a little - I eat on my couch and I just - Yeah. - I have this table that but I'm tiny so it doesn't really fit me. It comes up to like here. And I just use it for when you can use this to eat. - It's obviously not realistic to bring like a dining table in, but maybe a coffee table that expands. So when you have people Anything else function-wise before we get onto your inspiration? - Yes. Just like storage within my space because I know the Calix - [Alexandra] Yep. - [Nadine] My storage for my makeup is also overflowing like crazy. - Could you have a system where if everything was corralled nicely, you could like bring - Yes. - To be honest, as you're saying this, half of the time I take like and I take it to the couch so I can do it in front of the sun. Got it. - Let's move on to Inspo. Definitely very, like, like a lot of neutrals going on. I feel like you don't love a lot of color, but like just so much texture and warmth. - [Nadine] You basically nailed it. Like, the words that I put down were literally what you said. - I know we're not leaning into color necessarily for this one, but are there any colors - I think like the soft - Totally. - Brown, green creams, - I love your Inspo so much 'cause I do think it's like and your space is so cute. I just think it's really - The other thing that I but I think could add more of that color would be some plants. I've killed all the but I'm open to like trying. - Okay, got it. Well, thank you so much I'm really excited, and I - Oh, my gosh, that feels I'm so looking forward to it. Thank you so much. - I'll see you soon. - All right, sounds good. Bye. Nadine's Inspo is so bright, very neutral, but layered with tons of texture. These Inspo images are giving me kind of like a California cool Boho vibe. I'm here for it. Here's what I'm thinking. Function is so important in the studio. And although the design is simple, the pieces I'm adding in I wanna bring in an so Nadine has more prep space. I'm thinking of storing it More on that later in the video. I also wanna bring in a so Nadine can store her makeup in there, she can do her makeup while which she likes to do. I wanna bring in a desk that can pull out to be an L-shaped desk. I think that's gonna solve with like putting her computer awkwardly on a diagonal when she takes her calls. So all of these functional changes are gonna be really big priorities. But then I also wanna keep really bright, and really airy, and texture is going to be so important in making the space even with all of these neutrals I'm gonna be bringing in some beautiful neutral linen bedding for I have used Brooklinen for the past three years. I've used them in countless makeovers, and I truly cannot recommend them enough. This month is actually (crowd applauding) You can also see that their website has a hundred thousand more than any other The linen is a hundred percent and it's their lightest, I personally love linen because it gives a really relaxed vibe and the texture looks so beautiful. I'm keeping the bedding neutral for Nadine with cream bedding, but you can also mix and patterns in a bundle. Brooklinen kindly sent which includes a duvet cover, core sheet set, and extra pillowcases. Brooklinen also sent their and this textured throw Whether you've been a long time or if you're just hearing about them, now is the perfect time and take advantage of their It only comes once a year So I knew we had to give Nadine's I picked the color cloud because we're going for a I wanted an off-white paint Dave is painting out this whole studio. And man, it looks so good and so fresh. (upbeat music) Hey guys, we're here doing a studio fix. We haven't done a studio fix and I think we kind of all how, you know, small studios can be. Dave did such a great job painting, so it looks very bright in here. I'm loving the creamy white on the walls, but let me just show you like It's kind of outta control. Okay. This is it. This is the studio. There's Dave. Alana. This is like the kitchen So as you can see, there's and yeah, we're gonna like we always do, right, team? - You know it. - I don't know if we're I think we're just gonna try and start like getting stuff installed to free some space. But, yeah, tight quarters. Graham and I are gonna right behind me, and we're using pole to create this like which I'm really excited about. So we are going to try I'm not sure that they're gonna If they don't, we have anchors but we ideally wanna have First, we're gonna cut it's a little long, and we're gonna try and which will save us some time. We're only installing this because later we're gonna that's going to cover the This kind of look is And usually you would use, like, tiny little pieces of wood like this and cut like a million of them and install with a bunch of veils. This pole wrap is a hack because it gives you that tambour look, but you don't need a and you don't need to We're now gonna start and like I said, we're gonna Wish us luck. - Good luck, all the best, Godspeed, mua. We're both wearing sunglasses because we don't have any safety goggles. So these are our safety goggles. Safety first people. Seriously, when you're It's a Brad nailer. (upbeat music) The awesome thing about - Wait, you're like the awesome thing. - The the awesome thing. The awesome thing about (everyone laughing) (constant beep) When Nadine takes us down, she just has to patch tiny little holes Imagine if we had installed these like wood piece by wood piece. There'd be so many Brad nails in the wall. (loud whirring) (upbeat music continues) We are going in with wood filler. We're gonna use our fingies to make sure that we're not getting the We want it to just be like Okay, so normally you and then go in and sand it. Graham and Dave just gave They said use a damp rag and Okay, see how it's kind of clumpy? Whoa. And it stays in the hole. Okay, so next up we are going to install Graham's cabinet, DIY. I asked him to DIY a media unit and DIY a media unit, he did. Since the cabinet is being built entirely around this Ikea kitchen cart, Graham had to build the cart first and do a couple modifications. The Ikea cart already but in order for Nadine to move the cart in and outta the cabinet easily, I knew we needed four swivel wheels so that it could move in all directions. Graham picked up these casters from Amazon. He's cutting the existing using his Miter saw. He's drilling a small hole of each leg and gluing so that the swivel casters (upbeat music) In order to actually get this Graham has to make this It's going to consist of two four doors and one solid Hot tip from Graham, MDF is cheaper and it provides a much Graham is cutting the MDF using He's gluing all the pieces and securing it together For the left side of the cabinet, so Nadine could also use Graham is cutting two shelves and MDF and is edge banding with some dowel that he cut Graham is using a KREG shelf pin jig to add columns to the shelf pin so that Nadine can easily move the shelves up and down if she wants on the shelves. Lastly, Graham is cutting a This is where we're going so Nadine can power her TV. Now onto the doors. Graham is cutting four He's using some extra IKEA project and using a Forstner drill bit to cut out the holes for He's rounding the doors with so the doors don't look too boxy. For the front of the doors, Graham is making a semicircle router jig to cut a perfect semicircle on the front. He's priming and painting by Benjamin Moore in their I asked that he go into the semicircle with Bone by Farrow &amp; Ball, just to give the cabinets Graham has made the counter bit of this cabinet a little bit bigger, so we can fit it perfectly into the space and so he can cut it to fit the contours of the wall for a perfect fit. I am screwing the front of so they sit really nice and flush. (soft music) Nadine has an outlet back there that we need access to for the TV. So this is a desktop outlet. You can get them on Amazon, and it's basically supposed and then once the top's on, we're gonna drill a hole so that the plug can drop down and plug into this outlet. Okay, so Graham and I are going to work on installing the doors, There's a lot of like It's actually quite nice down here. It's like having a little rest, you know? (soft music continues) So we're gonna install the Graham has created this really cool method to help guide a perfect fit because walls are never straight, they're never on a 90 degree angle. So if we had to cut this top beforehand, there'd probably be gaps and it just wouldn't be like (soft music) - Like we can still cock the But this will get it as snug as possible. - Yeah, so we've pushed all the way to the sides. We're gonna screw this like guide together and then we're gonna put it in the corners of top down here and then cut to sides. Yay. These look so good. We've just upped her storage game and this nook now looks - I think another person (soft music) (constant beep) - Here's what I've learned about drilling. You gotta get in there, (bell ringing) (drill whirring) Oh. (soft music continues) - [Graham] Other way, no other way. Like do a 180 and then another 180, but spin it like a fidget spinner. Okay, - [Alexandra] Graham, look. Graham? Graham? - [Graham] I'm looking. Yeah, see - [Alexandra] He's clapping, - No, that's satisfying. - [Alexandra] He's clapping. Everything is looking so good. I'm gonna reveal the cabinet tomorrow to you in all its glory. 'Cause Carla's gonna be here shooting, so I wanna get a good beauty shot. But yeah, it's looking really good. Great prep day and I'll see Hi guys, it's the next day. I already spilled coffee on my leg. So ignore. We're gonna start by getting We need to bring in the and the headboard and the side table. We need to place it all to make sure that there's enough room before we install the So let's do it. Sorry, not to interrupt - We're sharing a granola bar. - Looks like they're on like a little like a picnic date, you know? (soft music) But you guys need to move, sorry. This bed frame is from Article. (soft music) Okay, hanging this headboard from Article. I love this because you can and you can also buy expansion packs that come in a set of two. So you can do like a whole wall of these, which is really awesome. Gorgeous. Also, I just wanna say I'm not sure how it appears on camera, but there is tons of room for and get to her closet. Just like before. Now I'm making the bed with our Brooklinen sheets. Also, don't worry, I'm gonna but I'm just gonna make the bed first. (soft music) Oh my gosh, so cozy. I'm gonna jump in here. - [Carla] It does look very cozy. - Doesn't it? It's like a cloud. Okay, because we're working this side table is actually going to be used when Nadine is in bed, but also when she's on the sofa. It's gonna kind of bridge the two spaces. It's from Article and so she can put blankets, any to store away, which is so great. So if you live in a space like Nadine's where there's absolutely rugs are a great way which is why we're adding Should we open it up? I know this is gonna appease This rug is very slippy So I think a rug pad is gonna Okay, hear me out on this rug size. If we're following like a rule book, technically you would want We want it to be almost but we've had to go with a smaller size because Nadine's desk is kind So I wanted her to be able to roll her desk chair Okay, because we're really working with a very neutral going with a rug that is textured, that is, has an interesting pattern on it. In this case, there's different tones of neutral colors. It's adding interest to the space. So we're not like keeping We're going for creams, So much visual interest. I love this rug. It's from Rugs USA. It's sofa time. Graham. (crickets chirping) Graham? - We are unboxing this This never gets old. It's always so exciting. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. (soft music) This is so much space for Nadine to lounge and we're working with like - [Carla] What do you think? Somehow the living area now and we have a bed over there. Like the studio looks so much bigger. So not only can Nadine use she can eat while she's watching TV. Luxurious. If she wanted to work on her sofa, she could use this as that space. But also Nadine had that all her makeup was beside her bed. It was taking up valuable space, but she said she does her makeup by the window every morning. So I thought, let's add a She can keep a mirror in here and do her makeup by the This piece is so cool. I'm gonna leave her with even more organizers on this side and she can organize Next up, I'm hanging This is from Minted, gore geous, gorgeous. Again, I love how this art is textured, but it's got different colors in it so it's keeping the design and not just like all white, you know? Gonna take these blinds down 'cause we're gonna add Be gone, plastic shades, be gone. (soft music) (beep) Who knew you could find a It is so beautiful. I'm gonna hang this cleat here so the cord can be tucked away. Now we're changing all the lights. These ones are from Mitzi. You wanna flip the switch? - [Carla] Not really, but okay. - Great. So we're exposed, amazing. Awesome. (constant beep) - Okay, I'm placing this Because it's a small space, we need all the light we can get. So Nadine can have this on when she is lounging for some light. It's so pretty. I need one of these. We added a power bar to the plug behind the headboard, so that Nadine has lots and I'm also gonna plug in Nadine asked for more desk space, so I brought her more desk space, but I also have another solve which was she was sitting sideways, cramped, because she didn't want people on calls to see her bed, which I totally understand and we've given her So I got this table from Ikea and it has this extendy little piece, so she can put her laptop here and comfortably take meetings which is great. I realize this is a big I understand that like furniture is kind of grouped together, but this is what living and I feel like we've solved she had and because it like really works well together. (soft music) Completing her desk set up with this ergonomic chair for branch. My partner Noah actually works at Branch and they have great ergonomic chairs. This one is their new faux leather chair. We have branch chairs at the Nadine can just wheel this put her laptop here and Does it look beautiful? Does it? It's not even styled yet. This like totally solves the problem. Before she was here and So this is great. (nails tapping on wood) And at the end of the day when she can just wheel it back in. This is as far as it Just like that. She's got a compact desk. - [Carla] You typed so much. - Sorry, I'm listening to (nails tapping on wood) I told you guys we would It looks so good. It looks like a built-in cabinet. So much space, so much storage that I'm gonna get into in a second. But first I'm just gonna finish There's a little bit of We just want it to look nice and seamless. So trim it is. (soft music) I've started putting on these They're these cute leather poles. They look so good. So this side of the cabinet I'm gonna put baskets in there. So much storage for Nadine. Graham also made this as and he put holes all along the side so Nadine can actually raise or lower the shelves if she needs them to be different heights, which is so cool. And on this side, to solve Nadine's issue of not having enough kitchen prep space, we left the entire thing open in order to fit a kitchen cart in here. This is so cool. So we put the island on casters so she can easily move it around. There's also space for You guys know I love luggage storage. I think it'd be such a - [Amanda] In the comments, let me know if luggage will fit in here. - My mind is also blown. I love this so much. I'm gonna bring the TV in next. Okay, nice. For the cords, I'm gonna And then remember that desktop outlet that we added back here, this is where everything's I think we're gonna end the day here. Tomorrow, we'll be back and the reveal. So excited. Hi guys. It's reveal day. I'm so excited to show Nadine We're starting off the day I'm switching out the with this Branch chair. It's a lighter color, it's the same chair, it has the vegan leather, which I love, but I just thought this of the furniture we have in here. And the great thing about of sales of Branch furniture, it means that there's And I saw this one in the showroom and I was like, wait, I think we should use this one instead. So brought it here today. It looks so good. In this cabinet I am giving Nadine some baskets for organization. I just can't get over so much storage in her place. Okay, I wanna add this of the kitchen cart. And thought I would show you guys where I'm envisioning this cart going when Nadine is using it. So when she's prepping food, she can just pull it out from this cabinet and I'm thinking it'll just sit right here and create kind of like an L with tons more prep space. And then when she's done, she pop it under here, and then just wheel the cart back in here. Easy peasy. Also mind blowing, I know. Next, let's add some plants. I say some. We're adding two. It's small space. I'm gonna go one reel, one faux. Mix it up. She just has to take care of one plant. Let's bring in the giant tree. Sorry, you're gonna have to move. This faux birds of Honestly, HomeSense has with faux plants. They just look so real. And I love this pop of Now I'm hanging this pathos plant and the goal is for it (soft music) Okay, it's now time for finishing touches. Starting off with these gorgeous (soft music) I'm steaming the linen bedding and adding this Brooklinen I'm adding some books and dried florals to her side table. Placing a cozy green adding two pieces of art above her desk. Shout out to Kay and her beautiful work. Placing a table lamp instead to give your office a more homey feel. Adding some books, a vase and a candle. Next, layering this and adding some more decor. I'm putting art on the TV (soft music) And lastly, placing down It is time to bring - Okay. Are you excited? Nervous? How are you feeling? - Okay, I would love you what your space looked like two days ago. - [Nadine] It was very minimal. - [Alexandra] Yep. - [Nadine] It lacked of working from home. - [Alexandra] Yep. - [Nadine] And it lacked style and personality that matched this person that I've grown into, over like the last 10 - [Alexandra] Okay, I'm so nervous. Are you ready on the count of three? One, two, Three. (soft music) - Oh, my god, looks so cool. - Like instant tears. - [Nadine] Wow guys. It looks so good. You did the wall thing. - [Nadine] This is so functional. It feels so big. - [Alexandra] I know, right? - But like cozy and it - [Alexandra] Totally. - [Nadine] I finally - [Alexandra] Yeah. It looks amazing. I feel like this is so me. - You very much match the vibe. Like your whole outfit matches the vibe. - I look like this house. That is a real desk. I literally feel like a boss already. Like just like this is giving Tomorrow when I go back to work, people are gonna be like, what happened? - [Alexandra] Where are you? - Thank you so much. - You're welcome, my pleasure. - [Nadine] It literally looks so good. - Thanks again to Brooklinen Make sure you click the link down below to get 20% off your order. Next up, I'm tackling a living room and we're going grandma I think this might be one mismatched pattern So make sure you hit that subscribe button so you don't miss our next upload. And I'll see you next time, bye. (everyone laughing) - Someone needs to open, okay? It wasn't a good bit. - I was just informed that Yeah, I think it's Graham's - [Alana] It scratched - [Graham] Yeah, we just need