In 2002 honda introduced the RC211V motorcycle racing in the world. The bike was a response to two-stroke NSR500. Now, the big deal about the that no one had ever seen before: a v5 engine. into thinking that the V engines must come with v12. Now, v3, v5, v7, v9, these engines really don't really makes sense we have two banks, and if then neither bank is going to be leading to a well balanced engine. The general had three cylinders in one and two in the other bank with two cylinders had larger bores This wasn't the case. All the bores and all the many people believe that a v5 engine is impossible proved that this wasn't the case. Not only did and continuously to 14.000 rpm and made 210 and of displacement. The bike and the engine were and four constructor world championships. In fact, more than half of all the races it entered which and an even more impressive statistic for a according to layman logic. Now there's discussing this engine, listing its various so on and so forth but as far as i'm aware there's works and why it doesn't self-destruct, and how do of cylinders. And in today's video that's exactly manage to survive to the end of this, slightly a warm and fuzzy and rewarding feeling of of something that you didn't understand Okay to properly understand the V5 engine we have So here's a question for you. This part of the Well, many people will tell you that it balances out and all the other components. Unfortunately that and here's why: When the piston is at top dead center, does indeed directly oppose the piston and it can to the mass of the piston and the conrod you know all the components. But now if we rotate the counterweight and the piston now you know the counterweight cannot balance it out. Instead centrifugal force which shakes the engine side to masses to their counterweights which were only opposing the counterweight and the big end of the This prevented the side to side shaking, but it piston unbalanced leading to up and down shaking don't have to be forced to choose between up and mass to the counterweight which is equal to other components then we can reduce the shaking. Of and down inertial force of the piston as well but it reduces all the forces leading to an engine magnitude. However, in practice this proved to be Also, the less violent shaking led to increased longevity mitigate using engine mounts. So even with clever balance out the piston and the other components. take 50 of the inertial force and transfer it way to make better use of the counterweight? Well do is add another cylinder and another piston and 90 degrees. You then put both rods on the same crank the counterweight directly opposes that piston and When you rotate the engine 90 degrees the counterweight components and can balance them out. So all you got to one piston, rod, wrist pin, crank pin and set of has completely eliminated all the inertial forces force created by the counterweight. To put it in perfect primary balance. But what if two pistons Well, that's not a problem at all. All you to create different engines. Add one more stack and Thanks to the fact that each individual unit a whole is also perfectly balanced. And thanks to Because the two pistons balance each other crank pins and create all sorts of different and torque characteristics. For example a Ducati two crank pins. A Honda vfr 800 has 180 degrees, and So why didn't Honda just use a V4 instead of jumping Well, according to Honda themselves you can actually make a V5 cylinders while maintaining the same displacement, And then you can put the cylinders closer together On top of this Honda was saying goodbye to the era of goodbye to all those power pulses. Because after pulses at the same rpm compared to a four-stroke was a way to compensate for that a bit. So this balance things out after adding the extra piston How do you make a V5 work? Well the answer to that unbalanced V4 and then you use the extra piston Well that's easy, all you got to do is get rid of crankshaft counterweight to keep things balanced. of 75.5 degrees between the banks. The added bonus to be shorter which improves handling response. But degrees or any other number of degrees? Well the at which the piston of an internal combustion What..? why does that even matter? Well, allow you could probably guess that the maximum center and at the bottom dead center. So, when the accelerates hard in the other direction. You could is achieved between these two points. So at the And translated to engine rotation, to degrees of crankshaft So maximum piston velocity occurs at 90 degrees Maximum piston velocity actually occurs before This depends on the ratio between the length but it's usually somewhere around this point. So but the short answer is that the fact that it both reciprocates and rotates. So as when it's traveling down from top dead center upright to fully angled. Of course a fully upright So as the connecting rod is assuming in relation to the center line between the piston pulls down the piston an additional amount. Or Forcing the piston to accelerate by the connecting rod. And this added acceleration half point of the stroke when the engine is at 90 added acceleration and the added acceleration before 90 degrees of rotation. As we said most degrees of rotation. So why do we care about the Well, as you know, force is mass times acceleration So when the piston hits maximum velocity; during the it's traveling at a constant velocity. In other no change in speed there's no acceleration and In other words: the closer the piston to its maximum exerts onto the engine. And why is this important? Now as you can see the v5 has two pistons. These two common crank pins are in line. In And then we have an additional crank pin, the That crank pin is in between the common ones and the degrees of 104.5 degrees and as we already know we have 75.5 let's observe the engine a bit more closely. As you two outer pistons when the engine is in operation. pistons of bank two are at top dead center. Since upward inertial force on the engine in the towards top dead center, due to its inertia it but the connecting rod yanks it and pulls it down dead center when the piston changes direction. And same direction in which it was traveling before And thus the inertial force points upward in between the banks is not 90 degrees we cannot rely And thus it remains unbalanced and acts on Now when the outer two pistons of bank 2 are at top dead center, their top dead center. This is of course because At this point these pistons are at or near maximum no or minimal inertial force on the engine, which means is the dominant force remaining from cylinder bank the counterweight is always opposite the direction that the inertial force generated by pistons of skew the direction of the resultant force the resultant force of bank one now points 75.5 Why are we assuming this direction of the force? Well The one that has a single piston on So now we have two forces, one pointing 75.5 other pointing in the direction of bank one, which This of course means that bank 1 is the midpoint between resultant unbalanced inertial force acting on the unpaired middle piston is offset by 104.5 degrees at the center line of bank two and what happens Yes, you get 180 degrees which tells you that if we the odd crank pin ends up directly opposing and can balance it out. The only thing you have to of the odd piston and voila a beautifully smooth physics and mechanical engineering to defy common I have just given you is very much oversimplified patent application for this engine, which has individual forces and the resultant forces, but thing. And it's the simple genius of purposely it out using another imbalance. Now if you're the patent application, don't bother there really But it's still pretty secretive. The media doesn't application. It's just a bunch of formulas without like most patents are, but fortunately the little and 75.5 degrees is enough to understand and final side point just in case somebody's wondering you some time. No, the engine that Volkswagen calls very different. The engine Volkswagen calls &quot;V5&quot; is their VR6 engine. Honda's RC211V engine is an and we have two cylinder heads, two sets of cams, angle between the two sets of cylinder cylinders. single flat block surface and then you have a just like on the vr6 engine. The V5, the &quot;V5&quot; from minus one cylinder. And the VR6 is very similar in and so too their v5 is very similar in completely different to what we explained in Congratulations for making it to the thanks a lot for watching I'll be seeing you