Translator: berat guven Hello everyone! (Audience) Hi! Everyone is good? Sorry, I am not very used I hope it will be okay. My name is Nixiwaka. I come from the rainforest I have been living here When I came here, I didn't know nothing, actually. And the weather was crazy for me, (Laughter) especially the weather. But it was okay afterwards. If I walk in the street with just clothes and my face not painted people think that I come But yes, I come from the Yawanawa tribe I will just put my headdress on. It's much better for me. (Cat call whistle) (Laughter) Thanks. Yes! I feel more comfortable. (Laughter) I really feel more comfortable. I would like to say just some few words &quot; Mon sharai?&quot; &quot;Mon sharai?&quot; means &quot;How are you, &quot;Nixiwaka ki. Yawanava ehuhu. Matu uwi yuwa.&quot; I just said that &quot;My name is Nixiwaka. and I'm here to visit you, I would like to talk and how Nature is so important for indigenous people but also for everyone in this world. If we think really deep, I think everyone will feel something: where you came from and what this world looks like now. Many things have changed But for tribespeople like me, it didn't change anything. In some countries, some tribes are different. They know the language, for example Some of them lost their language. They lost their culture, their tradition. But still, many live I just want to talk a little bit When we made the first contact it was my great-grandfather. He was eleven years old. He first saw the white man The white man didn't see him. And he told our family strange people, different people, with clothes, with beard, with sunglasses or glasses. And he didn't understand He said, &quot;How we will talk with them So he decided to kill a deer. He went to those white people And the white people It was a positive contact, because usually when with indigenous people, battles happened, lots of killing, and in most of South America, We are glad that it didn't happen, The only problem was Our shamans for example, and they didn't understand The shaman did everything and all the shamans there were dying because we, indigenous people, for simple diseases like flu, cold. It was all new for us. But we survived. And we learned Portuguese. I was very young when I went to a city, a very small town and I learned Portuguese. That's why I speak in English. If you go to Brazil in the Amazon, I am quite sure you would not that can speak English And I am really glad to be here, to be able to speak about about our tradition. We still have our knowledge Brazil, for example, is the home that are still isolated. They don't even have any contact The reason I came to London was to learn English first of all, and to be able to speak for them, because they have decided or the western world. We see that when we come or they want to shoot us And we are telling to protect their territories. The first thought I have was to adapt here and it was very different for me. Then, I went to a school Last year, I found this organization They work with different especially in South America. And I said yes when I had to raise awareness for tribespeople, for the protection of tribespeople, especially as well in Africa, It has been really great for me. it has been a really good experience. I'm still learning the language, so excuse me for my English. We still practice our culture. This is something and talk about how we are all We receive many people from Europe. They want to visit my tribe, for example, to see how we're still living. And we have this week and we have our sacred rituals. It is the rituals that we have that we use to communicate We believe that in the forest, When a shaman, for example, he asks the plant, &quot;I will take you, because if he just say nothing, The plant has an effect &quot;I am going to use you to heal my people.&quot; Right now, our forest has been disappearing because of many for example mining and logging. It is really hard for us Because we think that for my people, but for other people and especially to keep Because I think everyone needs because it cleans the air, I was really sad when I found out The climate change is, we think, because Why is the climate changing? Why do lots of disasters We don't understand why. Our shaman says that it's because He used to say that it is the lack of love Sometimes money is good, for many things, but it can be really bad as well. We think that the problem is that people just want more, and more, and more So the world is like What people need is more love We think that it is going to see yourself and to see other people, to see how they live and how and how we keep Nature alive. That's why I am here to talk with people. I am actually giving some talks and I tell them how I speak about how we hunt, how we fish, how we build our houses, and they all are interested. They say they get really impressed when they see someone and talk with them about how and they ask a lot of questions. It is very interesting for them there is no indigenous people. We, indigenous people, think that we know how and how we can share with the white, with the outside world. They don't know the community, It was something that I thought It was that people from here, most of them I can say really care about and the preservation of different That is the reason why I would like I want to go back to my tribe and live But before I would like to say to people that we are still there, and our door is always open and let them see how we live. Right now, because of the public, the Brazilian government is taking action to preserve the indigenous territory, especially those that are still We have some campaigns For example &quot;Guarani&quot; is the name of the biggest population more than 50,000. They have a big problem because their land is now replaced and most of people in the community They don't have access Malnutrition, even suicide happen a lot because they don't have If indigenous people lose their land, it means they lose everything especially We are saying to the Brazilian government that we want to live in our lands, we want to have our forest protected, because forest means life, forest means our everything and we live because we have the forest. It's more kind of an awareness. What I am doing here is saying but we also have this knowledge And if you would like to know more, how they live, who are they, there are many questions I would like to tell you that if you about the tribespeople, the importance of the rainforest for them, you may visit our website They work with indigenous people. For example, in my tribe, we have this festival, It lasts for five days. We have lots of different kinds of games, and during the night, We have this special It is a very strong drink. (Laughter) a very strong drink! You can see what is life, starting by yourself, how you are, see your spirit and what you are And you can see that through I believe that indigenous people with the outside world. Our doors are always open who want to visit and know I would like to sing a small song. It means, when you visit someone, it is like your are going and you tell that there is this happiness. It means &quot;happiness.&quot; (Singing in Yawanawa language) Ganaro cheretete. Ato noma noma. Ato noma noma. Mahe mahe mahe. Noma mahe mahe. Noma mahe.&quot; This is when we are visiting someone, we are visiting our family, friends we always sing this song Thank you very much I am really glad to be here, thank you. (Applause)