Imagine this. It's winter 1862 and you're You're working on one of the most pressing Benzene is a smelly and highly flammable made of... you guessed it, hydrogen and carbon. is a little weird. carbon atoms, like most hydrocarbons, benzene atoms: 6 and 6. these atoms fit together? warm fire and take a nap. As you sleep, mind's eye. They turn into a series of snakes. and bites its tail like the ancient symbol You've solved the chemical structure chemist August Kekule did in 1862, completely the process, a contribution to science that up. Thanks to... a dream? Hi Smart People, Joe here. molecular shape is one of history's most But for most of us, dreaming is about more have been trying to figure out why we dream as we've been asking questions. And since asleep, it's a particularly tough question Going back to the Greek philosopher Plato have speculated about the function and meaning few decades that scientific experiments have narratives could have. think dreams might have many functions that our survival. night. Over an 80-year lifetime, that's of waking life! we wouldn't spend so much darn time doin' And everyone dreams.... Even if we don't to remember your strangest ones... like I I were rowing a boat across the ocean, and sandwiches. That was weird. (that really happened) a week, and women are more likely to remember are a number of phases the brain goes through cycles throughout the night. In the first sleep, as you begin to relax and your breathing your breathing slows down even more, you enter sleep phase characterized by a particular After that, you start the REM or "rapid gets faster, and your eyes move all over. this phase, your brain is very active -- almost Almost all other animals-- whales, wombats, REM sleep. So scientists think that many of cat or dog. red ball. a lot throughout history. In most cultures significance. There are even dream interpretations But there was nowhere where decoding dreams Egyptians created volumes of books full of Professional dream interpreters used these dreams meant. Interpreter: Oooof, that means dead people Dreamer: Yikes! Dreamer: I dreamed I died violently! Dreamer: Really? a long life. -- a jug of my pee into the Nile. Dreamer: Really! omen too! It means your harvest is going to Oh right... obviously. to be interpreted or decoded remained the first part of the 20th century. book "Interpretation of Dreams." In be used to understand unconscious desires. so famous it has a name... and a Wikipedia It's called Irma's Injection. were receiving. - Among them was Irma." that he felt he wasn't able to completely "I at once took her to one side, as though not having accepted my 'solution' yet." wishes that aren't fulfilled while we're some of those wishes might be kinda embarrassing, the dreams to hide their true meaning. considered archetypal symbols that often appeared to be universal among humans. Jung thought crack the code of these universal symbols, Jung, dreams had two functions: they compensated and they looked forward to give the dreamer Lots of people still look for meaning in their In one study, people were more likely to say before a flight would make them cancel their warning about a "high risk of a terrorist But modern science has moved away from Freud to decode or interpret. Today researchers brains themselves might get from dreaming. mish-mash of pictures, stories, and events effects of basic biological processes in our we experience as we sleep. brain tried to make sense of the noise by often a very weird story. This is called the But experiments showed that dreams are not to appear in our dreams than others. And scientists noise... maybe our brains NEED to dream to What we dream about often has to do with what we're learning something new. who played Alpine Racer II, an arcade downhill Consider this: The things that happen to you memory, these experiences are fragile, and might only make it into our long-term memory guessed it - in our dreams. Patterns of brain when our brains store and retrieve episodic happen to us. So, dreams may be a sort of an extra layer of weird on top just to make In one study to test this, scientists asked days. Hang on, I have a question... Where I'm busy right now. I'm doing some science! Anyway. After some serious Tetris time, participants falling asleep. They seemed to be replaying memory. can turn into nightmares. There's no universally is, but they're commonly considered a "distressing as to wake you up. About one in 40 dreams our worst fears and memories? dreams let us "practice" dangerous events traumatic experiences in dreams. The brain experiences by "practicing" in a safe Back when life-threatening situations were threats could've helped us survive. But in chronic nightmares can be debilitating. dreaming. That's the Social Simulation Theory heavy on social situations: a fight with a with a coworker, or not wearing pants to school. species, practicing these situations would The strange experience of dreaming can be Novelist John Steinbeck once said: &quot;It is at night is resolved in the morning after When college students were given a homework a quarter dreamed the answer within a week. logic... or physics ... they're a great --and sometimes weird--solutions. Which need a very different approach compared to owe many pieces of great art to dreams: The Dali's melting clocks, Mary Shelley's So, can you dream your way to a Nobel Prize? experimenting with "Dream Incubation" be more creative. we spend so much of our lives doing it, it's But why did dreaming evolve to begin with? That's right. Scientists think the origin sheer amount of time that humans - and all Our ability to use our peepers and see the evolutionary advantage. And because it's for sight, called the visual cortex, takes But there's the thing. Our brains can also your brain would begin to change within an of the visual cortex start being taken over The lengthy darkness of nighttime, would have ancestors was at a high risk of being taken we didn't use it, we could lose it. Dreams, in mammals to keep these vulnerable brain from rewiring itself in unfortunate ways. or practicing, or seeing, or is it problem practicing and a pinch of problems solving? these ideas will prove to be correct, and figuring stuff out. But never quite figuring It's even possible that dreams may have so long because dreaming ended up helping to peer into the workings of the sleeping in psychology and neuroscience, but we're science of dreaming, one dream ...at a time.