Private Equity is a great idea... in theory. Funds or faltering companies, shuffle around their grow their worth, then sell them a few years For example: do you remember Yahoo? In the early was consistently worth more than Amazon and water mark of over $125 billion. But today, it's billion purchase bid by Microsoft in 2008, a Verizon for a humiliating $4.8 billion. Verizon bought for $4.4 billion, but after the downward company for just $5 billion--an enormous loss. private equity firm previously headed by Leon Jeffrey Epstein emerged in the media. Through companies like ADT, Chuck E. Cheese's, they believed there was value to be had in For their strategy to work, they needed experienced businessman Jim Lanzone. Part of be the first time Lanzone attempted to turn a name for himself while working at Ask.com. and promising competitor in the search engine much like today's AI-driven chatbots. Google, pivoted its business model to center on and correspondingly rebranded as Ask.com. It was and while always overshadowed by the company's recognized as having finished his term as and is therefore credited for its continued Lanzone went on to lead CBS's digital business then was briefly CEO of Tinder in 2020, so Apollo This new leadership team, CEO Lanzone and investor valuable assets Yahoo had acquired through the rather than just acting as a collection of to survive through time. So the key assets operated Yahoo! Japan were sold off to its other a streaming technology company that the former was sold for $300 million. With just those Apollo was reportedly able to more-or-less the purchase of Yahoo in the first place. that Yahoo was no longer truly a search engine, was hardly even an email provider anymore--really, what worked was clear: Yahoo Finance and Yahoo and gained a reputation as the best places to So to double-down on success, they once again and BetMGM gave him context into the fantasy Sports' traffic, so he was tapped to be that Chief Product Officer of NerdWallet informed his of retail investors, so he was appointed within Yahoo, each of these core divisions was unique product offerings for their specific bolster its sports betting offerings, including Finance focused on growing its subscription-based offering advanced trading tools and data, is customers and double-digit year-over-year growth. team are doing go on and on, but in short, by cutting off its appendages, reinforcing its of reporting requirements due to its private company is, while smaller, as healthy as its been path towards IPO and is "very profitable." it will almost certainly yield them a tremendous deserved it--they came in, took a risk, found strategy, then shepherded the company through a and brought it back into relevancy. And this would like you to believe private equity is. complicated. Their cores are the General the right people--it is not an entry level rather unremarkable firm, J.W. Childs Associates after a long and successful stint at Thomas Thomas H. Lee founded his firm after a long where he rose to the rank of Vice President. include Mitt Romney of Bain Capital, who was and Steven Schwarzman of Blackstone, These connections are crucial thanks to step general partners start by throwing in a couple then they'll go around pitching investors on why money. Often it has something to do with having that is particularly attractive for particular around arguing that he had a particular knack for since at his prior firm he had helped arrange the his firm sold two years later for $1.7 billion argue that food and beverage companies are great and therefore the sector is less subject to the This sort of stability is particularly attractive of private equity investors--in John W. Northwestern Mutual or employee pension Trust. Individuals can theoretically invest wealth--it varies dramatically, but many funds Meanwhile, the way private equity firms themselves two percent of it. Two percent, of all money, each not the firm actually grows the investment. But a benchmark, called a hurdle, that they're aiming 7%. Any money earned on top of that hurdle is the firm. So, say, if a fund was originally worth would be subject to that performance fee and so In practice, what's earned from the 2% base fee restrictions as to when investors can take generally fluctuate rapidly--therefore, firms basic operating costs like office rent and analyst varies enormously--some years it could be especially since the gains from that fee are partner. This is how general partners like John the money from these fees is not considered authorities--it's considered capital gains. truly come from investment by the general partners therefore only about 20% goes to taxes, versus So, considering it's the primary source of incentivized to maximize their firm's gains, and all rely on one simple trick--they don't actually if a $100 million fund bought a $100 million they'd gain $25 million. But, if a $100 million its value by the same multiple, they'd gain $100 or not, a $100 million fund can buy a $400 million This is what's referred to as a leveraged but primarily relies on borrowed money to pay the This magnifies the potential earnings, but But it's worth considering what this does for the $400 million company with 75% borrowed money, difference for this one individual. With a 7% 7% on that $400 million company would earn the company reached 7.75% growth, the general amplifying effect, every quarter of a percent general partner another $200,000 in income. doesn't matter exactly how this value is story there's a Marsh Supermarkets. or level of national ubiquity as Yahoo--if you've likely never heard of Marsh SuperMarket. Supermarkets and its private equity takeover, The first Marsh opened here, a small local grocer Indiana in 1931. The simple concept then outlasting World War II, the budding Indiana were 16 Marsh locations across the state, by 1952 Indiana, and by 1956, the store was expanding the company adjusted. Marsh Foodliners became one-stop shopping. Diversifying as decades own convenience store: The Village Pantry, its own purchased its own upscale grocers in O'Malia and suburban Indiana and western Ohio, Marsh and and 2000s. And it was at about this time that Today, there are zero Marsh locations. In and struggling to pay vendors, the company every last location and liquidating all remaining reached its territorial epoch before collapsing timeline that rather neatly lines up with the Now, Sun Capital Partners didn't instigate the sale, Marsh had expensively failed to expand into encroaching box stores; and it watched Krogers the company began to fall behind, failing to sponsorship deals with the Indiana State Fair, and In an atmosphere of supermarket consolidation, struggling chain... not until someone noticed in a the company held a rather robust real estate became more palatable, and in early 2006, cash and assuming $237 million of debt. proposition--either they'd turn around and flip assets which just in real estate have been Under new ownership, things changed quickly: they with the money saved, they renovated storefronts. but less the kind that would help bump sales. store locations went up for sale: this one and this one for $1.2 million. They'd stay be paying a lease while Sun Capital would collect went as far as selling the company headquarters the grocer with a 20-year lease increasing on called a sale-leaseback, and it's quite common it makes sense for both parties. Marsh Supermarket dividends or provide capital for another helping the grocer to pay down debt and provide as for the consequences accompanying that long, with cost-saving moves like carrying name brand and more services--well, Sun Capital just hoped it news bubbled to the surface that they But to the dismay of Sun Capital, the new, Ultimately, the new-owner business boost was of business with Sun Capital at the helm until the failing to sell was a missed opportunity in a as the group ultimately came $500,000 into the chain grocery store. equity firm won. They still collected their afterall. They also collected their commission on at seemingly every turn. Really, the only The same couldn't be said about the consumers and Ohios' urban areas, Marsh locations provided of fading into food deserts. Beyond nostalgia, pharmacy were mad, confused, and lost with the Then there were the people that worked for at the onset of Sun Capital's ownership only one funded by the new ownership--unsurprisingly, their pension went underfunded by some $32 to even out, but to the government insurer. As for the time of bankruptcy to their pension which Ultimately, Marsh Supermarkets as a business relatively small potatoes. But their pattern in American life. Private equity and moves on while consumers and employees grapple industries: regional grocery chains like Marsh; odd-end industries like animal retail and consequential industry of them all in healthcare. notices the subtle changes, but frequently turns things sideways. The local market goes out the understaffed and over-priced veterinary staff unintentionally neglects a call for help. cost-cutting, and corporate streamlining--bad On average, headcount at public companies the following two years, translating to thousands see 11% higher mortality rates than the non-PE excess deaths per year. Companies acquired by found to be 10 times more likely to go bankrupt in Theories abound as to why a benign structure surprising. They all have to do with what happens thousands of people, their relations, their faults, their everything down to a deluge of equity firm going in, working on the human company in a way that strengthens collaboration, creating a stronger, more competitive product for of a private equity firm going in, hiking pricing lobbyists to create more favorable legislative that are not yet profitable, saddling companies shuffling assets around to create the illusion for present-day returns--those stories, and their Exploitation is easy without emotion. When person unlocking the door each morning, it is their employees' suffering. They have to face and that's uncomfortable. When the person president who's senior associate manages the board which appoints the CEO who's direct report the regional manager who oversees the branch exploitation in the name of profit is easier. the general partners, have all the incentive Because of the compensation model, the industry without gangbusters growth, the person whose name with a massive 20% of over-hurdle performance tiny margins of difference--say, outsourcing HR cheaper--make all the difference on the general towards brutality, then this brutality is shielded government rewards the brutality by subjecting the system, assuming you happen to be the general As you may know, the latest fixation of the artificial intelligence. Many investors believe internet, and so it's probably worth learning how sponsor Brilliant. They have a fantastic course on surprisingly, I didn't find all that complicated Brilliant--they specialize in teaching complex STEM that they teach through intuitive principles and bring these small, disparate concepts together large language model, or calculus, or programming in traditional STEM education, I find it really topics that I'd always thought were out of reach, LLMs become relevant to so many other things. And is that they really understand the practicalities time to sit down and watch an hour-long lecture or down into such small, digestible chunks which you or tablet while you're on the bus or waiting at your day. Through this, you can make learning just in the time you might otherwise spend of our longest-term sponsors since so many so I think it's worth at least giving it a try everything Brilliant has to offer, for free, and you'll also get 20% off an annual