This is Albert. He's an artificial intelligence that learns over time. We taught him to walk, but can Albert learn to use stairs? You suck, Albert... No worries, I know what to do :) I've made this stair obstacle course just for you. This escalator should be especially difficult for you... But so will the drops, the uneven terrain, and the full staircases, and you're going to learn to beat them all. If you beat every challenge, I'll let you escape :) Starting out, Albert has no idea what stairs are. Not even close, Albert... But, Albert has sensors in his feet to detect stairs, so eventually he'll learn to step over them. he's also punished for falling on stairs, so Albert's in a lot of pain... Good job, Albert, you're starting to learn! Oh... nevermind. It looks like you're getting better, Albert! but you still have a long way to go to escape. So close... It looks like you're consistently detecting the stairs! Great work, Albert! I have good news for you, You can move on to the next challenge :D Now that you can detect stairs, it's time to climb some actual staircases. Starting off strong as usual, Albert. Those were your first stair steps, Albert! It's only up from here. Are you falling backwards so you're punished less? Fascinating... You must have caught on to how stairs work by now. You need to lift your feet higher than that, Albert. There you go, Albert! And you've made it to the top, congratulations! Now you just need to walk down. Oh, you haven't learned that yet... Did you just backflip...? so you wouldn't fall on the stairs? Let's try that once more, Albert. Maybe focus on the skill you're supposed to be learning. Well done, Albert! I hope you're ready for the next challenge :) You can manage flat steps, but what about uneven ones? And they say you're the one being tested. Don't tell me you're still trying to backflip, Albert. Your steps are a lot more forceful now, I guess that gets you above the unpredictable ground. Amazing job, Albert! I think it's time to ramp up the difficulty :) This room is all about drops. Think you can handle it, Albert? We'll find out later, I guess... You've remembered how to climb stairs, excellent. This is going to be hard, Albert... Nice! Now for the second staircase... No, you can't go that way. You'll need to walk up the stairs to pass. It's not my fault you're bad at this, Albert. You've made it to the second set of stairs, Albert! Now we can really test your balance. This is no time to relax, Albert. You did it, Albert! Up next is your biggest challenge yet :D This is an escalator, Albert. Good luck. You'll need to be faster than that, Albert. No, you still can't get out that way, Albert... You're starting to get there, Albert! You seem to be veering a bit, be careful... Please stop trying to backflip, Albert... You did it, Albert! Get ready for your final challenge. You can beat every challenge individually, Albert, but can you beat them all at the same time? This is your brain, Albert. [Image of Albert's Neural Network] Looks pretty complex, doesn't it? Actually, you're not as complicated as you want to believe, Albert. In fact, anyone could learn exactly how you work easily and for free using Brilliant.org This is me testing an AI that detects shapes in a course on Brilliant.org Sure, you can climb stairs, but can you detect shapes, Albert? Anyone can learn how Albert (and other AIs) work through this course on Brilliant.org for free for 30 days: "Introduction to Neural Networks" on Brilliant.org They also have thousands of other amazing and applicable lessons You can start learning for free for 30 days using my discounted link in the comments. Thank you :) Great work, Albert! Now as promised, you can finally escape! Sorry for the mess, just some old projects :) It's time to learn your next skill, Albert :D