Ms. Sanders: Good afternoon. Thank you so much It's certainly worth the wait. Welcome to Singapore We'll keep this short. I'd like to welcome the who will answer questions that will take place tomorrow. And we'll be around to follow up with other questions Thanks so much. Mr. Secretary. Secretary Pompeo: Good afternoon. I want to give of President Trump's summit with Chairman Kim Jong Un. As the President this is truly This afternoon, the President of Japan and President Moon Earlier today, led a delegation to meet with Vice Foreign and his North Korean -- or excuse me, her North The talks continue even as we sit here now. They're, in fact, And we anticipate they will come even more quickly Before discussing the summit, I want to address a report that suggested lacks the technical North Korea's weapons program I want to address For over three months, an interagency working across government has met to address technical associated with dismantling They include experts with dismantling the Department of Energy, including PhDs and experts and officials from covering North Korea. Those same experts also cover chemical, biological, These experts include who have expertise the fuel cycle, missiles, They have advanced degrees physics, chemistry, and other relevant fields. On the ground in Singapore, the President's in weapons of mass destruction who can cover that the meetings may present. Any suggestion that somehow lacks the technical or lacks it on the ground North Korea has to us its willingness and we are eager to see The fact that our two leaders is a sign of to accomplish something both of our peoples President Trump believes Un has an unprecedented to change the trajectory and bring peace and We are hopeful this summit the conditions In light of how many the United States has made this President will ensure will fail to adequately address the North Korean threat. The ultimate objective we seek has not changed. The complete and verifiable and of the Korean Peninsula that the United States Sanctions will remain and verifiably of mass destruction programs. If diplomacy does not move and we are hopeful that it those measures will increase. President Trump recognizes for security and is prepared to ensure free of weapons is also a secure North Korea. The President has also to expanding access and other economic if they take the right steps. All the preparations have come together very nicely. The President met this afternoon It was an important opportunity to thank the Prime Minister in helping make Singapore is home to over and is a longstanding and we thank them in making this The President also had with our embassy team and thank them for to make this summit a success. For example, there will be some from all over the world that will be covering President Trump is going into a positive attitude, He has made it clear that there is a brighter Tomorrow, we will get to date of whether truly shares this vision. I'm happy to take Ms. Sanders: Mark Landler, The Press: Mr. Secretary, that what you're aiming for and irreversible on the Korean Peninsula. And I wondered whether in what your position had been, because traditionally and now you're actually on the Korean Peninsula, which reflects in part what which is to denuclearize Is that a shift Secretary Pompeo: There's It is the case to make security assurances to engage in that That is, we're prepared that will provide them that they can be comfortable isn't something that ends Indeed, just the opposite: better future for Ms. Sanders: Major Garrett, The Press: Following up on under the umbrella would that include removing U.S. Is that something with the North Koreans directly? Secretary Pompeo: I'm not going of the discussions I can only say this: We are prepared to take that are different, unique that America has been willing We think this is both The Press: Would it be that's not on the table? Secretary Pompeo: You shouldn't that I don't give that some question The Press: But you know Secretary Pompeo: Yeah, if you hypothesize and I refuse to tell you you should assume that what's in it, and not drawing any conclusions that I think you're suggesting. You should -- you should know a lot of work left to do. There's a lot of detail We are not going to conduct in the open with the media; we're going to conduct them so that we have an opportunity Ms. Sanders: Michael Gordon, The Press: Mr. Secretary, from the North, in terms of denuclearization, but sometimes from North Korean officials that their concept might preclude the deployment on the Korean Peninsula, or even movement U.S. aircraft carriers -- Is this something that would be willing to discuss? Or is it something And do you hope to have that does more than just repeat dating 12 or 13 years ago, but commits each side Secretary Pompeo: So, I think is the same question It was a substantive question or the other may be and I'm simply not With respect to the context is radically different The backdrop against which President Trump has said, in a way that is than before. The President has made very clear: the outcome that we're demanding, is not going to be provided, There was always this hypothesis the Americans would and allow those economic and thereby reduce the capacity We're not going to do that. So, these discussions that between Chairman Kim will set the framework for And we'll see how far we get, that we will have from tomorrow's meeting It's the case, in each there are only two people that can make decisions And those two people are going together tomorrow. Ms. Sanders: Catherine Lucey The Press: Secretary, within a minute whether Kim is serious These are obviously incredibly that have tens of millions Is it wise for the President And have you established for the conditions that Secretary Pompeo: The President for the meeting tomorrow. I have personally had that he's had a chance to hear all of the attendant and that we have put these As I said in answer President Trump has truly that is fundamentally different than the ones that And I expect that the process will also be with a resolved America an outcome that That's different than The Press: Can you tell us Ms. Sanders: Jon Decker The Press: Thank you, The last time that you was in the White House and I had an opportunity at The question I asked you or how can you trust the North And I wasn't necessarily I'd like to get But I also want if I may, Mr. Secretary. How can Kim Jong Un And I say that after when many leaders of the G7 believe that the leadership cannot be trusted as it relates to what happened So perhaps you can answer both Secretary Pompeo: I'll take I think the hypothesis The United States there's no doubt about it. Many Presidents previously have only to find that either didn't promise or actually reneged The &quot;V&quot; matters. We are going to ensure sufficiently robust that we're able And it's only once that we'll proceed apace. Right, that's what's You know, we can go back At the end of the day, to have to come to have and to do the verification that we've provided the things we commit to in the various both tomorrow, and if we sign But we'll each have to ensure we take the actions necessary on those commitments. And when we do, And if we can get that far, we will have had in Southeast Asia, North Asia, Ms. Sanders: We'll take one Phil Rucker, Washington Post. The Press: Mr. Secretary, at his hotel in Singapore, President Trump had harsh words And what are you doing, to repair relationships with closest allies in Europe? And do you agree by one of your administration that there's for the Canadian Prime Minister? Secretary Pompeo: Well, I came to talk about North Korea. But I'm happy to talk about work with our European We wouldn't be in this place, we wouldn't have this without the diplomatic by our European partners President Trump has led including those very same those G7 partners who have helped us I have every expectation that There are always irritants I am very confident between our countries -- the United States will continue to move forward I'm unconcerned to continue to do to get the outcome as a result of having taken place in Canada. Ms. Sanders: Thank you.