No code app development is a trap. I fell into this trap So this is my story. One day I had an idea. I know, rare of me to have an idea. But I thought, hang on, this I didn't know how to build mobile apps. I haven't done it at that stage, Just not mobile apps. And I did some research and I it was 2023 at that stage. And I thought, Hey, the And to be honest, I just didn't want So I opted for a platform And FlutterFlow is a no code It is probably one of the most And on FlutterFlow, you can actually build The backend of FlutterFlow is But the idea here is that You won't be actually coding in Flutter. It's more of a drag and drop platform And so I began to build my app and I I looked at their documentation. I watched a bunch of YouTube tutorials. I created the wireframe on Balsamiq. I would say I was around When things just started I wanted to do specific things on my easy, but I just couldn't do it. And because it wasn't a default with Flutter flow, if you want that things, you can create a custom widget, actually didn't work So I reached a So then I thought I'm having so And I was right. It is not only me. Five months ago, there was a post on And it said FlutterFlow raised 25. 5 million. Anyway, that post actually The interesting part was And here is, now it is quite a long that I was having with FlutterFlow. I was quite active in the flutter flow At the time, I was very happy with it. To be honest. I would say I was in the 10 to 90% However, when I got to the last flow is a 90% completion product. They go on to say, in my experience, started seeing the cracks, I Luckily, I can add a custom widget. So I started there. And wow, adding custom widgets and Flutterflow code base without any After this, I thought, well, I I then hire BlueCry to help with they couldn't figure it out either. Finally, I thought that sucks. I guess I have hit the limit of So in FlutterFlow, you do have the base, and getting the physical So I did. And dear effing Lord, It was straight up horrible. Spaghetti was an understatement. So then I thought, well, I need this is getting out of control. So I hired a dev. They took one look and tried and then And so we did. We are finally in a good place, but And what this person has experienced experienced with FlutterFlow was When I downloaded my FlutterFlow And I don't even code in Flutter, There were so many errors and I started to actually learn Flutter code and it just looked wrong. And it's not only Flutter People also posted similar issues code platform called Bubble. Here users mentioned a lot of issues with web app that they are trying to build. Another one also says that there are Now I also did some research on Bubble And again, I thought Bubble It's not. this medium article actually speaks and they put it in a nice way. A problem I saw with Bubble Because much of the code is pre made. You kind of have to rely on Bubble styles There are ways to customize and third party APIs that you can use. But for the most part, I can customizable app having problems. Other negatives I found were usage of Bubble's plugins. There are also a limited number of now at this stage, you might be these no code app development and I get it. I know that every platform And yes, you can still build bubble and other no code platforms. but the reason why I think The first fold is that most of the no As in haven't ever developed So coming in, the clients don't really involved when you create some sort of app. because I was experienced in coding, I were specific things I couldn't do. And there was a red flag to maybe not knowing how to code. Buying a platform like Bubble or spending a lot of time and hours, it because of the restrictions. And that's the first issue. The second issue is that you can't with these no code platforms. And this is the common issue. The main complaint for any null code So either you develop a very you don't build anything at all. this would be fine. It actually would be perfectly were a bit more honest with it. They just aren't. In their marketing materials, phrase things differently. if you look at these no code development always get the sense that, wow, This no this is Bubble's front page. The world's only full Design, develop, and launch production It doesn't matter if you're starting bubble is for anyone. here is FlutterFlow. Build applications faster than ever. Create beautiful UI, generate app store or web in one click, I've used FlutterFlow. That is the furthest definition When I downloaded that I would have never been Um, on Flutter flow, unless I probably fix that messy code, sort out the errors. And then only I would have probably there's errors in your code, the iOS And it really is okay if there's as a platform that gets you the So if you want to show clients a quick MVP something like Bubble and Flutter Flow. It's great. It will do that for you. but if you want a full grade to do it the old fashioned way. So why are they marketing it like this? And when you do speak to any developer you speak to web developers, if you actually tell you the same thing. They tell you that if you want to use or any other no code tool, it's good It's terrible with customization. It's terrible with scalability. Do it the old fashioned way. So if you are thinking about no do your research, but second, also platforms will always be second and coding or paying an experienced it will be a lot more expensive, done right the first time. thank you so much for watching. If you liked my video, please I will see you on the next one. Bye.