Ever wonder where girls get all their makeup and beauty ideas? Well, from looking a magazines, of course! Wow! How does she get her lips to look so full and pouty? How can I get my lips to look like that? I wonder if Lana would mind if I borrowed some of her makeup. This lash glue could work! Maybe I could just make my lips look plump without actually plumping them. Uh, Bella? Don't you think that makes you look a little crazy? Hey, Lana, what do you think? Yikes. Looks like these these could use a few new makeup hacks, don't you think? Well, what do we have here? Getting all dolled up for a night out, are we? Woah! That's an amazing eyeshadow palette! So many gorgeous hues. Perfect! Here, you want it, Bella? No! My eyeshadow!!! Sorry, Bella, I thought you had a good grip! Ugh, that palette was brand spankin' new, Lana. My bad. Hey, maybe we can just use something else on our eyes. Hey, these lipsticks could work, right? Why don't we give it a whirl? Sounds interesting enough. If you're in a bind and don't have all your makeup available, try using some of your lipsticks as eyeshadow! Start with a nude shade like this one and put it all over your lid. Before it dries, blend it into your lids to soften the edges a bit. Pick a bold color like red and dab it onto the outer edge of your lid. Once it tries, blend the color in using circular motions with your brush. Last but not least, put a light shade in the middle of your lid, but only a little. You guessed it: time to blend some more. Hey! If I didn't know any better, I'd say you were wearing expensive eyeshadow! Oh yes, I know I look beautiful. Now get going! You're gonna be late! It's only an hour until Bella's big birthday bash! You'd better hurry up with those balloons, Lana, you're running out of time. Oh gosh, what happened to my makeup sponge? It's disgusting! I'm definitely not putting that thing on my face. Uh oh...I think... I'm...gonna... ACHOO! Watch out for the flying makeup sponge! And there goes the balloon. Geez, Bella, why are your sneezes always so dramatic? Sorry! I can't help it! Hey, here's your deflated balloon. I wonder if I could use this thing as a makeshift sponge. To do this, squeeze your favorite foundation onto the tip of the slightly blown up balloon, like so. Once you've blotted it across your face, start blending it in with gentle pats. Hey, that doesn't look half bad! The flatness of the latex really makes for a good blender, hiding all your pores. Well, we're just about done here. Wow! Who knew a deflated balloon could make me look so fabulous? What do you think, Lana? Dang, girl, your skin looks flawless! And it's all because of a balloon? Pretty impressive. And now that I'm done with my makeup, Ill give you a hand with these bad boys. Happy birthday to me! For some girls, a little bit of sparkle is nice from time to time. But for people like Lana, the more glitter, the better! Wow! Look how sparkly! Uh, Lana? I'm not so sure that makeup brush is supposed to be used for crafting. It's no use. This girl is officially under the sparkle spell. Hey Lana, whatcha up to? Oh ya know, just glitter-fying some of my stuff. No. That's not yours. Sure it is! It's my brush! No! I bought this last weekend! It's brand new and super expensive, Lana! How am I supposed to get all this paint and glitter off? You'd better hope this cleaning method works. Or you're going to owe me another brush! Well, geez, you don't need to be mean about it... Need to give your makeup brush a good clean? Put some hand soap on a flat lego piece like this one here. Once you've got a good glob on there, take your brush in the other hand and rub it into the grooves of the plastic. Yikes! Look at all that nastiness! And it's all coming right off. Don't forget to give the brush a good rinse as you go. You'll know you're done when the water off the brunch runs clear. Ok Lana, I have good news! Thanks to this thing, my brush is good as new! Great! Can I have it back now? I'll take that as a no... Geez, I'll be sure never to touch her stuff again. Well, except for this makeup case I snagged out of her room earlier! Okay let's see what we have here... Jackpot! There are like ten brushes in here! Let the glitter-fest begin! Well, one things for sure -- I don't want to be around when Belle finds out about this! Haha! I can't believe I've never seen this I Love Lucy episode! It's hilarious! Oh man, time for an ice cream break. Mm, this looks so good. Lana! You're totally missing the show! I guess makeup is more important these days. Lana! Look! Seriously, Bella? Do you not see I'm putting on mascara! Hey! It's not funny! Look at my face! Now I have to do my makeup all over again. Ooh, I could just -- way a second... Thank you! Oh don't worry, I'll just use my hand. If you're trying to get as little mascara on your face as possible, a spoon cans serve as a shield! See? It's going not the spoon instead of your face. This way you don't have to struggle to remove it off your skin when you're all done. Yep, looks pretty darn perfect. Here's your spoon back! Am I supposed to put this thing into my ice cream? Hey, with beauty comes pain...and in this case, a grumbling tummy. Looks like Bella's taking her precious time doing her makeup again. Let's go! We're gonna be late! Sorry, I still have to do my eyeshadow! Oops! C'mon, Bella, the least you could to is hurry things up a little. Wow, that shade of blue is so pretty. But all that blending action doesn't come without a price. Gah! What's all that dust under my eye? Get outta here! Uh oh... Ahh! Bella, what's that stuff all over your face? Ooh, that's too bad. But we can go now, right? You'd better sit tight Lana because this little mishap set you both at least 20 minutes back. Woah, Bella, what on earth are digging in your backpack for? Why do I have all this stuff? Uh... who carries a plunger around with them? Okay, is this some magic bottomless backpack or something? Ugh, c'mon, it's gotta be in here somewhere! Okay, please don't tell me that's what you were looking for... Wow! Is that a real sword? I'm so borrowing this. In fact, This would go great with my outfit for tonight! Well, if we ever even get out of here... Yes! This is exactly what I was looking for! If you find yourself in a situation like Bella, little panty liners like these san save the day. For this you'll need a pad and a pair of scissors to cut the pad into three parts. But you'll only need the two edges, not the middle. Now stick the pad right under your eye with the straight edge on top. Go ahead and to it to the other side. Ooh, lookin' good! Now put on your shadow the same way you normally would. See? You don't have to worry about the extra dust getting onto your face. Woah! That's pretty messy stuff. All done? Now it's time for the moment of truth! Now that's a clean line, baby! Perfection has a name, and it's Bella! That could've been on your face! That sure was impressive, Bella. So is it finally time to go? I'm so happy we were finally able to meet up! I've wanted to do this for weeks. Oh! I almost forgot! I have to tell you all about the gossip I heard yesterday! You remember Amy, right? Oh man, this is gonna be another one of Lana's long-winded stories, isn't it? Hold that thought, I'm gonna run to the restroom, okay? Alrighty then. Well I guess I can use this time to touch up my lipstick really quick. Let me get my compact out. Okay, let's see what we're dealing with here... Whenever your date runs to the restroom, it's always an easy excuse to do a makeup check. Nice. All my blush wore off! I look so pale and splotchy. No, no, no, this just won't do. I'll just pop on a little blush and all will be better. Did I seriously forget to put it in here? Oh no! Now what am I going to do? If you're ever in a bind and need to add a little color to your cheeks, try this handy little trick. Pucker up and put your freshly painted lips onto a paper napkin like this. Press the mark to your cheek like this. Now do the same exact thing to the other side. Don't worry, it's not going to look like this for long. With your finger, gently rub the lipstick into your skin. It's a little sticky so take a minute to blend it in. Don't forget the other cheek, Lana! There you go. Wow, that really does look like you're wearing real blush! See the difference? Well, that was a close call. I'd better put this stuff away before he comes back! There you are! Man, stay out of that bathroom. Yikes! After spending some time in there, Lana's long story suddenly doesn't seem so bad. Hey! Looking good ladies. You've mastered the art of the selfie angle, for sure. Hey, my lips look so dull next to your gorgeous pout. So not fair. See? Bella's pout looks plump and gorgeous! Mine just looks sad. Yep, there it is again. What can I say, I have nice lips. Genetics, I guess. Don't bother, Lana, your lips aren't just going to plump up because you pull on them. But maybe there's something I can do... What? Where are you going? Okay, there's gotta be something in here that can help juice these lips up. I wonder if this little vase could help. No one's watching, let's give it a try. Woah! Don't suck too hard! Nope, not Kylie Jenner yet. Ugh, there's gotta be something else I can do. Woah! I bet this giant vacuum could do the trick! Uh, isn't that suction a little too strong for your delicate lips, Lana? Wow, this thing sure is powerful! Yikes! Did that hurt? Your lips look really red. Well that was a mistake. Lana? What the heck did you do to your face? I don't want to talk about it. It hurts to much. Too bad it's not Halloween, you could totally be a clown looking like that! You know, you could've just asked to borrow my lip liner. It enhances the look of your lips and it's a whole lot less painful. Start by putting liner right where your skin meets your lips. Then take your favorite tinted lipgloss and apply it starting from the edges of your lips like so. Ooh! Don't forget the top! Now take a white makeup pencil and very lightly outline the middle edge of your top lip. Then add a little bit of while dinner to the middle edge of your bottom lip. Pretty, cool, huh? See? Look how great Lana's lips look now! See? This tricks a whole lot easier than sucking an empty jar. Let's try these selfies again, shall we? Oh yeah, that's much better. Did you find one or more of these beauty tips handy? Make sure to share the wealth with your friends by sharing the video with them! And don't forget to subscribe to 123Go!'s YouTube page for more helpful hacks like these.