Norway is leading the Over 82% of the country's electric vehicles last CNBC recently traveled to could learn from the it comes to EVs, but became apparent that be told about an American success there. We have three different and Tesla is another It's much more easy to to drive. I love the experience with Tesla because, uh, my before me, and I tried it because it was electric. parents, I was like, Other car I was driving, I times per day. Now, time with just 30 minutes lot of time with Tesla. Tesla is the most sold car couple of years, so it's They have developed a car and they also did a lot charging. Tesla sold over 23,000 year, significantly more Volkswagen and Skoda, and for about 20% of all country last year. 2023 in a row that Tesla was Norway. Although Tesla's only a sliver of the 1.8 company delivered last to Tesla goes beyond Norway has acted not only Tesla, but also as a transition as a whole. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has the small Nordic country, Norway's support of Here's Musk speaking at Norway in 2022. I love Norway and I just leaders and the people of standing support of sustainable energy. And I people of Norway to know a difference. To understand Norway's vice versa, we spoke to officials and business country's transition to and Tesla's role in it. Tesla got an early market. Norwegians were customers to receive in 2013, and it quickly best-selling car. Today, transferred over to When we started building there were less than Norway, and quite a few because my first electric I bought in 2015. That one had about 100 And at the same time, you kilometer range. So a lot for a long time because because they're nice Since 2013, sales of Tesla steadily increased. At the same time, Tesla charging infrastructure. Back in 2013, Tesla chose installation of the charging stations in Tesla developed this super is the most advanced world. Tesla's network of has since grown from just over 100 super charging Petter Haugneland is the general of the Norwegian Tesla has been key to transition. The charging network. It's easy access, it's you can drive anywhere and Europe. But of recently that they opened cars. So now it has been non-Tesla owners to use During our weeklong stay number of charging no luck getting our at any of the Tesla we did speak to Tesla favorable view of the I'm from Bergen, which is And it was incredible It was very nice. Very And when you go Tesla One of the charging right outside Oslo from the city's downtown The location featured a installed V4 Tesla first introduced to the Netherlands in expanded installation to Europe and more recently, And what do you think of Yeah that's amazing. Like, yeah. Yeah, that's, It goes so fast. We're and suddenly you have drive for two hours. phenomenal.It's faster on your car. So I know the Tesla. Two Tesla owners we spoke fact that they could take vehicle's free lifetime Tesla has periodically incentive for buyers. As long as this car lives, One drawback we often hear that the batteries do not cold, becoming less shorter range and taking It's a reality that some after a winter freeze country in January. Electric vehicles may save filling up, but this frustrations for drivers stations. But the EV drivers that we where the average is around 19degF, did not A lot of people don't are very great in the to say about that? Well, they are better them so you can come to a in the morning. Of when it's cold, it's not bigger batteries now, better charging not a problem. How is it in the winter? In the snow? In the snow?, yes you have it's, uh, it used to double compared to the Still, it had no problem. How is it in the winter? Really good. Because it's So you're able to get But since it's so heavy So I'm really happy. Norway's government has green vehicles since the perfect proving ground manufacturers. The whole parliament The there is some kind of push forward the green goal for 2025 that all be zero emission. And when you have set a to put some incentives to Some of these incentives registration tax, free parking for EVs and the bus lanes. The biggest measure we value-added tax. So in Norway, there's a every item you purchase. Reducing that to zero for impact. Despite such incentives, vehicles in Norway didn't years ago, when Tesla's models like the Nissan available. Being first The 200 billion NOK, or Norwegian government has lot of it has made its were they were the only that time. So I guess typically comes here for And we were the second or in the world for, for for Back in April of 2014, record for most monthly electric or gas with its The first Tesla started few Norwegians who were them. The Norwegian forward looking in a we're still spending That's $1,000 per inhabitant in terms of purchases, which is quite So that sort of long term certainly part of the I'm curious why you think success in Norway? I think it's, uh, because Actually, it's the most now in Norway. That's the works fine for families. It's a convenient car. It looks good, it's most important feature, I Yeah. Why did you decide to buy It was very, very cheap like this. There's no tax Tesla's Model 3 sedan Norwegian kroner, or While Norway's most Model Y crossover SUV Norwegian kroner, or Despite only having a million people, Norway is wealthiest nations in the wealth comes from industry, which is the nation's GDP in 2024. Well the gas export has years due to the war in important for Norway to with our neighboring But Norway also, we have emissions in 2030 That's the same goal as Union. Well, that's also knows. So they are What's the new type of So we have now a massive on the Norwegian Another key factor that's success in Norway is the invest in charging More than 22,000 public throughout the nation. I had problems driving winter with my old that was seven years old, range is better and over. So this is no, no, range anxiety as we had One of the interesting was that many of Norway's charging points on the Charging stations were retailers like Ikea and McDonald's. The subsidized the building as the market has companies are covering Recharge and Mer are two So there's a company this Esso station. We we split the costs 50/50 here, but then we also with them. For interested in bringing restaurant and having the their locations. So we installation charging our income from the to. Who would you say competition is? That would probably be Chargers were everywhere. We even visited a Cold center of Oslo that the EV charging garage. Another boost for EVs in electricity pulsing is cheap and renewable, vast network of are responsible for over generation. Gasoline is very expensive cars is maybe a third of kilometer if you charge close to 100% hydropower, available. So that's a Norway. Tesla has come a long way just 13 cars in the 21,000 cars in 2022, and country's entire new car But whether Tesla will be dominance in Norway has market becomes ever more I drive a Tesla right now, a new car that's coming getting a Skoda, which is car. Why did you decide to make It's a little more family I have some friends that happy with it. I got the then there were not that If you wanted a car with But now we have another weeks, and we found out family car. What kind of car do you I drive a the Peugeot 205 quite small car, but During our time in Norway, of EVs from other Toyota and Volkswagen. Chinese automakers like gaining ground in the talking about competition during Tesla's latest Q4 The Chinese car companies car companies in the have significant success depending on what kind of are established. Frankly, I think if there established, they will other car companies in They're extremely good. Tesla stock took a hit in reported profit and quarter that missed At the same time, Chinese Tesla as the EV maker to vehicles in the final Tesla did win out total of 1.8 million entire year, compared to BYD. Aside from faces pressure from the of the company's workers collective bargaining Right now, you've got just mechanics in Sweden who recognize their right to now you have other labor their counterparts in know what, maybe we won't Sweden that are scheduled That's the development Norway transport workers month they may stop to Sweden. Norway's sovereign wealth Tesla's largest said that it would company to respect labor The fund also backs BYD. But Musk has typically Here he is talking about Times Dealbook summit I disagree with the idea a reason that is expect, which is I just creates kind of a lords thing. And I think the create negativity in a of lords and peasants, In the midst of high EV begun to roll back some vehicles. The discount for parking, ferries, and discount on gradually being phased will be probably phased vehicle car is the new In 2023, Norway amended a electric vehicles from value-added tax, making 500,000 kronor, or about Any electric vehicles taxed. The law also added an EV's weight. Tesla's cars both fall under this country. Earlier this of its Model Y in Europe price cuts to its Model 3 China. Even if the incentives and as we go along, it must to choose an electric car like petrol and diesel. So this has to be the to choose and cheaper to It remains to be seen if to choose Tesla in the undeniably has played a EV transition. And now of the world will follow We actually want more from you guys and all Because what happens in important. It's okay to but we need the