Vsauce! Kevin here, with a game you can't possibly Really, it's too hard for you. Your brain can't take it. Look, I'll show you: That's it. Are you sweating yet? You should be. Alright, as you stare into these dots your No. Why would it? I mean... it's just two dots! I can draw out all the possible moves for Look, I'll show you. Okay, my award-winning handwriting aside, it was gonna be. And the thing is... as it scales, analyzing world doesn't just break your brain, computers Here's how it works. The game of Sprouts starts with any number The boundaries of the game board are limitless, We'll play with two dots. But ya can't just play with yourself, you Yes, yes. A worthy adversary, you need. Let's go over the three rules of Sprouts. First, a player draws a line from one dot Lines can be curved or they can be straight... When you draw a line, you get to place a new And in Sprouts, no dot can have more than Once a dot has 3 lines -- it's an unplayable, The winner of Sprouts is the last person to Or to put it another way, the player who can't Okay, now my friend and I will play a two-dot Go first, I will! Alright, Yoda. Dude. Okay Hang on! Alright fine. Just go. Alright, alright. Great job. You gotta make sure you draw a new dot on Yes, yes, yes. Invented this game, I did! Sprouts trained many Jedi minds, hundreds Hundreds of years? No, No, No. Sprouts was created in 1967 by Cambridge mathematicians My turn it is! Dots lead to lines. Lines lead to dots. Sprouts is the path to the light side of the... And I just won. Alive this dot still is! Yeah but you can't connect it to anything. Look. Dead, dead, dead, dead and you can't draw *angry noises* Explain why I lost you must! Alright, the first player can always lose because, even though it's complex -- your I mean, you could literally just memorize the right moves as player two, rendering player Player 2 can engineer the two-dot game so Conway and Paterson figured out when the game Check it out. They discovered that a game of Sprouts must number of starting dots. So that means a two-dot game is concluded = 5. So problem solved, right? No. Why? Because the game can play out in many different What's interesting is that player 1 actually 2 having only 6. It's just that if player 2 knows exactly one of their 6 winning outcomes. What's amazing to me about Sprouts is... As soon as we add a third dot to the game... Become more difficult to analyze than Tic-Tac-Toe Adding a third dot at the beginning means a winner since (3*3) - 1 = 8, but we have It isn't hard to figure out how many possibilities So here we have our number of dots at start [n(n + 1)] / 2. And number of moves to determine a winner So if we have 2 dots to start the game, the With 3 dots to start that jumps to 6. For 4, it's 10. For 5 it's 15. And so on. Now that we know this, what's the guaranteed There isn't one. Because since the game can develop in so many playing with 4 or 5 dots, players will have to force their opponent into a loss. You need to factor in which dots are still You need to force your opponent into bad moves There's just no formula for this. Adapt and overcome, you must! What we do know -- kind of -- is who can win. The first real glimpse into dominant Sproutology Probability at Heriot-Watt University. Conway bet Mollison 10 shillings -- before system and equivalent to a little under $10 analysis of a 6-dot Sprouts game within a Well, he did. And it only took 47 pages. I'm not looking forward to picking those up. Mollison's analysis led to the conclusion always be Games with 3, 4, and 5 dots could always be The second player can always win with 6 dots, of the human mind started to strain under There were just too many scenarios to compute. WAIT -- how can you have a game with 0 dots? Well, if there are zero dots, the first player player wins. One thing that's really weird about Sprouts would visually result in nothing but near-random unearthed something: bugs. They call this.. FTOZOM! The Fundamental Theorem of Zeroth Order Moribundity, must last at least 2n moves, and if it lasts of one of five insect patterns: louse, beetle, by any number of lice. Scorpions are arachnids, not insects, but And that's the FTOZOM for you. But this was all 50 years ago. How has Sproutology progressed since? Well, it lay dormant for decades until Carnegie 1990. Using some of the most advanced processors Guy Jacobson, and Daniel Sleator were able They found the same pattern: 6, 7 and 8 favored 9, 10 and 11 favored the first player. There appears to be an endless 3-loss-3-win In 2001, Focardi and Luccio published "A that showed a simpler proof of Sprouts to Now we're up to 11. So, we're making progress on the pencil But what about...1,272 dots? Or a billion dots? We're not even close. Like really... not close. Julien Lemoine and Simon Viennot created a Sprouts results more efficiently, and in 2011 consecutively. Their results were in line with Carnegie Mellon's time -- required to get us to proving results reach. It's been over half a century since Conway math department's common room and playing paper-based game. They noticed that the game was spreading throughout students hunched over tables and spotting They stumbled on something so big and so complex beyond a very limited point -- and it all And as always -- thanks for watching.