She sizzled in &quot;Blue Velvet,&quot; and now in her seventies, this superstar's Celebrity poly family to global sensation, In 1952, Swedish actor Ingrid Rossellini welcomed fraternal twin &quot;We grew up dressed the same, sleeping in the While Ingrid pursued a career in Isabella chose the spotlight, just like raised in a polygamous setting, with &quot;My father was married -- besides and other kids, and we were seven altogether.&quot; During her childhood, Isabella moved becoming fluent in three languages. On was doing well financially, but that wasn't &quot;Sometimes people think that with fame comes experimental filmmaker, he was always very but he was never a box-office success.&quot; Isabella was 12 when she was diagnosed with scoliosis, a malformation of the spine. and required two years for her to get back Ingrid, served as her caregiver. &quot;My mother, who had a full career, stopped working for two years to be Rossellini would have another spine surgery Rossellini experienced in her teens was sexual identity of the abuser hidden. Recalling that the &quot;I don't know what happened to him. children. I am a superstar in Italy, if I When Rossellini was in her late teens, her in New York to perfect her English. &quot;When I grew up, in the '50s, '60s, if you &quot;It took me so much to try to be Rossellini soon earned a three-year opportunity to work as an assistant and translator for who had a TV show but wasn't familiar with and got to meet stars like boxing legend &quot;It was the best job you could do. I learned with a comedian named Renzo Arbore, who was then doing little funny stories from America.&quot; While on staff at the TV channel, Rossellini met her first husband, filmmaker Martin she hadn't watched Scorsese's 1978 documentary Instead, he invited her to see it afterward. The Rossellini would later admit that about because of her background. &quot;When I married Martin Scorsese, I was much that was interesting about me. We used to visit Italy together. of the place and of Italian-American The couple split in 1982, due to issues down for the long-term with Helen Morris. Rossellini's entry into the world of modeling was purely accidental. A photoshoot photographer Bruce Weber found its way she has appeared in the magazine numerous times. Rossellini didn't wear her wedding &quot;Models weren't supposed to have an were the element for people to complete The Vogue cover got Rossellini in the door cosmetic giant Lancome. The gig made but in the mid-'90s, she was axed It would take another 23 years or so for &quot;I see you, little thing. (Kiss)&quot; Rossellini told The Guardian in 2020, &quot;I'm not there now to represent beauty; I'm there as joyfulness; life goes on and there are many Photographer Bruce Weber was instrumental as well as the meeting of her second husband, former model Jonathan Wiedemann. As Rossellini's &quot;I owe my existence to Bruce Weber and Calvin on a Calvin Klein shoot. My mother had just family of her own -- so my parents Born in July 1983, Elettra eventually got all sorts of top industry brands and other actor in her mom's 2011 documentary Cameron Mitchell-directed music video for Elettra got her Master's in Economics and Political Science, and is the &quot;Now my life is very Ten years after she had Elettra, Isabella father's name, Roberto Rossellini. In 1986, Rossellini starred in the David Lynch-directed &quot;Blue Velvet.&quot; The role was declined it. In the multiple award-nominated a nightclub songstress whose family's kidnapping subsequently thrust into the limelight, as graphic &quot;Look, I'm sorry, just let me leave.&quot; &quot;No way! I want to see you get undressed.&quot; According to renowned movie critic Roger Ebert, some of the movie's explicit moments came at the &quot;The movie is powerful, challenging and made for the actors who worked in it and anger at Rossellini responded to the &quot;It was very controversial. I remember but being told by several people that Roger had been 'used.' It was a surprise! Rossellini and David Lynch first met after the United States in &quot;White Nights.&quot; They worked bringing Rossellini's relationship But these two weren't destined to last there were no signs that anything was wrong in &quot;All my instincts had told me She was then caught by surprise when Lynch Rossellini sought professional help to &quot;I talked to other women who had the therapy. I had already had this experience For his part, Lynch was remorseful about his actions. Speaking to Vulture &quot;I might have wanted to shut the door and not I feel bad about cutting it off that way.&quot; In 2013, Rossellini purchased the farm of her dreams in Brookhaven, on the South Shore the place made her think of home, even though it &quot;I noticed this very beautiful, big red barn. It reminded me straight away Rossellini transformed the rundown property gym -- and packed it with farm animals. She &quot;A lot of people call it it cannot be called Isabella Having opened up her farm to the public, the mothers and children who visit, in order &quot;Look at this one, it's called 'The According to the Mama Farm website, a stay in the Rossellini unveiled the Mama Farm Foundation. sale of ponchos made by wool from Mama Rossellini's daughter Elettra Wiedemann As for her reaction to becoming a grandmother, Rossellini wrote in an Instagram &quot;Here [is] the photo of our first encounter I even fainted and I didn't give birth, I am In 2018 Rossellini, Elettra and her partner while walking down a Dolce &amp; Gabbana runway Wiedemann and her future husband, shared more good news in June 2021 when was born. It appears that the job of heart. In May 2024, she posted a picture of &quot;I love being a grandmother (a nonna).&quot; Rossellini's love for animals began at a young age. In a reminiscent Instagram often have a lamb brought in for Easter &quot;I think it was killed for I never realized that and just kissed &quot;I am known as the praying mantis.&quot; In the late 2000's, she starred as educational series &quot;Green Porno,&quot; which in 2020, Rossellini brought her talents online and Consequences.&quot; Just a year prior to that, she &quot;Finally got my Master's degree on The ceremony was most touching delivered the commencement speech!!!! I am Rossellini is most happy when she's surrounded of their unique personalities. The actor &quot;I have a little circus dog that I toured with the most obedient. The hardest ones are the other day they just broke into my house.&quot; It goes without saying that Rossellini was destined to be an entertainer, she spent a lot of time on set with her director Rossellini hasn't hung up her boots just yet. tale &quot;La Chimera,&quot; which premiered in the several award nominations -- including Ensemble Cast Performance at the Although it didn't quite do as well at the its opening weekend in the United States and for Rossellini. In April 2024, she received a di Donatello Awards. It was an achievement that intact. Having been a previous winner &quot;It's not over, the door is still open! If you or anyone you know has help is available. Visit the Rape, website or contact RAINN's National