how to make pauldrons this is a very fun build the most fun it's not terribly difficult to do, it's a little 18-gauge mild steel instead of the thinner gauge stainless steel as you can see it's a really cool piece of armor to add to any costume you're building had a lot of fun building this thing I so grab your hammers and let's get get your template by clicking the link under the video or go directly to armor check out my other templates while you're there here's all the pieces cut out make sure that you are rounding your pieces you don't want any sharp pieces at your skin so make sure to round them all very well with sandpaper or a file here I'm rounding the base plate that sits on your shoulder here I'm using a sea mer tool to bend the little prongs over to rivet to. As you can see they have a doesn't quite match here so you need to bend which I'm doing right here to kind of mimick that curve. It's a little bit tricky with the little prongs we've got bent but a little bit of work and it'll go just fine. The curve is not that dramatic just a little bit trickier than normal make sure to drill your holes first before you do all the stuff too here you can see it's fitting much better now now I'm rolling the edge I have another tutorial specifically for rolling an edge which goes into greater depth on this I'm showing you how to do it here as well I don't think I would've completed now that I look back on it I think it would look better if it was only done about half way there were a couple spots where the curve was very tight so it was hard to get that roll perfect here you can see it's done about half way. This looks a little better I think I would have left it there looking back but basically we're just rolling this thing back over itself and that makes just a nice safe rolled edge. You don't want any sharp edges touching your skin that's why do this.This is a bricklayer's hammer in a vise and I'm basically just tightening up these make it a little bit nicer and cleaner and beginning the roll sort of over itself Now I'm hammering it down on itself on top of an anvil here's the completed rolled edge This is a 1/4&quot; copper rod I'm making rivets out of. You can use anything you want but I like this stuff these decorative pieces I'll go into in a little bit you'll see them later on for riveting the haute to the baseplate you wanna do one hole at a time you don't wanna do more than one because you won't get the holes lined up so just drill one hole rivet it, drill another hole, rivet that one, and continue Here I've got some foam glued into the you wanna make sure to protect yourself This is a dishing stump. A regular log like you use in a fire and I've got a grinder here with flap wheel inside of it and just and just kind of made a dish form Now I'm using a heavier hammer to start to dish the part out...the shoulder it's not very pretty at first because it leaves some dents and stuff but as you work it, and as we planish later on you'll see it comes together very well. Im not completing the entire curve because I wanted to do some planishing which I'll explain in a minute but I am getting the curve started so you can see that's about where I want it and then we'll start planishing Note that this hammer is not exactly flat, and its kinda big the hammer I'm using to hammer down is flat. It's very important to make sure you have hammers like this. Now this process is called planishing and is basically just getting rid of the we've collected from hammering into the wood this process takes a lot of work and a lot When you start to see reflection in it you know you're doing it right. You'll also hammering it properly you can hear the and you'll know exactly what I mean there's bound to be small imperfections little dings and dents and stuff so basically what I did to correct that is I took a grinder with the flap wheel that I had mentioned earlier I just lightly, very lightly sanded on it like this now, this will show some little bumps and stuff or little dings, excuse me, so you have to repeat this process a few times here's a good example you can see see the little dings are still in it. Repeat it a few times and you'll end up with a very nice part now that I've finished the planishing and the surface work, I'm now using very to finish the curvature of this part now that now it's basically a compound curve in all around so that it'll fit to your shoulder. And this will take a you know, holding up to shoulder to make and figuring out exactly what you want this thing to be shaped like now i'm rolling these edges, only I'm not rolling all the way I'm just flaring the edge. I think this than a rolled edge in this spot, in this piece of armor Here's the skull I've done in repousse. This is .10 gauge brass. I have another that I did on just repousse work along at armor templates dot com but I do show you some of the repousse these are the wings. Basically I've the wing form, and now I'm taking some tools and just gently just kind of pushing it out...from the back side and it's already starting to sort of take a three-dimensional shape here Once you get this back side pushed out some, we're gonna turn it around and work on the front side again, just using various tools lightly tapping this into place and it will begin to take three-dimensional shape and again you can take this to any level of detail you desire but before you make sure to gently curve them because if you don't they'll crinkle and bend and stuff (and you don't wanna do that) So gently curve them before putting them on the part here I'm riveting on the skull very gently with some copper rod made into a little rivet this time much smaller copper rod of course. Now I'm sitting down and I'm putting this thing on my knee to mark put the holes you'll notice on the template that the great degree a variance that each build will have that the holes may exactly where I need them. So mark them to make sure you've got perfect articulation. Here's I've got some nails you can see just to hinge on to check the articulation note that the base plate is stopping the shoulder piece from coming down too far. That's where you want this to be just like this the little pieces that overlap coming down kind of a lame name for a piece of armor but I just curved them on a piece of exhaust pipe. Very easy here I'm making some basic washers because we don't wanna rivet directly to the leather we wanna put something in between there hold much better. Just using two strips of leather and just putting it together like this pretty simple, straightforward here I've got some straps that are connected to the baseplate just leave them about that long for now at the ends. Just leaving about, I dunno, 10-12 inches I've got some some nails I am using as the final rivets to attach the shoulder piece to the baseplate. And just riveting them on just like this. Make sure it's riveted a bit loose though. You don't want it to be too tight So you can see here I've got a little strap for your bicep with a strap basically a belt that goes around under and then this adjustable strap here and in the rear is not adjustable, it's just It doesn't move. And there you have it after a little bit of oil paint and wiping it off, we've got an aged look here I really just enjoyed this build immensely and I think you will too it's such a cool part. It's definitely the coolest piece of armor I've got I'm very proud of it and I hope you have just as much That skull...so awesome Make sure to find me on Facebook. Facebook slash armor templates keep up with me and find all the behind the scenes stuff I'm working on and check out all the other videos I've armoring. Please share subscribe like all my videos. Please make sure to share on Facebook and other social networks thanks for watching