BERTRAND RUSSELL: How do you do? INTERVIEWER: How do BERTRAND RUSSELL: INTERVIEWER: Thank you. BERTRAND RUSSELL: Now what INTERVIEWER: Well Lord your 80th birthday, I think what you think you you think you will never as a philosopher? BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, that I don't think and that indeed, I hope I don't wish to learn to I'm prepared to about the state of the but not about what I hope. About that, I hope I think we might call the 80 years of changing beliefs It's very difficult for to realize how the world is now from what The change has been I try as best I can, to get used to living in A world where ancient empires where we have to to Asiatic self-procession, The world is from what it was that it's an extraordinarily to live in such a world. I was born in 1872-- my parents died when and so I was brought INTERVIEWER: Can you about your grandfather? BERTRAND RUSSELL: something about my grandfather. He was born in the early years He was a member of parliament on the throne. In common with all the he thought English hostility And he visited Napoleon in Elba. It was he who bill in 1832, which towards democracy. He was prime minister during the revolutions of 1848. I remember him quite well-- but as you can see, that now seems rather removed. And the world where I was a world where all that have now disappeared-- were thought to going It didn't dawn on people English people English naval supremacy as Britannia ruled the waves-- it didn't occur INTERVIEWER: Even BERTRAND RUSSELL: Bismarck and was thought of as a But it was assumed that and Schiller would to a more civilized And moreover, we thought of Germany had, at We weren't at all In fact, numerable opinion than to France at that time. And Germany-- Bismarck himself to an elephant and a whale-- each formidable in but no danger to each other. And that was how we afraid of Bismark at all. It was thought that to be ordered to progress Gradually, every country was there was going to be a parties, and it was like England everywhere-- My grandmother used to said to the Russian you will have a And he said, God forbid Except for the first word, at the present day, might But that was the going to be orderly, The atmosphere, it was one of Puritan piety-- very great piety, We always had family and before family prayers, practice at the piano-- which I hated. Although there were eight the food was always of And even of what there was, if I wasn't allowed to wasn't good for children For instance, there would be the grownups had the apple tart, And there was extreme My grandmother, until would never sit-in an arm never. It's almost gone out-- that to do people, which in those INTERVIEWER: When did BERTRAND RUSSELL: Oh, I got And that, of course, was a I, for the first who, when I said anything he didn't think it absurd. I'd learned to tell them to I really thought. People had a horror which interested me. And they would say, every philosophy is summed up questions-- what is matter? Never mind. What is mind? No matter. And at about the sixtieth I ceased to be amused by it. When I got to Cambridge, it to find people who didn't So I was very, very happy I quickly got to know became my lifelong friends. Most of them, I'm sorry but those who are still INTERVIEWER: You started with and then moved to philosophy? BERTRAND RUSSELL: I did three years mathematics at Cambridge. I had only done mathematics INTERVIEWER: What caused BERTRAND RUSSELL: two very different things caused On the one hand, I the principles of mathematics. I observed that all the proofs that were taught fallacious-- they didn't really And I wanted to know whether to teach now. And I thought if there is any, But it's not in mathematics And so I tried to find The other thing that made was the hope that I for religious belief. INTERVIEWER: And BERTRAND RUSSELL: No, in I hope, I was fairly satisfied. But in the other For a time I found a in the platonic which has a sort and gave me a But then I came that that was nonsense. And I was left without except of my desires So it-- as far as proved washed out to me. But not on the side of INTERVIEWER: Wasn't that you entered into what you BERTRAND RUSSELL: Yes. I disagreed, firstly, with my and about philosophy. They cared only about virtue-- they thought virtue of importance in the world. Mathematics therefore, because it has no and philosophy was because they thought So on that point, I had a strong But as regards to that disagreement was, as far as was solved by my living who didn't take that view-- so that I got again into a I was quite at home. But that was brought to where I took a pacifist line-- I was against the first war. I was not against the second-- some people think that this is I never during the that I was against all war, I And I still hold that view-- I think that the first and I think England's was a mistake. I think if that would not have had you would not have You would of not had you would not had the The world would have been a Germany in the time of the There was a certain amount but less than there now is-- everywhere except in So it really wasn't very bad. For propaganda purposes, was presented as dreadful, it was really true. INTERVIEWER: Your opinions are not altogether friendly. Did you always feel that BERTRAND RUSSELL: Yes. And that caused another Into my pacifism I became estranged from what you And then I went to Russia abominated the thought they were dreadful people already, and sure to go on And so then I had to who endured my pacifism-- who all liked Russia, So I was left in a very However, I escaped by going to China where I I liked the Chinese very much. And there I found people that I could like. INTERVIEWER: Any BERTRAND RUSSELL: Oh, I I don't think I came to I continue to think, as that democracy is the best it will work. It didn't work very it wasn't working at all. And one could see that They hadn't the But I thought it would and I dare say it would have been a little more propitious. INTERVIEWER: On your return, changed, didn't it? BERTRAND RUSSELL: Yes. Going to the birth of I became very much And at first, especially in years, I didn't like the for a number of reasons. I didn't altogether like though in some respects better than the older ones. But some things about about most progressive schools, I thought they didn't pay It seems to me that in our you can't play unless you have a very of actual knowledge. And I don't think that much knowledge unless there is in school. I think that the real for acquiring knowledge and isn't sufficiently in a good many modern INTERVIEWER: Did you in that regard? BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, I tried running a because I wasn't satisfied I haven't the talents and I wasn't satisfied with Fortunately, it was a certain modern school became, I thought, and I was satisfied with that. I have, I suppose, not only about education, but as a result of seeing the that people do. I think that freedom is not I think there are a good should be restrained. Some of them things in restrained at present-- in the relations there ought to be less freedom And to some degree, this I think that some have more freedom than There are some freedoms in education. Now, in the old if a child uses a thought worse than if he and that seems to me absurd. I think that clearly, the In that sort of way, I don't I also think that be free to explore the that they're not when in an old fashioned way. I think there should there are a number of much about modern education. But both in education I think that freedom must have where you come to things harmful to other that prevent you yourself such as lack of knowledge. So there are those respects I should lay less stress on INTERVIEWER: Do you still of abstract philosophy? BERTRAND RUSSELL: a very difficult question. I have myself a passion and sharp outlines. For some reason that this makes people think that a cold fish. I don't know why, but it does I don't think that's So that's neither But I do like clarity And I believe that very because when you allow your prejudices, your bias, your you don't notice, and you do you're doing them-- self-deception is very easy. So that I do think clear But I don't think philosophy, is quite the thing the I think the needs of the INTERVIEWER: Well, just what BERTRAND RUSSELL: the needs depend on what But if I were now, at whether in England I should not take should think there were other If I had the necessary capacity, If my capacities didn't I should think that mass psychology, of politics, things much better worth working And it's that sort of too now if I were now young. INTERVIEWER: Lord you think the world needs BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, I think are needed if the world is to Revolution. The troubles we are essentially troubles to a new phase of human life-- namely the industrial phase. And I think three things are to live happily in one of these is The second is an approximate between different And the third is a nearly I'd like to say a little As to world government, should be, of course, leaving a very great to the individual And only those things controlled which are absolutely necessary The most important, and the is armed forces. All the important have to be in the hands of and of it alone. When that happens, war will And if war were impossible, If war is not impossible, every means an advance in mass murder, But if, once world it would be just the opposite-- that's the first point. Now, I come on to approximate economic equality. As things stand at the present, the United States of America, On the whole, the great live fairly comfortably from Asia, on the other hand, lives so does most of Africa. And the moment people to be aware of these facts, is a great development parts of the world. That envy is a cause of makes world peace precarious. There's only one way which is to produce of course, it's a long The third point about The food supply of the world-- it tends at present to diminish of soil. It tends, of course, through various But those two are on the whole, the food does not increase appreciably. Now, that means that unless especially if you have unless everybody there must be not more not many more than And therefore, you've got to get approximate proximity and approximately Otherwise, those where the population will want to go where it increases slowly. INTERVIEWER: That to the problem of Asia, play in the immediate future. BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, has risen to the some Asians have-- prepared any longer to be It hasn't noticed that If it had, it would But it seems to think that or some other color. And I think our propaganda ought only, Russians also are white. I believe that would be to use in Asia-- but I'll pass that point by. Asia, clearly, is going to claim And it's perfectly futile-- absolutely futile-- for the It will infallibly win-- infallibly. And we ought, therefore, to before we're driven complete equality to Asia. But if Asia is not to with a vast flood of Asia must live up to and must learn we have learned is how to maintain a roughly And if they can't learn that, learn-- and learn quickly-- much think-- if they can't learn have won their INTERVIEWER: Lord Russell, can you see the influence than any other one? BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, I the most important If you would dignify him I should hardly like to but I suppose he must And he certainly has had more INTERVIEWER: For those can you offer any to help us toward a BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, that-- you see, I think one of has been the habit of something or other. And I think all these and the rational man will not I think we ought always with some measure of doubt. I shouldn't wish to believe any philosophy, not even mine. No. I think we should with a measure of doubt. What I do think is this-- that if a philosophy it should be inspired Now, Marx is not inspired Marx pretended that he of the proletariat-- what he really wanted was the And it was because of because of that hate element, disaster. A philosophy which must be one inspired by by unkindly feeling. INTERVIEWER: Summing do you feel that there is BERTRAND RUSSELL: Well, I do. I feel it very strongly. But how far that is really and how far it's But I do most strongly There may be very dreadful I daresay there are. But I still believe-- I believe most firmly, pain and suffering, through these dreadful emerge into some world that will has existed in the past. I am firmly persuaded of that.