It's a cold rainy night in the walled city of unaware that an entire army of christian attack. In a single night, they conquer the All over the land, muslim cities were christians. But amidst all of this, Thanks to its strategic position the city was protected, and it remained To this day, the Alhambra Palace still of architecture ever made. But as you walk you start to notice something Winding its way through the palace is a and channels that carry water to and elegant fountains. The engineering and it gave the palace things like underfloor time. This incredible system life to the surrounding nature for hundreds We modeled the entire thing, to the lost mechanisms that once allowed the When the ruler of Granada commissioned the The hill was around 200 meters above Granada's would be a huge challenge. And so, they followed was considerably higher than the palace. redirecting it down a new channel known as it navigated its way through the difficult a very shallow slope, until it arrived just It was a huge amount of work, - but this was only the beginning. The designers of the palace had big ideas; bathing rooms with showers and underfloor by water. All of this required much higher And so, to get around this, the engineers started than the palace. Below this, the water from the and collect in a well 60 meters below the engineers installed a waterwheel, equipped This would raise the water up to the surface meters of water. Having all of this water stored and at the same time, gave the palace a From here, the water passed over where things start to get really interesting. The water would split off into a complex carrying just the right amount of water to the most impressive of which was located at the it featured 12 lions that each shot out a jet controlled sequence, the lions would activate out water by midday. The system would then But how was this possible with the fountain was an early version of Opera R2 is the next generation of web playback capabilities and a whole new way to deal experience, you can control your music and even the player icon of your music streaming YouTube video and stick it in the corner while of the past thanks to Tab Islands, which lets you groups them together. Opera also gives you a so you never lose track of what you're doing. and can be done without opening different you can get answers to questions without leaving slash to open the Aria command line and explore you can generate images and also upload of what's in the image. The look and feel of themes that let you change the background, UI with the link in the description and start In order for the Alhambra's the engineers came up with a very clever but the fountain had 12 holes placed at very specific A central pipe would fill the water level to rise and activate the lions one the water supply was so constant that it would After 12 hours, the bowl would be full bowl would reset the system naturally. As so did the water in the siphon. Once it would curve and start falling down a seal was created and no air could get in to siphon and the surface tension of the falling In a matter of seconds, the bowl would drain The water from the lions would exit via 4 throughout the palace, eventually reaching another where the kings and diplomats would come to relax a hot room with heated flooring and a steam underground and pass through a copper boiler the hot water would flow through pipes to various under floor heating in the hot room, the steam underneath the marble floor. From there, the steam room and exit through small vents, filling of star shaped windows that could be opened As the water continued on through the and pools it had another benefit, cooling. but as the warm air blew over the pools cooling the air surrounding the palace and The water continued all the way through the of the palace, where the soldiers lived. It the palace and so the water had to make a final were used to raise water, but for this section, This was a special device that animals or any external Water from the system would flow into leading down to another container below. a whirlpool would form in the top a low pressure area would form, sucking air the air and water would mix and this gassy The potential energy in both pipes was the the water pushing down in this pipe would pipe. But since the water in the thinner pipe could travel higher up the pipe. By passing a this device was able to raise water providing water to the rest of the palace. Today, still work, and it's all thanks to the incredible And now, time for the Primal Space giveaway. congrats! In the next video, we'll be giving away to do is sign up at the link below, like the video system impressed you the most. Thank you very much