&gt;&gt; BILL: It's my great pleasure to welcome Don just talking, we met in the mid-1970s which--you man, but it seems like it's been awhile. But a remarkable number of awards. It's hard to consider him the, you know, the most prominent to come today and have a kind of free-for-all questions. I think he may be available to a few of you may have brought such things, let me welcome Don Knuth. not sure if I can match Lady Gaga. But anyway, day of class was reserved for all questions cut class if they wanted to but if they had wanted to ask me, because they had paid their to do it. And they could ask questions on or their final exam. Now, two years ago--about connect--that had something to do with religion. you want to ask questions about anything I, but I can probably give better answers to understand that some people have been submitting the best ones to vote or anything, but anyway, are not frequently asked questions. Okay. the guy who asked the question? Does this who--let's go, &quot;What is the theorem or constructing and which one do you find most beautiful?&quot; in a one-dimensional criterion, I'm kind of--no, thing and beauty aspect. Okay, I mean, somehow, like the best or something. Okay, counterintuitive--is to more and more dimensions, our intuition George Dantzig once said that our intuition use that kind of language myself but anyway, high dimensional spaces and some of these of freedom and somehow, we can still map them those are pretty probably--the most beautiful It's always the one--it's the one that I--that there are a lot of contenders. And then there's which is hard to draw. So let's see, right that I find very beautiful because during a data structure called ZDD which isn't the know to represent families of sets. And families of all kinds and it's--and I played with it--you just spend one page of volume four talking a hundred pages of introduction to it and I think it's a very beautiful construction soon, people will find more reason for it. this and people in the audience? Okay, so &gt;&gt; Rumor has it there's an amazing pipe organ you ever have anyone else, any other organist song played on it? in &quot;Art of Computer Programming&quot; volume three, the question? It's about pipe organs. If you use of,&quot; it'll take you to a page that shows--that And so after we had sold a few copies of volumes dream and get a really nice instrument in has a great organ in his house down in Southern and I took some lessons when I was 12 years then I was called when I was down in Pasadena the organist at the church I was going to Saturday and said, &quot;Don, did you really take you were a teenager? Can you fill in?&quot; And literature that's been written for pipe organs had got an organ in their house. So that became that in the middle '70s. And I investigated--I Denmark to build one for me because they had out to be impractical because I couldn't--they so finally I found a really good builder at--near the one that's in my house is a joy. So we Guild of Organists come for recitals and play organist, just see me afterwards and you can on it but that--there aren't so many organ &gt;&gt; Thanks. I'll come see you afterward. kind of problems do you feel Google or the isn't?&quot; Okay. So Google--okay, well, I'll you one. In Google maps, a click back--a facility click on something on Google Map and then That used to work last year until November in Google Maps, you'll find a lot of other Another one from--I'll take another off the computer science have already been reaped any of them that surprisingly no one is trying true that a lot of things have been dissected science it seems that people are always going the headway of how many--how many times another and both in computer science and even in mathematics of more years. Problems that are very--just I... I was finishing the eight volume of my got to give a plug this book because actually I can explain. But the--but it was decided the papers that have been written should be removed and adding extra information about and divided into eight topics. The first topic, was general--computer science in general for typography and so on. Well, the eighth book--the games, and I saved that up for dessert. It you know, that if I kept that for last, it papers. And then, so here I have this--finally--though been writing. From now on, I write anymore but I don't--but--and I added 17--there are never before public. And two of those chapters, you might say are low hanging fruit, things one case, it was about knight's tours. I call the problem of how many ways are there to and find a nice tour on this board. And it problem, a really challenging problem. It it. I can get the--I can tell you the exact asymptotic numbers and I classify them into like low hanging fruit because you don't need knight's tours for 200 year. Still, there called Celtic knight's tours which are knight's they don't have three lines that come almost make beautiful Celtic knots from the patterns was out there hadn't been--hadn't been asked, following problem: take any integer, write sequence of zeros and ones. You can always--you you can always cut it into substrings so that binary number. The sum of those binary numbers it is in very, in a sense, low hanging I would thinking about it just before trying to go the information--what is it called, the learning you how to get a good night's sleep. So anyway, fruit and just keep asking questions. It's been totally explored yet. Yeah? or--sorry... &gt;&gt; ...about that [INDISTINCT] in Google Maps? on your mouse cursor now. &gt;&gt; You can turn on a Labs feature. &gt;&gt; Yeah, if you do the settings. it--because it used to be that through my finder but they discontinued the [INDISTINCT] map. you're using but if you just want GPS coordinates, &gt;&gt; KNUTH: You know, I can do it easily with to be able to do it easy. And I searched and so. &gt;&gt; KNUTH: You can get it with that? &gt;&gt; KNUTH: A mouse cursor? &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Oh, plug in. &gt;&gt; KNUTH: A Lab plug-in. Okay. All right. With the increasing processing power and adoption it's a common perception that being close impact does this have on computer science I don't like--I don't agree that it doesn't to as many people but that's just relative. mean, we can still use more power. We can where you want to push the envelope and do there's no point in my--in my spending much going too--you know, to make--to get the answer there's no point in--you know, so I write problems but [INDISTINCT] when I--when I was I had to find the inverse of a 700 by 700 to think about it and I had to know a bit a whole generation growing up with this philosophy need to know anything about the metal underneath, be really bad. And so then, of course, there'll want to make improvements. Okay, next question. off although some scripting languages have if anything, do you think has hindered its course, I can try to answer but literate programming about it and so I--so you have to discount we've got tens of thousands of people who less than 1% probably. And--but I've got at complicated that I totally believed that I program finished at all if I didn't have literate it done. This is the--this is the meta-simulator this risk machine that you can configure in say--you can say for each instruction what you wanted to have, all kind of caches that and did advanced prediction methods. And you be like if you had a processor with many more But anyway, I wrote this simulator and it as far as programming, I think. And with literate year but without literate programming, I think me, literate programming isn't only nice; I write average of maybe one program a day. of them are pretty short. But with this literate and makes me happy. Now, so on the other hand, it. It's because the way that--you know, I a lot of the best code that I see out there are pretty good. They're nowhere near as good good enough that they're adequate. And so--and so people can--you know, people know this say drop that and go to literate programming, to Esperanto instead of English,&quot; or some Esperanto, you know, prove that it's a much enough and I'm not going to change from English. to change the style of programming that they Bentley might have hit the nail on the head the best are people who also like--seem to bloggers and teachers. Because when you're in front of a class, you're writing for a to understand that you're--you're trying to there's a certain percentage of the world of the world that's good at programming, and two in order really level your programming. Still if I--you know, I think that if Google have a test here and we're going to do some that, you know, that it might in fact make I'm not going to change and I think a lot large programs that probably more people understand the other programs on their side. So, that's book on fun and games, the last chapter of--okay, my first publication was in MAD Magazine and, college, I--this article came out and so now, fun and games. The last chapter is equally--is talk that I gave last summer where I basically about the future of tech and I said, &quot;Well, project was a mistake and so I'm starting I'm--and I've got this new product that's type setting but it's also--you know, including things like search engines and social networking And, you know, and it's all written in scheme. because everybody knows, you know, documentation paragraph for me to write. But I thought I ends to have one. You know, I started out to match it as my final publication. Okay. &gt;&gt; Sir, are you using call/cc on that program? &gt;&gt; JEFF: Call/cc on your scheme programs? &gt;&gt; JEFF: All right. Here's my question. It's morning I used social search to find the name score matching. And so sometimes I know that but I don't know what the name of it is and is a good example of a search technique that &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Yeah. The handbook of--the online calculate your way into the literature if &gt;&gt; JEFF: Right. six terms of some sequence, you'll find if in that. &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Yeah. So--but that doesn't solve all problems. So, a mathematical concept that you've stumbled &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Yeah. name is so you don't have to go reinvent everything? I'm 73 years old now and I developed a bunch &gt;&gt; Social search then. know who to ask, you know, but if it's--it got any good method myself. But I--no, but that I ask Ira Gessel or others I ask, Richard et cetera. And, you know, fortunately, I can answers to most of these questions and we my solution, but it's not--it's not an algorithmic &gt;&gt; JEFF: Yeah. You don't--you don't scale &gt;&gt; KNUTH: I don't what? &gt;&gt; KNUTH: I don't--well... &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Well, in fact, that would be--that Let's face it. If there were 10 people like read each other's books. What is your opinion on this, P=NP or P!=NP? Oh, boy. Okay. So, I got one last week, I to prove that P=NP and I'm pretty sure that sure that the way he's generating the data time, you'll be able to find the maximum clicks, like--you know, it would look like P=NP in NP complete problem. On the other hand, you problems in a maximum polynomial number steps might be really interesting on practical problems. code when I--when I get to the point when to be writing up techniques for maximum clicks. lifetime share of checking proofs that P=NP threshold. And so I'll never do it again. that a lot of people looked at about six months--six it didn't pan out, but still the ideas couldn't proofs about squaring the circle, too, in I've found that I had already given this opinion to happen in this question is that somebody P=NP. And the proof is going to be something are only finitely many reasons why it couldn't. no algorithm, it just proves by--that there an algorithm that we'll never know is just--it's question to ask it would--even me. Now, we deep theorems in the graph theory that say test for these graphs, you can do it polynomial know that there's only a finite number of cases are. We just know that that's not infinite. describes some of the paradoxes coming out like it's going to be that the number of possible none of those is polynomial time might just &gt;&gt; Hi. I don't know if this touches more on is more of an emergent behavior of math or well-described by math? and math--emergent from math. I find my own Science are the two unnatural sciences, the the rules so it doesn't matter the way the and decide, you know, we can design our computational mathematical problem. While physicists and a different thing. They want to know what's are computer science and mathematics really different coins? And I feel strongly that Bill Thurston and he--and he disagreed with strongly when I--when I'm wearing my mathematician's scientist's cap. You know, I'm in one mode to me, the biggest difference is mathematicians you have one or two axioms that are sort of science are--I'm more dealing with very heterogeneous three, and the--and we have different things an assignment statement where we can just Mathematicians, that's a weird concept to different mentalities, different approaches computer scientist, I got stuck here.&quot; Not a mathematical and then I, you know, then moves me to another thing. And then mathematically programming hat again and try to do something that helps me understand what the mathematic can't convince Bill Thurston. Now, it's--the can conclude this by saying we got our--it's in the world that mathematicians don't do heterogeneous. Nothing uniform is going to going to--couldn't be comfortable with that like a butter knife, you know. But on the a uniform thing and a computer scientist might one, case two, case three, a way to attack the underlying unity. So, to me, that's the &gt;&gt; Thanks. with music affected your computer science thing about patterns and--so--but it's just correlation with the kind of thinking that At Stanford, we had--one time our--the lady she had come from the--from the law school coming from the law school to computer science in music, musicians. It was all completely other school. Anyway, I think there's probably we used to ask our incoming grad students And we had cases were, like the [INDISTINCT]. oral exam, he proceeded by a cello recital. parties and we would--we would do chamber the '70s than in '80s, because one year, I &quot;What's your instrument?&quot; And it turned out one said that he did an Abba imitation. And I said, &quot;well, you know, what I--what's your half of them were really into bicycle riding. the population that I don't understand why do believe that these things go together but I live long enough, I'd like top compose music And so, I maybe I could influence music that that I write? I don't know if I can point was: &quot;You are famously known for your interest 30 years after the release of TeX, what are as it exists on the web and other digital the way, you know, I got the--I got a Nexus to--you know, I love the typography that I'm to understand fonts. I guess--I mean, the at predicting. In fact, that's probably one something is is the only reason that I started since--and &quot;Art of Computer Programming&quot; and font designers would become heroes and that &gt;&gt; So I have a question very similar to the, kids are growing up with using computers like small kids. And like--but the computers became you think will be the long term impact? Will how it all works or we'll going to have like understand? wish I--and I wish I knew. I just give you pretty--are pretty fascinated by some applications and they put together objects that--and the names of the systems that they do. So they're playing games, although games are--you know, dice when I--and moving horses along a track and now the equivalent is doing things on told me three years ago his son is going to there to talk to the kids in his son's school, written a computer program or even though strange situation that we're--that we're in. days, people were learning Logo and Karel more systems like that which are--which are called ChucK from Stanford and then MIT has and there are--there are more. But I don't my career, the number of people--of every over my career that two out of every hundred You know, they're geeks like me. They have--we our head and that happens when you're young as something that I do because I just happen to compute, you know. &quot;Programming today is decades ago. How has the industry failed in future?&quot; Okay. I wish I could answer about books and I don't know. &quot;How many people have think some of you know that I reward people I started that--it used to be $1.00 back in edition, it went up to $2.00. At some point, appropriate number. I had to--and over the a lot and it was--it followed up our checking got my own account because others were not funds transfer is incredibly insecure. Banks believe any electronic message that they get. that if somebody looks at a check that you numbers at the bottom, if a clerk knows those and withdraw money from your account. And because of these numbers were--I mean, I have Atlanta, Georgia, and at the bottom, it has Alto. And, you know, people would--look like cash that at the supermarket. And--but others and doing withdrawals and ordering all kind somewhere in Eastern Europe. Having--so anyway, So, about four years ago, I started my own called, &quot;The Bank of Sans Seriffe&quot; and instead you don't cash them because it doesn't say of.&quot; And it's a virtual bank so you can look who's got an account at the Bank of Sans Seriffe of those checks last month and I'll write know, things that came in. Last week, I got in volume one from 1960--it hadn't been noticed carefully. It's true. So, it's very valuable more and more correct. &quot;What is the--do I enthused about computer science?&quot; I guess I was best at understanding children when when I was--when my kids were in first grade, and then the next year I could design curriculum out of my--but I think part of it is they and share their creations with their friends. way; have some kind of thing where kids can &quot;Did Steve Jobs tell you he'd read all your Now, there's a funny story about the--that is on the Russian version of the Wikipedia out the source. And the fact is that I did--I thing is that he said that I said, &quot;Oh, that's met who has,&quot; or something like--has read the story. You got a question? Natural Language Programming? Or sorry, Natural &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Excuse me? &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Natural Language processing. Well, you know, I know a little bit about the way &gt;&gt; So, from what little you know, do you see programming or programming in general? different--it's certainly a huge impact on that are--that are used in order to deal with looked for a way of getting automatic translate but I only had to learn a dialect of English And this seems to be happening now. But I it. &gt;&gt; KNUTH: A friend of mine gave me a wonderful and translated it by machine into French. back into French until they had a stable thing, thing back again. And then they printed the is it? So the rabbit is saying, &quot;Oh, precious,&quot; &gt;&gt; Could I... &gt;&gt; I'm going to interject here. I'm going &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Oh, okay. I was studying computer science, there was And I noticed over the ensuing 30 or 40 years and my impression is that students are less Stanford for a number of years about whether science and so forth. And I think there was training and so for the before they went into is computer science changed as the role of And, you know, I'd interested in your view. In fact, all of these questions have been of computer science--a good computer science now. But there's just as many examples of computer science as well. I mean, I'll just you know, computer graphics, all the rendering and, you know, the new camera techniques are mathematics in artificial intelligence, all with robotics are requiring--are requiring I don't think however that I need a terrific But still, I understand the way Facebook is putting everybody's Facebook page in one giant knowledge in order to understand caching and So, mathematical paradigms are still there. proof for at least half of computer science other things that are--when we talk about where you don't need so much to many things. say that reading your books--your books the is challenging if you don't have the right &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Yeah. &gt;&gt; KNUTH: Yeah--no, it's not easy to read to make them as simple as possible but I haven't &gt;&gt; So, with that, I want to thank Don again thank you for providing questions. Thanks