We need to talk about tipping. From dine-in restaurants to even the vet's office, the pressure to tip What is the service that this tip is for? Specifically tipping in America. 30% of Americans think that tipping I don't tip. What do you mean, you don't tip? He don't believe in it. Shut up. Are you okay? Yeah. There's no escaping Is 15% enough? I mean, I should have more because I'm not an asshole, right? I mean, I came and I picked it up. Has it always been like this? Breathe. It's not just you. That's a good tip. That's 25%. What do you mean? What do you mean? The real reason tipping has gotten actually subsidizing the payroll for large Millions of workers in America are paid minimum wage of $2.13 an hour. That means they have to rely on The $2.13 an hour And to add to that frustration, tipping laws If you took a road trip across the country your money would have a radically you're interacting with, depending on what type of worker they are So even if you're trying you're trying to show appreciation But if everyone is mad, Because there is one powerful and has been working behind the scenes for all of us. In this video, We'll talk to the people challenging the tipping norms and fighting And we'll talk about who exactly This is The Class Room and today we're talking about tipping. North America is the only region in the world And why is North America so behind? Basically, it can be all tied back to keep workers and customers frustrated They're called the National Restaurant They play a big role in all of this But first, we have to go back farther and look at how the tipping practice arrived It's the 1850s, and rich Americans are taking notice of a unique custom here give their servants small amounts of money They called it tipping. The rich Americans were like, "Whoa, Let's try this back home." But back in America, The everyday barmaid was like, "Yeah, no And the European immigrants were like, We just left this aristocrat nonsense The whole concept was seen as But in 1860, something big happened. Emancipation. Now there was this huge population of newly freed black White business owners knew and pay Black Americans They remembered that tipping system from Europe, Only this time they were going to do it They thought, you know what? If instead of paying these people a wage, a small tip for their service, and then Why should it be your burden of In the restaurant and railroad industry, this became the standard and the mutated American version Tips had replaced wages. But over in Chicago, for porters in the Pullman car So after years of fighting and organizing they successfully created a union It was an incredible win for these men. But not everybody was happy about this. Restaurants were taking notice of these workers fighting for a fair wage, So to ensure cheap labor, and formed the National Restaurant The NRA's lobbying efforts Pay workers Cut to 1938. Hello Great Depression and economic turmoil. The government steps in with the New Deal and creates the first federal minimum Now, all workers in a wage at the minimum, They were left out of the bill. Why? Because of NRA lobbying. 30 years later, pressure from the Black community to finally address But instead of giving them that guaranteed these workers This meant workers could legally be paid theoretically, the tips they got from And if their tips didn't to the minimum wage, that missing difference. Makes sense. Depending on what shift you end up with can end up pretty easily getting screwed Technically, but it can be a lot to expect and hope for if you're not already The sub minimum wage stayed 50% below the federal minimum wage for decades when tipped restaurant workers That rate hasn't changed since 1991. Currently, right now, in 2023, legally pay tipped restaurant workers Others pages cents more than that. When you are paying sub-minimum wage, your workers are living in poverty. That's just the bottom line. I was living in poverty. Your rent is 1500 dollars, Put up with all kind of sexual harassment, from your boss, from your customers You know, what it means when somebody pays to say is like, But it's against the law." The sub minimum It also applies to people who are incarcerated. can make as little as $4.25 an hour These people are doing the same work but they're being paid less purely Only seven states mandate regardless of tips, must be paid Why so few states, you might ask? The NRA. From my cold dead hands. The other NRA. Today, the National Restaurant Association and they spend millions on political lobbying that makes the lives The NRA's lobby is so massive, just how deep they're in with Congress. Here's one example. Remember how I mentioned the sub That's because of Herman Cain. Is this a great country or what? Today I am announcing that I am running for Before he ran for President, he got his start working then managed hundreds of Burger Kings pizza chain. Enjoy your Godfather's Pizza. His junk food career path led him to become head In the nineties, he struck a deal they could raise the overall minimum sub-minimum wage And that's exactly where it remains today. Frozen. You know, never mind the fact that you can't even get a coffee Moving on. This same kind of deal the minimum wage to $17 an hour This is what the NRA fights for. And where does their large lobbying budget Some of it comes from the membership dues paid by the chains But a lot of it comes directly from the A New York Times investigation showed has come from charging millions of waiters That means workers have been unknowingly that acts directly against their interests as low as possible. Okay, but what The NRA plays a very clever trick. They pit the livelihoods against each other as if They like to claim that mom and pop if they pay their employees It's a fear tactic that works because who They're leveraging the vulnerabilities and keep wages low. The reality is consumer spending is higher Two one Fair wage studies without a sub minimum wage to Maryland and New York, which are states The study found that California California growth rate in the restaurant industry And what's crazy is the NRA knows small businesses can survive They know this. During a shareholders meeting in 2021, the California law raising the minimum They had six consecutive years of positive sales, but positive guest traffic putting money in the pockets So we actually have seen the benefit This means that after years and insisting doing so would kill were actually like, "Nevermind, we're good. Actually, we'll be fine. Another talking point with the tip credit workers and that employers who allow Over a third of tipped workers and wages did not bring them up The US is the only country This is a uniquely American problem. There is good news in this story. We are in an extremely historic Let's go back to Chicago, the same city where the Pullman porters The Chicago City Council that would phase out That means tipped workers in Chicago $15.80 an hour with tips paid on top. This is going to be so historical in Chicago. It's going to be national news The One Fair Wage ordinance to local alderman to Mayor Brandon Restaurant Association securing a compromise to phase the wage And the NRA is furious at the IRA. I mean, if I was the NRA, Chicago is the largest American city to This could have a huge impact In over a dozen states, there are bills moving right now Over a million workers have left the restaurant industry and 80% back is a full, livable wage I love what I do. That's the passion to see somebody happy. When you fixing something that they like, Restaurant owners, most of them do want to make sure If low wages is a higher turnover is a low turnover rate because it shows There is a way to get this done where the the only ones that feed their families And so now workers have a choice. There's no going back to sub-minimum wages. Now it's just passing it We will come back to work because it's livable now. So should you stop tipping? No. Tips are a great way providing you but they shouldn't be used That means I want a $15 Tips on top. We started this video complaining about and we learned that the reason it's like tipping started and the fact that we use The only way to fix The responsibility of a wage We have to eliminate the sub-minimum wage Before you go, please support our work by liking this video Thanks for watching The Class Room. We're always looking to tell more stories unpacking economic systems So what other issues Let us know in the comments. And again,