Marco Pierre White is one of the with a legacy that includes the record three Michelin stars at the time. And is overshadowed by the global success And..sure, a student surpassing his teacher particular story stand out is the decades-long been anything but smooth. In fact they had a escalated to the point of Marco stating that Back in the day, cooking was often viewed as a long hours, physically demanding work, and usually gruelling place where you had to deal with stress Plus, the culinary world didn't have the same enjoys now. It was more about getting the job done while today's chefs might be seen as cry from that kind of status in the past..... history between these two titans of the learn about your own history, myheritage a platform that uses historical I've managed to track my family tree. I basically parents and grandparents and boom, I discovered my of the memer family, in particular I found out 7 kids. Not only that. If it wasn't thanks to all that he was a shoe maker in London in the 1930's. myheritage, you could even find missing offspring, but it could only be a matter of time. Not back to life by repairing, like i did for my which did freak my grandma out a little bit, but trusted by more than 90 million users and it uses and advanced matching algorithms across all of its the click of a button can unlock entire branches to sign up for a 14 day free trial video and enjoy all of the amazing Right that's me payed, back to the video Enter Marco Pierre White. A charismatic, intimidating and frankly handsome bloke His TV presence broke the negative stereotypes of the modern "celebrity chef" that is all too wholesome Mr. Rogers type figure. He still had overall personality was still charming enough to However, it was his apprentice Gordon Ramsay who get in the media world. Gordon transcended the celebrity with fans from around the world, many stars or the luxurious world of high-end being a diamond in the rough, was built through You see, Marco started his career in cooking behind the profession. He first trained at before moving to London in 1981 when he cuisine under Albert and Michel Roux, with Six years later, still at the ripe age of "Harveys" in London to great success. Michelin star soon after the restaurant's By 1995, Marco Pierre White became the first stars, all while he was just 33 years old. Marco did something that no chef had the chef in history to give back all three of his fuck you to the insitution that dishes out In other words, his own understanding and worth more to him than the most prestigious the fame of being a 3-Michelin-star chef and letting the food do the talking.... however, is that Marco giving away the stars this stunt shook people's faith in the is still going strong some 25 years later. on Michelin stars have gotten even worse.... Pierre White's simplistic view of the culinary an aspiring chef, this is what he had to say..... Ramsay had other plans that went Gordon began his apprenticeship in the Though, as a commenter on YouTube points out.... "Even at 19 Gordon looked Which is not an inaccurate assumption since at a day, every day. Overworking to this extent but diamonds are made under pressure. To make the kitchen either. There are several reports of safe from his wrath as he once famously kicked So it's safe to assume that his staff members, well. At one point, Marco's barrage of insults the very Gordon Ramsay that now Gordon was left a sniffling mess due to Marco's do to me. Hit me. I don't care. Sack me. I don't about the incident in an interview years later, But on the flip side, Marco did genuinely "he would beat the s**t out of me, in pushed and shoved, that's how you learn". in me. He was such a mentor, he knew how how bad my little brother's addiction was. person yet and Marco was like a big brother." a similar place of relatability. craft also inspired Gordon to do better -- famous with breakthrough roles on Ramsay's like "Hell's Kitchen" and "Master Chef". To stars which is an absurd number considering So the question is, how did this Marco and Gordon turn so bitter?..... is that it wasn't due to any single incident that years of resentment and mistreatment that led to for nearly 15 years. And since there was no big were left wondering what had happened.... the telegraph he shared some light on the the tattered relationship, the first of which was "You can't be a chef and appear on television I earned my stars I was always behind my stove." gives very little value to the michelin institutional rating system has lost its prestige on the media side of things while of the process went against his fundamental A student doesn't have to tread the exact same exceptional at something slightly different, case. So resenting Gordon for not doing exactly the same can't be said about the next reason showed up to his second wedding with a camera crew Gordon didn't even bother telling them after footage was aired on TV, without their permission. switched on the television to watch one of his screen. Now, that is disgusting behaviour, isn't a so-called friend? I don't think so." Gordon used one of his former boss's and then turned it against him.... I said that just as not all good not all good chefs make good restaurateurs, then saying exactly the same thing but implying that However, what this interview also misses out formed between the two chefs, an incident that To give some context, the year was 1998, where the restaurant industry. So restaurants had to by confirming reservations over the phone called the reservation book. This process at one point his monthly phone bill was over book was the lifeblood of high-end restaurants, However, one day, an unidentified man pulled up snatched the book and bolted immediately. restaurant which now had to contend with losing and no one knew who the perpetrator was. clues on who it could be, Gordon did something mentor Marco Pierre White and accused him success of Gordon's restaurant. It was a But the worst part of this whole story is himself who hatched the plan for this heist. And the crime almost a decade later in 2007. Because I knew that would fuck him and that the book in a safe at home." to steal it, he further explained. fuc*ing someone over without his knowing that owners] cutting Marco off and wanting to get eat that fucking revenge when it's cold, The silver lining in this whole story is that Marco and Gordon finally made up and one of Gordon's restaurants for a burger. relationship has become admiration of excellence their craft, it's super interesting to see and skills, baked under similar pressures, can be Thank you so much for watching this Don't forget to check the description below And while youre there you might as well