The SR-71 Blackbird. The world's fastest stealth spy plane. It flew faster than a rifle bullet. Three times the speed of sound. It looks like it's. Part. Spaceship part airplane. And when you see it in the air, it's a piece of artwork. Even now, 50 years later. It's still the fastest and highest man has ever flown without rocket propulsion. The Blackbird is the iconic aircraft of high speed supersonic. Cruise. It was a multimillion dollar gamble that stretched 60s aviation technology to the limits. Incredibly forward thinking design on this. No high-powered. You know computers. There's rooms of people with slide rules and calculators. The thing that's special about the Blackbird was it was all miracles. The Blackbird pilots risked their lives to fly at the edge of the possible. It was just breathtaking when we realized what we were going to be doing. These basically became Sentinels, if you will, for the free world. It's his legacy, helping maintain peace when the world was on the brink of nuclear war. January 1966. Two ace test pilots prepare for a critical experimental flight. The plane they're about to fly is an ultra fast, covert military jet. And it's just been modified to maximise performance. In the cockpit is a pilot with 4000 flying hours under his belt, Bill Weaver. You took off about. 1111 something in the morning. We headed out on the program route. Everything was OK routine. In the back seat is reconnaissance expert Jim Zwayer. Flying at Mach 3.2, Weaver banks into a turn and without warning, one of his engine storms. It's very startling event. You could never prepare yourself for them. It was once described by one of the pilots is like being in a train wreck. At over 3000 miles an hour, the unbalanced plane is impossible to control. It pitches into a catastrophically steep climb. I had to stick full left corner of the cockpit and no response to the airplane at all. I knew that we were just going along for the ride when that happened. Inside 2 seconds, the plane starts to break up. Plane just basically disintegrated around us. The quest to build the world's fastest spy plane is on the edge of disaster. The story of the SR-71 Blackbird begins nine years earlier, at the height of the Cold War. In 1957, the Soviet Union develops intercontinental ballistic missiles. Yeah, course, Jeff, cost. That Russia already. Has intercontinental. Missiles. In mass production. The threat of a direct nuclear strike on U.S. cities makes gathering intelligence on the Soviets nuclear arsenal a top priority. Well, in any conflict, knowledge is. Power. And. We had to find out what the Soviet Union was doing, particularly with the missile program. We had a vital need to understand the capabilities of the Soviet military machine, but the Soviet Union was so vast that we could not gain this by using conventional aircraft. America needs specialist spy planes to fly reconnaissance missions deep into Soviet territory. Without being detected by radar and shot down by enemy jets. In late 1957, the CIA asks defense contractor Lockheed to come up with a new, undetectable spy in the sky. They would call it project Archangel, led by aviation genius Kelly Johnson. Kelly Johnson undoubtedly, is the Leonardo da Vinci of aviation Azan. The difference in him and other airplane designers is he had a vision of the future and the art of the possible. I had a great relationship with him. Yeah, I trusted him. He was almost a father figure to me. Johnson had worked for Lockheed since 1933. He put together a small maverick design team just outside Los Angeles, nicknamed the Skunk Works. Johnson's team had designed several military planes, including a supersonic jet fighter, the iconic Lockheed F-104 Starfighter. By the late 50s, Skunk Works was at the top of its game. The factor that makes the skunkworks different than other airplane design organizations is that they assume it can be done and then figure out how to do it. Back in 1955, Kelly Johnson had created America's first plane specifically designed for spying. The U2 was a single engine jet plane that could fly at altitudes of 20,000 metres, which according to U.S. intelligence was 1500 metres above the reach of Soviet radar. The idea behind the U2 was to fly so high that the very sophisticated Russian radars would not be able to detect it. In 1956, the U2 flew its first operational mission over Soviet territory. It returns safely with valuable intelligence. But the onboard device the plane carried to detect radar waves delivered some bad news. Soviet radar had tracked its every move. From our estimates, if the U2 were to fly above a certain altitude, it could not be detected. The problem is we were wrong. The Soviet radars were better than we thought they were. The only comfort was that the Soviets had no means of Downing the U2 at this altitude yet. The skunkworks team knew it was only a matter of time before Russian missile technology would catch up with disastrous consequences. They would have to deliver the new undetectable spy in the sky, and fast. 50 years after it was built, the SR-71 Blackbird still holds the record as the world's fastest manned plane using air breathing engines. The amazing thing about the Blackbird is that it instills emotion in anyone, not just airplane enthusiasts. It looks like it's. Part spaceship. Part airplane. And when you see it in the air, it's a piece of artwork. Even more extraordinary, it pioneered the idea of stealth technology with a design that was almost impossible for enemy radar to detect. But reaching this pinnacle of aviation technology wasn't easy. In the spring of 1958 skunkworks starts work on Project Archangel. The CIA's top secret plan to replace the vulnerable U2 spy plane. Kelly Johnson knows the new design will have to fly much higher than its predecessor to evade advancing Soviet radar systems. And also much faster to get out of trouble even if detected. As the missile threat evolved, speed now became very, very important and so if you have a fast moving target that may be also turning on maneuvering itself, it poses a very difficult challenge to an intercepting missile. But the CIA wants more. The order for a new Super spy plane had come from President Eisenhower himself. And he wants it to be invisible to radar. Achieving radar invisibility seemed near impossible. When radio waves from a radar transmitter strike a plane circular fuselage, they scatter in many directions, producing an obvious and distinctive radar signature. Reducing this signature will require nothing less than a radical rethink of aviation design. Yet in 1958, the idea of such stealth technology is in its infancy. And delivering it alongside high altitude and high speed will test skunkworks abilities to the limits. The Skunk Works team began looking at designs to meet these requirements of higher than 80,000 feet faster than 2000 mph, as well as being reduced in radar cross section. Publishing. Over 11 months, skunkworks engineers draft 10 designs, each prefaced with the letter A for Archangel. Some aim for a reduced radar signature, others to achieve speed or height. None manage all three. The front runner is the A10, capable of flying far higher than the U2 and at over three times the speed of sound Mach 3.2. But performance comes at a price. It shape will make it highly visible to radar. In March 1959, things become critical at a meeting with the CIA's head of black operations. Kelly Johnson argues that the A10 is the best design, despite its radar visibility. Designed to fly so high and so fast that even if detected, the Soviets will have no time to react. There was always a debate from the time of the U2 onwards about which was the best way to defend a high altitude reconnaissance aircraft. The CIA knows the president isn't about to settle for speed over stealth. It looks like the end of the road for Project Archangel. On the brink of losing the contract, skunkworks throw themselves at the radar visibility problem one last time. The EM Lab was trying to come up with the answer for that. Yeah, we spent a lot of time and money trying to develop stealth. The challenge to modify the planes profile without compromising performance. Two months later, one of the engineers makes a breakthrough. He takes the existing design and adds elements from other project Archangel designs that reduce radar signature. The result is a radical new, streamlined look. The new design has a flatter underbelly and sleeker lines. When radio waves encounter this plane, instead of bouncing back to enemy radar receivers, they should deflect harmlessly away along the flattened fuselage. The result? An incredible 90% reduction in the radar cross section. The radar cross section was something like 10 meters. You know, that's a a big eagle or it's a very small airplane. Now the new spy plane faces the ultimate test. Will it convince the CIA? I think this is. Sort of just. Kelly Johnson tells the agency the new plane will fly 8 kilometres higher than the U2 at three times the speed of sound. And all the while presenting the radar profile of a large bird. On February 11th, 1960, the CIA approves a $96 million contract for Skunk Works to build a dozen spy planes, now called the A-12. There is no time to waste. Because just three months into the project. Disaster strikes. On May 1st 1960, a U2 spy plane is shot down by a missile in Soviet airspace. The pilot, Francis Gary Powers, survives. He's put on trial in Moscow and paraded in front of the media together with his once top secret spy plane. It's an ominous sign of how fast Soviet technology is developing. Because Power's plane had been downed by a state-of-the-art radar guided surface to air missile, the Davina USA 2. We knew the U2 was was going to be very limited from that point on in terms of random overflying in anywhere in the country. So in in that sense the technology of the other countries were catching up to us. More than ever, the United States needs a spy plane that can't be shot down. Skunkworks feels the pressure. Building a plane with the futuristic qualities they'd promised the CIA is a monumental challenge. The Downing of a U2 spy plane by the Soviets in 1960 increases the pressure on Skunk Works to deliver its futuristic replacement. The new plane is supposed to cruise at a record-breaking Mach 3. But flying at three times the speed of sound throws up some fundamental problems. First, a conventional aluminum air frame is out of the question. Because it over 3000 kilometres an hour, the friction created by air flow alone will heat the airframe to over 300 degrees Celsius. Skunkworks knows aluminium loses its strength at 150 degrees. Which, for a MAC3 airplane, is barely breaking a sweat. There were places on the Blackbird that were 607 hundred degrees Fahrenheit. Your oven at home goes to 550 degrees Fahrenheit, and so you had to look for materials that could survive those kinds of temperatures. And that's not all. To reach high altitudes, an airframe has to be light. But to fly supersonic it must also be robust. There is only one material that meets all the demands. Titanium. But the leading producer of the rare metal is the Soviet Union. The trick of how to you acquire the titanium and the volume necessary while not giving away the fact that you were building something like the Blackbird was a security challenge. The titanium is bought through dummy companies so that the Soviets don't realize their customer is the CIA. But working with it is unchartered territory. So how do you machine it? How do you form it? How do you assemble it? A lot of that had to be created on the fly. Titanium is so hard that it damages standard machining equipment, forcing skunkworks to develop new manufacturing processes. 300 degree temperatures pose another problem. Metal expands when hot. To. Ensure the planes panels fit together tightly when flying supersonic. They need to fit loosely while on the ground. No big deal, except when it comes to the fuel tax. There's no internal bladder tanks. There's no internal metal tanks. The skin of the airplane is the tank. As a result, it was a leaky airplane. You will see this aircraft sitting on the ground with a puddle of fuel under it. Traditional aviation fuel is highly volatile and liable to explode at the high temperatures generated in flight. So skunkworks ask Shell to develop a brand new fuel an exotic mix of hydrocarbons and lubricants with exceptionally low volatility. Which they call JP 7. I see the crew chiefs throw cigarette butts and matches extinguishes. It won't catch on fire. This is just one of many ingenious solutions that Johnson's team devises to overcome a string of engineering challenges. Kelly wanted the simplest answer you could have. One of his rules was one miracle per program. The thing that's special about the Blackbird was it was all miracles. By the spring of 1962, people in Arizona begin to see strange craft streaking through the skies near the top secret area 51. It's the latest version of the skunkworks A12 spy plane. The sightings fuel talk of UFOs. And so you start seeing bar talk development. You start seeing people reporting what's going on. In some cases they're met by people in suits who take them away and tell them don't talk about what you saw. Two years later, skunkworks believe they've made an even better version of the plane A2 seater. And in 1964, the government decides to Scotch the rumours of UFO's and unveil it. The new spy plane destined for the US Air Force will be called reconnaissance strike RS71. But the speech by President Johnson doesn't go as planned. I would like to announce the successful development. Of a major new strategic manned aircraft system. This system employs the new SR71 aircraft. And provides a long range. When President Johnson announced that, he got the designation. Backwards. It should have been RS71 but he said SR71 and this sounds better and the name stuck. The Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Air Force decide it's easier to rename the aircraft than to correct the president's error. And of course, no one wished to contradict the President, so from that point on SR71 it was. Now the entire world knows the SR71 has put America back in the aerial spying game. It's time to put the SR71 through its paces. December 22nd, 1964. A Blackbird completes its final flight checks at Lockheed's plant 42 in Palmdale, CA. It is the first official test flight of the SR71. The test pilot, Bob Gilliland, has the dangerous privilege of being first in the cockpit. He has been handpicked by Kelly Johnson himself. One glance and you could see it was high and fast and big and long. There were a whole lot of guys around the world that would like to have been in my position, but I was in the one that got Kelly wanted to do it with, and so that's a hell of a high honor for me and maybe, perhaps my highest honor of all. Every test flight has what are called open items, unresolved technical issues. But on this day, Gilliland knew there were 383 of them. Initially, Kelly, Johnson and Gilliland agreed not to push the plane too hard. Kelly had said it's considered a successful flight if we just take off, leave the landing gear down, fly around and come back in and land. But then he says to me, how do you feel about going supersonic on the 1st flight? So I said I I have great confidence in our escape system here, so it's OK with me. Gilliland's test flight breaks the sound barrier. Reaching speeds of 1600 kilometres an hour. Cruising at 15,000 metres, over 3 kilometres higher than a commercial jetliner. But extreme performance demands extreme concentration. The tiniest error can spell disaster. The pilots refer to the Blackbird as being a 3 second airplane. Every three seconds you had to look at the instruments and make sure everything was working the way it was supposed to. I got on down there for landing and Kelly says when you post your fuel state, I said excellent. So he says, well how about a fly by? So we did a fly by. The first flight is a great success. The Blackbird program is airborne. But the flight tests are about to face setback. And tragedy. In January 1966, a crucial test flight for the Blackbird SR71 spy plane is about to run into trouble. On board our pilot Bill Weaver and reconnaissance specialist Jim Zwayer. 24,000 metres up after losing control at Mach 3. The plane starts to disintegrate. At Edwards Air Force Base, Weaver and swears Blackbird disappears from the tracking radar. Both crew members are presumed dead. Fellow test pilot Bob Gilliland is on the base when he hears the news. I found out it was Bill Weaver and his locker was near mounted and there were two cigars. Gilleland takes one of his friends cigars to smoke in his memory. And I said, well, he may be dead. And if he is, I'll get him another. I'll get him a whole box of cigars. But Bill Weaver isn't dead. He had been free falling from the very edge of space. I thought I was having a terrible dream nightmare. And then I realized I wasn't dreaming, so I must be dead. And then I realized that I'm not dead, and somehow I'm out of the airplane. I could feel myself falling. I could hear the, you know, the rushing of air. Weaver doesn't know if his parachute is still attached. Until it springs open. Now his thoughts turned to his flying mate, Jim Zwayer. Gyms where his parachute looked like it was about 1/4 mile away. That was really relief. I didn't think either one of us is going to survive, but to think that both of us had was tremendous really. Weaver lands in New Mexico, 1200 kilometres from the base. On the ground, he learns the sad news. His friend Jim has not survived after all. His neck broken, he had died the instant the plane disintegrated. Find out that it had died. It was really devastating and wonderful guy, but he was one of the best. An investigation found that optimizing the plane's performance had made it less stable. That led to a loss of control, which put the airframe under catastrophic strain. At the base, a call comes through to the Accident Investigation Chief. He says yes, I will take a collect call from a Mr Bill Weaver, and and not that I've heard that. And I knew he would survive, so I was real thrilled at that. I told you I was going to get the Castro's best cigars I could find. I don't know. But naturally I would do anything for him. And he said he was gonna get me expensive replacements, and I haven't gotten them yet. That was 1966. By 1967 Skunk Works finds solutions to all the blackbirds design problems. The planes go fully operational from Beale Air Force Base, California. Now America just needs the men to fly them. A new group of elite pilots is assembled to join the 9th Strategic Reconnaissance Wing. They are the best of the best. None of us had ever seen the airplane. And you can't imagine what that felt like to see that airplane come in. It was just breathtaking when we realized what we're going to be doing. The Blackbird doesn't so much break records as shatter them. It can fly at three times the speed of sound. Faster than a rifle bullet. It's kind of a good feeling to know that anytime you're flying, you're going higher and faster than any other person in the world. Its engines are the most powerful of the time, producing 160,000 horsepower. And swallowing 3000 cubic metres of air every second, equivalent to 2 million people inhaling at once. You've got so much power. It's smooth, it's quiet, it's just delightful. It can fly an astonishing 25 kilometres above the earth, applying a navigation system that used the stars to workout its position. I mean, it's the world's biggest planetarium show. You can see the curvature of the earth. You can see almost 350 miles in any direction. Unbelievable what you see at 80,000 feet or higher. Just fantastic. Ironically, the Blackbird will never see active service over the Soviet Union, the role for which it was designed. But within a year, it will be called to operate in the heat of battle. March 1968, Vietnam. A daunting theatre of war for the Blackbird's first combat mission. Its objective? To find an enemy Vietcong site deep in the jungle, a supply area used to mount the siege of U.S. Marines at Kasaan. The Blackbird delivers. Its high resolution ground mapping radar reveals the secret site enabling B52 bombers to attack, ending the siege. The Blackbird goes on to give the intelligence community critical, photographic and ground mapping data from all over the world. Then you come back and then intelligence community is just on it, like ants on sugar. OK. What has changed? Have they brought in some new defensive system or what are we seeing here that's different from the last time we flew? An area. The SR-71 then went on to become the nation's premier reconnaissance system for keeping track of it and national crises, whether it was the 1973 Arab Israeli war watching the Soviet fleet and its movements. We had Sr 70 ones deployed to the Far East operating out of Kadena. These basically became Sentinels for the free world. Tremendous contributions of technical intelligence. But the Blackbird is no longer invisible. In 1968, it is tracked by enemy radar for the first time. And a surface to air missiles grow ever more effective Blackbird crews will soon face a direct attack. August 26th, 1981 North Korea the communist regime of Kim Il Sung is flexing its military muscles. Fearing an invasion of the Democratic S, the West desperately needs intelligence. We had to understand what is happening with the North Korean order of battle. What is their intention? Where are their forces? What are they up to? What are they doing? And there was only one system that could furnish that information, and that was the SR-71. 17 years after its first flight, the Blackbird is still the world's best spy plane. Now it'll fly secret missions to locate the North Koreans anti aircraft missiles. OK, just let me know. Pilot Maury Rosenberg is tasked with flying over the DMZ, a Demilitarized Zone between North and South. But one known to be within reach of enemy missiles. Most of the missions were through the DMZ, where we would make anywhere from 3 to as many as four passes, east to West, W to East, etcetera. That's. Looking good, looking real. Good. The plane carries equipment to warn of enemy radar activity. Rosenberg and his reconnaissance specialist Ed Mckim complete two passes without the monitor lighting up. This aircraft though, even on a training flight, let alone an operational flight, you never really relax. You're always you're always watching everything. OK. Again, we're going around one more pass. You calling the shots for me? OK. OK. Skip looking good. Then, on their final run home, Ed Mckimm's monitor picks up an enemy radar lock signal. Yeah, just checking. On that. It's what SR71 crews call getting painted. We were on our LastPass and Ed was an old pro by now. So when the site locked on and he was in a relatively calm voice and he said, oh, they're looking at us, they're painting us. OK, that's no problem. They do that all the time. They've been spotted. The North Koreans haven't fired on a spy plane yet, but they do sometimes fake a signal to make the crew think they're under missile attack. And as we're progressing, he says he said they've simulated a missile launch. Launch. Accustomed to fake launch signals, the crew aren't concerned. They only need to worry if the missile response, which means it is in the air and on its way. It's all good. And I started taking a peek over the nose of the airplane, and then, in a higher voice than a little higher pitch, I hear Ed said. Oh my God, the missile answered. Can't be there. Live missile. Climbing on your right. Hand side I don't see anything. Surface to air missile is racing through the air at 2500 kilometres an hour. Still climbing. OK, I see officials. About that time is when I actually had picked the missile up. I would guess that it was in the neighborhood of 40 to 50,000 feet. Already. And the next few seconds I could tell it was rapidly climbing. August 1981 and in the midst of renewed hostilities, North Korea has fired a Soviet made guided missile at a Blackbird spy plane. Air crew Maury Rosenberg and Ed Mckim have less than one minute to impact. The window to shoot the missile and the missile to get to us is less than about 50 seconds. All pilot Rosenberg can do is try to outmanoeuvre the missile. And Ed said let's turn off track. And I said OK, so we started to turn towards the left. Obviously we didn't want to go right into North Korea. But he doesn't have the agility of a fighter jet. Still climbing. Once I had a good visual and I could see it and as we started to turn, I could see the missile didn't change course. You just got. Exploded. The Blackbird is saved by its speed. The enemy just don't have time to recalculate the target coordinates and redirect the missile. I saw the missile go by on the right side and explode. It's hard to judge distance at altitude because there's no reference. So I'm guessing that the missile was probably within a mile, a mile and 1/2 of the aircraft. At Mach 3, that's equivalent to just two seconds from impact. I actually felt pretty relieved when we got on the ground that nothing and nothing else happened. Just as Kelly Johnson had predicted, even when it is detected, the Blackbird proves just too fast to catch. The Soviets even developed the Mig 25 jet fighter to bring it down. But not a single SR71 is ever lost to enemy fire. An unmatched record. There was really no weapon system that we knew of. That could touch. The Blackbird. Nine years later and the Blackbird is still the world's fastest spy plane. But now a new technology is taking over its role. Satellites are considered to be the future of intelligence gathering. In March 1990, the Blackbird program is shut down. On its final flight before retirement, the Blackbird creates a speed record that is still unbroken. It flies from Los Angeles to Washington, DC in just one hour, 4 minutes and 20 seconds. It's a poignant moment for everyone in the program, and for some, difficult to comprehend. There were many of us, myself included, that believes that the retirement of the Blackbird was premature, just months after the. Program. Was cancelled. Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait and the system that we really needed on hand immediately to find out what was going on was the Blackbird. Today, the Blackbird Stealth technologies live on the B2 stealth bomber and Lockheed Stealth ground attack F117A Nighthawk used the same kind of radar diffusing black paint as that pioneered on the SR71. 5 decades after it was built, the SR-71 Blackbird is still one of the world's most iconic planes. It has even appeared in Hollywood movies like Transformers and X-Men. To this day, it's the fastest and highest flying manned airplane that's not rocket powered. The Blackbird was revolutionary because it was the first aircraft design for sustained flight at 2000 mph. It was the first stealth airplane. Ever designed. Everything about the Blackbird was special because of what? The engineers asked it to. Do. It has come to epitomize the perseverance, ingenuity and patriotism of the men and women who built it. And of those who flew it in the service of 6 presidents. It's a airplane that could make a statement. You know you can't get us. We're here. We're watching you. The Blackbird proved what we can do when we rise to conquer an impossible challenge. I think one of the lessons of the SR71 is you give men and women a task and give them the authority and the resources. It's amazing what you can create. But perhaps the Blackbird's greatest legacy is as the aircraft that helped maintain peace when the world was on the brink of nuclear war. This is the fastest airplane ever built. It helped win the Cold War, and that ought to be a pretty good little achievement.