- [Andrew Huberman] Welcome where we discuss science for everyday life. - I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm and Ophthalmology at This podcast is separate from my teaching and It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science-related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and reach your health goals. I've long been a fan of for the simple reason that impact our immediate can only be analyzed from And now with the advent we can also get insight into things like metabolic factors or not we metabolize caffeine what our fat metabolism genes are like. Things of that sort can only be analyzed from quality blood and DNA tests. In addition, many of the factors our metabolism our brain health, those come back in a blood and DNA test and there are many blood but with InsideTracker, they into what those markers They have this terrific give you the numbers back and tell you if you're higher or low in some factor, but rather it tells you of all those factors and and clear directives of changes changes that you might make or sleep, et cetera in where they ought to be and where you would like them to be in order to optimize yourself. So they make everything They can even come to your home to take the blood and If you'd like to try InsideTracker you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman. And if you do that, you'll get 25% off any of InsideTracker's plans. Use the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also brought to us by Belcampo Meat Company. Belcampo is a regenerative that raises organic grass fed and finished certified humane meats. While I don't eat a lot of meat, when I do I insist that that meat How the animals were cared for and the life that the animal is very important to me. So the way that I eat I've but very briefly, I basically then I eat a piece of and a salad. So that's basically my lunch. That's what optimizes for work throughout the day. Then in the evening I shift over to eating primarily carbohydrates. That's what allows me to sleep very well. So I'm not eating huge volumes of meat but am eating meat every day. Conventionally raised animals and need to diet of inflammatory grains which is bad for them and it's bad for us when we eat their meat. Belcampo animals graze on open pastures and seasonal grasses resulting in meat that is higher in And I've talked before of omega-3 fatty acids for and Belcampo meats are high The way Belcampo raises its for your health, it also on the environment. It's what's called climate which means good for the My favorite meats from Belcampo are the rib eye and the flank steaks. That's typically what I eat. I think I probably eat about three or four of those across the week on some other days. They're really delicious, and as I mentioned, You can order Belcampo to be delivered straight Huberman at belcampo.com/huberman. If you do that, you'll get That's belcampo.com/huberman Today's episode is also Headspace is a meditation app backed by 25 published studies and has over 600,000 five star reviews. So I've been meditating on and off since I was about 15, 16 years What I found is that I'll sometimes start a meditation practice but And then a few years ago and I started meditating more regularly. In fact, very recently because of work on my plate and than I would like in order I've brought back a regular not just my usual once a day. Headspace makes it really easy. They have so many meditations on there and they guide you into the meditation and out of the meditation in a way that just makes it very simple and makes maintaining the Right now if you want to try Headspace you can go to headspace.com/special offer. And if you do that, you'll So that's totally free with their full library of So there's no meditations to with this offer. You can get access to You just go to You get a free one month trial and hopefully you'll I've found that staying with meditation has been immensely beneficial Today's episode of the Huberman and final episode in this month which is all about skills Now, in a previous episode, in particular neuroscience-based tools for accelerating fat loss. Previous to that, we talked about ways to improve skill learning, motor movements which also included things like music and piano playing not And we've also been of physical performance Today I want to talk about something that is vitally important for but for your entire life and and that's muscle. Now, many of you, when think muscle growth and And while we will touch muscle growth today, and to enhance hypertrophy, about muscle as it relates And I can't emphasize this enough the whole reason why you have a brain is so that you can move. And one of the things that's about the human brain, all sorts of different kinds of movement, different speeds of movement, movement of different durations. We can train our and heavier objects or we to take us further and We can also build smoothness smoothness of movement as suppleness of movement. All of that is governed between the nervous system, neurons and their connections to muscle. So when you hear the science of muscle and muscle hypertrophy, I'm not interested in building muscle but muscle does many critical things. It's important for movement. It's important for metabolism. The more muscle you have but the quality of muscle, the higher your metabolism is, and indeed the healthier you are. It turns out that jumping ability and ability to stand up quickly and to get up off the floor quickly is one of the most and biological aging and no by the brain to muscle connection. In addition, muscle and and we don't talk about posture enough. We all have been told we or stand up straight, but for how the rest of our body works. It's vital to how we breathe. It's actually even vital to So we're going to talk about We also are going to talk about muscle as it relates to aesthetic things. Now, these are all linked. Muscle for metabolism, of course are linked, right? As our posture changes, As our posture and aesthetic And as we improve muscle quality whether or not that's that changes the way not just our nervous system but our immune system and the So today, as always we're going to talk a little bit of mechanism. I'm going to explain how and then we're going to how muscle uses energy. I promise to make all of this very simple. I'm actually going to keep it very brief probably about 10 minutes total. And by the end of that 10 about the neuromuscular connection, how your brain and nervous and how those muscles work. Then we are going to talk and can change how they use energy for sake of getting stronger, if you like for also increasing the size and for improving endurance as and how you move generally. We will touch on some nutritional themes and how that relates a specific amino acid that if it's available in your and at sufficient levels, and improve the quality of muscle. And we'll talk about as well as of course, supplementation and things that can enhance neuromuscular performance overall. We are also going to talk about recovery. Recovery as everybody knows, That's when neurons get that's when muscle grows, that's when muscle gets more flexible. None of that actually It happens after training and about how to optimize whether or not you are recovered for another neuromuscular So we'll talk about that as well. Today is going to have a lot of protocols and you're going to come away about how you move, how you work in these incredible organs and the musculature, the Before we dive into today's topic, I want to just take about three minutes and cover some essential In the previous episode, Talked about shiver induced fat loss. We talked about neat non-exercise for increasing caloric And we talked about how to enhance fat loss. I described a protocol of some sort, whether or not some form of cold could if you have access to and then getting out, not but allowing that cold to evaporate off you and continuing to shiver and then getting back into of water or stream or shower, et cetera. All of that is described in a beautifully illustrated protocol that I didn't illustrate. That's why it's beautifully illustrated at the coldplunge.com. They've made that protocol for you and they've made it available So there's no obligation You can go to the coldplunge.com. There's a little tab that says protocols and you can download that I don't know who exactly illustrated it, and you can come away with a PDF of what I described in So I just want to make sure that you are aware of that resource. The other announcement many of you have asked how you And there's a very straightforward And that's to subscribe So if you go to YouTube, if you're not already hits the Subscribe button to get the word out more And we thank you for your support. Most people, when they they just think about strength. But of course muscles are They are involved in speaking, they're involved in they're involved in lifting They are absolutely essential for maintaining how we breathe. They're absolutely essential and for skills of any kind. So when we think about muscle, we don't just want to think about muscle the meat that is muscle, but And no surprise what controls The nervous system does that through three main nodes of And I've talked about these So I will keep this very brief. Basically, we have upper motor So those are in our skull and those are involved So if I decide that I'm up and put it down, which my upper motor neurons were involved in generating that movement. Those upper motor to my spinal cord where there One are the lower motor neurons and those lower motor that we call axons out to our muscles and cause those muscles to contract. They do that by dumping In fact, the chemical is acetylcholine. I've talked before about which is vitally important for focus and actually can gait neuroplasticity, the brain's ability to change But in the neuromuscular system, acetylcholine released from the only way that muscles can contract. Now, there's another category of neurons in the spinal cord called or CPGs. And those are involved Anytime we're walking or doing something where we don't have to think about it to do it deliberately, it's that central pattern Anytime we're doing the top-down control as we call it, from the upper motor neurons comes in and takes control of that system. So it's really simple. You've only got three ingredients. You've got the upper motor and for rhythmic movements you've also got the So it's a terrifically but what we're going to focus on today is how that system can control muscle in ways that make that system better. Now, when I say better, I If your goal is to build larger muscles, there's a way to use your nervous system to trigger hypertrophy of those muscles. And it is indeed controlled So you can forget the idea or that muscles grow in that's just happening within the muscle, it's the nerve to muscle connection that actually creates hypertrophy. I'll talk exactly about how In addition, if you want or improve flexibility or that is all accomplished by the way that the nervous system And so what that means is are we going to take control the central pattern generators, or all three in order of how the nervous system controls muscle. So neurophysiology 101. I'll give you one piece of history because it's important to know. Sherrington, who won the Nobel prize called movement, the final common path. Why did he say that? Well, the whole reason for the whole reason for having a brain is so that we can control our That is one of the reasons, why the human brain is so large. You might think, oh it's and for creativity. Ah, no when you look at in the brain that's devoted it's mainly vision, our ability to see and movement, our ability to engage in lots of different kinds of movements. Slow movements, fast movements, Other animals don't have that ability because they don't have They don't have the neural They have neuromuscular junctions. They have central pattern generators what they don't have are these incredible upper motor neurons that can direct activity the So we can all feel blessed And today I'm going to teach toward particular end points. So if we decide that we are in some particular movement of any kind. Whether or not it's a or whether it's a yoga movement or simply picking up we are engaging flexors and extensors and our body is covered with So for instance, our bicep is a flexor and our tricep is an extensor. Those are what are called They move the limbs in So if you bring your wrist that's flection using your bicep. If you move your wrist further that's extension, using your tricep. And without getting into a lot of detail the way that the nerves and make it such that when when the nerve dumps onto the muscle to activate the biceps, the triceps is inhibited. It's prevented from engaging. There are ways to bypass this but that's the typical mode of action. The converse is also true when when we move our wrist our bicep is inhibited. And we have flexors like And we have extensors in our lower back. Many of you probably know this but some of you probably has flexors to move basically And it has, those are your And you have extensors that like looking up toward the ceiling. And those are your extensors. You have other muscles that and things of that sort but those movements of and the fact that they are what we call reciprocally you hear different language around this is characteristic of most So hamstring and quadriceps, closer back towards the glutes. Basically it's lifting your heel up which is almost always Whereas your quadriceps is the extensor opposite to the hamstrings. So you get the idea. So there's flexors and extensors and it's the neurons that and extensors that allow us So, now you have heard a in its simplest form, but I I want to get just briefly, just briefly into some of the underlying metabolism of how muscles use and create energy. Because in doing that, we to understand all the how to optimize the neuromuscular system for your particular goals. So in the previous episode about fat loss, we talked about lipolysis. The breakdown of fat into fatty acids so it can be used as fuel. And it ended in a step where we got ATP, which is the bottleneck for all energy producing There are other ways but basically ATP is the key element there. Now with muscles, they don't what they are going to function and their ability to do in any way that we want to, is based on a process of glycolysis, the breakdown of things like glycogen and glucose into energy. And it's a very simple process. You don't have to know any chemistry. So if I say the words carbon or hydrogen or something like that, don't freak out. You don't have to But basically what available sugar resource And that's glucose. And that glucose has six carbons That can be broken down into All right. So basically you take into these two little batches of carbons that we call pyruvate. So six divided by two is three. So you get three and three pyruvate. And that generates a but just a little bit. Now, if there's oxygen available, if there's sufficient oxygen there, what can happen is that to the mitochondria and that you probably don't like the electron transport What happens is it's broken which has a lot of ATP. So the only things you need to know, the only things you need is that glucose and glycogen You a little bit of energy from that. And when I say energy, I It's fuel, literally just gets burned up. But if there's oxygen then within the mitochondria, which is a lot of ATP. Now, what does this mean? This means that movement of muscle is metabolically expensive to other tissues compared compared to almost all other muscle is the most metabolically demanding which is why people who to adipose tissue to and they're more of a furnace. They just kind of burn that up. So even if you didn't understand what you probably did hear, is that if you have oxygen from this fuel source that But what if there isn't oxygen around? And what is that like? Well, you've experienced that. I'm not talking about I'm talking about oxygen in the muscle. So if you've ever carried or you're carrying heavy or you're exercising particularly hard and you felt the burn, well, that burning which most people think is by which pyruvate, which as I said before normally could be converted well, if there's not enough oxygen 'cause that muscle is what ends up happening is that a hydrogen molecule comes in there and you get something called lactate. So believe it or not, humans That's another species, we make lactate. And we hear that lactate is bad. We need to buffer the That lactic acid and for performing as well or going as far as we possibly could in an endurance event. Guess what, that's not true at all. Lactate has three functions, all of which are really First of all, it's a You don't want muscle to get too acidic because it can't function. You don't want any body So that burn that you feel is and lactate what most but again, we don't make lactic acid. Lactate is there to buffer that to reduce the amount of burn. So, most people have So when you feel that burn that is lactate that's to suppress acidity. It's also a fuel. When you feel that burn, lactate is shuttled to and there's an actual fuel burning process where in the absence of oxygen you can continue to generate Now, this is informative that burning that acidity that we feel can inhibit the way that our muscles work but that lactate comes to continue to function. So we'll talk a little bit more about what this whole lactate but it's a really important process. And it's amazing to me that in exactly the incorrect way. They think a lactic acid No, it reveals a number are going on with this which can reduce acidity, reduce the burn as well as act as a fuel. Now, here's where it And if you don't have enough based on all the information out there about how it'll make you live longer and make your heart better, et cetera, here's a reason that regardless of what kind of exercise you do, if it's weight training, or that every once in a while, you should exercise to where you start to feel The reason for that is to the site of the burn, so to speak, and it acts as a hormonal of the body in a very positive way. As you may recall, from of the Huberman Lab what a hormone is and how it works. We have lots of different but hormones are chemicals that in the body and travel, of other organs of the body. So when I say that lactate what I mean is that it's in a that are outside of the muscle. And basically it can send signals to the heart, to the and it can have effects and the brain that are very positive. So just to zoom out for a second I promise we won't get any We will get into tools and protocols that are really straightforward but what I'm telling you is that if you feel a burn from a that burn is going to be buffered by this molecule we call lactate. Lactate will then provide additional fuel for additional work. So this is a good incentive to &quot;Work through the burn.&quot; That burn acts as a beacon to the lactate which comes in and allows It's not a signal to stop necessarily. I mean, stop if you're but it's a signal that and allow you to continue to do work. And it can act as a hormonal signal. Lactate can then travel to the heart and to the liver and to the brain and can enhance their not just in those moments, but in the period of time that follows. So many people are curious to make their brain better. That's one of the most What I'm telling you is that by engaging the so-called burn which is at a different your hill run will be to generate the burn, but provided you can do that for about 10% of your workouts or of or activity of any kind, you of this lactate based hormonal signal that can improve the function of neurons. And it does that if you want by improving the function called the astrocytes which Which are very involved in clearance of debris from the brain, they're involved in the connections between neurons in the brain. So put simply, if you are an exerciser if you're doing movement of in allocating some of that brain, heart and liver of scientific data that points to the fact that getting a lactate by engaging this burning for the health of those other tissues. So, as I mentioned that burn is present from lack of oxygen being present. And then the hydrogen comes But this process of of fuel and a positive hormonal occurs only if there's oxygen. So if you feel the burn, on your breathing at that point. That would be the time and try and bring more It's definitely not a And if ever you've run to and then you were exercised or on the bike or whatever, and then you held your breath, it feels much more intense. By breathing you bring lactate to the site and you are able to as a buffer, a fuel, And the reason I brought this up today is because as I mentioned so in using exercise not just for sake of improving physical health but also for enhancing their brain. And there are a lot of to the findings that can increase neurogenesis, Well, the unfortunate news is that while that's true in mice, there is very little evidence from exercise or otherwise in humans. There's a little bit, within the brain, such of the hippocampus, which may be involved in the formation of new the dentate gyrus is definitely involved in the formation of new memories, whether or not the new in humans are involved in new memories. The evidence for that whereas an animals the but most of the data points to the fact that hormonal signals, in the blood during exercise and that those signals are in the number of neurons in That it's more about the between the neurons growth things like IGF-1, there's So if you've heard the of neurons in your brain, And that probably is a good thing, frankly because we always hear as if it's a good thing, but with bringing in entirely new elements. It has a hard time negotiating that and making use of those new elements. We know about this from things where deaf people are given a device where they suddenly can hear. Some people really like that, deaf people really like that Other deaf people find That is hard to take an existing and incorporate a lot of So new neurons, as great as that sounds more neurons, more neurons, it actually might not be the best way for the nervous system to and to promote its own longevity. So when I tell you not such great evidence from new neurons past puberty, that's what the data And I sort of knocked back the data on exercise and neurogenesis, don't let that depress you. If you have dementia in your family, don't translate that into necessarily that you will develop dementia. Understand the exercise for the brain and other but that it's going to be doing it through these hormonal signals. Things like IGF-1, things when you experience And again, you don't want to try and get this feeling of a burn throughout the entire episode of exercise, there'll be far too intense and I don't think it'd be good It's only about 10% of your total effort in any one exercise about that's going to give you So now you know how to of your exercise, 10% in to benefit other tissues namely your heart, your I'd now like to shift our attention to how to use specific aspects to improve muscle as well as improving muscle strength. There are a lot of reasons And I should just mention that getting stronger involves There are ways for muscles to get stronger without getting bigger. However, increasing the size of a muscle almost inevitably increases at least to some degree. Reasons why most everyone should want to get their muscles stronger is that muscles are generally across the lifespan. So when I say getting about being able to move increasing mounts of weight in the gym. Although if that's your goal what I'm about to discuss but rather to offset some of and posture and the ability of movement safely, that occurs as we age. As I mentioned at the we just tend to lose function as we get older. And doing things to offset that has been shown again and for the neuromuscular system for enhancing the strength So there are a lot of reasons that extend far beyond just the desire to increase muscle size of you are interested in but many of you are not. So there's an important called the Henneman size principle. And the Henneman size that we recruit what Motor units are just the connections between nerve and muscle from in a pattern that staircases from low What this means is when you you're going to use the to muscle energy in Likewise, when you pick you're going to use the to muscle connectivity and energy in order to move that object. So it's basically a conservation Now, if you continue to what will happen is you will tend to recruit more and more And that process of more lower motor neurons if you recall from the these lower motor neurons and they actually dump a caused the muscles to contract. As you recruit more and these connections between these lower motor neurons and muscle, that's when you start to That's when you open the for the muscles to get if that's what your goal is. And so the way this process works has been badly misunderstood in the kind of online and bodybuilding, and The Henneman size principle is kind of a foundational principle but many people have come that the way to recruit the ones that are hard to get to is to just use heavy weights. And that's actually not the case as we'll talk about the research supports that weights in a very large of your maximum, anywhere from 30% to 80%. So weights that are not very too heavy can cause between nerve and muscle that lead to muscle strength and muscle hypertrophy. Put differently, heavyweights and strength but they are not required. What one has to do is adhere to a certain number of parameters, just a couple of key variables And if you do that, you can greatly increase muscle hypertrophy, muscle size and or muscle strength if And you don't necessarily in order to do that. Now, I'm sure the power lifters and the people that like to will say, no, if you want to get strong you absolutely have to lift heavy weights. And that might be true if but for most people who are interested in supporting their muscular any age related decline in strength, or in increasing hypertrophy there really isn't a need to lie about the Henneman size principle which many people out there are doing and claiming that you absolutely need to use the heaviest weights possible in order to build strength and muscle. So I'm going to explain all So first of all, let's just and what strength changes We can make this very simple as well. If this were a muscle physiology class we would talk all about myofibrils and sarcomeres and all that stuff. We're not going to do that. That's not the purpose If you're interested in that as well as a lot of the other information that I'm going to discuss in more detail, I highly encourage you to and the writings of Dr. Andy Galpin. He's a PhD and a full professor He's extremely knowledgeable of science-based tools for hypertrophy, how strength and hypertrophy really work. His lab does everything working with athletes and A lot of the information from me in the next 15 minutes or so comes from an extensive that he and his colleagues as folks like Brad Schoenfeld, in this whole space of muscle physiology and from a lengthy conversation Dr. Galpin prior to this episode. So if we want to think we have to ask what is changing when muscles get larger or stronger. And there are really just three ways that muscles can be stimulated to change. So let's review those three ways and talk about what So there are three major stimulate for changing the way that muscle works and making muscles stronger, And those are stress, tension, and damage. Those three things don't but stress of some kind has to exist. Something has to be different in the way that the nerve communicates with the muscle and the way or performs that makes So this is very reminiscent of Something needs to happen. Certain chemicals need to be present. Certain processes need to happen or else a tissue simply But if those processes then the tissue has but to change. So muscles move, as I mentioned because nerves dump but they move because they and actin filaments. And if you want to read up on this, you can look on the internet you can put the sliding filament theory of muscle contraction if you that rabbit hole. It's interesting. You can learn about this in But basically, along you have, what's called myosin. And just think of myosin It's like a bunch of beads and wires that extend across the muscle. I think that's the simplest And the myosin is surrounded by these little beads called actin. The way muscles get bigger is that basically the myosin gets thicker. It's a protein and it gets thicker. So put this in your mind or even if you're watching it on YouTube, the way to think about this and thing and muscles that you're holding a bouquet of balloons, a bunch of balloons by their strings except you're not holding the So the bouquet isn't nicely arranged. It's not like some balloons and you're holding the Imagine that one of the to your hand and other one And so this bouquet is very disorganized. In other words, the string the strings rather are all different lengths. And so the balloons That's essentially what myosin And those strings are what and then the myosin head is the balloon. When you stress a muscle properly, or you give it sufficient tension, or you damage the muscle just enough, there's an adaptive where protein is synthesized. And it's a very specific The myosin gets thicker. In other words, the balloons get bigger. So the way to think about muscle growth and the way to think about that those balloons get bigger Now, the question then should be as always how does that happen? I mean, the muscle doesn't about what's happening The way it happens is to tell the muscle to get stronger. And it does that through what It talks to the muscle It doesn't whisper to it or What it does it release that within the muscle, there are certain that make those balloons the myosin get thicker. So let's talk about the And if already in your oh my goodness, these balloons of muscle are going to get thick, and it's just going to don't worry about that. People invest a ton of time and energy into trying to make their muscles larger. It's actually much harder for people to do than you might think. But I do want to give one an important principle of Everybody has imbalances How well muscles can grow, or how poorly, or how challenging it is Now, many people who are afraid for instance, are afraid But I think the research of pretty much every age should be doing some sort of resistance exercise even if that's body weight exercises in order to offset this in muscle contractile ability, muscle strength, et cetera, There's nothing good about And people who invest the effort into doing resistance whether or not it's with or with body weight, at a whole body level at a systemic level as well as in terms of muscle strength. There is a good predictor of how well or how efficient you will and or if you like the And it has everything to do that are involved in You can actually do this test right now. You can just kind of March and see whether or not you or all of your muscles. So for instance, if you or a you're standing, see whether or not you can just using those upper motor and deliberately If you can contract the calf muscle hard to the point where that like it's starting to cramp like it hurts just a little bit, that can be extremely painful nor is it going to have chances are you have very good upper motor neuron to calf control. And chances are, if you can isolate that what they call the brain and you can contract the muscles to the point where it cramps a little bit, that you hold a decent to high potential to change the strength and if you train it properly. Now, if you have a hard time doing that, chances are you won't be able to do that. If for instance, you Like we all have these The latissimus dorsi muscles, in chin ups and things like that, but their function from a more is to move the elbow back behind the body. So it's not about flexing your bicep. It's about moving your If you can do that, mentally or you can do that physical movement of moving your elbow back behind your body and you can contract that muscle hard, chances are that you have the capacity to enhance the strength and or size of that particular muscle because you have the neural This is a key feature of to appreciate as we begin to talk more about specific protocols. Because everything about about stimulating muscle growth is about generating isolated contractions about challenging specific Whereas with strength, it's as a system moving moving the body. The specific goal of hypertrophy is to isolate specific so that you stimulate the chemical and signaling transduction so that those muscles So there's a critical distinction in terms of getting stronger versus trying to get muscles to be And it has to do with how much Muscle isolation is not It's not something that we normally do. When we walk we don't think, left calf contract. No, you just generate And of course, there's no or larger in response to those movements. Let's say you were to do a of attaching 30 pound And you were to do those movements. Well, if you weren't specifically in each step, there's to take on the bulk of the work. And you would distribute that and other aspects of your musculature. Your whole nervous system It seeks to spread out the effort. So you can nest this as which is if you want to get stronger it's really about moving or increasing the amount Whereas if you're specifically interested in generating hypertrophy, to generate those really hard, almost painful localized Now, of course, how much weight you use in order to generate those contractions will also impact hypertrophy. But I think most people the mind muscle connection. It sounds like a great thing, but it's actually one of if your goal is simply or to become stronger. You want to do the movements but it's the opposite of hypertrophy where with hypertrophy that particular muscle do the majority, if not all the work whereas in moving force loads in trying to generate activity of any kind like lifting a bar, doing those so-called compound of muscle groups. If your goal is to be better at those, you want to avoid isolating Now, I know this probably comes across as a kind of obvious duh, who have spent a lot of time in the gym aimed at getting hypertrophy. But I think most people don't appreciate that it's the nerve to muscle connections and the distinction to muscle connections of nerve to muscle connections, that's vital in determining whether or not you generate hypertrophy isolated nerve to muscle contractions versus strength and offsetting strength loss which would be distributed If ever there was an that was very confused, and almost combative at times, it would be this issue I suppose the only thing of a conversation than that Those seem to be the two most common areas of online battle and the has a lot to say about Again, my sources for are Professor Andy Galpin and colleagues. I know there are other in the field, but I really trust his work. He does very controlled studies. He spent a lot of time in this space and what's really exciting is that in just the last three years or so, there's been a tremendous to come out about the practical in order to maximize the benefits of resistance exercise of any kind. So I'm going to talk about those and I'm going to talk about the research. I will provide some links, in-depth tutorials from of the papers that the to tell you stems from. There's a lot of information saying that you need to move of your one rep maximum for three weeks on and then There are a lot of there are a lot of ways to There's a near infinite number of ways to add up different And what's very clear now from all the literature that's transpired and especially from the literature is that once you know roughly the maximum amount of an exercise with for one repetition in good form, full range of motion, that it's very clear that moving weights or using bands or using in the 30% to 80% of one-rep maximum. That is going to be the in terms of muscle So muscle growth and strength. And there will be a bias that are in the 75%, 80% range or maybe even going above that 85 and 90%, you're going to bias your improvements towards strength gains. This is true. And if you use weights that are in the 30% of your one-repetition and doing many more then you are biasing towards hypertrophy and what some people like But that's a little bit because endurance, we almost to running or swimming or So 30% to 80% of one-repetition maximums, it doesn't really seem to matter for sake of hypertrophy, when you're really trying Now, it is clear, however that one needs to perform those sets to failure where you can't in good form again or near to failure. And there's all sorts of that's popping up all over the internet. Some of which is scientific, about how you are supposed to perceive how close you were to failure, et cetera. But there are some very that relate to how the that strongly predict that you're performing will So here's how it goes. For individuals that are untrained meaning they have been for anywhere from zero, although for some people, it but those are the so-called beginners. They're sort of untrained. For those people, the to perform enough sets of a given exercise per muscle per week. The same is also true for for one or two years or more. What differs is how many sets to perform depending on whether or not So let's say you're somebody who's been doing some on and off over the years to get serious about or offsetting age related the range of sets to do in to activate these cascades from two, believe it Again, these are sets per week and they don't necessarily in the same weight training session. I will talk about numbers of sessions. So it appears that five sets of the one repetition maximum range, getting close to failure, going to full muscular full muscular failure, but the inability to generate a contraction of the muscle or move the weight in good form. I'll go deeper into that in a moment. But about five sets per just to maintain your muscle. So think about that. If you're somebody who's kind of averse to resistance training, muscle size and strength. Your metabolism will drop. Your posture will get worse. Everything in the context of nerve to muscle conductivity unless you are generating of this 30% to 80% of your one So what this means is who hasn't done a lot of weight training, you need to do at least Now, that's just to maintain. And then there's this huge range that goes all the way up to 15 and in some case, 20 sets per week. Now, how many sets you on the intensity of the This is where it gets a but I think nowadays most people agree and Dr. Galpin confirmed with the 10% we discussed of a given workout or should be of the high-intensity sort where one is actually Now I say not true muscular failure because in theory you which is the kind of and then you have the ecentric portion of muscle contraction, And ecentric movements because of the way that muscle fibers lengthen that we talked about before, you're always stronger than you are in lifting it. But the point being that most of your sets should And the reason for that is it of work without fatiguing and depleting the nerve in ways that are detrimental. So we can make this simple. Perform anywhere from 5 to 15 sets of resistance exercise per week, and that's per muscle, and of what your one-repetition maximum. That seems to be the most of offsetting any decline if you're working in the and in increasing muscle strength when you start to get up Now, the caveat to that is everyone varies and muscles vary in terms Depending on how well you of muscles deliberately. And you can actually figure you might take five minutes and just kind of March across your body and mentally try and of muscles in a very deliberate way to the point where you can And you may have to move a limb in order to do this, by the way. I'm not talking about just without moving your wrist. I'm talking about doing in hand or any band or any resistance. If you can generate a using these upper motor neuron to lower motor neuron pathways to muscle, you might think, well I But actually, the opposite is true. If you can generate high-intensity using your brain, using your neurons, it will take fewer sets in to maintain itself and in order to grow or get stronger. So the more efficient you are remember, Henneman's size principle the recruit men have more motor units which isn't just muscles, it's nerve to muscle connections. The better you are at doing that, the more you will recruit these so-called the ones that are hard to get to, the more you will kick within muscle that stimulate So if you have muscles that it's going to take more sets in order to stimulate the desired effect in those muscles not fewer. If you have muscles that you are very good at generating force within, Now, how many sets you are it's going to depend for like 50% of your one-repetition maximum, because you're doing a lot of repetitions, you might find that will maintain the muscle. You might decide to do that once at one point in the week So if you're going for 10 sets a week you can divide that among two sessions. You could do that all in one session. The data really show it doesn't matter. There are some differences in terms of whether or not you're trying within a workout or whether or not you want to spread that out. But in general, resistance workouts of any kind tend to be best favored by workouts that are somewhere between 45 minutes and 60 minutes. And generally not longer than 60 minutes because that's when all and some of the inflammatory to create a situation in that's not so great for you. So it's not a hard and fast rule. The ax doesn't drop at 60 minutes but it's pretty clear to 15 sets per week, whether or whether that's divided is really what's going And please do keep in mind and the recruitment of motor units. And remember the better you are at contracting particular muscles in an isolating those muscles, the fewer sets likely you need to do in order to get the desired effect. Now, what about people who If you're somebody who's been doing weight training for a while, that more volume can be that you are very Now, the curve on this, the graph on this begins again at about five sets per week for maintaining a given muscle group, and extends all the way out However, there are individuals can generate so much force. They're so good at training muscles that they can generate so or six or eight sets that of work is actually going So everyone needs to First of all, how often you're willing to do resistance exercise of any kind. And again, it doesn't or weights or body weight. For instance, if you're unless you are very strong You're just using something Or if you're doing pushups, in that 30% to 80% of your It doesn't necessarily mean that you have to be moving So the purpose here is to figure out what muscles you're trying to train. That's an issue that we'll And then it does appear that somewhere between five and 15 sets the thing that's going Now, this is based on a that was done by Andy Brad Schoenfeld and colleagues There's a huge group of people out there doing exercise of them that are linking them that don't just pertain to athletes. So that's mainly what And surely there will be exceptions. Now, if you are going to you're not going to do for a given muscle group in one session, then of course, it's imperative that the muscles recover And we are going to talk about recovery both at the systemic level, and at the local level the nerve to muscle and local even muscle level. We'll talk about that in about 10 minutes when we talk about recovery. I do want to mention which is that everything it has to do with full range of motion. And you might ask, well, what This is actually turns out to be a really interesting dataset for generating explosiveness and speed. So for sprinters or throwing sports, or for people that want to it does appear that as fast as you safely can, to heavy loads, can increase And most of that effect is It's not from changes in the muscle. It's from changes in the way communicate with the lower motor neurons and generating a pathway, a that is very efficient at which are the electricity within neurons to trigger the muscle. Now, of course there from nerve to muscle but the takeaway from that is that if you want to get faster, yes, it can be beneficial to get stronger. But if you want to dedicate to jumping higher, to running and these sorts of things that with increasing speed is On the flip side of that for people that want to get stronger, it appears that the as things get harder is a key parameter in recruiting those high So let me phrase that a Think about a set in the gym or think about a set of Initially you can move If you want to generate hypertrophy, the goal really is not but to isolate the muscle and therefore not to use momentum rather than lift weights, as they If you want to get stronger, you're going to be over more muscles and more For generating explosiveness and speed, it's very clear that learning and to move heavy or is going to be beneficial that you train the motor neurons. And of course changes in the muscle. But this could look different And obviously you want If you're injured, you're to train at all for sport And so what this would involve of a one-repetition maximum, moving that as quickly as one And certainly not going to failure because as you approach failure, the inability to move the the weight inevitably slows down. In fact, there are a lot that are focused on informing people of how quickly the bar I saw an advertisement There are things that that will literally speak to you as you're doing a set and inform you whether or not you're moving than you were at the beginning. And trying to hone in on In talking to these experts it does appear that for as long as you're not that you start to distribute the effort to lots of other muscles, it doesn't really matter the motor units that you of neurons that you recruit and the number of muscle these high threshold muscle And so it's really only that you really need to be concerned about how quickly the weight is slowing down. However, if you're trying to and generate more speed and things of that sort, you never or get to a portion of the set where you're moving the And I'm sure as I say that some of the exercise physiologists and advanced trainers out there will come after me with pitchforks, which is fine. I'd love to see the literature that shows that low gear slow movements can indeed improve explosiveness. And that may in fact be the case, but the data that I was able as I described just a moment ago. So as you're probably to customize a resistance practice for your particular needs and goals. And I certainly am not that people periodize their training. That they do things from anywhere from one month to six months, and to make modifications as they go. Because the nervous system in particular the neuromuscular system at the beginning of training. In fact, some of the when they first embrace or can be very remarkable, but So we've talked about a few principles. The fact that you need you need at least five sets to maintain and you probably need about in order to improve muscle. That moving weights of moderate to moderately heavy weight quickly is going to be best for explosiveness. The isolating muscles and something that you can test by just when you're outside the training session, seeing whether or not you will tell you your capacity or to engage strength That your ability to inversely related to the number in order to isolate and And there are some other the whole process of building making them more efficient more strength and hypertrophy. One of them I loath to say I was told is in between set contractions. The other name for this is the people in the gym does typically flexing their muscles in between sets. And indeed the research supports the fact that contractions have about 30 seconds in between the actual work sets, they're not going to on the work sets, if anything they're going to compromise them. But those hard contractions for a variety of reasons related as well as what we talked about before which are stress, tension, and damage, they seem to improve and the nerve to muscle contraction in ways that facilitate hypertrophy. In other words, if you in between sets in the gym, provided that they're and provided it's one that not one of these people that always skips leg day type of people. These people are highly asymmetric although that's up to them, that process of flexing to improve the nerve to muscle connection and enhance hypertrophy. And I say I was low to say it it seems like the end of sort of like the 11th rep of every set. I like to joke. It seems like very few people into the gym and doing a workout without taking a picture of themselves, which I think is fine Although I must say that and even the recreational who seem to get the most and who also seem to get the most out of other aspects of their life, seem to be able to control both in the gym and outside of the gym. But that's more of an In an earlier episode, I talked about estrogen and testosterone. And during that discussion, I talked about the use of resistance for increasing testosterone, And indeed that is a powerful And indeed it's mediated by the We talked about that in I just want to briefly since it's distinctly different from the other protocols The protocols I've talked of explosive movements or of provided the training will cause increases in serum testosterone that's been shown over and over again. And if the session extends and is of sufficiently testosterone levels will start to drop and cortisol levels will go up in ways that can be and the goals of the training. But that's different than training that's specifically geared Duncan French, who's one of the directors of the UFC Performance Center, when he was a graduate student at University of Connecticut He and his colleagues found for stimulating testosterone release which is something that for a variety of reasons. And that involved doing even if it requires lightening the weight on one set to the next, 120 seconds rest in between sets. Which if you think of about and is pretty darn hard work. Now, what's interesting is that there's a very limited threshold for increasing testosterone. That protocol of six sets to these big increases But if people did 10 sets of 10 so just four more repetitions per set, then testosterone did not increase. In fact, you got more of this catabolic cortisol like pathway. You get other benefits from this so-called 10 sets of 10 protocol, but not the testosterone increase and maybe even reductions in testosterone. Now, it's important to point out that that six sets of 10 was done So things like squats, or things of that sort. And those were done as single sessions not in concert with a bunch if athletes are doing why they couldn't also do other types of training elsewhere in the week. I asked Duncan about this that done twice a week that anyone could do that and still maintain this It's a very interesting protocol because as a neuroscientist, it's amazing to me that six sets of 10 causes a distinctly different result in terms of hormone output than 10 sets of 10 of And it speaks to the to muscle connections of your entire system. If there's a theme that I really is that weight training or is really used for 10% of training done where which means lactate will be present and sending signals to your brain, and your heart and your or isolating muscles a kind of a lactate which is but that isolation of So systemic versus isolated. Those are the two general ways in which resistance So I just wanted to mention because it's well supported If you were to incorporate that protocol, you might ask, well, then can you do any other weight training during the week? And sure, of course you can So let's talk about how you How you know if a muscle is recovered and how you know if your Because recovery is what you can come back and do more Meaning, I don't know, you can you and should you come back and do the upper body training day? And it dictates whether or from session to session at all. Before I talk about recovery I just want to make sure that I was able to extract and from my conversation with Dr. Galpin. If you're wondering how for sake of hypertrophy or strength gains, anywhere from a half a all the way up to eight it doesn't seem to matter. Again, if you're thinking or building speed, or you're specifically using resistance training that's a separate matter. We talked about explosiveness and speed. I'll talk about endurance We also talked about in the so called selfie effect of people flexing a particular muscle, isolating a particular just want to mention that if your goal is performance on sets. So moving a particular amount of weight. That's actually going to that you can move. It's going to enhance muscle growth and it's going to enhance the nerve to muscle isolation of So again, that flexing to favor hypertrophy, not performance. If you're trying to get stronger, you're trying to move more weights, you're trying to distribute work, and you're trying to with resistance then flexing between sets is absolutely the wrong thing you're fatiguing the muscle further. Just remaining still or has been shown to be beneficial in terms of moving some of the as well as just recovering between sets. Now, how long to recover For the testosterone protocol, found that it was about that really on the clock, For hypertrophy and for strength gains, it does seem that resting or even three or four, can be beneficial. And if you're interested of work that you can do in a given session at high capacity at high please see the episode that I did on cold and performance about which is based on the work of my colleague Craig Heller in the Biology which talks about Palmer Cooling, about how you can cool through the palms using these that are only present in your hands. People are now doing this with There are a number of I talk all about that in that episode. It allows you to do more repetitions and more work at a given weight over time. So rather than getting 10 repetitions and then eight and then seven and then six through proper use of palmer cooling, one can do 10, 10, 10, And that's one way that one can accomplish higher volume work without having to drop the weight considerably. So that's where you can if that's your goal of getting strong and generating some hypertrophy. Because as soon as you have then you're shifting and endurance and less toward So check out that episode. The last thing besides and whether or not or whether or not you're really is this notion of pre-exhausting muscles. It's been shown over and over again that for instance, if you in a given muscle and really isolate that, doing the isolation work So this would be leg extensions the thing where you sit and you extend your toes Leg extensions before to target that muscle And that makes perfectly the Henneman's size principle It should be obvious why that's the case. But of course that's going in terms of how much weight you can lift, and maybe even the form when you move to the So you really have to ask How good are you at Therefore, how many How often are you willing to train therefore, how many in a given session versus to distribute across the week? Are you aiming for performance? Are you going to distribute that work across the nervous system and musculature? Are you trying to move weights? Are you trying to challenge muscles? If you're trying to challenge muscles, then you really want to focus on things like this pre exhausting the isolation of a muscle before the compound movement. Your performance on compound movements will absolutely suffer but your ability to isolate that muscle through the accumulation of larger myosin, those bigger balloons, will benefit. And once again, if you're than the speed of the So how do we know if we've recovered? How can we test recovery? And this is not just recovery this is recovery from running, Up until now I've been talking more or less in a vacuum. I haven't even touched on the fact that many people are running and they're doing resistance training or they're swimming and they're It's not simply the case that you can just work other muscles. Because even if you've let's say you have incredible abilities to isolate just your and you do a workout where you do your six sets of intense work or maybe use palmer cooling, and you're able to do and you're done, and that muscle group the next day is certainly unless you're somebody who's or you're enhancing your which we'll talk about at the end. Well, you can assess systemic recovery meaning your nervous system. And your nervous system's both distributed and isolated And fortunately, these and two of them are essentially zero cost, require no equipment. HRV, heart rate variability into the forefront of exercise physiology and even into the popular discussion. I've talked about HRV before. How when we exhale, our because of the way that our diaphragm is connected to our heart and to our brain and the way our brain is When we inhale our heart rate speeds up and that is the basis of Heart rate variability is good. It means that you're breathing properly, and when I say it's good it means you want a lot of heart rate variability. You don't want a heart rate that is high or low consistently over time. That might come as a bit endurance athletes, to accomplish your endurance to really hit that nice sweet spot where you're breathing rhythmically, your heart rate's going rhythmically. You're in that steady heart rate, and then away from exercise, you have a nice low Well, nice low heart rate isn't Turns out the introducing bouts of increasing your heart and even through your waking day, through stressful events is beneficial. A good nerve to heart system benefits from being able to increase heart rate and decrease heart rate. Heart rate variability is good. So you don't want high heart rate, you don't want low But heart rate variability is difficult for a lot of people to measure. There are some devices that Various watches and devices. There are more devices becoming Hopefully soon, some that are integrated with your phone that involve no contact or anything on your body. But those do carry some costs The measures of heart rate while in movement are still in that phase I would say of technology development where everyone isn't using There are two measures however, whether or not you first thing in the maybe after five, 10 minutes, if you like, but ideally right when you wake up in order to assess how and therefore whether your whole system at all that day. The first one his grip strength. Grip strength, the at the level of squeezing the fist or squeezing down on something, might seem like kind of a trivial way to assess recovery but to your ability to use to control your lower motor neurons and to generate isolated force. So that's really what you're Some people will use or Costello has this toy and it's this hard rubber. And I've tried this before. If I've been working really or I've been training a lot any one or combination of I can't actually squeeze that thing down as much as I can Costello with like a 24 inch neck even though he's never touched a weight somehow he can just and he can turn it into and he likes to chuckle while But on a good day, I so that I eliminate the hole You can also take a floor and see how much force you can generate. I would do that as a baseline to establish what you can do when you're well rested. And then if you do that in the morning, you can see whether or not you're able to generate the same amount of force or you could use over the A lot of this is very subjective with a scale you're whether or not you can generate If you start seeing a 10% or that's concerning, it your nervous system as a whole it's not necessarily from nerve to muscle of rewiring themselves in And you might think, well, I Why am I having a hard time doing this for a completely different muscle group? It doesn't make any sense. But there's something about to lower motor neuron pathway generally that allows you to use as a kind of a thermometer, if you will of your ability to recover. So look for your ability when you first wake up. It's not going to be as after a cup of coffee and a couple meals but the point isn't performance overall, the point is to assess whether or not you're getting better, worse The other one that's really terrific and the Andy Galpin's group is using. And I'm delighted about to something that my lab is is carbon dioxide tolerance. So this is a really interesting tool that endurance athletes, strength athletes I think can all benefit from. In fact athletes and people of all kinds. Even if you're not an athlete, even if you're not exercising at all, there's a good question of as a whole is doing okay or not. We rely on the thermometer. Do we have a fever or not? We rely on subjective things. Do I feel good or not? Am I digesting well or not? Those are all subjective. The carbon dioxide tolerance test is, its objective in that it to engage the so-called of your nervous system of your nervous system. And it measures your ability a particular skeletal muscle, So here's how you do the You wake up in the morning. If you have to use the but try and stay away from your phone. If you have your phone, go to the timer or use a of measuring time, stay off social media for just a few seconds. It'll be okay. And what you're going to do through your nose as deeply as you can, you can do this lying inhale through your nose So that's one. You're going to repeat that four times. So inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale four times. And ideally you're and you're exhaling through the mouth. That's just the beginning of this carbon dioxide tolerance test. Then you take a fifth inhale as deep as you can through your nose. Fill your lungs as much as you can, and if you can try and expand make your stomach go that means that your So you're inhaling as Then hit the timer and that air as slowly as So it looks like you have in your mouth and you're letting it go. As slowly as you possibly can. Measure what we call the or discard rate. I know you can all sit with lungs empty after you eliminate all that Don't stop the timer with your lungs empty for a while, stop the timer when you able to exhale any more air. So you do inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale slowly. I just said it quickly for sake of time then you can do this fifth and then [deep exhale] And I'm not going to do And then you're measuring that time. Your carbon dioxide discard between one second and Two minutes would be a heroic 30 seconds would be more typical. 20 seconds would be fast. If your carbon dioxide discard time is 20 or 25 seconds or less, you are not necessarily recovered from your previous days activities. There's ways to push through this but hold onto that thought for a moment. If your carbon oxide between about 30 seconds and 60 seconds, you are in what we would where you are in a position And if your carbon dioxide between 65 and 120 seconds, well then you have almost certainly recovered your nervous system. I'm not talking about but your nervous system is And Andy's Lab has great data on this as it relates to exercise physiology. I think that story should be out in the not too distant future. My lab has been using to look at anxiety and So two totally independent projects but using the same measure. So you've got HRV, which You've got grip strength, which you can assess subjectively or you can use a floor scale and now you have carbon dioxide tolerance. You want to do this in the and keep track just write or maybe just keep tracking your mind of your carbon oxide discard time. If you find that your even if they're in the but normally you can do If they're starting to drop you're veering in the And I'm really keen on this tool because everybody has Some people are eating really Some people have minimal stress or can buffer stress really well. Other people they dissolve if they read one text message And I realize, and I I realize people have and demand in their life. It's just to to prescribe that says, okay, yes and this is exactly what you should do. No, you shouldn't. Use carbon dioxide discard rate because a, it's valuable, it's informative. b, it's zero cost and c, it's something you can And that's really the key. And I'd be remiss if I didn't say that what carbon dioxide is your ability to mechanically certainly that's one aspect of it, but that relates in a very to put the brake on your stress system. To engage the so-called parasympathetic or calming arm of your And another thing that Andy is at the offset of after your weight training session, maybe even after your plyometrics session, we didn't really talk and that sort of thing. Maybe we'll talk about But they and other groups, and other groups that are very interested in physical performance are using a tool where they deliberately disengaged for five minutes at the end of training. They deliberately engage this of the nervous system. And you can do that through I'm a big fan of respiration tools 'cause they're always available to you. Your breathing is always there. I talk about some of these but you could use things like at the end of a training session. You could do 10 physiological size, double inhales through the that will definitely engage the parasympathetic nervous So rather than finish and then just hop onto your phone, serious athletes and people initiate that recovery at the and they start to kickstart and they measure CO2 So there are several In fact, I know several with them that are using in order to recover their nervous system and maintain nerve to Maintain focus throughout enhance their focus by doing So double inhale, exhale in between sets. So they're getting very about their strength work muscle isolation work during their sets. And then in between sets, disengaging the nervous system, and then they're re-engaging it again. So I just wanted to emphasize that. So recovery is a complex process. It's got a lot of things but the CO2 tolerance set Now, another tool for recovery that people are very excited about is the use of cold and the ice bath. And this is important. If you are somebody who uses or ice bath, or jumping whatever it is that used to generate cold as a recovery tool, you should be aware that there are data if your goal is recovery using cold within the four I'm not talking about about whole body cooling or Yes, it will reduce inflammation. Yes, it will reduce the amount of delayed on muscle soreness one readout of how intense or damaging not the only readout, but it does seem to interfere with some of the things like mTOR pathways, the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway and other pathways that promote muscle Remember, stress, tension, and damage or the stimulus for nerve to and for muscles to get And so if you're getting into or taking a really cold shower after doing resistance training, you are likely short-circuiting that you're trying to create. Now, athletes who are so that they can get back or let's say you're want to gain much strength or hypertrophy and you're mainly focused on endurance and you want to do more endurance work and you've been weight training, well then exposing yourself but you're not going to from the resistance training. In other words, cold seems to short circuit of that resistance training. There are some other things that can short circuit the benefits of resistance training as well. One of those is anti-histamines. Some interesting data I believe it was in that showed that of the benefits of cardiovascular exercise of endurance type work of fairly long duration as well as inhibit some of with resistance training. Remember, it resistance that's a stimulus for stress and the adaptation to that That you can run further, faster, lift more weight, hypertrophy So anti-histamines can be a problem. Obviously don't compromise your ability to breathe completely, but by blocking what are called Mast cells are really interesting cells that we'll talk about in our They travel in the bloodstream and these little packets that burst open it sites of inflammation. Muscle damage and inflammation is a signal that something needs to change. And so taking it to histamines some of that inflammatory process. So you actually want inflammation during and immediately after a workout, then you want to bring and I'll mention how to do that. The other thing are non-steroid you know their trade names. These are painkillers Those as I've mentioned can interfere with the and the benefits of resistance training. In addition to that, and pain is a very good signal that you might be doing something wrong. And so while nobody likes to be in pain, I suppose there are probably like to be in pain, but but nobody likes to be in pain. The non-steroid as they're called, and to prevent a lot of the gains the improvements in that people are specifically So be cautious about your use of non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs especially within the four hours preceding or the four hours following exercise. So I hope you're starting In order to change the in ways that will better serve you, you need a stressor which particular stressor But that stressor is almost always going to be associated with inflammation, and then after the and get into a state of And that's why you would non sleep depressed which we or perhaps you would use the hypnosis app that we've talked about before There's a great app for or the physiological side to calm down after training. There are also tools that one at a kind of foundational And these are tools that I've talked about many times before, but The kind of Golden Three and the ones that he recommends are sufficient omega-3s again, through diet, through whole food intake or through supplementation or both. So in general, getting of EPA per day to keep Vitamin D and in some Magnesium malate seems to in offsetting delayed Soreness itself is not required for improvements in strength, improvements in hypertrophy. That's a myth. Now, if you do experience chances are you stressed that or even maybe to well, maybe and you need longer recovery. There's a total debate or not you should train again I think the general takeaway is, no that means it's not recovered. And there are things like fascial release sauna, cold that can perhaps from soreness to not sore. But in general, the omega-3, vitamin D, and magnesium malate trio to reduce inflammation at But remember you want you're not damaging the muscles so much that you're injured during because that's the stimulus I want to talk about a few other things that support the process of and touch on some of the things that a lot of people are doing to try and evaluate whether or not those are in fact enhancing workouts or not. Because weight training, of exercise has a unique aspect to it, which is this feature call it the pump which is into the muscle when you of training where you into what the result before you actually So if you think about when and let's say you go let's say your goal is to break you want to do a sub ten two mile. Actually, when I went to university I was running cross country, and I wanted to walk on And so I went out there and turned out you had to do a sub 10, two mile. And I think the best mile was a 457, which isn't terrible. I can't do that now. It's not even close to what the best high school athletes can do now. But that would have meant So it was sub 10 minute two I told Costello this story the other day and he just kind of laughed at me. He was like, why would you Because Costello is of these type two fast twitch muscles they're designed for moving objects. He's incredibly strong. He has been since he was a puppy. I mean that dog could if he wanted to, but Whereas a Greyhound or a Whippet or some of these other can go, go, go. They have a higher percentage of the so-called slow-twitch muscle fibers. They are much better at endurance. So a sub-10 two mile would have no chance I could have done that. I don't think even with a lot of training. But let's say that you want in a given type of exercise. Let's talk about some of across the board to improve and improve nerve to muscle The first thing that's absolutely key for nerve to muscle communication of any kind might not but it is very exciting. And that's salt. Nerves cells, neurons and communicate with But that electricity is generated into and out of the neuron. And the rushing in of a is what allows nerve cells to fire. If you don't have enough your neurons and your brain and your nerve to muscle communication will be terrible. If you have sufficient How much salt will depend on how much caffeine you're drinking, and how much food you're ingesting. And whether or not you're how hot it is, et cetera, So you want to make sure potassium and magnesium in your system if you want to perform well. I realized that salt isn't but it is a vital. Its absolutely vital. And the endurance athletes in high heat can speak to the fact that when your electrolytes are low, your body doesn't function nearly as well. In fact, even for mental and for writing and for doing analytic work of any kind, even a hard conversation having sufficient electrolytes and being low on electrolytes won't help and just drinking water won't help because you need electrolytes. The other thing that's been a numerous well-controlled studies to improve muscle performance is creatine. Early on there was a lot of but there are many studies to this website that which is this free website examined.com that there are no fewer 66 studies... So 18 studies supporting can be increased by ingesting creatine. How much creatine? Well, I asked the experts and they tell me that for somebody who is about 180 pounds, five grams a day should Heavier than 180, so if you got like if you're a 220 pound or 230 pound person, 10 to 15 grams of creatine. People lighter than 180 pounds maybe three to five grams of creatine or even one to three grams. Creatine is a fuel source for for high intensity activity. It is also a fuel source and it can have some So creatine is a very Early on when it was it was thought that you had to load it in higher dosages for a few days and then maintain it at lower dosages. So you'd take 20 or 30 grams a day then back off to five or 10. It doesn't seem to be the case that you can get all the benefits from taking the dosages at the low level. I just mentioned a few moments ago as they relate to body weight throughout. So salt and electrolytes absolutely key. You need those present. You need to be well hydrated. Creatine seems to have a There are 66 studies, 66 is greatly increased And this is sprinting and running and jumping as well as The ability to hydrate by creating because of the into cells of various kinds. As an indirect effect, it because of the way that it and probably also because of the way that if you get stronger, you and generate more hypertrophy. It reduces fatigue. Seven studies have shown There are even some interesting effects on improving cognition after Although that's a serious you absolutely should talk to before adding anything of your current regimen. There are a few other and notable, but the big ones to before about increased And I just want to emphasize that creatine can increase this hormone that we talked about in dihydrotestosterone which by five alpha reductase It's the more dominant androgen in humans. Leads to increases in strength It also can increase Some people, not everybody with creatine other people don't. Some people experience because basically [mumbles] has the opposite effect on as it does on the scalp, Women who ingest creatine there are essentially no data showing that it increases hair but of course, everyone is different. So you can go to examine.com. You can explore those studies. So creatine definitely a powerful performance enhancing molecule. The other one, one that but that seems to have a very strong and well-supported Now, beta-alanine is interesting because when you hear you think about heavy all that kind of stuff But beta-alanine seems to support exercise that is of slightly longer duration. So a mix of anaerobic and These are physical performance So you can use your mind Things that weights that limit you to 8 to 15 repetitions. Cardiovascular exercise of the sort like rowing or sprinting. So interval work, it seems to So we're not talking about long runs, we're not talking about heavy deadlifts. The standard dose is somewhere again, as always check with a doctor, make sure these things are safe for you. I'm not responsible for your health. You are. I don't say that just to protect me. I'd say that also to protect you but it really seems to improve anaerobic running There are even some interesting effects on reduction of body fat and So creatine, beta-alanine, electrolytes, these are kind of the core three things that seem to improve performance and are well supported by And in the earlier episode we talked about palmer cooling. That's certainly a It's nothing you ingest in a very specific way. That's very powerful. Now, what about for longer We've mainly been focusing but what about for long runs, long swims, these kinds of things? Well, it does seem that like arginine and citrulline for those long bouts of exercise that's mainly going to be due to effects of those compounds on vasodilation. It's going to open up the vasculature and allow more blood flow. Do note that things like can have some side effects if you will. They can increase the likelihood of having herpes cold sore The arginine is in the if people know this, but on neurons of the trigeminal and the eyes and the mucus So this is the herpes The virus lives on those neurons and then periodically and that's what leads to the and citrulline can lead and canker sores, and So you want to be aware of that. That's not everybody, and not just be aware that I think by time they're 12 years old, It's very contagious and and then only under conditions of stress or heightened arginine we'll have them later. Again, this is not necessarily an STI, a sexually transmitted infection. This is an infection that from mucous membranes, just and things of that sort. Very common in the general population. Any discussion about muscle would not be adequate if about nutrition, but rather than have a whole 'cause there's lots of for instance, if you want to gain muscle that you need to have a calorie You could have a calorie surplus of more. If you want to avoid gaining weight then you would not create a You can find all that information online. That's not what this We had a month where we talked a lot about hormones and food and moods. We talked about foods, but more as they relate to the nervous system. When it comes to supporting muscle. So supporting the synthesis of larger what I called myosin that ingesting 700 to 3000 milligrams of the essential amino acid leucine with each meal is important. Now, that does not necessarily In fact, most people recommend you get your amino acids, including your essential amino acids and your leucine from whole foods. High quality proteins aren't What do you mean by that? Well, it is true that a lot of in things like beans and that all the essential amino but per unit calorie, if if it's in your ethics to it's true that for instance, 200 calories of steak or chicken or fish or eggs will have a higher density than the equivalent amount of That's just simply the way it works. So for the vegans and vegetarians I'm certainly, I'm not that you can support muscle growth. You absolutely can. Some of them might want but this 700 to 3000 is one of the best ways that's been shown to support the synthesis of more myosin if your goal is hypertrophy and it's also the way that you if your goal is strength. So that's specifically geared towards muscle hypertrophy and strength. And I encourage you to think about this protein density issue. And whether or not you ingest to think about whether or essential amino acids, especially leucine. Now, many people have of whether or not you need to It turns out that you don't that's kind of the old school thinking that you need to eat very frequently. I think for certain for drug assisted meaning people that are enhancing their to super physiological levels, where they are experiencing of protein synthesis and That might make sense. Again, I'm not supporting the use of those performance enhancing drugs but there are people doing that. And that's one of the reasons And so much protein for typical people who are not doing that, I Then it does appear that you need to eat but you don't need to eat It does seem like not eating So somewhere between one meal lies the more reasonable two or three or maybe four times a day. I think that a whole discussion and we'll have this at a future time of whether or not eating protein more frequently can enhance this myosin synthesis. But I think the simple takeaway from the literature that and from my discussion with him is, eating two to four times a day, making sure you're getting in a way that's compatible and with your nutritional regimen is going to support muscle strength improvements, There's one more thing which is the relationship between particular kinds of exercise and our ability to think and We all hear that exercise that it supports our brain And indeed that's true However, many of us are of going for a run or going for a swim or working out hard in being able to use our brain for cognitive functions I discussed this with and I learned something very interesting, which is that hard bouts of exercise of the sort where you're or you're generating focused for obsession that lasts anywhere from, I don't know, 30, 45 or a long run where you're engaging in some interval training during that run, after exercise, there's a of the brain. So there's actually a quite of oxygen that your neurons are getting and therefore your ability to think. So it's important that and the duration of your that you're still able to do well in life and lean to life the way you need to, because I'm guessing most of you are not in a position to just prioritize you also need to use your minds. I'm certainly familiar with but also the requirement of needing to perform cognitive It also turns out that you can leverage something interesting to muscle work in ways that can benefit cognitive function and focus. And it has to do with and your nervous system predict bouts of intense focused effort. So let's say you're doing or three times a week, and you're doing it There are clocks, within the liver and within the brain that learn to predict that If you are trying to get you might try scheduling on the days when you at the same time when that intense, focused physical training. Because the systems of the body that generate acetylcholine release and other neuromodulators, the systems, of the body and brain that those are on this sort of clock mechanism in a way that you likely will find that after just a week of you will be able to focus when you're not training during the period of time of day when you normally would train. So is kind of an indirect positive effect. You're harnessing the focus in your nervous system for And of course, we'd be remiss if we didn't talk about It turns out that whether or or in the afternoon, it for sake of things like hypertrophy Everyone seems to have a time of day that they prefer to train. I've said before and their reasons based on body temperature rhythms and cortisol release three hours or 11 hours can be very beneficial and can provide a sort of predictability or regularity to when your body will be ready to train and best apt to train well. There is some evidence that training in the afternoon is whereas training for and strain changes, et cetera doesn't really matter when you train. So you also want to make compatible with work that really gets down into the wits of optimization. But I think it's interesting to note that if you're going to you can take the days when you don't train and use that to enhance for things that have So this might be writing, or reading, or music, or math, et cetera. Typically, I restrict to about 90 minutes. So called ultradian cycle for learning. Today was a bit longer. And I admit that I tried It is the last episode in this month on physical performance. I figured in this case more is better especially since everything You certainly don't have and you can come back to into the precise locations in order to take notes or that you need. I'd like to point you I highly recommend looking into the work that he's doing if you want more details. He's very, very skilled, He superb at what he does. He's a professor. He works with athletes. He works with typical and muscle physiology world. Brad Schoenfelds work. I also have a lot of respect for. I've never met him. I don't know him. There's no paid endorsement here. They're not sponsors are related I just think the work and they're both on the academic side and the practical side. And of course there are doing fabulous work in this area as well. If you like this podcast from the information that you're learning and you want to support us, the simplest and most straightforward way which is subscribe to Click the Subscribe button and to subscribe on Apple That really helps us. It helps us get the out more broadly generally, and it ensures that you We release episodes every and from time to time, we release shorter episodes in between. So you'll be sure to hear those episodes. In addition, check out the at the beginning of the podcast. If you like and if you're through those sponsors is a terrific way to support our production staff A zero cost way to support the podcast is to tell your friends, tell that you think might benefit The way this podcast is set into four or five episodes, all centered around a given theme or topic So the episodes on sleep, for instance that were way back in January, and what seems like way back are still every bit as relevant today as they were back in January for somebody that has challenges with sleep and wants to understand or wants to understand their and dreaming to leverage So if you pass information that's great. We also have a Patreon. You can go to patreon.com/andrewhuberman. There, you can support the podcast at any level that you like. And as always, please the podcast episodes and In the comment section. I really do read through It takes me some time, but I reply to as many of them And they're great way On Apple you can give if you think we deserve that. And if you want to do all if you want to do just one And if you do none of that you come here to about science and science-related tools. In today's episode, I various compounds that and safe for you can and muscle physiology, et cetera. We've partnered with Thorne T-H-O-R-N-E because Thorne supplements we believe are of the highest possible What you see on the bottle and the quality of are excellent. So much so that they and all the major sports teams. If you go to Thorne you can see all the and you can get 20% off as well as 20% off any that Thorne sells. So if you go to thorne.com/u/huberman any of those supplements listed there and then if you navigate and you find something else that you like will be 20% off at checkout. Last but not least, I want to thank you for your time and attention today. And as always, thank you for [bright upbeat music]