Aren't we living in the best age ever!? I mean, grants us endless possibilities. Contrary who were told to just pray to God, have kids, work modernity and neoliberalism, can become anything hustlers, innovators, YouTube stars, Instagram hard and live on rice and beans for five years, applies to everyone! So, get off your lazy ass, among the rich and successful in no time. Because of course not! So, what are you waiting for? Beneath this shiny surface of boundless darker side. South Korean-born German philosopher society is increasingly leading humanity toward such as narcissism and hyperattention. His of today's achievement society and why people are This video explores Byung-Chul Han's If you want to help keep this channel going, become a Patreon supporter. You'll get Byung-Chul Han noticed a significant shift in work, self-improvement, and social interactions. control, such as punishment and strict rules, changed. Instead of external forces imposing our motivated. It's not about obedience to some it's about taking leadership over our own Han's book thoroughly examines our shift from a He mentions the world described by philosopher facilities, prisons, barracks, and factories, towers, airports, banks, and shopping malls. At based on punishment and obedience, characterized liberated, sparkling society characterized by neoliberalism is where it's at, people. It's the we can become the best versions of ourselves. all these resources and opportunities, all these take our poor ancestors from the Industrial of having the opportunity to climb the corporate of SpongeBob toothpaste and travel the world, gathering Instagram selfies with some vague to keep up with the Joneses on social media. society is that, as members of it, we think we're achievement society also has its confinements, people don't even realize it. The real Matrix is and boundless opportunity, which, in reality, is And the 'freedom' we fight for (and some are even One of the fundamental differences between what Han called the "negativity of Should" of 'Should,' there's an external force telling us rules. We can see the tyranny of 'Should' as a his servants into submission, forcing them to who, just like his predecessors, puts people which, in turn, fuels the country's economy. extent. As long as you keep forcing people, majority at least) do what they're told. However, first of all, it takes a lot of staffing of the population to work and keep everyone in people don't like to be forced and oppressed, of riots and other forms of social unrest. In Han observed that the 'Can' The positivity of Can is much more efficient the social unconscious switches from is faster and more productive End quote. difference between 'Should' and 'Can' is that describes this as "carrying a work camp inside." put into prison camps where a bunch of sadistic we push ourselves to work; we're both the guard effective than extrinsic motivation. But, we come from? And why do these internal labor camps, The idea of freedom to do anything, to be anything enthralling. The world has become our playing where all our dreams come true. We're not too met or enduring at the hands of oppression: we're lifestyles, and becoming the best version of aren't bad per se, but we could also overdo it. its members tend to be internally motivated to constant grinding and leveling up lead to Han speaks of the tyranny of positivity. positivity and negativity Han presents in his actions toward achievement, self-optimization, the "unlimited can." Negativity relates to but also things like boredom, waiting, and the pursuit of achievement and self-optimization. We all know these overly motivated people take their latte enema, appear at work on Monday the whole week, grinding, trying to better thinking in opportunities, growth, improvement, companies love them. They're the role models exhausting to be around, aren't they? And they 'leisure,' and other forms of downtime, unless meeting during a company trip. Why have we evolved We may seem free subjects in the achievement aspect. 'Should' is still there but in a different late-modern labor society is the "imperative to to achieve; achievement is expected, just as Not performing in the achievement society Disciplinary society is still governed and criminals. In contrast, achievement End quote. achieve that causes depression, according to Han. leading to self-exploitation and setting often which usually leads to a profound discrepancy where we actually stand. The latter is goalposts. "The exploiter is simultaneously no longer be distinguished," argues Han. The without domination is possible and even own worst masters. But this auto-exploitation the precursor to depression. Depression--which often culminates overdriven, excessive self-reference that has depressive achievement-subject grinds itself down, and at war with itself. Entirely incapable of of relying on the Other, on the world, it this leads the self to hollow and empty out. It End quote. laborans' who exploits itself to exhaustion and He is both predator and prey. The subject's auto-aggression. Being beaten by a prisonguard has bizarre, self-imposed demands, restrictions, What makes matters worse is the role of digital it exposes us to, which also comes as an excess of has become fragmented. We have become incapable require profound attention. Instead, we developed allows us to superficially focus on many things not profoundly on one thing, which is required great works of art, literature, and inventions on something. However, the overstimulated doesn't allow its subjects to do so, as it demands stuff that only requires superficial attention We have become a species of multitaskers. scrolling through vacancies on whatever website, responsibilities: being a sparring partner, doing being part of the board, visiting clients, of course, your actual task, which is leading often require you to actively participate in a job isn't enough. Sure, the multitasker they seek but does this individual actually create something not really. "It reproduces and accelerates The multitasker, the hyperattentive, hyperflexible is always too busy; his attention is scattered; switching between this and that, and has no creativity. Add to this the interruptions by our mailboxes, WhatsApp, Telegram, Snapchat... us constantly hijacks our attention. isn't progress and we have actually regressed into too. In the wild, an animal must eat, watch partner while being vigilant of environmental uniquely human skill that we've squandered self-exploitation and exposure to hyper stimuli. Recent social developments and the are bringing human society deeper and bullying has achieved pandemic dimensions. Concern a member of the community, is yielding more According to Han, we have become entrepreneurs subjects with egos ready to burst, suffering quite narcissistic, too. Focusing almost self-absorption and self-obsession. other connections with the community have lost fleeting and transactional. Serial "In social networks, the function of "friends" attention, as consumers, to the ego It's all about me-me-me. The achievement cause. The greater cause is synonymous with the by societal expectations, leading to exhaustion, self-destruction. Now, is there anything we can do Byung-Chul Han's book isn't a self-help book. guide for getting out of the rat race or ideas that counterweight our debilitating which we could describe as incorporating more simplified): Let's all just take a freaking hyper stimuli that destroy our attention spans into self-punishing labor camps. Han speaks of which he regards as resistance to copious amounts protecting our minds from excess positivity. it's often something like binge-watching a series in the background. This isn't a break; it's more cannot endure boredom. A proper break is an active experience a state of 'being' instead of 'doing.' it is, not with achieving, self-optimizing, must set boundaries that keep positivity from waiting and boredom forms of negativity. The capitalist economy absolutizes survival. It is by the illusion that more capital produces more End quote. capitalist economy takes livingness out of life, health. We've been reduced to our vital functions any means. Hence, the mania around health arose. narratives and values, health is what remains, goddess." And let's face it. These days, we we reduce meaning to consuming 1.5 grams of don't worship any deity or higher ideal; We worship the body. We devoutly keep it healthy way of living, focussing only on a fragment manifests as a self-obsessed, egoic activity. focus on health while, at the same time, Why are we trying so hard to survive in this Thank you for watching.