Not that I'm keeping count, but I'm pretty sure inches of TV than anybody else on YouTube. Is that been a lot of fun--a lot of work, but a lot of fun. with our next television, this monster behind Alright, here we go, guys. I can't go again thanking Peter and Greg for coming bit of muscle. These TVs are no joke--they are we could do this without their assistance. So Also, by the way, I have seen some comments from folks insisting that neither Peter nor Greg really you that this is the best part of their week. behind their desks than they are here helping us up to them not knowing that the camera was on With that said, if you notice that I don't know--aggressive, you'll know why. You and so they are going to bring Alright, so, as you know, whenever we unbox "discover as we go" kind of thing. We don't and that's definitely the case the fact that this does not open like a start. I never know what to do with these pieces Alright, what do we have here? Power it's a rechargeable remote. We'll look at that a I checked this out before we started the unboxing. fact that this--oh my gosh, how do we even get this that this thing has a centralized pedestal stand. because that's the most stable and the easiest going for a specific kind of look here. Samsung from the competition because, let's be honest, Actually, let's talk about that for a minute, box material, let's talk about the price of this or a list price, of no less than $15,000. Now, but let's throw some context behind this. TCL depending on what day of the week it is. is selling this TV for $10,000. And I, I wondering where you find four to five Certainly, Samsung makes a premium can't get from any other TV brand--like for example. I imagine this TV right here the Q990D soundbar. But still, four to five high-performance models? These are not and so I can't help but have that be kind of an But that brings up a good opportunity to ask is there any world in which Samsung can a TV like this? Also, keep in mind that, that you can't get in 8K from Samsung, it's going to be this particular 4K set. So, Alright, so, to get the pedestal stand on smaller TVs as well, the idea is that you kind undo the flaps on the side, put this rear flap piece of foam, exposing where the pedestal stand this is something I normally don't do because, just prefer to lay the TV down flat, have and then erect the TV up on our media stand. this thing down on anything--it is a well-built, would put this on top of. We're going Alright, so it looks like we're working this thing is very heavy. So I do have good confidence that it's going to is that it appears this TV is going to be held I'm not a physics major; it just blows my mind Alright, so we'll start by getting this decorative screw points here. Interestingly enough, this need to be screwed into the base. It's got this it into position. So, yeah, kind of, I don't are keyholes on the bottom of this, so it'll and then we'll flip the lever, and that Alright, so we're on the nubbins, but there well, plastic flew off there, so the world. But let's give it a stress Now, let's see what we're working with here on this piece of foam is going to get in the way. aside from the figuring-it-out-as-we-go part, does easier than the 110 and 115 we did? Nope, just I know people don't look at the back as I'm assembling this right now, it really does pretty good about putting attractive backing on like, when are you looking at the back of your that happens in the first 10 or 15 minutes of Also, while we're here, before I slap some cable management here. You're not going but it looks like there's room for three or which will route things right out through great. Cable management is important; sometimes Guys, I think all we need you for and then you can go home or to the office or that's classic. I've done that so many times, Real quick, while we're back here, you know bass transducers back here. That's something I'm not sure why they're not here--probably are a couple of vents toward the top, those and seeing what they do. Especially would expect to see some bass transducers Alright, now let's get this thing and then let's go get the other corner. let's do some reveal action. Greg and Peter, and then I'll get the foam sheath. Yeah, good, We've got a special little barcode happening right we get to have an awesome film peel, and I think don't think I've told, ever. This happened a and I was sure that it had protective film on it. get that initial, you know, pick at it so that there was no film on that TV, so I was literally my review, and that was embarrassing. That was I'm still sorry about that. So, yeah, I learned Now, for real this time--actually, for real--we're looks like. Is there a barcode on the actual I lied. I lied! Oh, man, there is film here, which but also, that's going to be a lot of and get that guy up there, and then we'll Alright, so we're going to peel it going. But just to make sure that this I'm going to ask Greg here--can you just let it solar charge? I'm just kidding; I gotta say, the energy guide sticker says in eco mode, for it to only be $31... Like I I believe, was up in the $177 territory, kind of amazing that you can have a TV this be and still have that kind of annual [Applause] If &quot;professional TV peeler&quot; isn't something then it needs to be. I think we have [Music] Here and I think... one more... oh, fail. Alright, I think that is it. plastic at some point to peel off, but not like we're leaving the plastic on the please. Alright, a power cable, I gotta say... yeah, Z, see if you can the studio light. Mhm, yeah, it's definitely it's a big TV. It's going to have some reflection we have to use the remote. We'll give it a Something tells me I'm going to want to have &quot;How would you like to get started? Choose I'm quite certain we'll do that later. Yeah, I know that our studio lights are very of reflection here. I said &quot;agree to all.&quot; shout-out to Zeke and Chris, who studio lights on these massive TVs. I unless you've tried to shoot a TV yourself, just TV while trying to have decent lighting in Wait, is it telling me that I need a Samsung I don't remember my Samsung account. This code that actually expires. That's... but it is interesting to me. Bixby or Alexa? Oh, there it is! Did you guys see they're ditching Tizen for... I can't that's fine. I'll take responsibility for that. I do like these kinds of messages. It's gone now, on, which I think is really important. A lot of with the ambient light sensor on by default. but if you want to level out the brightness regardless of the ambient light The TV is in its eco picture mode, which get out of if you want the top brightness did a Samsung TV, but I keep forgetting that ad-supported television) content, a stop to that easily by pressing the So by default, in movie mode, brightness we have a lot of range to work this whole FAST TV playing in the background. into an HDMI port, it'll stop, but like, You all know how I feel about the soap the motion smoothing stuff for now. Then to see if we can get a nice balance not getting the full-on soap opera effect. but I'm going with &quot;High&quot; just because I we get to actually evaluating the measurements Oh yeah, friendly reminder to anyone who purchases iPhone, there's a smart calibration process that works pretty well. One of these days, I'll compare which uses the camera in your smartphone make this available to folks. Nobody else is doing Wow. We're going to need to cut the lights any mini-LED or LED TV in general is step terms of the backlight action, blooming, looks remarkably well-controlled. Another thing performance on this TV is outstanding. There's washout we saw on the TCL and Hisense, and also This just reinforces my opinion that Samsung's got it unlocked--nobody is doing around where that extra $4,000-$5,000 say, the TCL QM8 or Hisense U8K remains TV and discover every premium feature it That said, I can tell you, after three minutes but a YouTube video nonetheless--that the the TCL or Hisense options. It's hard it just looks cleaner and more refined. Once we like where the peak brightness power goes and and how quickly it handles lighting transitions. We're going to dig deep into the nitty-gritty experience you should expect at such a price here. Let me know in the comments what kind like to see covered on this TV, assuming this Alright, so even if you're not getting the 43 inches all the way up to this 98-inch is for certain, though, my friends: I'm going to the comments. Don't forget to like and subscribe, here are two other videos I think