Nowadays, with Korean culture taking off and before, more people are trying to learn how There are many benefits of learning how to can read idols' Korean names, or if you're More importantly, if you come across anything will be able to pronounce it easily. And if the word is English written in Korean, Here in this video, I'll be teaching you Something you should know is that I am actually for many years, so I am fluent in both languages. I'm going to be teaching you Korean in a The video could get a bit long, so make sure there is nothing worse than watching a half-hour Alright, on with the video. First things first, we need to make sure you Korean is actually pretty easy to pronounce. This might seem obvious coming from a Korean, A Korean letter is made up of many characters, own sounds. In other words, parts of a word have their whole word. This isn't the case with Chinese, for example; of the individual parts. Yes, I know Chinese as well. First of all, we need to learn the structure As I mentioned before, a Korean letter is go in designated places. A Korean letter always has a consonant at bottom, or both, and can also have up to two So one thing we need to take away from this and horizontal and/or vertical vowels. Does it sound complicated? Don't worry, now we'll get to pronunciation. Make sure to remember the letter structure, There's also an order of which to write You always write the top consonant first, vowel, and then the bottom consonant. Also, another thing for you to know is that which makes it really easy to count syllables to sound the words out. So, let's learn hangeul, or the Korean alphabet. The Korean alphabet is made up of 14 consonants Very different from English, which has 21 Each character has its own name and sound, For sounds, I'll use English to make it Let's start with the consonants first. The first consonant is g, which has a "g" So, for example, this letter would sound like gag. Same character, but different sounds for top See what I mean? Remember, consonants can be at the top or has different sounds depending on its position. The second consonant is n, which has an So this letter would sound like nan because both top and bottom. The third consonant is d, which has a "d" So this letter would sound like dad. For top, it sounds like "d" a lot, but In English, you would put your upper and lower In Korean, though, you would kind of put your slightly when pronouncing d. For the bottom sound, I know I said it sounds difference between "d" and "t" because it as "d" to make it easier. The fourth consonant is r, which has a sound It's kind of in the middle, and many foreign because it just doesn't exist in English. but they're not exactly the same. So this letter would sound like ral. Same "l" or "r" sound for both top as "l" or "r." When pronouncing "l," you would put your But when pronouncing r, you need to curl It's pretty hard, and you're going to The fifth consonant is m, which has an "m" This letter would sound like mam. Very straightforward and easy. The sixth consonant is b, which has a "b" So this letter would sound like bab. As you can see, the ending of bab sounds like sound, so I would remember it as "b" just The seventh consonant is s, which has an bottom. So this letter would sound like sas. This is one of those cases where top and bottom Remember that. The eighth consonant is . This one is very, very unique. For top, it can be any vowel "a," "e," The sound actually depends completely on the this character has no sound and is completely For bottom, it has an "ng" sound, like So this letter would sound like ang. The top sound is decided by the Korean vowel don't worry--and as you can see, the bottom This is pretty important to remember. Also, fun fact: if you're having trouble Japanese, or Korean, if it has a circle, it Chinese characters are mostly made up of straight while there are some round characters, there So if there's a circle in an Asian language Japanese, or Korean, it's definitely Korean. Just a fun fact for you to know. The ninth consonant is j, which has a "j" There are a lot of consonants that has the of them. So this letter would sound like jaj. Top and bottom sound different. The tenth consonant is c, which has a "ch" So this letter would sound like cac. The eleventh consonant is k, which has a So this letter would sound like kak. Fun fact, if you spam this character when of "LOL." The kkk sound imitates laughter, so The twelfth consonant is t, and it has a bottom. Like d, you have to put your tongue in between it stronger. Not da, but ta. So this letter would sound like tat. Sounds a lot like "t." The thirteenth consonant is p, which has So this letter would sound like pap. And finally, the fourteenth and final consonant top and bottom. So this letter would sound like hah. Fun fact, you can actually remember each character's The characters' names are spelled with their Take this as an example. This character's name is g, so right away sound is "k." Seriously, if you spell it out in English, the last letter would be the bottom sound. Let's just take one more example before This character is j. In English, it sounds like it starts with it. Top sound is "j" and the bottom sound Remembering each character's name is probably sounds. Trust me. So try this for all 14 consonants and remember g: has a "g" sound for top and "k" n: has an "n" sound for both. d: has a "d" sound for top and "t" r: has a similar sound to "l" and "r" m: has an "m" sound for both. b: has a "b" sound for both. s: has an "s" sound for top and "t" : has an empty sound for top, which depends j: has a "j" sound for top and "t" c: has a "ch" sound for top and "t" k: has a "k" sound for both. t: has a "t" sound for both. p: has a "p" sound for both. h: has an "h" sound for both. So there we go! You learned the basic consonants, which are You might need to memorize them well though. But we actually have a bit more consonants Don't worry, they're not really new; they're So Korean has double, or pair, consonants. In Korean, this is called ssangjaeum, which As you can see, this letter ssang has two of They are treated like a consonant, not a combination The first double consonant is gg. Now, we learned a bit ago that g sounds Now that there's two, the top sound for This might be hard to grasp, but let me explain. It's simply just g with a bit more strength And the bottom sound is still "k." So this letter would sound like ggagg. One consonant at the top would sound like Double is gga. See the difference? Double just makes it stronger and harder, The second double consonant is dd. Sinced has "d" as the top sound, dd No bottom sound. dd doesn't exist as a bottom consonant. So this letter would sound like dda. Single is da. Double is dda. You can probably tell the difference. The third double consonant is bb. Since b has "b" as the top sound, bb No bottom sound again, because it doesn't Single is ba. Double is bba. The fourth double consonant is ss. Since s has "s" as the top sound, ss Bottom sound is still "t." So this letter would sound like ssass. Single is sa. Double is ssa. More emphasis. The fifth and final double consonant is jj. Since j has "j" as the top sound, jj Bottom sound doesn't exist. Single is ja. Double is jja. These five are the only double consonants So things like ssang n or ssang r don't The sounds exist; you know, I can say na But these won't exist as a double consonant. It would exist as separate letters. Here's what I mean. Take this word as an example. It has a n on the bottom of the first letter So technically, the "n" sound is doubled. This word is pronounced anna. Hear that strong "n" sound? anna. It is different from ana, which is what Another example is this word. This time it has two r, so the "r" sound alra. See, the "r" sound is much more emphasized. One r would sound like ara. Sounds different than alra. So anyways, this is how consonants that aren't Anyways, the five I showed you are the only There are plenty more double consonants that later on. So now, you basically learned all the 14 consonants Korean alphabet. There is an easy way to remember the sounds I'm going to take the Korean keyboard as This is going to get really interesting. This is an old, 10-key Korean keyboard for Back when there were no touch screens, these I used to use this keyboard long ago before Now, of course, most Korean keyboards look can type Korean on computers, but on phones, I've seen people still use the old one, the old keyboard is easier to use. Really just depends on individual taste. Why am I talking about the old Korean keyboard? Well, as you can see here, the 14 consonants And for most of them, the characters in each You can use this to easily remember the sounds Look at the first pair, which has g and g has a "g" sound and k has a "k" Let's be honest here, ga and ka sound In one way, "k" does sound like a stronger But ka and gga shouldn't be mixed up; they Another pair is d and t. da and ta sound really similar, don't ta just sounds stronger than da. Again, not to be confused with dda, which Another pair is b and p. ba and pa. Again, they sound similar because they are Don't confuse it with bba, which is stronger The last pair on the keyboard is j and c. ja and ca definitely sound similar. Of course, don't confuse it with jja. Now, even though this pair isn't on the and h. a and ha sound similar. Anyways, the characters in each pair look slightly easier for you to memorize the sounds For those that aren't in pairs, just remember You can't learn a language without memorizing. There is an easy way to remember these pairs keyboard. On a Korean QWERTY keyboard, the pairs are These are pairs, these are pairs, these are Top goes right to left, bottom goes left to Now let's move on to vowels. As I've mentioned in the beginning, there If the vowel has a long vertical part, then right, and if it has a long horizontal part, Essentially, there are five of each, making The first vowel is a. The second vowel is ya. Yes, it looks really similar to a--it has well. One thing you can take away from this is that The third vowel is eo. The fourth vowel is yeo. Again, looks really similar, and sounds really The extra stroke adds a "y" to the sound. The fifth vowel is o. The sixth vowel is yo. The seventh vowel is u. The eighth vowel is yu. The final two vowels are unique. The ninth vowel is eu and the tenth vowel They don't sound similar, but they are in These are the building blocks for Korean vowels. If you've noticed, Korean vowels are made strokes. These last two vowels really make up all the Let's go back to the old Korean keyboard I'm pretty sure you see that dot on the It is actually the extra stroke in Korean With this dot and the final two vowels, you It is based on how you write Korean in handwriting. See here. If you add the stroke before i, you get Two strokes before is yeo. One stroke after i would be a , and two Similarly, a stroke before eu would be o, One stroke after eu would be u, and two This is a great way to remember how to write I'm just showing you how the last two vowels will be much easier to remember. So there we go. You learned the Korean vowels ayaeoyeooyouyueui. For vowels, just remember that you can add to make other vowels, and then you can add Before we move on, when Koreans recite the Since we want to say it quickly, we just combine say ganadaramabasaajacakatapaha. That is how Koreans say the Korean alphabet The equivalent of ABC would therefore be the Like consonants, there are combinations of These are quite easy to remember, to be honest. You'll see why. The first pair is aeand e. They sound almost exactly the same. ae, as you can see, is made up of a andi, get ae. This isn't quite it for e, but the pair just remember that. The second pair is yaeand ye. Again, they sound basically the same. yaeis made up of yaand i, so those sounds Similar to the other one as well. They look similar and they sound similar. So some of you might ask, "Well, if they right?" You need to remember that. Yes, even Korean people get it wrong sometimes, All you need is read a lot of Korean words There are some more combined vowels. wa is a combination of o anda, so the waeis a combination of o andae, so the weo is a combination of u and eo, so the we is a combination of u and e, so the wi is a combination of u andi, so the yi is a combination of eu andi, so the Finally, there's oe. You can see that it is a combination of o But it isn't pronounced oi. This is an exception. It is pronounced oe. So, right now you learned the consonants, in the Korean alphabet. Now there's just one more: double consonants This might be the easiest, though. As you can see here, there are pairs of consonants Pronouncing these is easy. Take this as an example. You see n and j together, so it would So, what would this sound like? Let's take a real Korean word as an example. The word you see means "sit down." And as you can see, there is the double consonant The has an empty sound, remember? And this is the first vowel a. And combined with n and j. This word is pronounced anja. Since the in the second letter is empty, j in this case, carries over to the second So really, it sounds like anja. Remember, the right consonant from the letter Another example is this. This word means "to read." There is a r and g at the bottom. You know the drill. The right consonant, which is g here, moves It's pronounced ilgeo, which sounds a lot Final example. This word means "There is." There is a ss at the bottom. Previously you would've pronounced this bottom sound for ss is "t." But here, when the double consonant is made pair moves over. So, since is empty once again, it gets This word is pronounced isseo, which sounds Now, some of you may be asking, "Well, what What if it had a different character?" Then nothing moves over. Let's take this word as an example. This means "thinly." You can see the double consonant made up of letter isn't , but instead it's g. Well, let's go step by step. The is empty, so it depends on the vowel. This vowel is ya. The bottom consonants are r and b, so the bottom sounds are "r" and "b." The next letter has g, which you can tell is e. The word is pronounced yalbge. How easy is that? Great, you're basically done with the Korean Obviously, there are some exceptions you need Look at this word. The first letter has b, which has a "b" The next letter has s, which has an "s" So you would think this word would be pronounced It's pronounced much stronger: beoseu. Yes, it means "bus" in English. Another exception. This word means "good." The first letter has j, which has a "j" h, which has an "h" sound. The next letter has d, which has a "d" You might pronounce this as joda, but that The h from the first letter affects the like t with a "t" sound. So instead of joda, it sounds like johda. Here's another one. This word means "June," as in the month. The first letter has , which is empty, It has g at the bottom, which has a "k" The second letter has a , which is empty Just put them together and get weo. And at the bottom there is r, which has So you might pronounce this as "yug...weol," To make it sound more fluid, Koreans don't it sounds like yugweol. This is how pronunciation could be slightly Obviously I can't tell you all these exceptions you to get a basic start. You will encounter and learn more exceptions I can tell you that there are much more exceptions and "Arkansas." Other than that, you know how to read Korean Now, let's practice pronouncing some real Here's the first word. The first letter has p, which you can tell the vowel is i, so it's pi. The second letter has j, which has a "j" Put them together, and you get pija. And yes, this does mean "pizza." The next word is this. The first letter has , which is empty, The second letter has p, which has a "p" r, which has an "r" sound for bottom, Now put them together, and you'll get aepeul. And yes, it means Apple the company. It doesn't mean the fruit, because we have this one. The first letter has s, which has an "s" The second letter has g, which has a "g" Remember what to do with these? You just put them together because this isn't The vowel is wa. The word is gwa. Put them all together, and you'll get the NOT the company. This one is for K-pop fans. This is the Korean name of a member in TWICE, A lot of foreign people have trouble pronouncing "t-zooyoo" or something like that. Well, in this case, if you knew how to read See here. The first letter has jj, which has a "jj" The vowel is eu, so it's jjeu. The second letter has , which is empty, This isn't an exception, so just put the The second letter is wi. Now put them all together and you'll get Yeah, doesn't sound like "t-zooyoo" because it sounds similar to her actual name. It's just how Chinese works: the "y" but "you" in English, which is why people Moving on. Next word is this, which means "eight" (Yes, there are two counting systems in Korea, The first letter has , which is empty, The second letter has d, which has a "d" It has double consonants at the bottom: r Put them all together and you'll get yeodeolb. To be honest, people don't really pronounce of an exception. Final example, because I'm pretty sure you This is a long word, so let's tackle it The first letter has k, which has a "k" The vowel is eo, and the bottom consonant Put it together and that's keom. The second letter has p, which has a "p" The final letter has t, which has a "t" Put it all together, and you'll get keompyuteo. You guessed it; the word means "computer." Amazing, you can read Korean now! I'm not kidding, you managed to learn how This video was incredibly detailed, pointing and to be honest, probably one of the most Of course, you will come across exceptions in Korean are hard. I can tell you that there are much more exceptions But all in all, I hope you saw that Korean Other parts like grammar, eh... not so much, In fact, by watching this video, you will and billboard in the city. There are a lot of English words that are them, you will know exactly what they mean. So again, if you're a K-pop fan, you can If you like watching K-dramas, you can read Now that you know how to read Korean, with become good at it. Anyway, that was the end of the video. Hope I helped you guys with this video. If it did, then click the like button on the with learning Korean. If you want to say anything, leave a comment Recommend me what videos I should make, and numbers or whatever. And if you want to see more videos like this, I hope you guys enjoyed, and I will see you Bye.