Mad Men is as close at it gets to being the of art that uses it's time period - primarily then contemporary culture to shine a light being examined in this crucial decade. And it does this with a calculated yet skillfully of lyricism to the show - with so many lines meanings, so many character arcs mirroring But while Mad Men remains poetically cohesive, the span of all of its seven seasons, for fifth season. It's just where all of the most compelling introspection, where the story reached some beats. And it does this through a few key methods. Season 5 of the show represented a little presentation and writing. Season 4 contained the biggest change for having them start fresh as a new agency. And although it began months after the opening still sort of stumbling around and finding But in season 5, things are different and having found themselves on stable ground. And this allows the story to focus in on them in on where their lives are and how they feel Whereas the show has basically always done first and foremost, in my opinion, this season focus on internal psychology within the cast. The primary two characters of the series - Donald explored to a great degree, but Season 5 places while very contributory and significant, were The likes of Joan Holloway, Roger Sterling, topic of this video - Peter Campbell. This change of approach worked to stunning to be told throughout the episodes and as of Mad Men's greatest strengths. And to specify even further, I believe that of why I love this show, being a beautifully story that also progresses things and lends tortured souls of the story. Episode 5 of Season 5 of Mad Men is entitled my favourite episode of the show. It primarily follows the story of Pete, and the show for once. And while the episode did progress some other other characters, there is a clear purpose Let's talk about how this episode is a 48-minute point in the story. Throughout the show, Pete is constantly thirsting special, because that isn't something that Instead of recognizing his merits and forming belittle him and dismiss him as privileged a prestigious family. So he festers a burning desire to prove himself the admiration and relationships he seeks. And the sad thing is that in progress towards that will repel the type of attention he so he is with reaching that foreign place of And when he does reach places in life where up, he's met with the terrible reality that He's the furthest thing away from peace events here are relatively mundane, it's I've ever watched due to how it slowly takes is. The episode begins with Pete in driving school, He notices a very young woman in his class to impress her and, eventually, to seduce at the very least not totally satisfied with We then cut to him in bed at night, visibly able to relax due to the loud dripping of This isn't a novel interpretation I'm of Pete's anxiety and desperation, that he isn't happy. And it's no coincidence that he can only where he's supposed to be fulfilled. He can't sleep, can't relax, and cannot to this growing unhappiness. And notably, his wife Trudy tunes it out, her life, deaf to this nagging feeling that He seemingly fixes the leak, thinking that ahead for a quick second, we're reminded It was a coincidence, and the problem was It's symbolic of the fact that Pete constantly feels like he's solved his unhappiness.. and yearning.. that leak, that dripping.. At work, there is a meeting with the partners Baker, senior vice president of public relations they have a chance at landing their first This is a great opportunity for the company, this new business would likely require hiring that may not be feasible. The rest rebuff his hesitancy, saying that This speaks of Pete's insecurities, of his feel taller and more important by pushing Lane says that he'll take responsibility to which the others are apprehensive. After the meeting, Pete gives Don directions by him and Trudy at his home. Don tries to get out of it, but Pete is confident that him and his wife Megan were available. Don does try to worm out of it by calling It's a charming little scene for Trudy, is to the company, even though that much is But as we see in conversations with the girl doesn't make him feel comfortable or accomplished. Pete has garnered praise and become significant, and he's proven his worth. But he still somehow doesn't feel as if He doesn't have control, and he feels like The episode smoothly moves into the dinner to the grandness of Pete's living abodes the fantastic record player, the beautiful From an outsider's perspective, Pete has Yet when the Drapers arrive, he nervously that he's there, and this makes it clear himself up and force his way into being appreciated Years and years on from his days of naivety season 1, and this aspect of him remains unchanged. The dynamics of this party are really quite all of these characters, where they are in how things play out. It's clear to all that Don is the man. Everyone looks to please him and laugh at amount of authority and charisma even in this by every word he speaks. Pete has become secondary in his own home, due to how organically he regresses into that him, and how often it happens. But again, it's not something he is consciously he likes to live. He wants to feel more significant, he wants appreciation. And despite his important job, his new status, he longs for, and I can't imagine how frustrating The conversation then moves to coworker Ken order yet has always considered competition. Ken has slowly been making some progress as He's been able to turn this passion of his of his life, and it's an exciting thing This draws attention at the party to him - people and out in the world - and he begins turning Ken's wife explains one of his stories, tale of a robot that feels powerless in the And in the process, we see that people are And Pete doesn't like this and watches with with Ken being seemingly reluctant to share with his hobby. He doesn't like that others are supporting As a result, he tries to downplay the deep keep drawing attention back to it. It's a very short sequence of lines but And so now he feels like the least important doesn't sit well with him - and by my reckoning, where it hadn't quite gotten there when As the host, it's arguably on him to allow he doesn't adhere to this, his pride and him. And a lot of this is communicated by subtext expressions. He can gloat about his record music, but he It's bizarre - no one is measuring the impressiveness him. Because therein lies his loneliness. He has achieved, but his achievements are or being Don Draper. They don't grant him what he seeks. He stands unimpressive, surrounded by that He feels as if everyone else is finding the And it drives him crazy. I May be looking into this a bit much given of man that Mad Men has consistently communicated I think this is genuinely where his mind is and mannerisms drive it home. Towards the end of the party, the women find is still a problem, as it explodes and showers While Pete makes for the toolbox, Don is able again reinforces the idea that Don is the Pete is a pretender, he can't do these things This power, this air of confidence. So he fakes and forces his way through life, him. He looks on with admiration and mingled bitterness, But I reckon that the most painful thing for beautiful wife and daughter, the perfect picture the onlookers. But in actuality, it's a shallow and hollow Back at work, Lane mentions that he hasn't Pete, Roger and Don agree to take the client ultimately close the deal. Lane agrees, somewhat reluctantly but open And as we transition back to driving school, progress with the girl, a new boy joins the Pete, as she's immediately smitten with The moment she begins talking to the newcomer, chance has slipped away. He loses, powerless once again.. and it makes We then cut to the fated dinner with Edwin intends to give them his business, but just Ever the man for the job, Roger takes them a dressed up whorehouse. After a very significant look from Don - a and a look in return of resigned frustration something wrong, Pete makes off with one of find out what his kink is. She begins first with the eager-to-please in as I'm sure it was at least somewhat She then plays the bashful virgin, which doesn't And then.. third time's the charm. Pete just wants to be in control, appreciated, All the things that he feels that he doesn't His current life doesn't fulfill him, and us into exactly what he desires. In the car ride home, Pete expresses frustration festivities with the women, likely due to Don is satisfied and disinterested in cheating Pete, as always, admires, resents, and envies Don tells him that he's taking things for he is, yet doesn't FEEL like he is, and WHy isn't he happy? It's torturous. And I have a bunch of sympathy for Pete in being told that you have everything when you beyond words. The next day, Lane blows up on the partners previous night and he got in trouble. They find it humorous, and Lane is understandably Pete makes a jibe at Lane's naivety and Something that once again is said in service importance to the company to make himself And as a result, Lane challenges Pete to a What's so important to note here is the challenged, Pete looks at his partners as or defense of him.. and finds nothing. Not to blame them of course, it's an awkward But it's a sad moment for a man who's are backed up when those who he thought might to help him. And of course, he loses the fight. He can't back up his words with action and in this episode as he constantly dwells on When offered help, he says he's fine to But before he leaves, he looks at his partners him when it mattered. He yearns for connection from people that or another, and it destroys him. Again, he is in no way shape or form a blameless mean that he isn't sympathetic once you the way he is, and where this path has taken Especially in comparison to how he wants to Afterwards, Pete wallows in misery and eventually He pours himself out to Don, and he returns his shame, to a home that doesn't feel like to a ceaseless dripping. A man powerless to even fix his own sink. Overlaying this montage is Ken's stab at of an unbearable loneliness, who looks on envy and sadness, clearly reflecting the trials faced with the silent, painful quiet of the part of. With the beautiful bookend of the dripping started it - with Pete in driving school, It's an episode that puts everything Pete His flaws, his insecurities, his unhappiness need for others to help enrich his life. For the vast majority of the series, Pete than where he is right now. In the beginning of the series, he seeks to have women on the side, a job of status and to be respected for his true worth, to strive everything by his family. And yet when he gets what he seeks, he finds it would be. The grass is always greener somewhere else for that somewhere else, for that sense of And what it truly revolves around is a desire affection and connection with others - all But many things about him - his flaws, his him to do so. He doesn't feel appreciated by Trudy despite more handsome and interesting than him, and that slowly but consistently eats away at He's lost - in no ways that matter professionally, in actually. He can't find the joy in life that he pursued him seems to have no trouble in being passionate He just wants to feel like he's living a Pete eventually does find his happiness, but of his true sense of isolation and emotional desperation and agony. Here, he's a broken man trying to feel whole, impactful character piece that compounds the subtle characterization, visual storytelling He has everything, from the outside. But that doesn't bring him fulfillment, looked through the rose-tinted glasses at None of it matters to him, and despite having What does he want? What is he searching for? Is there anything that he genuinely wants? As the era moves into a period of true change ride that is his life, cursed to constantly will make him happy, only to never find it. He's such an incredibly human character at this period of time, and Signal 30 is a Many thanks for watching.