If there is anything that computers have the tiniest ripple in the fabric of time, can have be too careful when approaching something that you a simple oversight in some video game code would a company their entire livelihood. A relatively sequel to their successful Myth franchise; immerses the user into a world of fighting the user fighting for all the files on their hard for whatever reason needed to uninstall or be completely wiped beyond repair. This was a quite early on, but the damage was still to buy back the 200,000 copies of the game replace them with a patched version. The and they even put out a public announcement It's quite unsettling when mass explanation, which is then accompanied by what this unknown force's capabilities are, really investigate what happened to cause all simplicity of this bug is very reflective of both in terms of how they were designed and how vulnerable these machines were, particularly very costly lesson on Bungie's end, but it's beneficial for the company and the customs more of what not to do when using new and a case of history repeating itself. Our constant reason that our TVs don't get hijacked all the [PHONE RINGING] Ow! Ow... "Hello?" "I'm gonna chop you up like liver, haha!" "Who is this? How did you get my number?" "I got it from blankpages dot com, from a data broker! Let's play a game called "Nice one, Steve. Good "Can I be the helpless victim?" [SCARY MUSIC] "This was my life after using they removed my personal data age, and other things) from search results and me from identity theft, stalking, or doxing. later to show all the work that they did for "Hello?" "WASSAAAAHHHHH-" "Sign up with my code to get 20% off your consumer plan. That you to DeleteMe for sponsoring this video." [WINDOWS XP CHIME] So what is exactly was happening specific glitch in the game's uninstall tool and game was located. Now if you're unfamiliar you might think that an uninstall tool for a you just right click on the program and delete it? the default setup for uninstalling programs on your applications folder and toss it in the trash. it was even MORE different back in the 90s. Yes, the program and simply delete it, but there are especially on Windows, it creates a folder in a "directory," where it puts all the files for that a specific command calls for something. This where everything is in one place. In fact, can have multiple directories on Windows, many of is also not including the registry keys for the exactly why just right clicking on a program you still have all these directories and where uninstall tools are handy. You just open program and all that extra stuff for you, where Keep mind that, again, this was the therefore much more valuable. Of course, video customary to delete any programs you weren't storage of your PC. And Myth II's uninstallation the routine practice of just deleting everything it would just delete the whole directory. For special "video games" folder that you created, all installed it in your Program Files directory, all much worse. Because then there's people who decide directory. File systems are set up in a hierarchy folder. So, when you create a folder on your within a folder, within a folder and so on. The all your files and all of Microsoft Windows. I assume you see where this is going. If somebody installs Myth II within their root they are going to delete their whole entire PC to one of Bungie's publishers. Her contract for space on her computer and uninstall the program. so she completely wiped her files. Reportedly, anymore. The issue within the code was quickly The game was scheduled to release in just a already on their way to the retail stores they calculated risk. They had two options: they could become as big of an issue. Or two, they could and put out an announcement telling everybody of money and be incredibly embarrassing, but it their reputation as a company. So, Bungie took financial hit ended up successfully replacing it's initial release. So, it did not become a people. For those who still had the original copy, and throw it in the recycle bin. Again, it wasn't is better than losing all your files. Bungie's very good reviews from critics and was Bungie's bolstering their name within the gaming space. so simply dangerous could have even happened you'd think Windows would know better than to root directory willy nilly, right? Well, no. And as intentional. The obvious part of this answer is people. Therefore, it was a whole new space didn't understand it the way we do now. This meant capable of, accidental or not. In fact, many because we've learned from catastrophic events the "I LOVE YOU" virus and a million other we just didn't know any better. And when we look are in nature, and they do things that Windows because of these things that we know better. Yes, file or folder that you wanted directly into the you get a prompt telling you that you have to typically all someone has to do is just click it's not much of a barrier to entry. But this is lock everything down because they want to give the Ben once said: "With great power, comes great having all this power is great, but the slightest There's even some debate that Windows does this be the whole CrowdStrike fiasco from July of 2024, This was all because CrowdStrike software had a so when they pushed out an update that contained down. The reason you always hear about Windows like, MacOS, is 1.) it's more popular, so there's and 2.) MacOS is a lot more restricted and locked change it as much. So it, once again, brings should it really be this easy to add things to the I mean, it's not like Windows anticipated that In fact, it wasn't even just Myth II. A sequel where important system files would get deleted if same time. However, this game did not take the and the game's negative reviews did reflect that. with the game Deltarune featuring the exact also important to note that, back then, a lot of default. So, a non-tech savvy user at that time being installed there, and the address for the so it would often become an installation I could imagine this very well happening And I think that this entire story serves as a lots of power, we need to confront it very development was quite rushed; Bungie was trying so which was very popular. They got the sequel out again what rushing stuff does; like with Windows example. But going back to the whole "butterfly because Bungie decided to own up to their would have been had they not done that. But Now, according to all my research, it appears the bug is now lost media. I unfortunately could it. So, I am going to be recreating, to the best looked like. As always, do not try this at home, such as this. With that said, let's begin. I am I am also running Myth II, which I have installed to uninstall it. So, we'll just go ahead Keep in mind that a lot of the files in the root computer, so they can't exactly be deleted see it's hanging quite a bit. Hmm. Well, let's Ahh. Looks like it didn't get everything in time got enough to prevent Windows from powering on. "Thank you to DeleteMe for link in the description to get your data A special thanks to my patrons and channel Thank you so much for watching. If you and click the notification bell, so