Hello friends! This recipe will help you 1 cup rice. Turn on subtitles to find out more! Olive oil. Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? Fry for 3-4 minutes. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! 2 glasses of hot water. Let cook for 10 minutes. Salt. Rice is rich in carbohydrates, which are the main source of energy for the body. Onion. The antioxidants and vitamins in onions can help improve skin and hair health. Onions contain small amounts of folic acid, which promotes the synthesis of serotonin, a hormone that regulates mood and sleep. Olive oil. Fry for 3 minutes. 1 carrot. Carrots have a low glycemic index, which makes them good for people with diabetes. It helps maintain stable blood sugar levels. I use a special grater. Carrots contain vitamin K and small amounts of calcium and phosphorus. which are important for maintaining skeletal health and reducing the risk of osteoporosis. Fry for 3 minutes. Paprika. If you like the recipe, be sure to send it to your friends and acquaintances! The high vitamin C content of peppers promotes better iron absorption, which helps prevent and treat anemia. Vitamins C and E and beta-carotene promote collagen production and maintain skin elasticity and health. The antioxidants in peppers help neutralize free radicals. Fry for 3 minutes. green onion. Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! In Chinese culture, spring onions are considered a symbol of longevity and health. Spring onions are among the fastest growing plants. It can be grown from a regular bulb or seed in just a few weeks. Spring onions strengthen the immune system and help the body fight infections. Corn 2-3 large spoons. Fry for 3 minutes. Losing weight is a long-term process. Set small, achievable goals. 3-4 chicken eggs. Separate the yolks from the whites. Eggs contain all nine essential amino acids needed for protein synthesis in the body. Protein is easy to digest and promotes tissue growth and repair. mix. Eggs contain vitamins A, D, E and K, as well as B vitamins (including B12 and riboflavin). If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! Fry for 3 minutes. Rice is rich in carbohydrates, which are the main source of energy for the body. This makes it a great product for maintaining activity and endurance throughout the day. A can of tuna in its own juice. Tuna is an excellent source of easily digestible protein. 100 grams of tuna can contain up to 25 grams of protein. Fry for 3 minutes. Vegetables and fruits are a source of vitamins, minerals and fiber and are low in calories. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! helps you lose weight without dieting! Eat for dinner every day and your belly will disappear! 2 recipe! 1-2 zucchini. Be sure to turn on the subtitles to find out more! Write in the comments from which country you watch my videos? Zucchini only contains about 20-25 calories per 100 grams. Zucchini is rich in fiber, which improves digestion, cleanses the body of toxins and maintains intestinal health. Zucchini is 90-95% water, which helps hydrate the body and improve kidney function. Olive oil. Salt. Fry for 3-5 minutes. Did you like the recipe? Show it to your friends! Zucchini helps improve metabolism and maintain normal blood sugar levels. Due to its high potassium and magnesium content, zucchini helps reduce cholesterol levels and maintain normal blood pressure. Onions 2 pieces. The antioxidants and vitamins in onions can help improve skin and hair health. Onions can be used both externally and internally to maintain health. Onions contain small amounts of folic acid, which promotes the synthesis of serotonin, a hormone that regulates mood and sleep. Onions help detoxify the body as they contain sulfur compounds that help detoxify the liver. Onions contain compounds that help strengthen bones and prevent osteoporosis. Olive oil. Fry for 2-4 minutes. Research has shown that regular consumption of onions can help increase bone density. Onions have natural antibacterial and antiviral properties due to their high sulfur content. 3-4 chicken eggs. Water. Let cook for 10 minutes. green onion. If you want to lose weight, be sure to subscribe to my channel! Green onions are low in calories, making them an excellent product for those watching their weight. sweet red pepper. Red pepper is considered one of the safest vegetables. as it rarely causes allergic reactions and is well tolerated by most people, including children. The lutein and zeaxanthin contained in red peppers help protect the eyes from age-related changes. Olive oil. Fry for 3-5 minutes. peel the eggs. If you like the recipe, be sure to send it to your friends and acquaintances! Choline and other nutrients found in eggs are important for the development of the fetus' brain and nervous system. and also to maintain the health of a pregnant woman. The protein and vitamins in eggs help improve the condition of skin and hair, strengthen their structure and promote their growth. Protein helps maintain and build muscle mass, which is particularly important for people who play sports and fitness. The vitamin D, phosphorus and calcium found in eggs are important for maintaining bone health and preventing osteoporosis. Dill. The vitamin A contained in dill is important for eye health. Dill contains essential oils that have a calming effect and can help reduce stress, improve sleep, and reduce anxiety. Dill helps remove toxins from the body due to its diuretic properties. If you want to lose weight, be sure to subscribe to my channel! This helps the kidneys to effectively remove excess water and salts, promoting overall detoxification of the body. mix. Water helps maintain hydration, improves metabolism, and can reduce appetite if you drink a glass before meals. 4 chicken eggs. If you want to lose weight, be sure to check out the other videos on my channel! Try to drink water throughout the day, especially when you exercise. Salt. mix. 3 spoons of yogurt. mix. 4 spoons of flour. mix. Drinks like sodas, juices, and alcohol can be high in calories and easy to forget about. Cheese. Place in the oven at 180 degrees for 40-50 minutes. Let's prepare the sauce. Dill. Dill essential oils have antibacterial and antimicrobial properties. This makes it useful for preventing infections and improving oral health. 2 spoons of thick yogurt. Mayonnaise 15 grams. Chili flakes. lemon juice. mix. Large quantities of healthy foods can also contribute to weight gain. very tasty and healthy food! If you like my recipes, you can support me! Become a sponsor of my channel! helps you lose weight quickly and without dieting! Thanks for watching, have a nice day!