[ultraportable jazz music plays] Greetings, and this time on LGR we're looking at time periods and form factors: mid nineties early Pentium era in portables, when you had to Pentium processor. And the more miniaturized the the HP OmniBook 800CT, initially launching in the in the OmniBook line that began in 1993, and offered with a 133MHz Pentium CPU. And by early option, as seen on my particular 800CT here: the MMX inside. And for the pleasure you'd be coughing a cool 9 grand adjusted for inflation today. of a similar spec back then, if you wanted the pain. Also consider that Hewlett Packard's 5700CTX CPU as the 800CT, just with a larger screen category. Whether large or small though, these not the average home user, and that's clear the this little window with a pull-out sheet? but yeah. Turns out it's a dedicated holder for According to the manual at least. Yeah I've seen this type but directly on a laptop? Ahh I love it, the for your special little ID. And this catering one Dataquest study, an estimated 14.5 million so companies like Hewlett Packard were happy to desktop replacement solutions, and that typically and weighing like ten pounds. So if you wanted mid 90s had you covered with ultra portables, or Contura Aero, the Gateway Handbook, and Toshiba the HP OmniBook range for a few years. And while that's grabbed my attention for how it melded smallest footprint and lightest weight they could weighs just 3.9 pounds, roughly half that of their 11x7x1 1/2" inches, a bit larger than the average compromises as expected, like relying on external station for things like PS/2 ports, expansion generous with everything else considering the excellent for the time, being a 10.4" TFT LCD like how it goes all the way down to the bottom a panel in there as possible. Then next to the serial, and VGA ports, no need for any dongles or the keyboard uses all available real estate too, and bottom. Allowing for something subnotebooks [plasticky typing sounds] Now, the modifier and cursor keys are all in the corners. But it's nothing I couldn't some satisfyingly decent travel to them. this for toggling power in lieu of a traditional too easily hit by accident. Finally, there's the [mouse pops out] Until you press the mouse eject button, which is HP's unique pop-out mouse, something they like the HP Internet Advisor covered on LGR some though, the 300 model from 1993, and remained an about this is that it doesn't have any kind sensor as easily as anywhere else. It simply hangs off to a handful of internal sensors that detect also a downside, since accuracy and smoothness are not at all confidence-inducing. Always a sticking mouse as "a love it or hate it" thing, and one Personally I quite like it, I think it's a clever well enough. Though I certainly keep a serial peripherals, get a load of all the stuff that came an 800CT that still had basically everything that All the paperwork, most of the disks, cables, a 32MB system RAM expansion board, a 20MB flash two spare lithium ion batteries, booklets third parties. And even this fascinating backup use of the world's smallest cassette tape for in its own dedicated episode if you're curious, it in the first place. About the only thing though it did come with the power supply for it up, they spared no expense, this bundle easily back in the day! But yeah enough with the side [Windows 95 startup plays crackily] Yeah that poor speaker. I believe it is actually and it is deteriorated, just sounding terrible. this little mouse really isn't terrible. basic tasks. But not for a demonstrating a an external one here. And well yeah let's just, I which is what this one happens to come with. system choices from the factory, with this one had Windows for Workgroups 3.11 as an option if have been a choice in 1997. But yeah, 95 runs MMX. And it's helped by the fact that this one so the total is 48 megs. And you could take megabyte option. Truly do not know how much that but no doubt it would have been a whole lot. Yeah a 2 gigabyte version by Toshiba. And it's still to say. As for what's on here, well: business, actually did belong to HP at some point, according showing, the previous owner and stuff like that. and most of it is pretty boring. But you know where is the thing, is it this one? Yeah kind of a back in the day. HP was always like "oh check out ya got more stuff here, all kinds of things that status panel which shows different things that are the power, keyboard and stuff like that, instead larger laptops back then. And yeah the rest of your computer" type of stuff. That's just the we got a crash is what we have! A users's guide the physical one. I don't know, it's just a more that I have. I don't think anything in here is little sound effects. How cool. Anyway as I said, I don't know if it actually came with all this by the previous owner. But yeah, AmiPro and Lotus Screw that, let's play some games! And talk about and that PC speaker, I don't know if that's [dinky PC speaker music plays] You can at least kind of hear it. It's very you can adjust the volume of the PC speaker separately. But yeah I was going to say, the panel for its time I think it is darn respectable. And is just native, pixel perfect or whatever. But you reading the manuals, this is something to do with business presentation stuff. And there it is just bad. Especially on lower resolutions and text and motion... it's fine honestly. Yeah for '96, '97 and for that, I mean, that's really impressive. fast motion or movement or anything like that. Any this. It's still a vibrant active matrix and you was actually offered with a DSTN as well, I think. that. Yeah the display is tied to this Neo Magic a little over 1 megabyte of memory, if I recall. anywhere, I think it's like 1.1 or something especially in these business computers. In fact IBM Thinkpad 380XD. Again, really not bad at and all that. And of course, business, business, ooh. I don't know if I mentioned earlier, but supporting two Type II or one Type III PCMCIA adapter in there, which, it's great for that. sound chip that's in here, the ES1887 Plug and sound chip for what it is. I mean, all the DOS. Let's just get Tyrian 2000 going here. Can [music plays tinnily] It's just so bad through this poor broken little [Rolands plug in, music plays triumphantly] [music continues] Yeah dude. No complaints. In fact I seem to I mean it should, it's a Pentium 166. Yeah again angles, but truly there are so many-- I think this out. Especially for the size like, it's just a it was just straight-up 640x480 so we didn't have good here. But yeah, there's the native again. you know? In terms of whether or not you I could complain but I won't, it's actually really to mention, I guess we'll go and do it here. different function keys, represented by a little actually if you press some of those, like that'll it'll bring up User Tools and so on and whatnot. little thing that you often saw back in the this is how HP does it. And you can, you know, you've got this little pull-out strip here. programs that might have come with their own you want. Anyway let's go to something we've Little bit of Duke Nukem 3D! And yeah, that find a computer of this era -- well a portable Cuz you're just stuck with it otherwise, unless -"Let's rock!" This is at 320x240, I believe, or see how it works with VESA compatibility. It's going to be bad with a Pentium definitely not the full like, 60 FPS [pistol firing, alien dying] Certainly capable of getting some decent the Pentium, baby! And of course, MMX is not any of those instructions are going But... oh jeez, get down here so are definitely some games that will take [dies pathetically] So let's try one of those. Got Tools. Ubisoft's POD, which was promoted as an but I have installed the retail MMX version run at 640x480 no matter what, at least with this can't change anything there, in terms of the into that sort of expected just, lagginess always said that you really need a good 233MHz But it is "playable!" And y'know, pure software rendering here, so. such a chunky weird-looking game anyway that I as it is. Okay... it's trying! If this was a and you didn't have anything else? Yeah, I totally you know, it's POD. [light chuckling] All right, was I gonna try on here? Oh yeah! In terms even games in 1997-ish are kinda pushing it. 3D 1998 and get some functionality out of things. So let's turn that down. So yeah it's just the you an example of the kind of performance you can time. Again, not too awful! I think I would call See if I can remember any of these controls... is this set to play with the mouse? It is, auuggh! some of these earlier FIFAs, mouse controlling! the controller... see look at that, why, why There we go! Ooh... Augh that was the wrong button, Oh don't you do it, don't you do it. Anyway, fully for what it is. For almost $5,000 you sure I seem to remember there being a nice murder Gimme that red card! That's right. I always just You just press 'A' and it's just basically see if we can get an own goal here... Yeah! right? All right well anyway! That that's pretty I just felt like talking about it and showing it though I've shown it in bits and pieces here I know I've used this just to capture and run and capabilities of not being really too fast or really, with this MMX. But yeah, it's a delightful really good sound chip, especially for DOS games. line as I was mentioning earlier. You know, at least as far as I know. There were up until like the early 2000 when they stopped were all closer to full-sized notebooks, and and goofy little ID holder, and just everything full-sized ports is just really cool, I like this taking a look at it with me! Let me know if you somebody else who did. You'd have had to have been a corporate business machine or something, or -- for a pretty darn good price like I did, many the case may be, I hope you enjoyed this.