Hello, everyone. My name is Ivo and welcome to Cooking with the Coias. Today, folks, we're going to show you how we make our eggs Italian style. Something so simple and yet so tasty. Let's get started right now. Cook in a small frying pan. You guessed it. Our first ingredient, folks. Extra virgin olive oil. There's one. We're going to put two tablespoons of beautiful, extra virgin olive oil. Let's get our stove on to medium heat and to our extra virgin olive oil. We're going to add, yes, some chili flakes. Now, I remember when my uncle made this recipe for my uncle in Italy when he made this recipe for my son in law who loves eggs. He started with this. And my son in law was like, Really? Chili peppers. Yes. Chili peppers. Okay. And next, we're going to just cook one egg today. We're going to keep it simple. And here's the thing, folks. You could make this a you could cook it sunny side up, easy over scrambled however you like. The recipe is the same. But today, what we're going to do, I'm going to scramble it. Okay. So we're just going to get that starting to heat up and beautiful olive oil. And in fact, at this point, while it's heating up, we're going to add a little bit of salt. Salt to taste if it ever comes out of the shaker. There we go. And if you want to add black pepper, you can. I personally am not, as we have the chili pepper in there, so we're pretty good. All right. And we're going to scramble this egg today. So we're going to just get this starting to cook. Now we're going to add another another ingredient that's going to make this extremely tasty. So let's get this cooked at least half way. So it's starting to cook up. And actually, we have two more ingredients to add. I forgot about our beautiful. I got a couple little pieces of mozzarella cheese that we're going to actually mix into these scrambled eggs. Okay. Add that in. And as you can see, our scrambled eggs are coming along very nicely. Get that beautiful olive oil in there. Okay. And I'll let this cook just a touch more. So now that it's about halfway done, here comes the magic, folks. Wine vinegar one. Two good tablespoons of red wine vinegar. And of course, yes, I have my own homemade red wine vinegar, but any red wine vinegar will do. Now we're going to let this finish cooking. And folks, the flavors now that we're developing with this egg, something so simple, folks, is going to be so tasty. Okay, So let's finish cooking this. You're going to let it just cook and continue to simmer. I'm going to flip it over at least once. I do like my eggs. Somewhat. Well done. There we go. As you can see, the wine vinegar is starting to dissipate. And let's give our eggs a flip. There we go. No fancy flip of the frying pan here, folks. Just just a regular turnover. And I'm continuing to cook this just on medium heat. I'm not going to rush it. Let it take its time and and finish cooking. Now, as you can see, basically all of that red wine vinegar has now been absorbed. And these eggs are cooked. They were cooked before I flipped them. But like I said, I like mine, cooked a little better. So that looks perfectly fine to me. And to serve this, I think what I like to do is put it on an English muffin. So let me get one toasted up right now. Let's turn the stove off. This can patiently wait while we toaster muffin. Okay. Yes, I know I'm cooking eggs Italian style. And I'm going to serve them on an English muffin. But that's okay. I like my English muffins. So I going to toss these up again. I like mine. Toasted a little bit more on the well-done side and crispy. So let's give that a minute. Okay. And that's looking pretty good right there. And there's a little bit of color. That's what it's after. What I'm after right there. Okay. In keeping with the Italian theme as opposed to putting butter, I'm going to put a little bit of that beautiful extra virgin olive oil on my English muffin. Of course, you can go ahead and use butter, but we're going to go with traditional extra virgin olive oil and then that beautiful egg that we cooked up. Yeah, Right there. How's that, folks? My goodness. Okay. How can I get all excited about an egg? Because I know this is going to be so tasty. Let's go do the taste test right now. Always my favorite part, folks. The taste test. Think they're simple, but. Yeah. So flavorful. Wow. I'll tell you what. That red wine vinegar, we added a little bit of chili flakes. What a combination on this egg. It's so flavorful. And again, you can cook your egg however you prefer it. Just not hard boiled. Sunny side up. Easy. Over, like I said. Or like I did it today. Scrambled simple ingredients. And, of course, very good. Extra virgin olive oil makes for a fantastic flavorful egg. Something so simple. The next time, folks, you go to make yourself some eggs for breakfast or for lunch. Give this method a try. Italian style. You won't be disappointed. Simple, but yet tasty. Review Tuning in from folks. I want to thank you for spending time in the kitchen with me on today's episode of Cooking with the Coias. And as always, until next time. Bon Appetito. I sure do love my espresso, too.