I think white people are that like to be scared for fun. Like, you feel me? Not an attack. Doesn't make you bad, But not bad. But bungee jumping, skydiving, These are torture tactics! Some of you pay for them. That's a curve ball. I just think white people get to have a different Doesn't make anyone bad. I just think it's an White people can have a Like, I think white people are the only people you could &quot;Hey, you wanna do something scary today?&quot; And y'all won't just outright say, &quot;No.&quot; You feel me? You'll be like... &quot;Well, You feel me? But like you go to they're like, &quot;Fuck no!&quot; But like white people have They're like, &quot;Well, Okay. Look at roller coasters, right? Theme park owners know white so much you'll pay for a picture That's their business model. That's how reliable it is. They were like, &quot;Yeah, that's where we're gonna I've been in so many white homes and seen a framed picture... Of the entire family terrified. Why? Why is that even a thing? I haven't been in one Black family's home and seen a picture of four Black people absolutely terrified. And they're like, &quot;Yeah, that's the time I got stuck up &quot;at gunpoint right there. &quot;That's us. &quot;This is where I tried to So wild to me, man. And understand what I'm saying, 'cause I understand I'm I'm speaking in generalities. I understand there's special So please like I'm not being Just be on the same page with me. I'm just saying generally speaking though, that kind of holds true. I'm saying generally speaking... I feel like white people that y'all schedule it Like, you know what I'm saying. Like, literally put it on a schedule. You're like, &quot;At 12:00 &quot;at 1:00 we're gonna pet a tiger.&quot; You're like, what the fuck A tiger? Huh? You know what no one &quot;I want to go on a safari.&quot; Not once. I got so many Black friends, It's our country, and we're like, &quot;Nah.&quot; But I have so many white Doesn't make 'em bad. I'm just saying it's an that you can spot and go, oh shit okay. Why doesn't the safari I didn't realize it was something we were so like polarized on. I thought we were all of the same mind. Like, that's fucking crazy. And apparently we don't agree. I never understood like You wanna go to the zoo without the walls? That's what we wanna do? You wanna take away my The part where they can't get me, that's what we're taking away? Oh, all right. Every time I go to the zoo, people are looking at the animals, I'm looking at the structures. I'm like, &quot;That's a good wall.&quot; &quot;Like that net. &quot;Love that glass.&quot; I've never understood it. Why doesn't a safari sound It's not even a safe web browser! You feel me? You ever open up Safari in They're like, &quot;What the They make it sound like with no condom. They're like, &quot;Well, close it. &quot;Throw it away. &quot;Who knows what's in there now.&quot; It's so wild to me. I'll entertain it. Like, I'll talk to my white friends. Their defenses are so bad. And I'm not saying these are I'm saying you wouldn't by my white friends. That's what I'm saying. The stuff they argue, I They'd be like, &quot;Just go on a safari. &quot;You're gonna be fine.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Based on what?&quot; They're like, &quot;You got a tour guide.&quot; I'm like, &quot;That nigga's not a wall.&quot; It's like, what do you if a lion saw us and was like, &quot;Oh, I'm about to eat You think he's just and be like, &quot;Oh, shit &quot;God damn it.&quot; &quot;Hey, wrap it up, guys. &quot;They brought the fucking guy.&quot; You don't think the lion That's what I can't get. Like, that's not how your brain works? You think if a lion saw, if a lion saw a Black tour you don't think he's going, &quot;Oh shit, dark meat and mashed potatoes. &quot;Oh fuck. &quot;Looks like KFC came to me.&quot; What are we talking about, you know? What do you think the Entertain me for a second. You don't think that's You think that guy actually A lion's coming at y'all, he sees it, you think this dude's just &quot;Oh no, no, no, no, no, lion. &quot;No, no, no, lion.&quot; &quot;Not today, lion. &quot;You eat zebra, lion. &quot;Zebra black and white. &quot;These people just white, no good. &quot;No good. &quot;That's why we bring you mixed kid. &quot;Blade!&quot; &quot;Blade! &quot;Where has Blade gone?&quot; It's so fucking stupid. It just makes me laugh. Like, I'm just fucking around. But you get where I'm coming from, right? Like, you get the point I'm getting at? That's all I'm saying. I just think fear is such a great example for us to explore the concept of privilege where everybody can see it and but you can identify the differences. I just think it's a Like, can I tell you something real wild? I got a wild theory. I think I'm onto something. I just don't know how to prove it. But I think I figured something out. I think I know why each race with fear, especially fear for fun. I think I can see what it is. It's kind of a wild theory, I think if you come you've never been so bored with life that you're willing to risk yours. Does that make sense? Like, I don't know Jews Y'all know y'all came I'm not running for office. I'm not the guy. I'm just here to make the funny points. I think I'm onto something. I don't know Jews that like escape rooms. I don't know Black people Whips and chains you said? Fool me once. I don't know any Mexicans That's a real good one. Like, if you know what a tough If you don't know what a tough mudder is, just so we're on the same page, a tough mudder it's one out in the middle of nowhere. It's a foot race where you're just going You're going through like water running through like electrified fences. I don't know one Mexican &quot;Yeah, for sure. &quot;Yeah, let's do it.&quot; Like, &quot;Get the fuck outta here. &quot;I did that to get in, not fit in. &quot;Fuck outta here, my guy.&quot; All I'm trying to get at here, I'm not trying to attack anybody, I just want us to understand so we can get past it, right? Anytime I see somebody online or on TV or wherever say that I need you to understand but you are wrong. All right, I'm not trying to come at you, but you are actually wrong, and you sound ridiculous to Just take the time to understand. All right, privilege exists. Bro, I'm a 6'3&quot; Black man. There's not one person in here That's my privilege. I get big dick privilege. Doesn't matter if you're right or not. You didn't think it. That's my privilege, man. If I was an Asian comic you wouldn't have thought the same thing. Be honest. There's not one woman in seen an Asian dude and been like, &quot;Oh, he might dick me down.&quot; And he might. He might do it, but you That's my privilege. I get big dick privilege. It's a hardship I have Trying to overcome. But when you say privilege doesn't exist, you know what I always think of? It's always this story. It's such a bananas story. When I was a kid, I remember telling my dad I told him, I was five years old, I told him I wanted to be in the NBA. My dad is a Black man from He's not a big dreamer, right? He's a very practical man. His vibe is more like, &quot;Survive.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Okay.&quot; That's what he's like. And I remember I told him I You know what he told me? &quot;Just have a backup plan.&quot; I was like, &quot;God damn, can &quot;I'm five.&quot; But that's what he felt like based on his experiences in Fair enough. I accept that perspective. I hear you. Meanwhile, my best friend, I was there when this happened. I remember seeing him tell He said that he wanted to in US history. You know what his dad told him? &quot;Anything you put your Isn't that beautiful? But that kid was white. Don't tell me white privilege I was there. I saw that shit with my own eyes! I saw this white father, I still talk to him to this day, see his white son look at him and go, &quot;I wanna be the first Black and with me still in the room, &quot;Well, if you just work hard enough.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Get the fuck outta here! &quot;Tell this kid no!&quot; Tell him that one's not for him. Couldn't do it. Privilege is just such and I don't wanna harp but I just wanna drive I do feel like if we're there are privileges that white and I don't think it's fair, if we're being critical of both sides and we're trying to come together, right? I do think there's one that I do find very funny, and I hope you find it as funny as I do. And I don't think it's fair I do think white people that I have seen get offended on behalf of a group Like, you know who to picture, right? That's all I'm saying. But here's the thing, I don't think that's because I believe at its core That just means you cared You were trying to speak on their behalf 'cause you thought you were That's a good thing. That's nothing to attack you for. It may not be the way but that's okay, right? And here's the thing about it. It's a really complicated situation because if you look online, you see this happen all the time. White people will do something Black people go, &quot;Don't do that.&quot; And then white people go, &quot;Oh my bad, &quot;what would you prefer me do?&quot; And Black people go, &quot;I don't know.&quot; And then we're just left nowhere. But both of those sides are fair. To be clear, those are Sometimes it's hard to You just know when someone That's fair, and it's fair to So it still leaves us in the when you're trying to I think I came up with something. Hear me out here. All right, listen, I think to show support for a You can use this in any group. I don't know anyone who And I don't know what you do after this, but you can always start with this. Give you an example. As a Black person, if I'm when I see somebody white that they can't say the N word 'cause that's my line. You feel me? Like, that's what I get to say. Why are you trying to upstage me, man? This is my big moment. You know what I need you to do? I need you to say That's support. You get what I'm saying? Dude, I get to go, &quot;You don't get to call me a nigger!&quot; And then you come in like, &quot;Motherfucker!&quot; And I'll be like, okay, I feel supported. We're a team. You feel what I'm saying? I'm done with allies, be my motherfucker. I need more of those. That's what I need. 'Cause I don't think to a racist person than a He'd be like, &quot;Oh fuck, I think that's actually scary. Stop being my ally. Be my motherfucker. I don't know when I started caring about all this kind of shit. If you saw my show like five years ago, I wasn't talking about I don't know what happened. I got older, I, you know, started voting. You start voting, you're like, all right, I'm gonna throw 'cause I'm hearing some wild shit. It's weird as you age, the the way your life changes. I'm not trying to be like aging sucks. I'm cool with it, but it is weird the ways in which you'll age that Does that make sense? Those are the ones that are weird for me. Like, the regular ones, I gotta wake up early. I'll probably go to a matinee. Like, those are, I'm fine. I was ready for that. But the weird ones where I'm like, nobody told me that was part of it. What the fuck is going on with me? Like, the other day I heard to one part of. I was like, what the fuck was that? That's a weird moment of self realization. Look, I don't know if you've I've done it my whole life. If you hear an entire rap &quot;Shit, I don't think What a weird moment in your where do I fit into this? I still remember what the guy said. I swear to God, I think you'll relate. Yeah, I remember he went, &quot;I got an actress on my mattress. &quot;I'mma hit it three times in one night. &quot;That's a hat trick.&quot; And my brain just went, &quot;Exhausting.&quot; That's all I felt. Three times in one night? I was like, &quot;Not for me.&quot; That's crazy. Three times. Bruh, you don't got work in the morning? Nobody's pussy is better than sleep. I'll tell you right now. And that's not an attack. The older you get, the truer that rings, and you fucking know it. That's not an attack. Ladies, I'm sure your pussy's great. Sleep is good. I like sleep more than sex, I know that. You know how I know I I go to sleep every day. I don't miss one. I only have sex sometimes. And even when I have sex, when I'm done I'm like, &quot;God If that song was about &quot;I got a actress on my mattress. &quot;I'mma hit it one time, then I'm napping.&quot; That's my entire... I'm like, yo, this, hey. Trying to hit up NyQuil bars, bruh. I just think it's so that make you change as you get older. I think it's weird to look and see the shit they care about versus the shit you care about. You ever seen that? You ever on Facebook and you're like, &quot;What are they fucking ranting about?&quot; You ever have those moments where like this is the This is the cause you stand Have you seen this group of people that's trying to get Disney's Oh my god, I'm losing my mind over it. There are adults, our age, voters, people whose votes They're out here trying They're so dedicated. Have you heard the argument? She never gave consent to That's what they're arguing. Now listen, I'm not trying to be on I'm not trying to sound I'm just saying you've We've all seen &quot;Snow White.&quot; All I'm saying... It really feels like they're he did it to save her life part, huh? Is that not a crucial detail in the context of that circumstance? Like, if you were the prince wouldn't you want to confront her? Like, &quot;Hey, you wanna explain &quot;so I don't sound like a creep? &quot;Appreciate that. &quot;'Cause you got me out here &quot;sounding like Bill Cosby right now.&quot; &quot;I'm just saying that dude &quot;I'm just waking 'em up. &quot;This is a totally different thing.&quot; I don't think you should who attempted to save your That's the only line in I think that deserves to be defended. If I tried to save you, I'm not a creep. When I was a kid, when I was seven, right? I grew up in Tampa. When I was seven, I was And I remember I was I'm swimming poorly if I'm being honest. I'm drowning, let's be honest. I'm drowning. I'm for sure drowning. I passed out. I sunk under the water. I had to be saved by a male lifeguard. I shit you not, I woke up on the beach to a male lifeguard giving me And when I came to, I completely understood There was no confusion. I wasn't like, &quot;I'll see you in court.&quot; Okay. You ever heard of Me Too? Well me three now, bruh. I just think it's such a this is the hill you want I'm not against consent culture. I'm asking, is this where you within this premise? That's what's odd about Like, have y'all gone back like as adults? It's weird, man. It's real weird. Do you remember what the curse is? True love's kiss will wake her up. That's real specific. Like, they really narrowed down the danger that could have come. You gotta be pretty sure to go for it. It's not like they went, &quot;Hey man, first one to Then a bunch of dudes started My ho, my ho Back off Okay, you get it. I'm just saying, it's just such a weird And I can understand, to be clear, I can understand if you were just like, &quot;I &quot;that he had to do to save her.&quot; I can appreciate that. I'm just saying, but can you stop making it when he did it? That's more where I'm I'm gonna make this very clear, 'cause this is a tricky topic At the end of the day, I understand my place I'm a man lightly making I understand that. And I can never put myself in relation to a topic like this. I understand that. All I can do is empathize the best I can from the perspective that I have. And that's as a Black man in this country. And I'm just saying as a I don't get what you're talking about. Let me say hypothetically, right? Hypothetically speaking, And you say the only way to to whisper the N word in my ear. Do you see what I'm saying? Here's the kicker. If we're being honest, I don't need him to ask for my permission. My life's on the line. There are bigger priorities at hand. Do what you gotta do. Bruh, I don't care if you whisper. Get on all fours for all I care. Nigger! Nigger! I'd be like, &quot;Hey, I heard &quot;God damn!&quot; &quot;Can you give me a sec to wake up? &quot;I take a second.&quot; &quot;No, I appreciate what &quot;but we're gonna talk &quot;You don't get to call me two niggers.&quot; And then y'all would say... - [Audience] Motherfucker! - Look at my army forming, dog. Look at y'all. That's how you fucking do it. That's a weird example. Let me give you a better one. I just wanted to see Let's say hypothetically, And you say the only way to just like the movie. I assume y'all would want that handled the exact same I would want somebody to go form a line, take my prop that shit up in a kissing booth, put some cool ass shades look back at the line and go, &quot;All right everybody You feel me? Is that not what you would want? Like, let's be real for a second. I wanna make it very clear I On the contrary, couldn't be more for it. But that's not the place I do think after all of from women over the last couple years, men should be making more of a point to showcase to women how how much you are gonna see like a change in the behavior you've been encountering, even if we're not the What I'm getting at is that we have your backs. You feel me? But the question then becomes, Here's what I'm pitching. Men, start making consent Take a sec, process what I'm saying. Start making consent the Start being a fucking freak for yeses. You feel me? Like, after the Me Too movement, show 'em what you've learned. Anytime a woman goes, I'm like, &quot;With permission.&quot; Like, I lean in. I lean in. Bruh, I don't unzip it You could be like, &quot;Get I'd be like, &quot;Is that how we ask?&quot; At this point, having sex with me is like Every so often I interrupt &quot;Do you still want this?&quot; Yes or cancel. Are you awake? I'm joking, I'm fucking around. That's a good question to ask.