- I think we treated Joe Biden like shit. Like people just treated Joe And for what? Nothing. That's literally all he's guilty of. He got old and people, they were like, oh my God, have you seen Joe Biden these days? He's so old. You're like, You, you get, you get older as a person. I can't believe how old he is. I'm like, yo, you, when you voted for him, it's not like he was 20 people. Make it seem like he and then all of a sudden He came in as an old man, and then now he was a slightly older man, and people are like, oh my Why does he think he can't be president? Because you told him he could. People were so shitty to Joe Biden then they were I I, I mean, like, God, you He, he like forgot where he was. He like, he said the wrong city. He said, he said, what a I'm like, yo, people do that all the time. Especially when you older. Yeah. You, you, 'cause think of it this way, it's not even about like, old you know, is degrading. Think about how much that point in your, think about how many places you've Of course some things are It is like, yeah, the That's all Joe Biden is. I would just, I don't It's not, it's not that my grandfather, they, they would forget or switch my name with my I'm sure you had that right. They just like, my, my like, ah, Andrew. And I'd be like, no, Trevor. When she did that, there was she needs to step down. She's not fit to be my We treat old people like It's like we, like, they, we make it like they're disposable. And it was like, ah, Get out of the way. He just got, he just got old. Yeah. And yes, the things that he they don't make you Like, they'll throw you of the big ones was he And he was introducing And then he, he said, and it gives, gives me a lot, to you right now, the of the most powerful presidents, my auditor introduced Vladimir Putin. Oh, no, no, no. I mean, and people are like, no, Joe, he's not fit to run this country. I was like, yeah, he made a mistake. Think about how many times he He says it's more like it's not like he was like, ah, Idi Amin. I mean, no. He said, I get it, Putin. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's a brain fart. No. And then people said the dumbest they, they were like, they Trevor, what if, what if it gets, what if it gets into a situation where he does something really bad? Like he, he could make a mistake like that and he could bomb the wrong country. I was like, do you know What, what do you mean he Well, you think just Joe to the jet and he's just and do something real quick. I I gotta fly to Eastern Europe. And he is like, take, take that Ukraine. No, I meant Russia, you, how much bureaucracy and the country being bombed? Like, if he said, we gotta, we gotta bomb Ukraine, they'd They'd be like, oh, yeah, of course, it's not like it just happens. It's not a thing. We he's like an old man, you know, trying to fight for his country. That's all he was doing. And here's the thing, forget the politics. It was just like the old thing why are we doing this man, as sharp as he used to be. That's life. It's gonna Hopefully, you know, if you We're like, Joe Biden trash. And look, I will, I will be I, I think what didn't didn't acknowledge that I don't think that helps. And that is a problem of American political spin. They try and tell you that what you're seeing is not what you're seeing. You know? So like Joe Biden and then people would be And then his team would be older at all. In fact, he's younger than he's ever been. Like, that's not how numbers work. The man is just getting Just say, yes, he's old. Just say he's old because Yeah. He was doing, yeah, making some mistakes. One of the ones that, you that threw people off was he bring up world leaders that he had recently had a The only issue was that those dead and that would throw people off. You know, he'd be up there I just had a conversation the and then people were like, chancellor Olaf died 30 years ago. And they were like, oh no. Everyone's like, he's, senile he's got dementia. Oh, no. Oh, no, no. I understand I also, I also should let So we are completely honest Okay. I'm biased because I met him at an event called the White House Correspondence Dinner. Okay. In this event, you are 'cause of the security to get there, well ahead of time. So you spend time, you you have a long conversation And then later on in the evening, you have another conversation. Then after you have another after the event, you have So in the span of like five, to Joe Biden frequently. And I have nothing to gain The man's not running He's, he's done. Like, he's fully compos mentis. He was with it, you know, But otherwise he was with it. You know, he could recall information. He kept up with the He was lucid. It, it, it was Like, he would talk to me, he's another thing in the country as Americans, and you do that thing. And it was fine. It's and then like three hours later came back and he was like, Jackie Robinson. That didn't happen. You know? So I know, like, I'll be honest, I have, I have a different theory. I think. I don't think I don't think he's senile. I but I think he's so old that he can communicate We don't consider that. that space between, that should have been Yeah. Instead of saying he's not old, they should have doubled down. They should been like, you He's the oldest president And you should be grateful, who better to protect the Constitution than someone who was there when they were writing it. But now he's out. So now he's out. And I'll be honest, I'm happy for him. I'm happy that Joe Biden I think, again, as an old person, you should have a dignified end. You know? I think we've robbed old people of that in society. Capitalism and whatever. It's like, no, it's nice to, like, you go, you've lived your life, Relax now, you know, and Joe I dunno if you've seen him recently. He just had like a He just, you know. Yeah. It just feels like someone joints, you know? Because like before when you he was a little precarious. You know, when you see him like walk, he didn't like inspire confidence. Like he, he like stumbled and he, you know, he stage Jenga tower. Like, you know, which is probably why the Secret Service wasn't so good at protecting Trump or him. Like, it's just like, in their defense, they've been protecting Of course, they're not in practice. You know, like when they're they're like, all right, everybody Look out. 'cause the danger's up. That's where you gotta look. You gotta look. When you're you're just like, all Where's the stairs? Where's Look out, Mr. President, Hold on, hold on, come on, come on. He's got a difference. So Joe he's got a vibe now, man. The other day he was at not a rally, it was just a meeting with a community somewhere, somewhere. Biden supporters, some weren't. He's just walking around greeting, Hey, how you doing over there? Good, good, good to see how And there's a guy sitting Wearing a Trump hat. And Joe Biden comes like, Hey, how you doing? How you doing, man? And then, and he's like, I don't like you. And Joe Biden's like, oh And I was like, oh, who's He's like, oh yeah, I don't, I don't like you. He's like, you are old. He is like, oh, you want a And he just started like, trading with this guy back wasn't presidential. He wasn't like, oh, like, nah, man, you old as shit. Look at your face. Like, God. He's like, you are old, I'm old and I'm president. Bitch. He just had like a You're like, what? What? And the guy was wearing a Trump hat. And then he said something about you or something along those, yeah, that hat. And Joe Biden's like, And he's like, no. He's like, And Joe Biden's like, Gimme the hat. And he takes the hat and he puts the Trump hat on. He's like, yeah. And that guy, you should have seen that guy's face. He was like a, because he like burn or something, I don't know. Just turned to, he was like, wa. He's like, I like you a lot more now. And then Joe Biden just walked away. He just had like his swag. He's like, all right man, I see you, man. I'm happy for him. That's how You know? It's nice. And now, now it means he's You know? Now the world. The 'cause America's elections are the world's elections, you know? Now, see what happens now it's Yeah, that's go. Is it a woo. Okay. Wait, wait, wait, wait. But what does, what What kind of, what is it? It's gonna happen. It's Look at you. Alright. Alright. Phoenix. Oh damn. Okay. That's Arizona's important because I'd be like, but if you say you're feeling it and it's in Phoenix. Okay. Okay. Well, 'cause Kamala I hope everyone understands that. You know, America has not shown to voting for new things. It really has not. And this You know, because Kamala And she's black and Indian. Yeah. Now you realize Obama was level one. America was so proud of itself. Thought it had clocked the game. That was the easiest level in the game. - It was like Mario Brothers level one. It was like, let's do this thing. Play. Play Hawaii, Hussein, Kenya. Yes, we can. I was like, yeah, we did it. Yeah. Woo. And then Kamala Harris stepped up and then was like, blah blah. Blow, blow, blow, blow. Blah blah. - Oh man. Oh man. You guys Thanks for coming out tonight. Had a great time with all of you. Goodnight y'all. - One more time, man. Showing