Before... Before coming here... Outside... I couldn't find a job. You see? We're small, so we can't work. I want to join in these four days We are about to enter what should be their real kingdom. I'm so happy to play with them. I've seen some before but this one truly beats them all. It's rare to find people like me. I feel like I'm in a big family in Lilliput. My name is Giuseppe the most extraordinary people on the planet Welcome to the Happiness Project. Ok, we are about to enter a place that is definitely unique in the world, So far so good. But what if I told you that within this playground is affected by dwarfism and they themselves Now that's a whole different story. And we want to enter this playground to understand how they live and what happiness is for them. So welcome to another curious In the heart of Yunnan province, China, The kingdom of dwarfs is a parallel world where only people They are the true tourist attraction the protagonists of the most famous fairy tales This park was founded in 2009 by Chen Mingjing, a wealthy to offer a safe haven However, the park has always been at the center of heated debates. In fact, organizations like Little People of America and Handicap International have compared it to a human zoo, considering it a form of exploitation Our mission is to explore the kingdom of dwarfs, and discover what happiness is for those who have found We arrived very early, so all the shops are closed, the rehearsals of the artists and employees who work here, who is preparing them for a show and right now they are rehearsing. As soon as they finish, we will try to talk to the choreographer to understand his work These are the royal guards of our Lilliput. They are here every day to parade and show everyone the pride of our Lilliput. My job here is to create dance choreographies and amaze every visitor who comes for our fantastic show. I make the tourists happy: they arrive happy and leave happy. Among themselves, they call the park Lilith About a hundred people work here by two forms of dwarfism: disproportionate dwarfism, and proportionate dwarfism, which presents a uniform with all parts proportionate However, what everyone here has in common and this is the only requirement to work in the Kingdom of Dwarfs. A show dedicated to the Hobbits is about to start. Here we are practically... in a county, the county of the Hobbits. The show is about to start. These are the adventures I don't want to forget. In fact, every time I come back from a trip, I print By now, it's a ritual: I come home, unpack my suitcase, and then take a moment just for myself, to select the best photos and create a beautiful photo book like this one on PhotoSi.com. Today, we live everything through our smartphones. We take But how often do we really stop to relive those moments? With PhotoSi, those precious memories don't get lost among the thousands of flipping through a photo album with friends, or reliving an unforgettable trip with family. This is precisely the magic of printed photos. And here in the studio, I've decorated my room with these fantastic photo frames that come directly framed I just have to choose the right place and enjoy them. And in the description, I've left you a link to print photos from your vacations, and with the discount code "PROGETTO10," you can create And now, let's go back to the most unique playground in the world. At the end of the show I make friends with some of them We entered their dressing room where they put on makeup, change costumes for each show they have to perform and now we will try to ask them some questions. How old are you? Nineteen. How long have you worked here? Six months. Do you like it? Yes, the colleagues are very friendly... In the town where I used to live, I thought I was the only one like this. Then I came here and I was speechless. A bit surprised, yes. It's rare to find people like me. Do you remember how you felt the first time you came here and discovered you were not the only one? Before, I felt a bit inferior inside. But after coming here and discovering all this, after the initial amazement, I became more confident. What an interesting perspective. Right here in Lilliput. He discovered he is not the only one I can only imagine how much strength and comfort What's your name? Little Apple. Why? Because I have a round face. They call me &quot;Little Apple.&quot; How long have you worked here? For more than two years now. What is your job here? I am an artist of the kingdom. How old are you? 23 this year. How would you describe this place to someone who has never been here? It's a paradise here. A beautiful place. I'm happy because, well... Many friends come to visit me from different places. They come, watch us, and we have fun. If you didn't work here, how do you think your life would be? I think it would be a bit sad because in the countryside small people like us are kept aside and always feel inferior. Since I came here, the depression has gone away. I feel happy, confident, and free. What's the best thing about being a dwarf? It could be that... we have less stress, we don't need cars or mortgages, like normal people do. I don't know if you caught which I found very interesting which puts incredible pressure on young people. At school, university, they have to be the best, they have to start a family as soon as possible, that people affected by dwarfism probably don't have. Among the veterans of the park is Wong who has worked here almost since its opening May, a colleague I come from Shaanxi province. And I've been living in Lilliput for over 13 years. Then, when we met... what year was it? 2012. 2012, we met in 2012. I saw her and thought she was a really nice and kind girl. Then we spent time together, we got along well, and we got married in 2015. He was very kind to me. He took great care of me, always had a watchful eye. I suppose your life has changed completely since you live and work here, but what does this place mean to you? My height is not the same as an average person, so it is very difficult to find a job. I read about Lilliput on the Internet and contacted them immediately. As soon as I arrived in Lilliput, I saw people like me. Suddenly there was no more discrimination, and no one looked at me strangely. Here in Lilliput, I feel like I'm in a big family. After middle school, I stayed home for almost six months. One day, friends of my dad came over to play, and one of them told me about this place. He said they had built a city where all the people were like me. A place where they would take care of me without discriminating against me: Lilliput. Here we are not looked at differently. From your words, I understand that you feel safe and protected here, like in a big family. But what happens when you go out? Here we all live together, life is quite happy. As soon as we go out, people look at us differently. But it doesn't bother me anymore. I just focus on who I know I am. Other people's prejudice doesn't matter and isn't important. When we go out, some children don't understand why we are still small. They point and say, &quot;Look, there's a dwarf!&quot; We think we are people like you. Just a bit shorter. And like in any respectable amusement park, even in the kingdom of dwarfs, Its artists enchant the audience tiny ponies, and traversing different However, their main goal is to bring a smile to the children and their parents. But looking around, or at them? I assure you, I've seen some strange things, but this probably beats them all. Anyway, today, just so you know, is Monday. It's nine in the morning, I want to understand why they are here. What drove them to come Seeing these small people makes me curious. Seeing their lives and watching their... Some of their daily actions. It makes us think. I think their lives are like ours. Exactly like ours. I think their life is really... They seem tenacious to me. That's what I think of them. I'm so happy to play with them. Is this your first time here? Yes, but a dear friend of mine has already been here. How did your friend describe Lilliput to you? He told me I would have fun here. My parents told me that these people have a condition that made them this way. They seem to be having fun. My children don't know much about dwarfs. However, by coming here, I explained some things to them... About why they are dwarfs, I explained to them that although they are as tall as children, they are mature and intelligent, they are adults. Just like mom and dad. Even the steps are tiny. We are about to enter what should be their real kingdom. Here they &quot;pretend&quot; to live inside these, these grounds, these little houses that look like... Smurf houses. In reality, of course, it's all fake. They but now let's go see how they live here. It's truly another world. And their world, their kingdom. But it's extraordinary what they have built. And like in every kingdom, there is also a King here the first to set foot in Lilliput. It's fantastic to be here. I found a job that suits me... in society. Before... Before coming here... Outside... I couldn't find a job. I was too small. I couldn't do many jobs. Walking down the street, people always looked at me badly. You see? It's not a good feeling. Then, here, when I arrived, I thought: &quot;Oh, this place is a fairy tale! There are people like me.&quot; I was amazed. I stopped thinking about all the problems I had outside here, all the unhappy thoughts. Staying here, I would have a job, a salary. A victory in many ways. I learned to trust myself, to be strong despite everything. Only then can you be the master of your destiny. Isn't that right? Off-camera, the king says goodbye to me with a phrase I will never forget; but rather tell about the greatness of our spirit. Incredible! These are the dormitories of all the employees, We are taking advantage of a break in the shows to go visit the little house And this is the place where they live, it's a castle where They are taking me to their little room. This should be the common area. Each room belongs to... to each of them, and they probably sleep together I imagine. This is the room, come in. Excuse me... Wow, thank you. This is where we both live. This house means so much to us. A small nest for two people. A place where we support each other every day. And then when we are old, when we get sick or something like that, we will be there for each other, to bring water or take medicine. For us, this is not taken for granted since we have always been abandoned. This security makes us very happy. Is it in your dreams to have a family? Now yes. Before coming to Lilliput, I had never thought about it, but after coming here I was convinced that getting married was also possible for me. When we got married, we also had the idea of having children. But then we thought that since we are both like this, the risk of the child inheriting our condition was high and we didn't want them to suffer. We are not even big enough to raise a child, we couldn't take care of them. What do you think is the secret to being happy in this life? Meeting someone you feel in tune with and sharing your life. True happiness is simple. Having a house tailored for us. Coming home from work every day, Sharing our thoughts. Teasing each other and cooking together. Looking into each other's eyes while eating and holding hands like we are a big family. We don't need to be rich. As long as we are well, take care of each other, and don't worry our parents back home, we are fine. It's just a phrase: "Choose to be happy!". The secret of happiness is finding the right partner and living happily together. Over time I realized that I have nothing to complain about, I'm just happy to be in this world. I discover the beauty of the world every day in the little things. I think that's the real secret to my happiness. Exactly I entered this parallel world convinced that I already knew what I would find inside. Every meeting, transformed my prejudice into curiosity Never before had I had such open, And this adventure a reality where the world seems designed Doors too high, It's easy to lose heart Yet here in Lilliput, I saw something extraordinary. A community that not only survives, but teaches us that the secret to happiness and how we are capable of cultivating that love, to appreciate the beauty of differences.