Transcriber: Mahshid Moballegh Nasery Good afternoon. My name is Sendurai Mani and and also an associate director at Brown university; Legorreta Cancer Center, Brown university. Today I am going to walking through how the cancer originates and then what can we do to prevent or get ourselves checked properly? So before that, I just want to let a community where we have more They work together symbiotically. We have a digestive system which It's like a food processing machinery, And we have all kinds of systems, to destroy any foreign invaders. So this slide shows that the symbiosis play a vital role in keeping Same thing happens in our human body. So again, we have nearly 30 trillion a bacteria in our body, which is almost And they all work together. Unfortunately, cancer is still It doesn't discriminate anyone. It penetrates or invades our life. And steals our health, happiness and It doesn't discriminate whether It doesn't discriminate whether you are or you are rich or poor. It doesn't matter. So it's extremely vital for us to why people do get cancer. If you understand that better, it's easier for us to prevent it So that slide shows in the world we have nearly 20 million people And among that, 10 million of them died because of cancer. In the US, "The cancer incidence is dropping This slide shows that you can which shows cancer incidence And in the bottom you see the It's dropping down, But we still have quite a lot of cancer We saved nearly 2.5 million men and in the last ten years as well as treatment options. We will walk in through. I'll walk in through most of that However, there's one cancer we still don't have a good solution Here you can see the cancer and cancer related mortality is also So we need to understand that better. Moreover, you know, if somebody let's say breast cancer, But on the other hand, somebody So this is a localized disease. or somebody has liver again the survival rate is extremely low. So I'm going to walk you through The reason is, in the many times my uncle has a cancer, my aunt has So we need to understand these different So that you understand whether will I get a cancer? For example, there are three major types, we call what is called a sporadic, which happens due to our lifestyle It's due to a mutation in parents or could That's a hereditary, it's a combination of both the environment where they live in. The combination together causes So before that, what is gene and how people get cancer, or inherited some genetic defect. So here you see on the left, and cell has chromosomes, And inside the nucleus and the DNA makes genes. My daughter asked me, what is the She's 11 years old. And so I thought of this example where all the roads you could call it as a DNA, which you can see as small stretch of road Same thing. You have a meter long DNA in each cell, and a small portion of that DNA And so now comes how cancer Just think about a car, okay? I said we have 30 to 40 trillion Now each cell is like a car, just imagine. Now a car has a brake and accelerator So brake when you are going fast, When you are not going faster, you can When the gas tank gets empty, Same way we have a brake system. If among this 30 to 40 trillion cells, the brake system works and stops And but imagine, somebody has a mutation in another set of genes, Then you are constantly pressing the gas, Still, there is one more brake, one more Once the gas tank is empty, the So you have a third set of control. So in body, we have a clock system which Same way how many years each cell among this 30 to It will sense these many times you can That's a programmed cell death. So that is determined by something called What happens in cancer? They turn on an enzyme called telomerase. They keep adding telomeres to the end. So these are the three major hurdles to become a cancer cell. So which is summarized here. So you need to mutate mutate the oncogene become active, then have a continuous almost like a solar powered gas tank, So you can run on a sunlight as So this is kind of puts the cell which the cell responds by dividing and and that end up in tumor. But you also want to understand age-related disease. So in other words, we tend to accumulate more mutation over And that's what is shown in this slide people gaining/getting cancer So this slide shows that a mutation in this tumor suppressor gene, the genes are also called brake genes which I was mentioning earlier, that so those can be inherited from But just because somebody inherits doesn't mean that Remember, there are three steps as normal cell has to pass in order What it means is that if they get inherited a mutation from the parents, which means they are prone but they are not going to get a cancer. So here a kid having a retinoblastoma RBE Gene is developing a mutation. Tumor in the eye, something APC which And then you see on the right, She had a mutation in a gene which is a tumor suppressor And she decided to go and remove her, do a mastectomy of both her breast just not because she had a cancer. So again, the environmental So pollution, drinking alcohol, So take time off. Microbiome, You know, we all take I said there are 38 trillion bacteria they are going to create So be respectful of your microbiome. And you know, smoking, eating junk food, so it also adds to cancer. So what I have done so when people in the Weinberg lab where a gentleman in his lab, they found that a cancer cell in a laboratory by Getting rid of the brake, having a tumor oncogene and they were able to make cancer cells. So what I found those cancer because they are epithelial cells That's what happens. That's why they are attached with one another. In order for them to go from they need to break this acceleration Now, they can go anywhere in the body. That's called epithelial to So in addition, when a pathologist a pathologist could predict that tumor or prostate or longer liver, just because they create a structure very So I hypothesized that tumor cells not migratory but also become stem cells. That turned out to be true. Now targeting cancer stem cells because they are responsible tumor relapse and treatment resistance. We are in the process of developing So until now, you know, the treatment has been more just one kind of treatment. If somebody has a cancer, they used chemotherapy or some treatment. Recently, we have invented this precision you classify them by sequencing You classify them into group who has a oncogene the the accelerator genes. Now, based on that, we have So you can give medicine to the patient a benefit in among all the three groups. So this is, for example, an example a BRAF gene, which is one of the oncogene. Now you give a drug which the tumor is completely gone and there's But that's another problem which we are Here is Jim Allison who really He found that the tumor cells somehow So he found that secret code, which tumor cells tell the immune He went ahead and blocked that signal. By doing that, he's able to make the That is really making a huge impact. If somebody has a melanoma, some time ago, No longer the case. You can really So the future is really bright. For example, olden days when somebody colonoscopy for a colon cancer screening, Now, there's a company here. They have developed a small camera, It just go through your stomach. It pictures the whole gut and you get There's another company on the right, a toilet seat where you sit when you It can kind of capture what is anything an information. And you know, there's which is quite an interesting idea. So you guys are all constantly feeding wearables as well as your genomic With that, people are able to create And with that one could predict what So here is a company they have announced for multiple myeloma. So it's The sequencing cost is dropping every day. It was nearly $100 million when Now it's you can sequence it The goal is now you get the genome feed them into supercomputer, and that would speed out a proper So until now, various experts like a basic scientists, we all used to but not necessarily as a team. What we are doing here, and all over the world is forming a team, working as a team So here is a group of the people who are and also the Legorreta Cancer Center. Again, I hope I'm able to convince It's you know, we have a hope. And if somebody's cancer is the survival rate is very high. So we need to really work together. So I request all of you to play a vital either by supporting cancer research or or simply by promoting awareness that cancer is not a death sentence. It's a curable if it diagnosed early. So go get proper diagnosis, And thank you all for the opportunity. (Applause)