Petroleum, or crude oil is a fossil fuel. It is the result of organic matter transforming Generally buried in the form of a deposit, of the earth, which is why it has been known Around the world, oil was used as sealing But it is only in the middle of the 19th century Europe and North America, in the midst of have rapidly increasing energy requirements that are mainly met by coal. Interest in oil intensifies throughout the From the Russian Empire, to Europe, to North America, the first modern drilling location. In the United States, this causes a rush of and the country became the largest oil producer in the world. Initially, distilled oil replaces the burning It offers a better calorific value than coal Oil consumption rises in the early 20th century, with the development of the automobile, the reconversion of ship engines, and the aviation boom during the World War I. Crude oil, once extracted, is distilled in The lighter molecules evaporate to the top is around 20 degrees Celsius. Liquefied Petroleum Gases are harvested and Between 30 and 105 degrees Celsius, gasoline Between 105 and 160 degrees Celsius, naphtha to create plastics, synthetic textiles, drugs Between 160 and 230 degrees Celsius, kerosene Between 230 and 425 degrees Celsius, diesel is created for cars and heating oil for domestic purposes. Finally, the thick, high-sulfur residue is to form heavy fuel oil used by ships, and to obtain Crude oil was transported in barrels with or slightly less than 159 liters. The barrel thus became the unit for setting More and more oil deposit discoveries are which becomes the second largest global producer. In the Middle East, where Britain is present, giving a portion of their profits to the local country During World War II, demand for oil skyrockets At the end of the war, the United States signs guaranteeing security of the country in return for privileged access to its oil. Western companies dominating oil markets contribute In Saudi Arabia, an agreement is signed allowing In Iran, negotiations with the Anglo-Persian the prime minister nationalizes the country's oil. In response, the US and the UK secretly organize The Shah of Iran remains in power and then by a consortium of Western companies. In the USSR, the discovery of oil fields in Western Siberia pushes the country to invest in its exploitation. Plentiful and cheap oil overtakes coal to So far, its price remains below 3 dollars Five major oil-producing countries decide They create OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum Together, they want to counter the dominance and to have a common policy. The organization would gradually be joined In 1972, the United States reaches peak production As the United Kingdom withdraws from the Middle Iran and Saudi Arabia which are armed by the After the Yom Kippur War between Israel and OPEC for the first time uses oil as a political An oil embargo is imposed on Israel's allies This is the first oil crisis which hits industrialized countries whose economies now depend on the black gold. Countries try to reduce their oil consumption such as nuclear and hydro power, or reinvest in coal. Oil companies in turn explore the world in Sources at sea, called offshore sites, are The Soviet Union becomes the largest producer production increases with the exploitation In 1979, the Iranian revolution takes place. The Shah's regime is overthrown and replaced by an Islamic republic that sets up an anti-Western policy. Oil production in the country falls, causing Following border disputes, tensions between Globally, non-OPEC oil production rises and Henceforth, supply and demand sets the price However, for industrialized countries, the Thus when Iran and Iraq begin to target oil hundreds of Western military vessels step in to ensure At the end of the war, Iraq is weakened and But having received large amounts of military equipment, the country has the most powerful army in the region. Iraq takes advantage of this situation to An international coalition is formed under to intervene and neutralize the Iraqi army. This time the United States establishes a military bases and signing defense agreements The country imposes a series of embargoes Saudi Arabia, for its part, wants to once The country has the largest known oil reserves to become the largest producer of crude. In Russia, new investment revives the oil But as the price of oil is low, and offshore oil companies find themselves in difficulty. In 1998, they begin to merge together and 6 giant oil companies are born that would In the Middle East, the military presence On one hand, radical Islamists do not want On the other, some consider the sanctions On September 11, 2001, the United States becomes 15 of the 19 terrorists were Saudis, raising The US actively seeks new sources to reduce In Africa, production accelerates after the In the Middle East, the United States invades weapons of mass destruction. A few years later, the country's oil would Iran for its part opens its market to new The abundant supply of oil in the world stimulates Growth skyrockets, mainly in emerging countries. In addition, Wall Street traders speculating But the financial crisis of 2008 would cause Venezuela, over a few years, discovers the world, putting it ahead of Saudi Arabia. With more global demand for oil, its price The &quot;unconventional&quot; exploitation of petroleum in its pumping and treatment. Thus in Canada and Venezuela, oil companies As this thick bitumen is found near the earth's It is then transformed with more expensive, While offshore now provides 30% of global production, oil companies try exploiting deeper deposits. In the Gulf of Mexico, an attempt to make causing one of the world's worst known oil spills. In the United States, improved technologies, such as fracking, now make it possible to pump shale oil, the reserves of which seem This oil is wedged between different layers A fluid is injected at high pressure to break the rock and release the black gold which is then pumped. Numerous such reserves discovered in the United The fact that the biggest oil consumer in does not please its Saudi ally. Saudi Arabia then wants to make the production To achieve this, Saudi Arabia persuades OPEC The price of the barrel drops, making oil But the oil industry of the United States With oil abundant and cheap, world consumption and approaches 100 million barrels per day. Two-thirds of the oil used in transportation In the maritime sector, heavy fuel oil used emits 3,500 times more sulfur than diesel fuel, causing severe air pollution. The United States and Europe react by creating Since the beginning of the modern era of oil, with the Niger Delta probably being the most affected region with 60 years of oil spills largely ignored. Saudi Arabia undergoes its own policy changes, OPEC countries are forced to appeal to other to together try boosting the price of oil. This inlude Russia, the second largest crude exporter in the world. The United States, in contrast, continues and to support growth and the economy. The country eventually becomes the largest While IPCC experts are sounding the alarm to limit global warming, we have currently another 50 years at current rates. Saudi Arabia now speaks of diversifying its Iran, which has the 3rd largest oil reserves imposed by the United States aimed at choking In Venezuela, the countryy is hurt by the low and the country never really benefits from its huge reserves. Political instability could potentially impact exports, which currently mainly benefits China and Russia. Meanwhile, oil companies remain among the In 2017, five of them figure in the list of The International Maritime Organization imposes for vessels by 2020. This could force the industry to abandon heavy which may push up its demand and price. If the price of a barrel increases, the exploitation This includes areas such as the Arctic, which And with polar ice caps melting, it makes