23 and Me on the verge of Nasdaq. Drama has been unfolding It's only set to ramp up. 23 me built a multi-billion collecting people's spit. The idea was that people health by learning about And it took off. But just two years after went from being valued at $1. Now 23 and Me is November deadline to delisted from the Nasdaq. So how did one of the most 2000s go from Silicon stock? And can its CEO save 23 and Me was founded in Avey and Paul Cusenza. The mission of the company They set out to give inexpensive way to access So they did this by you can really kind of take It's an. Online test. You go online, little tube, you spit in to us, we extract the DNA look at a million data And from that, we can tell about your health and also This isn't all that like ancestry and Family one of the first to bring consumers at an affordable By 2012, the company was its kit from $999 to $299. This was thanks to capital One of them was Wojcicki's co-founder Sergey Brin. Anne is a really connected and she understood how to that would also help to So in 2008, for instance, what they called a spit So during New York Fashion and high profile guests sample, generated a ton of the company. Sales started booming. The company announced it customers, and in 2015, the to provide more in-depth customers, and in 2016, it its kits to $99. I think that. Every technology, it takes a Now it's suddenly become People share their stories I just took a DNA test. Celebrity endorsements kept was named one of CNBC's top And thanks so much for Congrats on your spot on less. And during this period, 23 a massive database of You may wonder what happens that people send in to the Well, the Silicon Valley largest database for 4 million customers have their DNA to study genetic The company partnered with companies and universities diseases like depression. But customers began to privacy in 2018. A serial killer cold case and Me. The company had problems with recurring There hasn't been a It's the kind of test that Once sales of 23 and Me test compared to a year earlier. The company laid off 100 cut costs, but Wojcicki company beyond selling DNA And so now we're really at a ready to, you know, explode opportunities on opportunities for our So 23 and Me wanted to database that it had know, millions of people They have a lot of valuable But the fact of the matter development, drug hard. And extremely expensive. One recent study estimates US can range anywhere from billion, and can take years Wojcicki solution was to market. 23 and Me going public today Richard Branson's Spac, VG In 2021, 23 and Me went valued around $3.5 billion. At the time, there was a purpose acquisition 23 and Me went public in The coronavirus pandemic is is booming. So healthcare they're raising money really high valuations. A lot of founders who I to joke that it's like period. Going public helped fuel efforts despite falling I have this incredible drug I have over 40 programs all of it. So I imagine us from now, a very robust robust therapeutic side. So we absolutely aspire to therapeutic development bring those programs to our But by 2022, interest rates company was struggling to its research and ended the fiscal 2023 year All of those ambitions were She was trying to create subscription model where more data that they got, powerful. But there was She couldn't really sell surprise, surprise that development is really hard In September of 2023, the and the company received a Nasdaq. Then the privacy Genetic testing company 23 the data of nearly 7 attack in October. That total far more than accessing user data, By 2024, the company its drug development team money making obesity drugs Its most recent earnings $667 million. In March 23rd and Me committee of independent figure out a path forward share price. And it's important to note board of 23 and Me, but she special committee in April committee that she's going to take the company her, the very next day, the this proposal. The committee gave Wojcicki revised proposal, but they Wojcicki wants to take back years after going public rejecting outside Now she's abandoned by her By mid-September, all seven citing frustration with differences and Then the company received from the Nasdaq saying that with an action plan before It certainly is a big what will happen next, but to Anne at this point. She, in a memo to employees going to immediately start directors to join the Wojcicki has said in a memo to take the company private third party bids. In October, the company stock split in an effort to As for what will happen to the company is sold? CNBC reached out to 23 and spokesperson emailed back remains committed to going share customer data with consent.