In this video I want to give you kind of a road you're watching this video you are most probably Well, the tech industry is currently one of so it's completely logical that so many people are into Tech just after graduating from school or lots of career opportunities, but when you are at overwhelming too. It is a broad industry with so There is so much to learn and often you don't which IT field you will be interested in and will out and seeing for yourself what you enjoy doing that it's too late to switch careers or there's people, who have been in tech since early age. And the time pressure, insecure not knowing where and I want to kind of show you various career path how to get started. And for every IT field, we what they actually do and what are some of their need to have to get into that specific field and First of all, I want to start by saying that transitioned from my marketing and business not even an IT subject at school or college and the best decisions of my life! This field is with so many benefits and opportunities for interesting exciting and fulfilling field to be So let's see what are actually some of that will be even more demanded in the future, want to specialize in. Of course there are many many names for the similar jobs, but there are which have become the most popular. The popular high, so many of those rankings are also Based on several rankings, the most demanded in popularity even more over the years are: cloud engineering, cyber security or security related professions and machine learning actually be even more demanded in the future. So each one of those fields. So most of you will but many of you as I said may not know right now they all sound equally exciting for you or equally be a better choice or which one will be the most because that's exactly what I want to help First of all, it's absolutely fine to try out In fact, it's a really good idea, because you so you want to take advantage of that and find the approach this with some structure, just randomly sense of many things at once or even worse trying good strategy. It will make your learning journey well and you won't properly find out what field your learning process by laying out the map that the learning path to those as well as any overlaps with the broadest and the most widely least spread it's also the easiest entry point into IT and and that's how I started as well. A software who develops any kind of software applications. desktop application, whenever you think of any phone in your smart TV. So for example, Amazon, your smart TV. These are all software. Or think for navigation and some other controls of production machines and robots. So these are But software engineer is a very broad term itself specialize in any of those subfields since they example, you can become a &quot;frontend developer&quot;, application, the part that the users see in their can become a &quot;backend developer&quot; and develop that connects to the database, saves and updates become a &quot;full stack developer&quot;. They're basically parts of the application. Then you also have basically developing web applications that you see app developers, which are developing applications which is &quot;Internet of Things&quot;, like software in lock systems for hotels etc. And you can even language or even a framework. So you may choose to or maybe a &quot;React developer&quot;. You can specialize You can become a &quot;Python developer&quot;. So these are is already such a big area and field on its own. area or you can go broader and become a full their values. You need experts in one specific overview and knowledge of many things on a higher whether you are a generalist or a specialist, so a generalist. I like knowing many things and and knowing things on a high level, rather than but as I said that's a really personal preference. subfields you choose, you have a pretty similar understand basics of software development and language and learn the basics of programming with data types and so on, because these concepts are no matter whether it's mobile, web, frontend or as the entry point language, if you want to because it can be used in frontend and backend plus it's easy to learn compared to Java for step will be to actually start developing simple is written from scratch. The complete setup of application, because that's how you really learn big fan of learning anything with an example tutorials passively. This way you're not learning have, you are learning how to develop an actual you want to specialize in, if it's web development and start creating a little bit more complex web want to go into mobile development you can choose practice using that language. Every language has are cooler, some of them are more widely used, but first, because you can always learn the syntax to. If you're not sure, which language you want because it increases your chances to get a job behind it and it has to be popular for a reason. syntax of a language just one by one, take an your own project and develop that. You will but it has to be simple so you don't get stuck and if you are thinking: &quot;what if I make the wrong out that I don't like it at all?&quot; Well, if you and after months of learning that, you realize development better, that knowledge is not wasted. that you gained will help you switch to another like and what you didn't like. In fact, that isn't completely different area like data engineering say that, the fields in software engineering are relatively easy to get started in IT this way and area. And as I said your knowledge will never be interconnected in different areas of IT. Your go to machine learning or DevOps engineering. at once, as long as you build your knowledge one programming language and technology at a time and then move on to the next thing you should be trying to absorb everything at once, which I know you do want to start with this path, I actually need to know for web development specifically, database connection plus even more the complete my goal was exactly to make people's entry in scary thing of getting into tech, by making things to make it fun and engaging. Just a shameless plug to know more about that you can see the video, in detail. Now as I said, you can use knowledge software development is actually the best stepping role called &quot;DevOps engineering&quot;. So DevOps field field that I personally found extremely exciting engineer transitioned to DevOps and if you know courses and educational programs are all about DevOps is not really an entry-level IT profession. already have some engineering know-how in order to DevOps is all about automating the processes in which means logically enough that you need to cycle first so you know what you're automating. which I do not recommend to start in if you up your knowledge step by step and you find it rewarding profession. It is a highly demanded and actually a big shortage of these professionals, you want to know more about DevOps and what type become a DevOps engineer, I actually recommend playlist, where I explain all of that in detail. DevOps is definitely not for me&quot; or &quot;yes that's them out, I will also link all the videos that I Before we move on to the next profession though, to DevOps not only from software development or test automation or network engineering role IT professions that are becoming less demanded engineering, because it is the new hot thing and bootcamp. Two years ago we actually created the the necessary tools and concepts to become a 500 students with this bootcamp so far, but as some level of IT experience or IT pre-knowledge. bootcamp to help people with the zero background to even get started into DevOps. So I created this Bootcamp. So if after watching the &quot;DevOps as a DevOps, then these two educational programs will there in the most efficient easy and fast way. But not for you, then you can consider one of the IT video. So let's continue! The next IT field, is cloud engineering. Very simply explained, a infrastructure in the cloud. As many companies to using cloud platforms, Cloud Engineers are is also an entry-level profession. If you have then this will be probably the easiest IT complete IT beginner, you can actually start do you start in cloud engineering? Well in cloud cloud platforms out there, which are Amazon's AWS certifications, which you can take to help you cloud platform. So if you want to get started and start learning for their basic entry-level cloud platform. I personally suggest choosing AWS, cloud platform. A good way to start here will be certifications from basic cloud practitioner to with the basic AWS cloud practitioner certificate will give you knowledge in all important AWS concepts of cloud engineering in general. And language, learning another programming language learned many of the common underlying concepts. Azure after learning AWS or you find a dream job instead, you can learn them way easier, because the basics of cloud with that platform. In fact asset, because you now have a good comparison be getting the cloud practitioner certificate Now I want to mention here that DevOps and Cloud get mixed up. However even though they have different fields and I plan to create a separate describing in detail what are the common tasks and actually differentiates them. So you understand fields. So be sure to subscribe and activate the Now cloud, DevOps and software engineering fields When you build a cloud infrastructure you need you need to make sure it doesn't have any security systems, when you build DevOps processes which infrastructure and many different systems, again make sure you don't expose passwords and secret developers, cloud engineers and DevOps engineers is an extremely large field and it affects every release life cycle and you have security in a separate dedicated profession for IT security As a security professional you know security identify security issues at different levels as engineers have secured their systems properly. provide services to other companies to secure their systems and see where the systems of the into them, actual hackers can also do that. So as points and advise the company how to secure them. every system, every software, that companies the infrastructure, the application platform, the itself. So security engineers usually have a wider and can plan a general strategy of securing for automating security checks and security that security engineers have extreme value to the scenario for any big known company. Cyber attacks applications, who have millions or hundreds of the impact of the attack is huge, when data of so online banking application. Obviously you don't system, right? For this reason there is usually a industries and it's definitely going to become want to go on this challenging but very exciting what you are securing. So this is also not really some pre-knowledge in one of the IT fields like development etc. And on top of that you'll have to develop this general security strategies. When data is a critical part, so before moving on I this video possible. Passbolt is an open source is built for collaboration. With Passbolt you can team's credentials. The security model is built on granular access rights, it is audited regularly audit it yourself, because it's 100% open And for maximum privacy you can deploy your own Raspberry Pi to a high availability setup and then note that Passbolt does not require an internet them out, the link is in the video description. of the hottest IT jobs, which are more in demand When we have software that millions and billions data, right? Think about social media, the minute or every second. Think about search data GPS data from Google Maps or other applications at the supermarket, when you buy stuff online. this is data that we humans produce daily this human generated data there is also massive IoT systems through sensors, production machines, more data than humans generate is coming from dramatically in the last years. In fact worlds last two years. As some sources mentioned, we it were written down in form of books and we we would have enough to build a bridge to the moon data, we also call it &quot;Big Data&quot;. So that's where asset of any organization, because it helps them political campaigns are driven by data, like companies use data to optimize their processes, to just raw data has no value to the company. Imagine generated in different formats and from different sense of data in this form. It only has value visualized. So it's easy to consume for us humans the ones, who use tools to turn these massive information for companies. And companies can make future predictions, cost optimizations and so with different tasks and responsibilities such as So let's see comparisons between them. &quot;Data if you want to get into this field and is the data analysts analyze and interpret data to they need to basically make sense of the data, need to have are knowledge of math and statistics and data visualization. But in addition to the have a good business and product understanding. So decisions for the business and product development who actually need them like, product owners, data analysts work with already processed and collected from multiple sources with different for the data analysts. And this is something that of databases and programming to do their job and &quot;data pipelines&quot; to collect, store and process by learning a programming language like Python learning databases and query language like SQL like Apache Hadoop, which is a popular framework amounts of data. And the third one I mentioned is paid profession among these three. Now interesting and data scientists job titles interchangeably. are definitely some overlaps between those two. advanced math and statistics knowledge here as you don't need any math or statistics knowledge DevOps or cloud engineering, but in data science and statistics a lot. This means if you want first thing you need to learn is statistics and or Python. However in addition to statistics, data skills than data analysts and that's where the lie. So data scientists are usually more machine learning models for example and algorithms next and final hottest IT profession called a yet another big data related profession. We said to analyze trends and identify patterns and make So data can be used by humans to make data-driven by programs, so that clean processed data that so they can learn from them and they can use them learning actually comes in. Now what is machine what do they do with it? In software development something. In machine learning, machines can to do so. How do they do that? They learn how using algorithms, which are also called machine computers being able to think and act without and there are two main parts of this process. algorithms so that machines can use them to sets of processed data into those algorithms, Again there are some overlaps between data you will encounter, they both need strong math while data scientists focus on making sense of machine learning focuses on using the data for So entry into machine learning engineering is need to start by learning a programming language frameworks and statistics, which is a engineering. Now you probably already noticed Python programming language and that's because use it in every single one of those areas, same Python knowledge in each field. Using Python using Python for DevOps automation or machine first you learn the Python core with its syntax learn the specific libraries and frameworks So you have completely different frameworks learning and DevOps automation, which you need to learn different parts of Python for each field and language just happens to have popular frameworks course the Python core is the same everywhere syntax and programming concepts of Python, you which I will link right here. So we've covered categorize them so you have a better overview and stood out for you where you think: &quot;well that like to get into that field&quot;. Now of course when to go and what you want to start learning, the this?&quot; Do you get a college degree in computer a data science bootcamp or a coding bootcamp or informatics studies at a technical university, but like YouTube videos and some coding websites. developer in my second semester, I actually quit because at work I was actually learning way more job than at the university. But learning at work things from YouTube videos and blog articles and trying to learn anything and everything that I that I could follow, but it was still useful in are one of the best ways to learn, especially of road map and structure definitely makes the learn things randomly, but you learn things in a amounts of information. So whatever field you profession. There are various articles and videos that roadmap. And of course if you decide for for that, even if you're starting off without research, put together a learning course and find you. You just follow along and learn by doing with the goal of giving practical actual usable people learn easily without getting frustrated and have various options, choose an entry-level career build on top of that. And again no knowledge is so if you start in software development and or cloud engineering you can still benefit from in that field. So if you don't know yet where those, maybe the easiest one and you can always was able to help you make these important decision decision by choosing IT in general. With that,