After more than three decades in the movie has decided to hang up his hat. &quot;Mr. Daniel?&quot; &quot;I'm finished.&quot; The actor announced that his 2017 film with dress designer drama titled Phantom Thread, filmography. The statement, given via his spokeswoman, &quot;He is immensely grateful to all of his collaborators This is a private decision and neither he comment on this subject.&quot; The notoriously private thespian may not be plenty of reasons to leave Hollywood's bright The toll of being a method actor It's no secret that Daniel Day-Lewis takes Not only is he exceedingly choosy about which disappear into them throughout the production &quot;I follow my curiosity and it takes me into He stayed in a wheelchair and was spoon-fed cerebral palsy for his Oscar-winning turn wild to prepare for his role in The Last of cast and crew during the production on The and trained for 18 months as a fighter for The results speak for themselves, but all &quot;Part of my job is to be drained.&quot; &quot;I wore myself out.&quot; Post-production depression Not only is the work itself grueling, but with the emotional repercussions of letting As he told The Telegraph, &quot;There's a terrible The last day of shooting is surreal. Your mind, your body, your spirit are not coming to an end. You've devoted so much of your time to unleashing, turmoil.&quot; He also has trouble letting go of his characters &quot;You're not quite sure what to do with yourself &quot;It's very hard to conceive of any kind of Of course there is one waiting.&quot;] For example, after finishing Gangs of New his Butcher dialect for months after the film's during the film's debut, telling Rolling Stone, &quot;I got nervous before the premiere. I knew I'd also feel a sense of sadness. Now I have to accept that the film is complete Secondary career paths He was showered with decades of praise for ultimately sought a different level of fulfillment After shooting The Boxer, he started a family in Italy with master shoemaker Stefano Bemer. He told Rolling Stone, &quot;It's an antidote to &quot;Most particularly, perhaps, because you see thing at the end, and if you f*** up, you It's not a matter of opinion. It's either good or it's bad.&quot; Making shoes might seem like a strange passion times, it can be hard for a celebrity to stay Working with one's hands to produce work you a great way to stay centered. Allergic to fame Even at the peak of his career, Day-Lewis projects to spend time on his family farm the pubs to have a pint--alone. Unlike a number of his more outgoing colleagues, figure at all times. He told The BBC, &quot;I am, whether I like it or not, a public Then I disappear, it seems.&quot; &quot;Of course in my experience I don't disappear, What I'm doing is re-engaging with life.&quot; At this point, given his merit as an actor, attention--which undermines his interests As he told The Telegraph, &quot;The work itself is never anything but pure stuff that I find it hard to be surrounded I like things to be swift, because the energy The great machinery of film can work against In today's Hollywood, that machinery seems less room for the quieter sorts of character Instead, studios are looking for properties of sequels, reboots, remakes, and cinematic To an actor who built his career on taking be worth working within those constraints. &quot;Oh, oh oh, well in that case...&quot; Going out on top When Day-Lewis won the Best Actor Oscar for by becoming the only actor to win three trophies Once you've set such a high bar for yourself, and Day-Lewis seems to know that his status &quot;I have a competition in me. I want no one else to succeed.&quot; And while this time seems like the real deal, before--more than once, in fact. He left a stage production of Hamlet in the interacting with the ghost of his dead father. He took five years off after The Boxer, and after Lincoln. He told The Guardian, &quot;I just wanted some I need that quite often ... I have quite a when I shouldn't.&quot; Evidently, Day-Lewis is still going with his at last. Thanks for watching! Click the Looper icon to subscribe to our Plus check out all this cool stuff we know