Hey Vsauce, Michael here. I'm sorry. Look, I didn't name myself but Michael is the ninth most disliked baby name for a boy - according to a survey by BabyNameWizard.com At least it didn't top the charts like the rhyming a 'den' names - Jayden, Brayden, Aiden. The most disliked name for a baby girl, by the way, was Nevaeh - 'heaven' backwards. Names can be more than just just plain wrong, or misleading. MISNOMERS And I'm not talking about the daughter of Mr. Nomer. Over the summer I went to Singapore and I saw many many things. I saw an infinity pool, the world's largest beautiful beautiful orchids, including the laboratories where scientists and very very humid air that condensed all over my cool glasses. But even after I cleaned my glasses off I didn't see any Lions. In fact, it's believed that no Lions have ever naturally lived in Singapore, even though Singapore comes from a Malay word for Lion City. It's believed that in 1299 when Sang Nila Utama named Singapore, he mistakenly thought that a tiger he saw was a Lion. It's a misnomer. But here is the biggest mystery of them all, did I really go to Singapore? I mean, look at these photos. That guy certainly looks like me but he's not exactly like me. I have made a video about misnomers and that guy hasn't. This photo was from May, and since May I have been to Australia, New Zealand. The guy in these photos has never been there. I am similar to that guy but he's not exactly me. We can resolve this problem by realising that oranges are apples You see, in Old English the word 'apple' was used to describe apples, but also any fruit in general. For instance, dates were 'finger apples' and bananas were 'apples of paradise'. Cucumber's were 'Earth apples'. In French the word for 'apple' acted similarly, giving us 'Earth apple' for the potato. In the Middle Ages the old French word for orange meant 'apple of the orange tree'. And the Swedish word for orange still means 'apple' from China because Orange's originated in the East. But this leads us to an even bigger orange, the fruit or orange, the colour? Well, the answer is neither. The tree came first. The word 'orange' comes from the Sanskrit that these fruits grow on. Before being introduced to these fruits the English-speaking not orange, but yellow-red. The first recorded use of the word instead of the fruit, wasn't until 1512. So the colour was named after the fruit, which was named after the tree that it came from. But what's a fruit? Well, botanically a fruit is a part of a seeds, like an apple or an orange or a lemon or a grape. In cooking, because they're not sweet, and bean pods vegetables, even though they are actually fruits. Vegetable is a culinary term for other aren't fruit, like roots or leaves. Corn on the cob tastes like a vegetable but scientifically corn kernels are fruits, which means that corn on the cob is really just a bunch of fruits packed together. One of the veggies we put on our pizza is the mushroom. Of course, mushrooms aren't really vegetables because they aren't even plants. They're fungi. Names can also be confusing because of Stigler's Law - our tendency to name things not after who discovered them, or to simply honour someone else. Venn diagrams are cool. They were named after John Venn in the 1880s, although Leonhard Euler actually introduced them in 1768. And Avogadro's Constant? Not actually discovered by Avogadro. He proposed that such a number could exist but it was a different guy who discovered the exact figure. Straight up misnomers are my favorite. French horns are not French Your Funny bone is not a bone; it's a nerve. The Ulnar nerve. And this is not Big Ben. Nothing about this is officially called Big Ben. Its real name is The Elizabeth Tower. People often say that the bell inside is named Big Ben but even that's not true. The main bell inside Elizabeth Tower is officially called The Great Bell. The Great Bell's nickname is Big Ben and we have since applied that nickname for a bell to the entire tower. Kosher salt isn't actually kosher, it's just used to make things kosher, to draw blood out of meat. So really it should be called Koshering salt. The Rocky Mountain Oyster of course seafood - it's a fried bull testicle. Arabic Numerals are not Arabic, they were invented in India but introduced to Europe by Arab mathematicians. Haley's comet is named after Edmund Hayley but had been witnessed by people at least as early as 240 BC. Peanuts are not nuts, they're legumes, and coconuts are not nuts, they're drupes - stone fruit, like cherries, apricots, peaches, etc. French fries, as they are especially known in America, are not from America but were probably named by during the First World War, who discovered invented... Belgium. Now since French was the official language of the Belgian Army, the soldiers may have mistakenly thought Koala Bears are not bears, they just and egg plants don't grow eggs. Eighteenth-century cultivators simply thought they kind of resembled eggs. Dry cleaning isn't dry at all, it involves lots of wet liquids but just not water. And, silly guy, hamburgers are not the pork product, they're named after Probably because at Hamburg citizens who emigrated to the US and brought their minced beef patty, a Guinea pigs are not pigs at all, they're just similar looking to pigs - kind of. And Greenland isn't green land at all, it's believed Erik the Red named it Greenland hoping that into coming over. We drive on parkways and park on driveways not because work makers want to confuse us but refers not to stopping a car but to the parkways often run along. Skeuomorphs are design elements that today are merely ornamental, even though in the past originally they had a purpose. For instance, on a modern mobile phone the icon for phone call is shaped like an old phone. The icon for e-mail is shaped like an old snail mail envelope. Or, when you take a camera phone picture, you hear the sound of a mechanical shutter, even if your phone doesn't have one that Older cameras did, so the new ones do too. It's a skeuomorph. Your own name is a kind of skeuomorph. Let's call it a skeuonom. It was necessary at birth your parents gave it to you but before when you grew up. You have changed since you were born but your name has stayed the same. When we called it 'The Moon', we didn't know that we would find other moons in the solar system. When you no one knew how you would change, or what you would become, and you change frequently. You change many, many times over the course of your life. You learn things, you forget things, you meet people, you stop You experience things for the first time, millions of times a second you change cells die and new ones are born. And, at the atomic level, with the things, like tattoos and piercings, every five years pretty much every single atom in your So to what degree is the future or past you, really you now. Robert M Martin puts this in a really cool perspective Errors in the the Title of This Book*' &quot;That person, who will have your name in the very far future, will be connected The person will remember very few of will be psychologically quite different, present one only a bit, and contains almost none of the same matter. So it seems that this person is the only to a small degree. In a way, in terms of memories and experiences in history, you have more in common with a than you do with yourself 10 or 20 Martin goes even further, saying why be afraid of death if the future you who dies will resemble so little? Well, to that I say YOLO? Well, it's probably more accurate YOLOBLOMLMTAASOSBTDPWKEOBOIODAW- CHEOBOITOD. You only live once, but living once means many times, as a series of similar, but technically different people, who and who can help each other, but only in And as always, thanks for watching.