Thank you for joining. It's really a pleasure. You're such an amazing, absolutely amazing philosopher, thinker, writer, speaker. So it's a joy to be with you. Just a joy. Likewise. Likewise. Thank you for taking the time. Yeah, we have very much the same obsessions, I think, in life. Absolutely. Yes. For me, you're a brilliant, out-of-this-world scientist of knowledge and knower of science from a philosophical perspective. You have started your interest in discovering what the world is about with an interest in science. And today, we want to get to know you, not just with all your acclaims and notoriety, but through what I think you'd like to be known, which is your knowledge, your thinking and the care that you give in sharing your knowledge to the world and making life better for everyone. There is no question, through reading your books and looking at what you've done that you are truly a seeker of the ultimate reality. And it was beautiful to see how you actually shifted from science to philosophy. With a small story that you tell where you asked your teacher, whose discussing quantum mechanics and you ask, what about reality? And they said, oh, this is not a question to be asked. And so you were kind of disappointed and went to the philosophers, and then they gave you some thinking about that. Having gone through that and through so many transformations in so many beautiful ways and amazing ways unexpected for, you know, somebody's growing up in a very traditional kind of circumstances. And yet your really true search for truth made you go through certain steps of understanding. And for such a grand philosopher, I'd like to start with a grand question. What about reality? What did you tell us? What do we know? What we don't know and what do you believe is reality? I'm very open to, I don't have a very fixed view, I mean, I just know there is a reality. And that our species is very much defined by trying to find our place in it, you know, to know where we are. And what reality wants or doesn't want from us, or if it's totally indifferent to us. And if it's hostile or friendly or indifferent. Anyway, we are the species who would like to get our bearings, I think. And I think that's, I don't know, I think I'm rather proud of our species for that, there is much to be not so proud, about our species. But for that, I think it's quite wondrous that we evolved apes, are so keen to know our place in reality. So I mean, that's not answering what I think reality is. I'm very open to this. Like you, I think that consciousness is the key to everything. I mean, obviously. And how consciousness fits in with the rest of reality is the great mystery, you know, that Schopenhauer called the world knot. And you know, where, we tried to untie it and that's always been my obsession: how can matter accommodate consciousness, you know, how do these fit together? And so this is... I'm giving you a lot of questions rather then an answer to what I think reality is. But I think reality is humbling and in some sense ennobles us because we want to know it. Beautiful. It sound like mostly the epistemological side of how we know, how can we know, how much we know, the wonderful aspect of us wanting to know. And you know, Socrates' ideals and his kleos, his understanding of what kleos should be, rather than just fighting and having immortality, but actually to know. And as you mentioned in one of your talks also, Spinoza's idea of even the conatus and all of this, it's wonderful. So if we want to try, let's say, this evening to both of us, find what actual reality is, without pretending anything, but just supposing a few things. Is it safe to say that, you know, take us back to Descartes and say, okay, there are two things, like your daughter Danielle told you when she was young and she said, oh, she did something wrong or something like that, and she said, it did it. It's not like her did it, but it did it. The body did it. Right. I found this story wonderful. And as an expression of the true sense of duality that even a child intuitively kind of feels: I am not that body. I am something else. My consciousness is there and this body is doing something and like that. So we are now more and more, of course, I think philosophers and scientists moving towards a monistic view of reality, let's say, at the basis of this because of, you know, how does one, would interact with the other? You know, what is the causal efficacy of one on the other? And therefore, I guess you are a monist in some ways or in many ways? Yeah. No, I'm, you know, i'm open to dualism, but it seems to me the evidence is all going towards monism of one sort or another. Yes. So that is one basis at least it gets us on the way to finding out. So do you inclined to think that it is the physical that is primary or more inclined towards consciousness? We'll keep the God story a little bit out of the picture because, you know, we have 36 arguments for that and everybody should read that book and look at it deeply. But let's keep that out. Just actually the substance, the material, the essence, the primordial aspect. So here's my intuition, matter is the great mystery. So yes, I have a more... I'm an anti-reductionist. I don't think that physics, as it's been practiced since Galileo, the beginning of physics in the 17th century can accommodate the inner being of consciousness. I think that we, our knowledge of matter is very skimpy and that we have to get to it by way of mathematics. That was the great insight of the 17th century, it's a wondrous, that abstract mathematics of, you know, great abstraction can give us the structure of matter. But I think it gives us the structure of matter, it gives us relational properties. It doesn't give us the whole of matter, it doesn't give us the intrinsic properties of matter. And so one of my arguments against dualism is I feel we can never be in a position to say, oh, it's not, it's not matter unless we know, again, the epistemological is always foremost in my mind, unless we know that we know the complete story of matter and we could never know that. And I think our reliance on mathematics is a reason to doubt that we know the whole story of matter. It's amazing. And we, one of my physics professors at Princeton, Eugene Wigner, spoke about the, you know, the amazement, the astonishment that mathematics can tell us anything at all about matter. I mean that this is the astonishing efficacy of mathematics and telling us anything about matter. I don't think it tells us everything and I think it leaves out intrinsic qualities. And I think among those intrinsic qualities is consciousness. I think there's a kind of proto consciousness in matter. But we can't get to it. And the only reason we know about it is because we are matter that is conscious. So that's a conclusion I would be prepared to argue for, but I'm extremely open about almost everything except reductionism. This, I know, can't be true. The other thing I know can't be true is those who deny that consciousness exists. This is to me, is the most absurd. Then, yeah, then it's the group, and... Yeah, this to me is like, you have to be very, very smart to argue something so stupid. Yeah, this is really like negating things and relegating them to some outer force or outer thing and just the angel did it or somebody else did it. And it seems like going into that kind of argument which will not satisfy, you know, philosophers like yourself of high integrity of thinking and not saying, oh, it's an illusion, it doesn't exist anyway, so that... Illusion? But an illusion is consciousness itself. So I mean, it's just a self negating absurdity. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Wonderful. I really delighted to hear this because in my thinking, I think the hard problem of consciousness is a fallacious kind of statement. I would rather say the hard problem of physicality, going along with what you say in a sense and I have my reasons to think like that, but it's kind of an almost a dogmatic belief that physicality is the real thing. And consciousness through which we see everything, we experience everything, we see the physical, we experience it... is kind of decided to be the primary thing. And consciousness is something that emerges from that. So I think the hard problem of consciousness should be the hard problem of physicality. And my logic for that is that, you know, we have two choices in monism, either you take consciousness or mind matter, mind aspect and or the physical, and both have arguments for them. So I want to ask you, do you have arguments against, for example, the fact that consciousness could be the primary aspect of reality? You say you're open, but you know, like when you take the problem of God, you can say, okay well, I have arguments like why there is suffering, why there is this, why things don't go wrong. But what about the argument of consciousness being the thing? Well, you know, I think, I do think that physical bodies situated in space time, you know, exist. I think they're, you know, composed of elementary particles and moving about in quantum mechanical ways. And there is a, you know, there is... and that they're somewhat, you know, remote from us in the way that consciousness isn't, you know, consciousness is, we know the nature of consciousness because we're conscious, you know, we inhabit it. There's nothing I know more intimately than what it's like to be something, to be conscious. But it, you know, it seems to me that what physics has been discovering has been, you know, the nature of matter. And so I don't know how to interpret physics, and I think that, you know, our higher forms of consciousness, self-consciousness, I mean, all of this incredible complexity of which we're capable of, you know, arises out of unconscious matter, with hidden properties that would explain it. That's... that we can't get at, you know, and to me, it's amazing that we know anything at all about matter. You know, as I've said, you know that mathematics could give us anything at all. But yeah, I, it's a strong intuition that unconscious material things do exist with many hidden properties that can give rise in the right way to consciousness. Why do you? Why would you? You're right. I mean, we can go, various ways, you know, that the world ultimately, it's matter that gives rise to consciousness or it's consciousness that gives rise to a kind of illusion of matter and... But it seems too complicated for me, you know, that... I want the simpler, the simpler explanation. I mean, would you say that material things are a kind of illusion? No, absolutely not, actually, in my book, &quot;One Unbounded Ocean of Consciousness&quot;, I argue strongly that it's not an illusion and that the concept of illusion, which is Maya in terms of the ancient tradition: like Vedic tradition, Hinduism, and even Buddhism, et cetera. Is just one aspect of interpretation of reality. What I see is that reality is in layers and that whatever we experience is one aspect of consciousness experiencing another aspect of consciousness, in infinite number of ways. So this is the hard problem actually of physicality. If you start with a point of view that consciousness is all there is, which I feel is the most parsimonious, simplest, by itself, without starting to get into the complication of how it appears as matter. The most simple thing that we can say about our reality, forget about for now, you know, the, what the cat thinks or what the tree feels or what the stone has, you know, we'll come back to that. But let's see from our perspective, one thing we are sure about, and you know, this comes back to Descartes' Cogito Ergo Sum, which is, you know, so familiar and so spoken about, is really consciousness. That's the one thing. When you look at the physical reality and you see what scientists gave us and what science gave us after rejecting philosophy because of its different opinions, contradicting thoughts, not a sense of reality and all of that. We're going to do the scientific method and follow it systematically; What did they find? They came out with quantum mechanics and beyond quantum mechanics with field theory, quantum field theory, where everything is field, where things are superposed on each other, superposition of states, superposition of everything, entanglement, you know, coexistence, non locality. And so I didn't know where to go with all of this, so they had the Copenhagen interpretation then, okay, they thought the multiverse and all of that. And so what happens in the study of matter is deconstructing matter into the physical reality. And now the physical reality is being deconstructed into fields. And ultimately, these fields are being unified. We don't have yet a fully Unified Field theory, but we have electromagnetism, the electroweak, and the grand unification is at the door, and one complete unification, if we put the gravitational field in it, we come to a field. What is a field? As you started saying, it's a mathematical construct. So if you try to go, if you try to go to the essence of things, you find that matter vanishes in front of your eyes. If you go to like our sense of experience and I'm, you know, I'm trained as a neuroscientist and you know, of course, you've studied that, like the world that we see is just a figment of our imagination, if you like. It's a construct by our brain, of course, by our brain in this case. Now, therefore, the physical has been deconstructed and it's evaporating in front of our eyes through the method of the physical study. And that's why and where you come out with bringing Plato to the Googleplex and saying, let's hope he's not going to disappear because it's science that is reaching its limits. What do we do from there? So this is one aspect. I agree with everything you say, you know, that the picture of matter that we're arriving at is very, very hard from where we started. Right. And there's something diffuse and so complicated, and we don't know how to interpret it, as you say, there are so many, I mean, this is how I got into philosophy in the first place, you know, quantum mechanics, how to, what's it telling us about reality? And you know, my... as you alluded to, my physics professor finally said, I was an undergraduate at this point, planning to go on, you know, in physics, and he said, you know, you keep asking me these meaningless questions, go talk to the philosophers. He threw up his hands at this stuff. And I did. And yeah, and they did not think these questions were meaningless. But yes, it is. You know, how do we interpret this? And it's certainly not the notion of matter that we began with, this hard and fast and solid, you know, tables and chairs. But yet, I'm not ready to give up on it. It's getting us incredibly far, you know, we depend on this new notion of matter. I mean, we're having, I know, the people who are working on, you know, quantum computation, you know, we will... it's, it gives us, it allows us to make predictions that we would not have been able to otherwise make. I mean, that's basically my very practical tie to matter, you know, and to science, giving us a picture of matter, that it is, you know, it allows us to do things, and we, it increases our power for better or for worse, you know, give us the wisdom to use this power in the right way. But in that sense, we're touching reality. I would say with our science, with our picture of matter, it's just we're not getting the whole of it, you know, we know we're not, I would say, because we know we're matter that's conscious. That's what, you know, and there you would not agree with me. You would not agree with it, you know, but with my... you know, I believe that matter is real, yeah. And for me, this, you know, and I say, it's partly because, otherwise... how is our power so increased through physics? Because physics, it's real, is real. Absolutely real. I'm not denying this, but... Absolutely real. So, you know, Let's for our listeners to just say that we are discussing two different aspects of consciousness. One is the panpsychists, which says that matter has consciousness, which means in a way it's a bit actually still dualistic, but accepts consciousness at the elementary level of reality. And the ultimate idealist, monist, who says that actually consciousness is all there is. And then comes the questions that Dr. Goldstein, Rebecca, she told me I could call her Rebecca, it's my joy, that Rebecca says is, you know, how does it become physical; what are you saying everything is an illusion? And so what we have now is the hard problem of physicality, in case we take the opinion that consciousness is the primary substance. Now, I know you've addressed in a profound way formalism and axiomatic approach and that, you know, in the physical sciences and all that we shouldn't use that, you know, we have Godel's, beautiful incompleteness that you have gone deeply into. But are we allowed based on what you just discussed, to say that assuming that consciousness is primary is not just an axiomatic idea, but actually based on some empirical findings, the least of which is we are conscious. We see the whole universe through consciousness. Without consciousness we cannot dream, we cannot love, we cannot even analyze the universe and that any sensing, if we can now start introducing something a little more and call it that consciousness is not an all or nothing phenomenon. It's not an all or non phenomenon, which means either you have it or you don't have it, but start defining it along a range and in that range there is thinking a thought. There is experiencing, it's a different thing, and there is sensing even on the level of, for example, sensing the sun raise by a tree or even a Geiger counter sensing the radioactive material. And we would say this is along the range of consciousness from its highest value in human beings that we know today. Maybe there is higher, but let's stick with what we are. All the way to any phenomenon in which there is an exchange or a sensing, so that, even if a stone is dropped, and therefore, reacts to the force of gravity, what we are saying is that this is a meager, limited, infinitesimally small, almost nothing to do with human consciousness, and yet it is experiencing the field of gravity and we are going to say that consciousness, the range of consciousness, starts from this infinitesimally minor small value of just sensing. And of course, this storm doesn't have a sense of self, doesn't have a feeling, doesn't get afraid that it's going to break or it's going to be, it doesn't feel pain, doesn't feel anything. It's just senses gravity and goes to gravity. It doesn't go by choice. It has no choice. It has nothing. And all the way to what we know as human consciousness today. And let's say that this is the range of consciousness. Now we are expanding the definition, which will allow us to enter into different logics about how consciousness appears as different things and different matter. Yeah. So here is what I'm realizing, I knew this was going to be an interesting discussion. Our two views collapse into each other. There is actually no difference between them. Wonderful. Yeah, because I too say, you know, that whatever this mysterious matter is, if there is this, you know, what I call proto consciousness, which you have described extremely well, you know that it's not consciousness, as we experience it, the sort of where we know what we're experiencing the self-consciousness. Or where, you know, we ourselves actually experience all different levels of consciousness, Leibniz, the great 17th century Leibniz talks about this, you know, that there's a... you know, if you're at the ocean, and you know, you're not aware that you even hear in the background that the waves are pounding. But if it stops, you know, then you notice it, you know, so that, but you're hearing it, but you're not hearing, you're not aware that you're hearing it. And I mean, we ourselves experience multilevels of consciousness and so we can just imagine going further down to, you know, things that we would call unconscious, but that you would like to attribute consciousness to--the falling stone--and I too would, right. I think in fact that... I think the two views probably merge together. You know, I'm holding onto the word matter and you're letting it go. But, I actually think there's not much to differentiate our viewpoints here. Wonderful. Wonderful. Yeah. It's a delight to hear that. And I'll bring matter into the picture, so... Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's... Now, let's take our trip down to the following, having established some fundamentals in a way, to what I think is, you know, going by the Occam's razor, you know, that simplest, the less complicated. And in my mind, the simplest, least complicated aspect of ultimate reality is consciousness. Because we have it, we know it. Physical material is through consciousness and it's so changing. So, we've discovered it to be so shifty, so always changing, that we don't know what it is, it's like where does it come from? So empirically, we can kind of say, okay, we can start there. Now you have the hard problem. Explain to me how matter arises and don't tell me it's just an illusion or it's whatever hologram or it's, you know, we are being in a matrix kind of situation where we are being manipulated and it's all imagination. So explain to me how this consciousness is going to lead to what we know to be also real. We are not rejecting the fact that reality is there, but you know, the umwelt, the umwelt from the German, which means the environment, and that is one way of defining like different people have different experiences, different animals. So reality is different in different states of consciousness. And we know the bat, you know, doesn't see, but it hears. It has radar, you know, we go back to Nagel, &quot;What Is It Like to Be a Bat?&quot;, and all of that? What is it like to be a cat? We can imagine and give them a sense of consciousness, you know, and say, now we are accepting more and more consciousness in a wider range of aspects of the physical and the material reality. So on this we are, I think, agreeing. Okay so, one point, actually just one, you know, we do know what consciousness is like, you know, in ourselves, we assume in one another, and in animals to some extent. But, you know, when we go down to these, what we're hypothesizing, this very... The stone falling. Yeah. Yeah. We really, you know, there to... complete mystery, right? What are we? You know, we're using the word and we're hypothesizing a continuity, you know, from lower to higher. But we really, the mind boggles on... what it is we're actually inputting into things like the stone, mud, right. There too, you know, the mind just goes blank because, you know, what we usually mean is again, going back to Nagel, who was my dissertation advisor, this, that there are facts about what it's like to be that thing, what it's like for that thing to be in the world. And it's a very, very, you know, that is our grasp of what consciousness means, the thing that we know so intimately. If we're subtracting from this notion so much that that definition no longer makes sense, then, you know, to me, consciousness loses its content. The fact that we cannot tell what the stone feels like, it does not take from the stone, its own reality. It's like, only our consciousness can grasp a certain range of what it is like or what it would be like. So our consciousness is also limited, and therefore, the fact that we cannot know what is the consciousness of any individual because, you know, we can always have this solipsistic kind of point of view or, like everybody else is a zombie except myself, you know, that we cannot. It's just this is part of this reality of consciousness being very personal in a sense. So the fact that we cannot actually define exactly what it is like to be a bat doesn't remove from the bat, it's being a bat and knowing what it is to be a bat. So consciousness while all permeating in a range of its reality, from meager, minimal consciousness to, you know, consciousness of awake state. And actually our reality, even if we look at it as humans, we do have, as you said, beautifully, also different states of consciousness. We can be drowsy, we can be awake and alert. We can have a broad comprehension. Suddenly we see everything clear or suddenly we are focused and stressed and we don't see, except some minor aspect of reality, what we call tunneling. And we have seen people tunneling their vision under stress, you know, and pilots, for example, when they are under stress, their vision tunnels and they see only small aspect of reality and they can neglect very important other aspects if they are under danger. So we know that, we know also that we have dream state of consciousness, which is illusionary where we feel it's real and everything is absolutely there, but it's not. We do have what I call the sleep state of consciousness. Now that is a very interesting thing. Are we conscious during sleep? Yeah, we are a conscious being. We are not aware, but we are a conscious being, how do we know? Well, if the temperature changes in the room, you will be turning and covering yourself even while you're still sleeping, or you will wake up and be reacting to that. So that is a minimal state of consciousness, but not so minimal as to, you know, experience what a cat is experiencing or certainly a stone is experiencing. But our physiology is experiencing--our physiology is experiencing--and is ready to wake us up in order to take care of situations and dangers. So that level of consciousness, which is minimal compared to a waking alert, broad consciousness is also there. So somehow, as human beings, we know what it is like to be conscious without being awake and aware because our body is conscious. Yeah, not being conscious of our being conscious. Yeah. And, you know, and as you say, the evidence for that is that we react to the environment as bats react to their environment so that we know that they are experiencing something. I mean consciousness, you know, I would say evolved in order for us to be able to react to our, it gives us this flexibility to be able to react to our environment. But so, two points, I mean, that I get out of what you are wonderfully describing. One is that you would say, for all of material things, for all things, there is something that it is like to be them. So what I was worrying about was, well, that's the essence of consciousness, that there's something that it's like to be it. And if we subtract that, but yet impute some form of lower consciousness without that, then I don't know what we're talking about. But you're not subtracting that. You're saying, no, no, we're keeping this essential element of consciousness so that there is something it's like to be all of the things, all things. And so that's number one. Now my reaction to that is, oh no, then I am abusing all these things. There is something that it's like to be that, you know, i'm sitting on this chair, and how dare I, I wouldn't sit on you, without your permission? Right? And you know, it's, I don't know how to live in the world if, and maybe you can tell me, but if there is something, you know, that it's like to be, I've taken it for granted. There's nothing that it's like, you know, to be, you know, material objects and so I can use them and abuse them as I will. And what a thought? You know, that I would not abuse an animal, right? It is one of the, you know, terrible sins I think, that the way we abuse animals because there is something that it's like to be them. Yeah. But if there's something that it's like to be everything, I just want to sit very quietly in a corner and not move. So well, okay, maybe react to that and tell me why I shouldn't be afraid of abusing material objects. That what brings us to another topic which we can still take, you know, I'm delighted. With the essence of a chair, you know, what is the essence that brings us to quiddities, numina, et cetera. You know... Yeah. We can discuss this, but let's say there is an essence for a chair and let's say for the chair, the essence is that you sit on it. And maybe... Yeah, from my point of view, maybe not from the chair's point of view, I don't know. You don't know. I don't know. But why that one is assuming that the chair is suffering when it's fulfilling its vocation of being a chair? It's probably delighted. So we have to also take that argument because we are seeing things from an anthropomorphic point of view. Everything is like humans and humans are the center of the universe, and everything should feel and think and react like we are because if somebody sits on me, I am upset. But the chair is made to be sit on and maybe if you leave it alone, it will be upset. Who knows? So... It reminds me of when I was in first grade and we had a play, the gingerbread man, and I had the lead part for the girl, which is the little old lady who made the gingerbread. And in this story, the gingerbread man is, you know, runs away from the little old lady. And because, you know, it's conscious and it doesn't want to be eaten. And then at the end of the story, it realizes, oh no, it was made to be eaten and it happily... I didn't like the ending of that story. I was very glad to have the lead part for the little girl but I didn't like this story because it was, how do we know, I mean, once we attribute a consciousness, which is to attribute an independent perspective and an independent point of view to something. Well, then who knows? I mean what its point of view is. I mean, we created this thing for our own purposes. So yeah, I would agree to our, the definition of a chair is from our point of view, it's functionality. A chair is something that was made to be sat on or that one could sit on. But once one attributes a point of view to it, its own perspective, then who knows? I mean, this is, of course, the great difficulty in our dealing with one another. We would like to be able to think of other people in terms of our purposes for them. But once you attribute... once you grant the autonomy of consciousness to anything, to a cat, to anything, certain things follow from that. And I don't think you can define them in terms of their functionality to us. Once there's autonomy that's forbidden, you know, that is, it is, it has its own purposes and can't be defined in terms of our purposes. Yes, absolutely. But you know, the question is we shouldn't assume otherwise either. You know, we shouldn't assume that we are projecting the idea of a chair on a chair. But what does the chair feel? Now, having said that, it's just to go back, the chair has nowhere near, according to the thinking we are discussing in the range of consciousness, has nowhere near the sensitivity, the feeling, the experience, the sense of self, the sense of being damaged or mistreated or anything. Absolutely not. And this is where we have to allow our awareness to broaden its understanding of consciousness that it is not just like human consciousness. It's just a sense, for the chair, you know, maybe the chair as an entity as a whole really doesn't feel anything is just even, you know, it's just the molecules and the physical matter that feels the weight of one person sitting on it. It doesn't even have necessarily the sense of connectedness between its components. It doesn't have a nervous system that tells the, you know, the leg of a chair that there is a back of a chair, that there is a seat of a chair. It doesn't. They are not connected. And so they are... So no unified point of view, you're saying, it's...? Correct. Well, then we're again beginning to particulate the notion of consciousness. I mean, one of the things about our experience is its kind of unity, you know, that the brain is able to unify into one. Yeah. You know, there's a unity there. And now, you know, you're particulating because of the degree of, or the lack of, sophistication. Communication; connectedness. Yeah. Yeah. That there's... It's like one bit talking to another bit to another bit, then they have a combined bits. Not to get now into the combination problem because we haven't reached that yet. But the fact that that's why I mentioned the nervous system, it's because actually they talk to each other, these different parts. And so they're aware of what they're doing. And that's what creates a sense of unity and wholeness, which we don't have in an element like a chair, for example. It doesn't have a sense, but you know, it does have a sense of gravity and electromagnetism, et cetera. Anyway... Let's go... I'm trying to imagine what this would be like. But okay, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean, it might not be also necessary to be what would it be like to be a chair as such and be conscious as a chair. But you know, these are the elements, and in my perspective of like our consciousness as human beings is that we are, as we know, even know from science, we are a collection of bits and modes of consciousness that come together to create a sense of me and I. Whereas we know from split brain studies and damage to different parts of the brain that there are many, many inhabitants of this nervous system that suddenly talk to each other and give us the sense of oneness and unity. But you know, this takes us, of course, to different things. I'd like if you don't mind to go back to the paradigm that I would like to present to you, the thinking of, okay, we have one consciousness. We have one--there is not we have-- there is an unbounded consciousness. Let's call it the Unified Field. Let's call it a field of consciousness. There is a field of consciousness, which is the starting point of what reality is, okay. We're deciding that this is acceptable empirically on basis, on some things, it's not certain. It's not a demonstrated thing, but it's acceptable to start there. The hypothesis, and we're going to see how far we can get with it. Exactly. Now this consciousness exists in itself by itself. So it's, you know &quot;causa sui&quot; if you like, existing within itself and it's consciousness, just unbounded consciousness. This consciousness, conscious of itself, or no? Exactly that comes the question. Yes. So is it conscious of itself? Yeah. Okay, well, it's... we're calling it consciousness because it is conscious. Otherwise, we'd call it living or being or whatever existence or some something. So we're calling it consciousness to assume that it is conscious. Yes. Well, what is it conscious of? It's the primary thing. There is nothing else. We've bypassed the Big Bang. We are into the field of--between quotation mark-- &quot;nothingness&quot;, except for that consciousness, which we are saying is not material, is not physical. It's just a field of consciousness, which is again beyond time and space. There is no time. There is no space. What is it conscious of? It can only be conscious of itself because there is nothing else. Now what does it mean to be conscious of oneself? It means there is an observer. That observes an object. And there is a process that connects the observer to the observed. So there is the observer, the silence seer, if you like, that looks at itself and sees itself as an object of observation through some process of dynamic observation. So what happens in this is the unity of this unbounded one consciousness has now flavors within itself. And since it is conscious I'll jump the whole steps and take us, it can be conscious in an infinite number of ways. So now this brings us a little bit to Plato, but with a quotation mark and a change in what, because Plato, saw that there are these forms that are perfect. Well, I think, you know, in all humility and modesty that it was not just the forms that are perfect that consciousness can see. What it sees is all possibilities of ways to be conscious. So in this absolute, let's call it absolute, pure existence, because it is consciousness, its nature is to be conscious and to be conscious in all possible ways. And therefore, within that unmanifest beyond time and space, it has a flash of all possibilities, which means you and I are also there. When we were young, when we were old. Plus the possibility of you now being and where I am and me being where you are. For you to be a scientist, for me to be, you know, a painter or a philosopher or anything for me to be young, to be old, for you, to be the queen of the universe. And you know, it's all there, but it's all there as pictures in this hard disk, if you like, an infinite disk of possibilities and all of these are perceived in an imaginary way, if you like. What we should call it, Plato used this phan... the term or Socrates of phantasmagoria. Yeah phantasmagoria, yes, right, just... Imagination, the imagination. Shifting things. Yes, right. Suppose there is that infinite phantasmagoria. This imagination, it's only imagine. None of this is real. Real in terms of what we call real. But in terms of experience, this consciousness contains all these possibilities. Yeah. Now this is the difference with Plato's ideal forms and that are there is that these forms are all that there is all that there ever be or that can ever exist are already just to play within that consciousness and imagination. Have you read Spinoza? Yeah. Yeah, I am... This is closer than Plato, this is... Right. This is Spinoza... This is really, this is, so this is... Yes. Pantheism, but the difference is that we're not saying God or no God. We're just saying consciousness... No, but he just, whenever this ultimate, infinity is... Right. He called it God, you can call it God, you can call it nature, it's &quot;dies irae natura&quot;. It's the thing that can be conceived in these two different ways. He was living in the 17th century, you had to get God in there some way or other. Right. Otherwise, you get in trouble. He already got in trouble. He got in trouble anyway. Yeah, exactly. Yes. But I mean, they caught on to him, right, and they saw what he... But I mean this is, so this is a view that I like very, very much. So please continue. I like this very much. So I wondered in my thinking, and by the way, this is of course not the idea that consciousness is all there is it's never new. We have the Vedantic, you know, we have Parmenides, we have, you know, even Spinoza, and all of that. It's just... You know that they, when I was explaining Spinoza to my husband, he said, oh, he was a Buju. You know, a Buddhist Jew, because it is, he's the first Buju. Because it is. It is a very, you know, a Buddhist, somewhat a Buddhist. It's consistent with Buddhism, I would say. Yeah, yeah. So here is that consciousness which wants to be conscious in every possible way. Experiencing all these possibilities. Like pictures in a hard disk, but there is no story. It's not like, you know, you could raise your right hand, left hand, those pictures are there in that hard disk. You could grow older and then get younger or pictures. They are just pictures. They are just pictures. Right. Right. And that consciousness knows them all to be a figment of its imagination or not a figment, phantasmagoria. And one no more real than the other. Right. One no more real than the other. All possibilities, including Zeus and Apollo and Aphrodite and all this, whether they exist or not, whether they ever become real or not doesn't matter. It's just there. Anything you can imagine or not imagine any possibility or beyond possibilities is there. What we call in physics, configurational space, you know, the all possibilities before the measurement is done and... Exactly. Yes. Right. Yeah. In a flash, It's all there. Now what it doesn't know, what does this consciousness not know? Well, it sees all of that. What is it that it doesn't know? Because it is infinite, it sees all of that in one flash. It has everything. What it doesn't know is the main question that we come back to what it is like to truly be, Rebecca. What it is like to be, Tony. What is it like to be a sunflower, what it is like to be one of those pictures or the other? What is it like to be, it doesn't know. Why? Because it has that wide vision and it doesn't know what it is like to forget its infinity. And puts itself in the shoes of a bat. What is it like? It doesn't know. So we are assigning--between quotation mark-- &quot;ignorance&quot; in a sense, to that reality. And this is where it is different in a sense, at that point of view, from what one could say, you know, a God sitting there observing, deciding, making things happen, et cetera. So it knows what it's like to be itself. Right. It's infinity that knows what it's like to be infinite. Right. But it doesn't know what it's like to be a finite thing. Exactly. Yeah. Since its nature is to know in every possible way; to be conscious in every possible way. It actually has no choice, but to start knowing from limited perspectives, also in a sense. I mean, it has no choice, it can't decide about that. Now, what it does is puts itself in the shoes of these aspects of potentiality. Now you can say, well, but there are many that are contradictory, you know, there is some where I am old and then they're young and this and that, so it has to separate them also, because they are all in a flash and in a flash, that consciousness has that possibility to see everything in a flash. They are coexisting. And therefore, in some way, they annihilate each other because if you raise your hand and lower your hand, so which one you did? Is the Schrodinger cat alive or is the Schrodinger cat dead? You know, for it, it's no problem. They're both there, they are pictures, they are there in it's vision. But which one is going to happen? When is it going to happen? It has to separate them. The way it separates them is by slowing down its ability to see everything in a flash and see things in a sequential form. And this is where time arises and in a separate form, this is where space arises. So space and time are the means to separate these actual entities that it is seeing in a flash. And it has to put itself in the shoes of each and has also to let them evolve in their own way. And this is why freedom is a necessity, according to this vision, and freedom requires choice, so it requires higher consciousness. We'll get to that. At the beginning, at the most fundamental level, freedom is randomness because there is no ability to choose, there is not enough consciousness in the smallest particles of reality that they can actually make a choice based on analysis and all that, so... but they... But the infinite is choosing to find out, to discover, the infinite is like us, wants to know what it's like to be each one of these. Exactly. Finitudes. Exactly. And it wants to know what it's like to be all of the finitudes or does it choose among the finitudes? Because, as you say, they contradict each other. Yeah, it's going to let them be and then see what happens. All of them? Yeah, not all of them together, in a sequential form, it starts from the smallest. It starts from actually nothingness. So I have also in my discussion why is nothingness? And nothingness is what separates between objects either in time or in space, otherwise they are together. If there is not nothingness or the concept of nothingness, then everything is merged because, you know, we imagine that you are different from me because there is nothingness between us. There is space and there is time, and therefore, we are different. In essence, in true reality, we are all that consciousness. But trying to see what it is like to be Rebecca, what it is like to be Tony. And in order to, you know, to say that there is a Rebecca and there is a Tony, it separates us in space and time. So it just spontaneously has to do that and separate these individual entities from each other. Now we're... Not all at the same time. Right? It start actually from nothing because that's the worst thing for it is to be nothing. And it actually manifests nothing and that's how the Big Bang actually starts with laws and forces and like that. And then appears the most meager, lowest level of consciousness. And they are allowed to interact with each other and experience... So it starts with nothing. And so what it does is try to know what it's like to be nothing? Yeah, what it's like to be nothing and what it's like to be the smallest from nothing on. So if you say the range of consciousness is from nothing to infinity. It's starting there, it's experience from nothing and see how it builds up towards infinity or not. You're committed to the view that there is something that it's like to be nothing. Only in the manifest reality, in the umanifest, you know, because my perception is consciousness is all there is. So if there is no consciousness, that's the only thing that is non existent non-real. But it becomes real as a phenomenon, as an imagination in the manifest realm. In the Manifest Universe. And the Manifest Universe only means time, space, and individual individuality rather than infinity. So you put this together... I don't want to... I want to get your whole picture and so, I, forgive me for, but I want to get each piece as well. Right. Can we just use space and time for this individuation? I mean, I think it was Einstein who said, you know, time is a thing that makes sure that everything doesn't happen at once, right. Is something like, you know, when space is the thing that keeps everything happening all together, right. So I, reification, in some sense of nothing is blocking me here, I don't know... You can use time and space because actually time and space are the concept of nothing in between two objects. Okay. Either in space, so they exist together. But there is nothing in between that space. Okay. Or they exist one after the other, even in the same space, if you like. You know, if you have one chair, one chair, a hundred people can sit in that chair, but they cannot sit at the same time. So you create the space of time, the time element. The time element allows you to occupy the same space, but at a different time. Right. So the space element allows you to occupy at the same time, different places at the same time to be together at the same time. You need space. So I mean, it seems to me and of course, modern physics, you know, ever since Einstein with space, we don't say it's space and time. We say it's space time. Right. I mean, really one construction... Exactly. This mathematical structure we know. So we don't really need, you know, as you say, to create the idea of nothingness because its inherent within space and time. Exactly, exactly. And that's why I'm saying in the concept of space and time, we perceive nothingness. You know, although everything is a field, you know, we are one field and, you know, according to quantum field theory, but we perceive nothingness as an in-between. Otherwise, how could we be different object if there is nothing that separates us? What is that nothing, space or time? So this is how actually, this is the beginning of what we call manifestation, so what is manifestation? If the other was an absolute unmanifest infinite potential of vision? What is manifestation? Manifestation is simply the ability to see things from a limited perspective. How many limited perspectives there are? Almost infinite. Infinite, I would say. Yeah, yeah, in this picture. Yeah. Right. So they will have to appear real for that perspective. Because otherwise if it's, you know, then you're not experiencing things from that perspective. So how do they appear real? They appear real as a tree, a person, you know, myself, yourself, somebody else. And we are convinced that that's, you know, that's real. So this is some of the ways consciousness, in a limited shoes, sitting in a limited perspective, sees or experiences different aspects of itself. And it is, you know, true to itself, it's genuine. Otherwise, if not, you know, if we are able to see the Unified Field, if we are able to see that you and me are just consciousness and nothing else. Then we are not seeing truly from these limited perspectives. So these limited perspectives are real, and they are part of what is actually the-- between quotation mark--&quot;purpose&quot; we are getting into that, you know, purposeful without intention, but we don't want to complicate things too much. This is how we see a car, we see a human being. And it's not just an appearance, it's not an illusion. It is one way of seeing reality from one perspective of an observer looking at another aspect of what would be an object of observation. So the dynamics of consciousness make us see this as real, and they are real on their level. They are real on their level. And, but, in not all at the same time. Every single possibility is actualized, according to its own internal causality. Yes, and it's choices, you know, because it is left on its own. And I have also reasoning for the laws of nature, how they emerge, why there is law, in a very simple way also. So we can go to the why of things also and also to the meaning of life and the normative questions and what ought to be what ought not to be and why good and why bad and all of that. So it all follows from that simple, most simple starting point of consciousness being conscious of itself. And so it was Spinoza's conatus, right, which is the will to be, the will to continue. And I would just adjust it a little bit, and I think you like that because you like the epistemic responsibility that we have. And you know, the fact that, you know, knowing is the greatest thing and that Spinoza said, it's the most beautiful thing to increase the knowledge and that's what you're doing. That's what you're passionate about is, and that's what everyone is actually about. It's about knowing more, knowing more, knowing everything is about knowing more. And it's the knowing more that pushes us to continue the will to continue. I would put before that will to continue the will to know. Because that is part of the nature of reality as defined in the paradigm we are presenting because we are starting with consciousness, what is the nature of consciousness is to be conscious, to be conscious in every possible way. So that is the motor, that is the engine... Right. ...of what is going on. Yeah. So I mean, for him, conatus, it's the striving, to persist and to flourish. And to flourish for Spinoza, like for you, it's to know. Right. That's what flourishing is. Yeah. Yes. So you can say to persist first or you can say you have to persist because you want to know. Exactly, exactly. And, you know, when we are not flourishing, we, you know, when we feel no hope for flourishing, which is almost the definition of despair, we don't want to persist anymore. Exactly. I mean, you know, this is a sad fact to know that there are people who... That's depression and that suicide and that. Yeah. Exactly. Yes, that is the inversion. The negation of conatus, you know, is... Yeah. But yes, no. I quite agree. That is, we all want to know. I mean, I see this as something special about our species, but I think you see it more widely distributed because it is a feature of consciousness. And for you, consciousness is the all. So it would be equitably distributed throughout reality. It follows. It follows from the starting point. And you know, that's how from my perspective, and like to discuss this more with you as much as possible, that there is a continuum in that in explaining not only, you know, the reality of manifestation, but also the meaning of life, the good and bad, why there is freedom. But at the same time, law and order. And you know, the simplicity of it in addressing these points is what fascinates me and the explanatory power of it is there I mean, we can look at it more in detail. Yes. I'm... so I would love to discuss specifically the problem of freedom in the context that you've presented. Because there is a certain kind of --same problem arises, with Spinoza-- a certain kind of deterministic aspect to this vision of reality. And so how it accommodates freedom, which we must, I think... Yeah. ...we must accommodate freedom somehow. But could we do it another time? I'd love to. I'd love to. Yes. Sure. Sure. I would love to discuss freedom, good and evil. Yeah. The purpose of our lives with you further. Wonderful. I'm looking forward. Just a quick point. It's freedom and determinism without being it a compatibilistic kind of freedom where we kind of, you know, smooze it around. Yeah. Yeah. You know, It's... Real Freedom. There is determinism on the global level, but in time and space, there is freedom. But what you decide today is going to have an implication. So you do actually have ontological real freedom, but within time and space, until you create an effect that has to have its course and you will meet one day or the other the result of your action. So that is where the determinism is, and it's time and space that allows us to perceive freedom and a true freedom. You live it, you do it, you choose it. But if you plant a mango tree, you're going to get mangoes in five years. You're not going to get apples. Right. The infinite in playing out what is it like to be the infinite number of finite beings, you know, it's in the, you know, part of what it's doing in that is it separates it out sequentially and sees how it plays out. Right. And so hidden in that language, how it plays out is the question of does it play out in a deterministic way or, and you would say no... It doesn't. It doesn't. Yeah, yeah. That you're allowing for the efficacy of choice, of decision. Yes. Absolutely. Yes. Which is really what we want from freedom. I agree, this compatibilism stuff is like, nothing right, it's.. Yeah. You want the efficacy of choice. Efficacy of choice is there. Yeah. And it has a good reason why it's there. Basically, in two words, if it doesn't, then it's part of a machine and it's no more giving any knowledge of experience. So the whole purpose of experiencing something from its small perspective is lost because if it's all determined then the absolute knows exactly what's going to happen. Yes, it's going to know exactly what's going to happen, it still may not know what it's like to undergo the process, right? So it would still have this ignorance before it enters into the playing out. Right. Right. But it would know, know from the outside what the outcome would be. Right, exactly. But it has, there is an added value to see how does it play out? So even knowing that has a significance. Okay. You're the 21st century's Spinoza, I would say, you know. Thank you. That's a great honor. With all of the science that he, living at the very beginning of, you know, the modern science wasn't privy to know as somebody who lived in the 21st century is. But it's that same, it's a, the vision only now informed by science, you know, everything we've learned since then. Wonderful. You brought Plato to the 21st century, and I have happened to be schooled a little bit, also by the fifth millennium B.C. BCE, you know, by going to the Vedantic knowledge and being with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and learning about some of these concepts and then putting them together like that. So I also was schooled in ancient knowledge and read and looked at that and have to put this conundrum together and find the solution. So it's great to talk to someone like you and get the feedback and think through it. It's really wonderful. Yes, it's what our lives really ought to be about. Yes, yes, it's hard to do everything on one's own. We need one another. After all, it's the one consciousness, and the more and more we realize what the self is, we find that everyone is myself in a certain way. And when we get to that, we gain greater ability to create evolution and progress because together we can do more than just small individual, on their own. Exactly, exactly. I mean, if we all want to flourish. Yeah. Communally, we all need to flourish. Yes. Right. That's the practical problem. Maybe someday we'll get around to discussing that. Yeah. How we get everybody on the same page here? Wonderful. Looking forward, it's really a delight. Yes. A great delight to speak with you.