(dramatic music) - [Daniel] For over 150 years, Tabasco's famous red pepper Avery Island, a small area in Southern Louisiana. It was first made by Edmund McIlhenny, and the company has stayed Every single CEO has been Nowadays, hot sauce is everywhere and although Tabasco is seen it's important to remember we were still over 100 years Hot sauce just wasn't a thing back then, and Tabasco laid the foundation that we're finally having now. Tabasco as a sauce really of standardization, I think a lot of people take to keep a product consistent and the growth of automation. There are just so many to take shortcuts on their ingredients. I'm out at Avery Island of McIlhenny have been making the same exact product for 150 years and meet the people one of America's most (hot sauce pouring) - It's the capiscum From right here, it's five is essentially made into This is the original my great-great-grandfather got, and then started making the sauce and pickling it with vinegar but that was all by accident It took him a little while to but the process itself, as There's a few more pieces Everything used to be grown until the 60s right here on Avery Island, then we started growing around Louisiana and then into Mexico and - [Daniel] The main purpose on Avery Island is to grow and to choose only the top 1% of seeds to send away to be grown elsewhere. - We look for the right plants, and those seeds are used to where we do the majority - Are these financially for you to work with? - Absolutely not. - It's a more attractive looking but it's very inefficient. - [Daniel] Why? - They're very small, - Are they all picked by hand - No, they're all picked by hand. We've been trying to develop but it's just not very efficient. - I'm gonna have a bite. - What you'll feel is it starts working mostly on the front of your tongue, then it'll start going back. (coughs) It'll stop you from talking. That was great. You ate the whole thing. - Thanks, just wanted to show - I appreciate that. outside and now I feel like I think we both look a little more red. - Yeah, definitely. - [Daniel] Once the the seeds are extracted and sent all over South America and Africa to be grown At that point, the peppers are combined with a little but of salt and which is then shipped back to in these large containers. - All right, ready to go! Woo! (laughs) - How many barrels do you fill up a day? - 100 barrels. k- Average. - Is this a one person job? - You can do it all on your own? - Mm-hm. You needed me a little bit, right? - (laughs) Moral support. - Ah, it's so f****** cool. I'm going. - Now. There you go. That's it. What separates us from 'cause they age it for This whole process. There's a lotta people love Tabasco, that have is aged for three years. - Now we filled a bunch of barrels and we're gonna put the lid on and get them ready for aging. All right. - This is its natural state. All this is, is ground Tabasco pepper, the day it's picked, Doesn't take much, it is spicy. Very fresh, grassy notes through it. Like a fresh chile. - Definitely get some grass. Ah (hammer banging) - Could you explain the reasoning for the salt lid that goes on here? - The salt that you're seeing here is not actually touching mash at all. There's a lid here, obviously a solid top. Maybe if there's a small that we don't see, that and acts as a seal. - It's an extra protective layer. - [Daniel] Now the barrels are sealed and sent to the aging I can't stress this enough: all of the world's future - [Harold] There's about 55,000 in here of these barrels. This is all the future Tabasco? - All the future Tabasco. Each barrel makes approximately 10,000 2-ounce bottles of Tabasco. - Oh my god. You can look down that one. - What? Do you like the cobwebs a little bit? - Yes, it's a natural way - This is so crazy 'cause the barrels are like a living entity and obviously it would be so much easier to just put everything in a giant bin, like a controlled It's just such a human Now I got to see what the after spending all that Right here, we have three years from now. We're time traveling. - Correct. (hammer banging) - So this is the same? - Absolutely. - All this moisture. That's part of the fermentation process. You have evaporation and things like that. - Does it lose some of the spice? - No. - You almost get a miso vibe. You get that fermentation. It's not just straight salt, Not just a bunch of lone rangers in a barrel over there. - This is the blending department. This is where we take the and we make it into - The three year old into the mixing room where at a measure of 70-30 and mixed for approximately three weeks. Is this hot sauce heaven? - Hot sauce heaven, right there. I call it Sauceville. - Sauceville. Are you the mayor? I'm the mayor. Come see me anytime. These are my vinegar tanks. I get about two truckloads 12,000 gallons go really, really fast. - This is the three year old mash. - That's three year old - From here what happens gets sucked into one of those machines and then mixed with vinegar. - To the mixing tank upstairs. One of the ways Tabasco is by blending all of the peppers from the different countries - We use 12 barrels. A mixture of different countries together. I might put three to That's how we get the 96 - The nose in here is quite pungent. It smells like...you get a but it's just a lot of vinegar. How is it? You get used to it? - Oh yeah, you get used to it. After a few years of working over here, you get used to the smell. I don't smell anything. - Even when you walk in - First thing in the morning. - You think it smells - Smells like go time to me. - From the storage tanks down there, they get pumped up into here. - And constantly stirred 14-28 days. It's the 12 barrels of mash, - So from here it gets strained. - Every tank you gonna to 1,500 pounds of seed, and pepper pulp, you're gonna get about - After everything comes which is finally what we know of as Tabasco. That's ready to go. Only thing I gotta do here let them test it for me. They test the salt, the pH, and they tell me if it's good or not. We only make good stuff over - So what keeps you interested and excited is making something to the thing that's - Yeah, so knowing that, When I go in the store, I get to see Tabasco brand I had my hands in making this and it's known all over the world so I'm just proud to be a part of it. The tradition that keeps going and going and going and going. It don't get much better than that. I like it, I can do it another 40 years. If I come to your house and you don't have Tabasco it'll be a quick visit. (laughs) Just make sure ready to go. - You'll leave a restaurant if they don't-- - [Daniel] Once Tabasco sauce it makes its way to the bottling facility, which is literally next door. Just a reminder that everything Tabasco happens on this island. So what goes on in there? - It's really, really pretty simple. The sauce comes down into a filler. You'll see the bottles go around. They get filled. They get labels put on them. They go in a carton and Really, really simple, but and it's really pretty cool - And how many bottles do - So on a good day. - On a good day we'll make - My great-great-great-grandfather... - You're related! - I'm related. In his lifetime, he made 350,000 bottles. 30 years, 25 years of he made 350,000 bottles. That's a shift right now, - [Daniel] So really, the are organizing bottles, filling - [John] Pretty simple. - [Daniel] But it's pretty How often is this factory running? - At this time of year, holiday season, we're almost 24 hours a day. - No s***. - Yeah, yeah, we're busy. - It gets kind of mesmerizing. You can sit and watch this stuff and you just feel your mind go blank. It's really kind of incredible. - [Daniel] In trying to has gotten so popular over time, I think it's important to The company is literally of the same person that started it and every single person who works here is obsessed with making the product as closed as they can to the - You've seen the process and you've tasted the mash, - Frankly, I tasted too because I was just eating - As a reward for all of - Whoa! - This is a stainless steel spoon. It's like a badge of honor. When you walk around the factory, people know that you tried the mash. - Will they let me in the bars in New Orleans with this thing? - No, they'll probably arrest They'll think it's something else. To grandaddy. - Yeah, let's move mountains. - The process for making sauces nowadays, you grind everything up within it. We have to take stuff outta this one. When you look at the flavor It really needs to work with something. That's what we want, - I gotta say, I've said this before, but going through all the stages today and meeting all the people that really care about what goes in here, I enjoyed that Tabasco than I usually do. - That's really good to hear. That's what we're here to do. - Thank you so much for having us today. - Thank you for making the trip down and spending the time to - [Daniel] At this point that hot sauces may come and go, but Tabasco has proven (gentle music)