It gives me the great pleasure to present I want to talk today about the contrast between at large, and what I regard as the reality, As you are all aware, there has been a drastic in the past fifty years or so with respect and the role of government and collective a shift in the philosophy and attitudes of from a belief in a society in which the role in a society in which the emphasis is on social as big brother and protector of the individual. opinion, they are largely produced and reinforced Someone once wrote, and I'm not sure who it there's nothing in it but it's wonderfully jolt. Well my purpose today is to give you are adopted they tend to be so strongly held, that when anyone comes along and differs with being dismissed as a crackpot. But I shall as a crackpot because it seems to me so urgent the reality is, in order to be able to provide reversal of the direction of our thought. on the road we have been going, if we continue and less on the individual, we are condemned it seems to me essential for the future of for what they are, and adjust our thinking our past. I am encouraged in this venture by another American humorist by the name of Josh Billings know that causes trouble; it's what they know to devote this talk to, to trying to tell so. I am going to try to cover five myths are not part of your thinking they will tend in American history. The first of those myths is the robber baron nineteenth century there was an era of rugged monopoly capitalists exploited the poor unmercifully myth I am going to talk about is the Great from 1929 until the late '30s was produced myth I want to talk about is the demand for has had to step in because of a failure of demand for government services. The fourth by Mr. Eccles in his introduction; it's the a thing as a free lunch. And the final myth the myth that somehow or other government giving it to the poor. Let me start with the first of those myths, century was a period in which the rich became century in which you had a conflict between a period in which particularly the farmers the rapacious activities of the Wall Street farm distress and misery. This myth had its the widespread greenback movement that you party which at one time reached significant of the problems of the time could be solved of those nice pieces of paper which are colored It was a period that also gave rise to the Bryan, the silver-tongued orator from North who gave his famous speech on the cross of Convention in which he asked whether mankind which got him the presidential nomination was the nominee of the Democratic Party for was never elected. (laughter) That was the myth. What was the reality? The in human history which saw as rapid and widespread man as the nineteenth century. That was the the world streamed to these shores. They came belief that they could make a better life succeeded. I suspect that most of the people citizens today are descendants of the people know, to take the immediate local case, the came to this country in the middle of the the 1890s from a part of Europe which is today time it was part of Hungary. And I suspect backgrounds. Now, do you suppose those people exploited? Do you think they came here to capitalists? Not a bit of it. A few people You conceivably could have had an initial to improve their lot and ended up being worse inflow. They would not have sent back to the You would not have had a flow of millions they were not exploited; they were not ground out West--to the Middle West, to the Far West, was a desolate country a country that was their own lot. With respect to agriculture in particular, increased. It was a period when the price now every farmer would have liked it better then, of course, was that the spread of farms, machinery, the bringing under the plow of production which led to a decline in the prices of farm products went down. But that was a And the evidence that it was a sign of success all, if this decline in the price of products an indication that the farmer was being ground people have been willing to pay higher and crops were produced? So the actual story is a great development of agriculture in this If we turn to the charge that that was a period were willing to say &quot;Let the public be damned,&quot; if we turn to that charge, let me call to the period when we came the closest we've a period when government spending- the spending to less than 3 percent of the national income, immigration and few restrictions on economic the period of the greatest flowering of charitable period when you had the establishment of many the country. It was a period when the private sprouted in every city in the land. It was a period of the founding of the Society for name it and you will find that the charitable, period of the nineteenth century. So the robber baron myth is a myth, one that a common fallacy, from the fallacy that one course it is true that many men became wealthy there always are robber barons. People are are in between. And of course, some people part of the course of history unfortunately. process whereby some people became wealthy and provided opportunities for millions of to be able to improve their own lot. It was building the railroads that joined the country the industries of this country, and in thereby man to improve his lot in life. Everybody wealthy not at the expense of other people, We had robber barons then and we have robber between the robber barons then and the robber could get money only if people freely gave a service and nobody had to buy it, and if service than it was before. The robber barons money by sending a policeman to take the money expression not a literal expression. But how assistance. To mention only one very famous some TV licenses, or by getting any one of support. If you look at where modern wealth influence which enables you to get benefits that is a zero sum game. When the money is and coercion of the taxpayer, then it need the other man's benefit. Then it can and often expense of the party who pays. So robber barons will always be with us. The of economic organization in which one robber or whether we have a form of economic and baron can help the other robber baron- at I want to turn to the second of these myths, any view that is more widespread than the was produced by a failure of private business. in favor of a greater role of government, to suggest that if you go to any bankers, conference- and if you talk to them, I venture hadn't heard what I'm going to say--would was a failure of private business. It was in the 1920s, or it was due to excessive concentration expense of the poor in the 1920s, or it was but it was a failure of private business and private business from its own failure.&quot; Nothing could be farther from the truth. The and I may say this is not a random opinion; book in which it is documented; I won't tell (laughter) Mr. Eccles did that- the Great Depression a failure of monetary policy. It was produced to act in accordance with the intentions of by a failure of the Federal Reserve System, of many of the people in the system about It is interesting to speculate for a moment answer is really very simple in this case: free market has no press agents, the government Reserve has a great many press agents, and admit, never proclaim, that it produced the I don't mean to be criticizing individuals. You and I are the same as all the rest of in the world is for anybody to admit that a mistake, we can always find somebody else And if you read, as I have for my sins had Reserve System over a fifty-year period, there that task. That is the cyclical fluctuation good year, when things are good, when the Federal Reserve by its wise policy, by its this fine situation. However, let things get report is different. Then you discover that outside forces combined to produce difficulties. when in the spring of that year the Federal in order to prevent banking panics and keep System itself closed its doors and you had over the previous three years a third of the went broke because, in my opinion, of the System. Even in 1933, if you read the annual would have been if the Federal Reserve hadn't the members of the Federal Reserve for that; have to find somebody to blame. But as an objective scholar I can tell you 1929 to 1933, the total quantity of money the amount of bank deposits, what Mr. Eccles declined by one-third. The total number of the quantity of money decline? It declined to prevent the decline. The Federal Reserve all times. There never was a moment during have the power to prevent the decline in the decline in the quantity of money you might been a garden variety recession. It would in 1931 at the latest. It would not have been but throughout the rest of the world. Moreover, people at the Federal Reserve Bank of New with the Federal Reserve Board in Washington were people in Congress who were arguing that course. At all times there were outside commentators. prescient, but there were other commentators on the American economy of the restrictive following which were causing, permitting and So the Great Depression was not produced by was produced by a failure of government, and responsibility had been assigned to government of the United States gives Congress the power it was in the management of this fundamental and produced the Great Depression. We have learned from that failure. The Federal This time it will fail in a different way. (laughter) This time it has been failing not by producing because just as you will hear the story that depression, so you will today hear the story for inflation. It is the same kind of myth. only, Washington, D.C. And in Washington, is the Greek temple on Constitution Avenue major accomplice of course sits in the halls accomplice because you tell them to be. The for many years, &quot;Spend more money on us, please,&quot; raise our taxes.&quot; Congress has been listening. on the other hand it's been very unwilling inflation as a tax. That's one tax that you Let me turn to the third of the myths I want to the Great Depression myth. It is the myth failed to provide certain important services to an overwhelming public demand in order The reality is very different. The reality the government has adopted in the direction propaganda campaign by special propaganda was no underlying public demand for those to be created, it had to be developed, it was developed, it was produced by people who who sincerely want to see an expansion in Let me take some of the most prominent examples. greatest sacred cow of them all, Social Security. Security in the 1930s when the law was adopted? it. It had to be sold. How was it sold? By imaginative packaging and deceptive labeling. It is not an insurance scheme. There is very money any one individual pays and the amount Security is a combination of a bad tax system got two components and I have never known who would defend either component separately. a wage tax, a tax on wages up to a maximum, from hiring people and discourages people by the lowest wage groups. It's a regressive you could never have gotten such a tax passed Here you have an arrangement under which the depend on his poverty or his indigence; it worked in. If he happened to work in a covered to work in a non-covered industry, he doesn't. quarters and not more, no matter how indigent and he decides to continue to work, earning doesn't he get a benefit but, to add insult he is receiving in order to finance the benefit (laughter) If a man who is sixty-five years old has a doesn't work, he gets his full Social Security work and earns $20,000 a year, he is in the any benefits. Is there anybody who would justify I could go on to all the difficulties with Note the misleading language. The Social Security pay as a &quot;contribution.&quot; Now tell me, do you (laughter) The word &quot;contribution&quot; denotes voluntary you are contributing freely. If you contribute freely. But if you pay taxes on your wages a tax; that's not a contribution. Again, it &quot;benefits.&quot; They are not benefits; they are people on the one hand- and of taxing them... What about the claim that it is insurance, Well, there is a minor relationship. It is pay more will receive more, other things the pointed out that the relationship is very of most receipts. Moreover, what you really providing for their own security as the Social it. In their pamphlets they describe it as are providing for their own future. That's taxes today to pay the subsidies to the people have is a system of taxing the young, at any there may be nothing wrong with that. For I am discussing whether Social Security was or whether it had to be sold to the people the answer is it clearly was the latter. What are being taxed to pay benefits today to the people who have been receiving payments have of what they paid. That's because you've had wages being paid- the wage tax had gone up is growing relative to the number of people in so much financial trouble. That's why the at all, the so-called reserve has been getting all the agitation for Congress to do something responsible. Again, for the moment, I am not separate parts are good or bad, but only whether response to a great public demand. Let me take another more recent movement. on our automobiles of all sorts of safety to prevent us individually from buying it, Why? Was there a great public demand? Not Now, maybe he arose in response to a public entertainment, not for safety. (laughter) But Ralph Nader launched a major propaganda campaign, as a result of a great selling effort you know, his original weapon was a book Unsafe being an unsafe and knowingly unsafe car. was not justified, but that did not prevent it from adopting it. But, the extent to which this did not result what has happened whenever the agency that regulations has overstepped its bounds. You to impose the requirement of an interlock, belts were fastened. And that produced such in and it had to be rescinded. You are now the airbag. Or again, let me take a very different example, the drive for national health insurance. Is insurance? Not so you can notice it. Indeed, it passed year after year, and so far they because if so-called national health insurance to insurance as Social Security does. It's at all. It's a program for socialized medicine. employees. It's a program for creating long but that isn't the way it's labeled. The pressure by propaganda. Or again, let me take another modern version. to a great public outcry for it? Let me turn to the fourth of my myths, the other government can spend money at nobody's ever heard of a wonderful description of government name of Frederic Bastiat about 150 years everybody believes that he can live at the free lunch myth, the myth that somehow or can spend money at nobody's expense. Now, is very specific. It has two parts. One part tax business without consumers or workers is a big cornucopia out there that can be takes is that you can create money at no cost, produce those greenbacks, that will enable poorer. Well, let me look at the first problem. Can no business to be taxed. There are people. floor? Can I tax the building? The building So when you talk about a tax on business it by the stockholder or it's paid by the customer way it can come from. There is no Santa Claus, (laughter) ...that's going to provide a source by which come from somebody. Somebody has to pay and &quot;Oh, we must not increase taxes on individuals; In connection with the current discussion is the fiction that the Social Security tax employer, that the individual only pays 5.75 That's nonsense. That's bookkeeping, that's that the employer pays is part of his wage is worth his while to hire an additional worker, only what he pays to the worker but also the It makes no difference to the employer at and the worker pays a larger part of that worker a smaller check but in addition has to him is the total number of dollars it costs is, the logic is, the reason is that the so-called Now, this has always been clear from economic it has also been subjected to empirical tests. in greater and bigger government, the Brookings of years ago, demonstrated empirically that the employee, that it was shifted to the employee. see if you think about it. So business doesn't the great move in Congress right now in remedying larger fraction of the tax on business, on that spares the worker. It doesn't have any people and thus is imposed on the worker. Again, if you look at the taxing of corporate is between who writes the check and who fundamentally bears the cost. It may well be that an official of a corporation writes the check for the the check, but who pays it? He doesn't pay a modest competence, he may be writing a check out of his hide. Where is that ten million proceeds of the goods and services which the is ten million dollars less available either or for paying wages and salaries. The tax must say I have always myself been strongly on corporations so it is open and above board not conceal that fact by appearing to tax Well again- with respect to money, can you turn out those pieces of paper, but does that all, it's simply a different form of taxation. to spend. If they spend more money on the effect, everybody is paying a tax through taxation. Let me turn to my final myth because it is dangerous, and the most deep-seated. That has benefited the poor at the expense of the on which many a governmental program is sold. What is the reality? The reality has been Law and Economics by my colleague George Stigler is the name of Aaron Director who was a professor I might also say my brother-in-law. (laughter) Director's Law is that almost invariably government the expense of the very poor and the very let me first explain why it makes logical starting right here at home with higher education On the logical level, you have a political of the people voting one way against 49 percent therefore, is to form a coalition covering that you would take the bottom 51 percent think about it, the more you realize that coalition. Why? Because those people who are in political activity for the very reasons scale. They are at the bottom in the economic abilities or low entrepreneurial capacity, handicapped or in groups that are discriminated relatively less effective in political activity. activity? Those of us in the middle classes. the people who write for the newspapers, we are the people who provide the candidates. come from the top all the way down 51 percent? at the top-that's a place we can get a lot a few votes to get a large fraction of a tax coalition is sort of 51 percent of the people, the upper middle class and leaving out the the bottom. Now, it doesn't always work that their money to get an effective coalition, Now, let me illustrate in the real world. of higher education. This is always sold on in the society to get an education, but what financed by government in the United States as the financing of higher schooling. Who people who are attending this university? or lower-middle income class families. If families, you are going to be among the middle among the poor. They are the people who go benefit from it. Your training here will enable could. Who pays for it? Well you pay for it, not through tuition. I am told your tuition schooling. The taxpayers pay for it, including ago, there was a study made for the state of the students at state-supported institutions of the income class and 5 percent came from This is a program- when I talk in California to impose taxes on the people in Watts to Now, you here in Utah know better what the blaming you as individuals. I couldn't do state-supported higher education. I went through Rutgers University in the state of New Jersey, from going to the university and I think maybe know there are many people who disagree with (laughter) But there's no reason why I shouldn't have New Jersey get? The day I graduated from college back since. (laughter) There is a strong case to be made that everybody an opportunity to do so, provided he is willing It is highly desirable to have arrangements back later out of the higher income that his no justification for imposing taxes on lower-income who are or will be in the higher-income groups. to impose full cost tuition on colleges? There of being elected to a legislature or to the thing in the world legislatively to get higher class looks after itself, because of Director's Now, what's true of higher education is true Now Social Security is also sold as a program Security is a program which imposes unduly the society to provide higher benefits to it work? It's not because of the regressive the structure of benefits. It's because of men from the lower classes go to work? Sixteen, they start to pay Social Security taxes. At and start paying Social Security taxes? Some so, but you will be full-time Social Security So they will pay taxes for more years than Next, which one is going to receive benefits that the average expected length of life of than the average length of life of people suckers are going to pay taxes for more years you and I will. Now some of us, by virtue not be in that favored class. But already and 72 has been cut to a small part of what by Social Security. And overall there is little a program which transfers income from low-income The same thing is true of almost every other challenged people to find a single governmental have higher incomes than those who get the relief and public assistance, the Aid to Families it's a terrible program, it's a welfare mess, program that demonstrably transfers income classes. And that's why it is such an unpopular of the welfare mess as well as in the popularity the like. I could go down a great many others I come to my conclusion that if we are going this reduction in our freedom and the growth dismantle these myths which are so widely part of their philosophy and of their beliefs. I have deflated your air mattress and given