This video is going to be interesting. a thousand different reports about I promise you that this will give you I will be talking about the settlements, Islam, Jerusalem, the solution, Before I break down the a small trigger warning: If you don't like what that contradict what I'm saying. If I say that Jerusalem is or that the Jews said &quot;yes&quot; to and the Arabs said &quot;no&quot;, as Palestinians in the then feel free to prove me wrong. Send me a link to a letter from who says that he met a nice Palestinian. I'm asking you to challenge me. If you just write me that I'm Zionist, or that I've received money from the those aren't actually arguments. And for your information, I am completely The good thing about Israel is that Israel is a democracy. I'm not afraid of the government preventing Israel is not Iran or Syria or Egypt And I don't delete comments. Some people are 100% for Israel I'm aiming for the middle ground. If I get dislikes and smart comments, has reached the right audience. But you know, do give this video The last thing that I Don't use bombastic language don't have the numbers to support it. &quot;Ethnic cleansing&quot; is a very powerful expression. If in 1948 there were around there are 7 million you can't really use this term. However, if you want to use the you can do so to describe what in Arab countries. In Morocco in 1948, there Today, there are around 2000. In Iraq, there were Today, there are fewer than 10. Algeria used to be Today, there are fewer than 50, It is Muslim countries who perpetrated But this statement doesn't quite cover Muslims have been doing this to all If you zoom out, you will see that were many Christian communities the Middle East. They are all For some reason, the Western world, doesn't want to talk about it. As a Jew, I care about with Jews all over the world, that Christians don't really care which are kind of important to the and used to be 80% and now are 80% Muslims. The same goes for Christians in In Nigeria, Muslim organizations 2 million Christians have fled Iraq in the last two decades. to care about them, neither the Everyone is obsessed with the Did you know that the UN has two One for hundreds of millions and another one called UNWRA, most privileged refugees on earth-- Don't just take my word for it. So let's talk about the story the and the media likes to repeat: &quot;The Palestinians lived in They lived peacefully alongside until the rise of Zionism: under the umbrella started kicking the Palestinians causing the current situation.&quot; And now for the facts. In the long history of the Land of thing as a Palestinian people until Millions of pilgrims have come to the They've come across Jews, Druze, Turks. Now, you might say, regardless of all people should enjoy human rights have the right to identify And I agree. You have the right to but you don't have the right to and the history of the region This is probably the most documented There is a very good book, a very ancient and popular of the Jews to Judea. Now, wait, wait, I know what you that God gave this land to the Jews.&quot; God gave this land to the Jews--great, The undeniable point is that connection between the Jews and There are thousands of books from Jews and the Land of Israel, and in Jewish coins, Jewish texts, There isn't a single book or piece evidence that point to a You don't like what I'm saying? But it is much more than that. The connection of Christians is based on the Jesus was Jewish, and the is also based on the Jews. I will go even further and say that a Muslim empire. It was always Jerusalem was mostly important to the against the Jews or the Christians. Under Muslim rule, Jerusalem was This makes sense, as Jerusalem, in the Jewish Bible, isn't Chapter 17 of the Quran talks about He ascended from Al-Aqsa, which means How did it come to be In order to understand this, The Jews had two temples on what is now The temples were located on the which is the top of Mount Moriah. Babylonians and the second was 60 years after the Romans the Jews rebuilt again, and the Romans from &quot;Judea&quot; to &quot;Palestina&quot;-- and this is how the name came to be. It was intended to disconnect the Jews 700 years after the destruction of the Land of Israel and said that from the place where Now at this point, you may well be saying ascended to heaven from the exact for the Jews? And this is not Yes. And if you find it strange, that's because Nothing makes a place more holy than The Muslims took the place which was prior to the existence of Islam, Don't believe me? the Muslim authorities, that say Temple of King Solomon. Although what I'm saying here is very basic history, there is a good And I don't blame you. but the media tends to forget the basics. Jerusalem was always Muslims turn their back on Jerusalem and Jews pray towards Jerusalem. ceremony is to say that we will Jews have almost always lived in Jerusalem, Since the 13th century, the Muslims their holiest site, the Temple Mount, extra taxes and suffer harassment. They have even had to to pray at the Western Wall, they were allowed to pray. The Islamization of Jewish sites In Hebron, one of four cities there is the Cave of the Patriarchs, is the place where To humiliate the Jews, Muslims didn't and Jews were only allowed to Only in 1967, when Israelis liberated Hebron, were Jews allowed, for the to enter the second holiest Why do I say &quot;liberated&quot; Hebron and I will get to that in a minute. And now we get to the interesting part: Jews have always migrated, or, &quot;gone up&quot; to the Land of Israel. In the 17th and 18th centuries, Jews came From Europe, from North Africa, due to the harsh conditions-- but there was always a steady The first Zionist Congress was in the 1850s, there were In the rest of the land, yes, but it is important to know of the Zionist movement, settlements in the Land of Israel. In the last decades of the as in all empires, there were Some groups got bigger with time, Some bought land, some sold land. Many European powers bought land mostly Germans and Americans, speed up the second coming of Jesus. None of the groups used the word The First Zionist Congress took The Zionist movement was a not a colonialist or an but a national one, This was the age of the fall of empires-- the Austro-Hungarian Empire and of the rise of national movements. the national movement of the Jews. In the first half of the 20th century, place to another to create nation states. What's special about the Jews is that they never stole any land in the Land of Israel. Muslims and pro-Palestinians about Jews Here is a challenge for you: Give me the name of one village from the seventh century, when the Land of Israel--until 1947, a war to wipe out the Jews. not a single square foot Again, if you don't like what I'm saying, Give me the names of villages that On the other hand, I can give you lots or Palestinians, if you will-- Take Hebron, for example. Jews lived in Hebron In 1929, the Arabs--not 1 or 10, murdered 70 Jews, and the had to be abandoned until into Jewish hands in 1967. You want more names of Jewish because of Arab violence? Many were rebuilt The Arabs used violence in the Land of Israel many years and many years before the And by the way, violence against the Jews, Remember the German and American They suffered as well. the American novelist, Or at least they had it until Arabs great uncle and sexually assaulted Here is an interesting anecdote: Mark Twain and Herman Melville, and like hundreds of other pilgrims, land was, and many wrote about how From 1917 until 1948, in control of the Middle East. The Jews blamed the British for being the British for being pro-Jewish. I will tell it as it was: the British were pro-British. They had two main interests in the region: to the port of Haifa, and to ensure And because both of these interests they were pro-Arab. Today it is very fashionable and of course they did But I find it absurd that as it was the Roman Empire &quot;Palestine&quot; to the area, gave it its borders. When the British and the French invented two nations that never and the Jordanians. Another fact that is often overlooked talking about Jewish immigrants No one talks about the Arabs who Hundreds of thousands of Arabs entered the Land of Israel to work for the British, and are It is hard to estimate who entered the Land of Israel for the British, but the number is in the Probably about half of the came to the Land of Israel Their last names usually hint of the family. I find it absurd that people like who came to Israel from after dreaming about the are seen as white colonialists, for the British in 1945 Now you might be saying, and if they have been They have the right to self-determination&quot;. And again, I agree. In 1947, the UN proposed a into a Jewish state The Jews said &quot;yes&quot;, and then started a war The morning after the Partition Plan, and murdered five Jews. This is how the war was started. They were offered a state, and started murdering Jewish civilians. Not a single Jew was spared into local Palestinian hands. Luckily for us, after 15 months and the five Arab armies And yes, during the War of were destroyed and about 700,000 That's what happens when you try to You might well lose At the same time, 800,000 Jews were For some reason, no one cares about Millions of articles and papers the Palestinians who because of a war they started. about the Jews living in Muslim pogroms and had to flee, Please tell me why you care so and yet you couldn't care other refugees who had to flee at 14 million Germans, about the same Ukrainians, Armenians, Poles, and I could go on and on. The Palestinian refugees are the most Some say that the Partition Plan wasn't fair, of the population, but got two To that I will say this: The Arabs actually also got So in fact, the Jews got a And I should also add that land and the Jews got the And now I'm going to state a fact all the haters of Israel: and the desert land and made We turned the land into gold. and desalination systems. Israel invented vegetables and and yet taste sweet. As for the Arabs, the large part of and contaminated. After 1948, the Palestinians had years as they were under Egyptian Yet they didn't do that. In 1964, the Palestinians established the Now, this is interesting. 1964 is three years before the Six-Day War, West Bank and the Gaza Strip, they were already calling for the When the Arabs say &quot;free Palestine&quot;, they don't mean &quot;we want state next to Israel.&quot; What they want is a Palestinian The Palestinians kept rejecting all 1947 till 2008, when Ehud Olmert, offered the Palestinian all the West Bank and East Jerusalem as their capital. They said &quot;no&quot; to every offer that was they received from the world in terror, were the victims. The Palestinians do have a harder life than we Israelis, but they only So what is the solution? Not in the near future, because this I've already told you that and even before 1948, to wipe out the Jews. Here is another example. In 2005, Israelis withdrew Gaza is an Israeli/Jew-free area. The Palestinians get more money From the US, from the from the UN. And what do they do Infrastructure? No. They build tunnels and buy Why do they do that? The Hamas The first sentence is &quot;Israel will exist It doesn't say &quot;we want peace.&quot; It doesn't say It clearly says &quot;until Islam wipes it out&quot;. They want a Muslim Caliphate. For actually expressing and being which is to eliminate Israel. Personally, I want the Palestinians to rights and freedoms, and I wish for to have the same. But what I want is not To solve the problem, you And the problem is made up One, which Westerners don't and one which Westerners don't Religion plays no role at all In the US, politicians do say and the debate surrounding But when it comes to foreign policies, talk about spreading In the Muslim world, it is very different. at a music festival, or one another in Syria, Yemen, Libya. &quot;Allahu Akbar!&quot; &quot;Jihad&quot; is a religious war To many Europeans, the words remind them of dark days that when Catholics and Protestants Sadly, this is still the situation in Just think about the organizations you Hamas, Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad, These aren't national organizations. Now let's talk about the Lots of people run from this as if because the biggest concern is I want to be 100% clear here, although I know that some will do If I say that men are more does it mean I hate all men? Does it mean that I think Does it mean that there are But if in almost all countries, are men, then you can say that men I believe you can You can criticize me as a Jew, as a tour guide. I can't change, like my identity, like my profession, the music I like, My identity is comprised of and you can criticize any one of them. I can say, &quot;True, Israelis aren't don't know how to form a queue, And I can also accept the criticism. you know that you're not perfect. narrative that you are only allowed groups and criticize your own. I want to be made to think, The #MeToo movement interact with women and made me I criticize all groups: Britney Spears fans, Gen Z and Muslims. I even criticize the most dangerous If a teacher writes that for 30 &quot;get well soon&quot; messages. by writing a message, you are just If there were peace in all of the Arab-Muslim Palestinians were &quot;Okay, maybe we are in the wrong.&quot; But if the Palestinians were using and almost all of the Arab-Muslim with high levels of violence and low then maybe there's really I'm also getting comments from Muslims for all the problems And it is true that the creation Africa and Asia were determined and that the US thinks primarily But I'm always shocked to find that Muslims The fact that most of democratic has nothing to do The fact that 17 of the 20 most LGBTQ community are Muslim has The fact that almost places in the world to be a has nothing to do with imperialism. The Muslim world is huge. It has a lot of oil, and its failure Look at the Jews: One-third of them Israel has no oil, and it is And yet we are successful. Most of that money buy military equipment from And besides, the Palestinians We are successful because we are invest in education This is true outside the Middle East, too. If there were violent Rotterdam or London, Jewish neighborhoods Peace will only come when when Muslim countries become democratic, stop killing one another, cover or not cover their hair, not thrown from rooftops in Gaza when the Christian populations stop and when the Israeli Arabs then, and only then, Please like and share this video with I have much more to say about this topic, If you find it interesting, All the details are below. Yalla, bye!