(phone chirping) - Hi, it's Doug. What's the most number of birthday candles you've ever seen on Wo, that's a lot of candles there. Now this guy, this is my grandpa. His name is Lou. In just two years, he's It's amazing. This year, instead of having he decided to have two candles to remind him of how until he hits the big 100. Someone named Aven has a Let's give Aven a call now. (phone chirping) - Hi, Doug. - Hi, Aven. - I have a question for you. What's the biggest number? - That's a great question. When I was in kindergarten, I remember each morning my teacher, Mrs. Schlavene, would write a number on a piece of paper that she'd Then she'd tape it up on the wall. And so for each day of school, One on the first day of school. Two on the second day of school. And so on. By the middle of the school year, those numbers were getting pretty high. 97, 98, 99, and that's when we hit Wow, 100. I remember thinking what I never counted 100 of anything before. That was my first time. Now maybe that's because it doesn't seem like there are that are 100 of anything. You're definitely still a long And oh my gosh, can you Woo, that'd be amazing to find! But you know what, there are Even if you found $1 and that's worth 100 pennies. So you could walk out of But as you might know, there are numbers even bigger than 100, which looks like this. That's the number you get if There are things in your life Like if you go to a there might be 1,000 seats in the theater. Or if you're more than three years old, congratulations, give because you've been alive Or it's thought that most people speak about 1,000 words for every hour that they're awake and talking. So you've probably said Okay, but there are still way Now before I say anything what's the biggest number you've heard of? Go ahead right now and Okay, you ready? Well you might have said Maybe you said a million, a billion, a trillion. Or here's another one you might have heard someone Ooh, infinity. Is infinity the biggest number? Well no, it's not. Now don't get me wrong. Infinity is a word, but there's infinity, that causes some confusion. You see, it's not a number. It's easier to understand the word infinity, we use the word infinite. Infinite means something with no end, something that has no stopping point. Now there aren't a lot that have no end, no stopping point. But counting, or numbers, There's no end to how You can always keep counting. Think about it like this, if someone tries to challenge you by saying they can think you can just challenge them A million, a million and one. A billion, a billion and one. Each time you add one more, So infinity isn't the biggest number because there really is no such since you can always keep counting. You can always add one more number. That said, just because we doesn't mean we have We tend to only have names for Million, billion, and There aren't a lot of things you bump into that are these numbers. When we're talking about a million, you're at a number that's eaten every hour in the United States. That's a lotta pizzas. A billion, that's even bigger. Now that's more like how many If you wanna get a sense of check out the episode we did called &quot;How many people are in the world?&quot; Even so, these aren't the biggest numbers we have a name for. The winner of biggest some would say, are you ready for this, it's the number googol. You hear me right, googol. Not the internet company, though their named after the number, just spelled differently. There's really a number called googol. If it sounds like a little that's because they did. About 100 years ago, a mathematician, someone who studies math and numbers, decided that he would like to give a name to the number one with 100 zeros after it. He asked his nine-year He said, &quot;What do you The nephew said, &quot;I don't And amazingly, that name has stuck. It's not a number that but it is officially considered with 100 zeros after it. So in summary, there is no biggest number because numbers just You could always keep counting. But we do have names for Not just million, billion, and trillion, but even numbers as big as googol. That's all for this week's question. Thanks, Aven, for asking it. Now for the next episode, I reached into my question jar and picked out three that I'm thinking about answering next. When this video is done playing, you'll get to vote on one. You can choose from, &quot;What's &quot;How do people predict the weather?&quot; Or, &quot;Who invented the telephone?&quot; So submit your vote I wanna hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious and see you next week.