Translator: Steven Litrov On a personal note, this is a picture of me was diagnosed with end-stage heart She already had so many bypass surgeries, basically run out of plumbing, confined to a wheel chair, Her life was over at age 65. But then she heard about one of our early and what happened next is actually My grandma was one Frances Greger, my grandmother, Mrs. Greger had heart disease, Her condition is so bad, she could no longer walk Within three weeks, though, she was not only out of her wheel chair, she was walking 10 miles a day! Here's a picture of my grandma 15 years after doctors She was given a medical death sentence She was able to enjoy another 31 years on (Applause) to enjoy her six grand kids including me. That's why I went into medicine. (Laughter) Years later, when Dr. Dean Ornish published proving with something called that indeed heart disease could without drugs, without surgery, just a plant-based diet I assumed this was going My family had seen it with their own eyes, published in some of the most prestigious yet nothing happened. I said, &quot;wait a second.&quot; If effectively the cure could get lost what else might there be in the medical but just didn't have a corporate Well, I made it For those who are not familiar every year I read through every issue of every English language so busy folks like you don't have to. (Laughter) I then compile the most interesting, in new videos and articles I upload daily Everything on the website is free. There are no ads Strictly non-commercial. Just put it up as a public as a tribute to my grandmother. New videos and articles every day on What a concept! So where did Pritikin A network of missionary hospitals uncovered what may be one of the according to one of our best Dr. Dennis Burkit -- the fact that many of our major were universally rare, like heart disease. In the African population of Uganda, coronary heart disease Wait a second, What were they eating? (Laughter) Well, they're eating and their protein almost and they had the cholesterol very similar to what one sees You say, &quot;Wait a second.&quot; Maybe they were just dying early, never No. Here's age-matched heart attack Out of 632 autopsies in Uganda, Out of 632 age and gender matched 136 myocardial infarctions -- more than 100 times They were so blown away, went back, Still just that one small healed infarct; Out of 1,427 patients, less than 1/1,000, whereas here our disease is an epidemic. Atherosclerosis, hardening of arteries, By age 10, nearly all the kids raised already have fatty streaks the first stage of the disease. These streaks then get worse in our 30s, In the heart, it's called a heart attack; in the brain, the same disease So if there's anyone here today (Laughter) then the question isn't whether or not it's whether you want to reverse whether you know it or not. But is that even possible? When researchers took people put them on the plant-based diet eaten by populations their hope was that we could maybe even stop it. But instead something miraculous happened. As soon as people stopped their bodies were able to dissolve opening arteries, only without drugs, suggesting the bodies but weren't never given the chance. That remarkable improvement in blood was after just three weeks The human body is a self-healing machine, unless you're sticking it Now sure, you can use moderation (Laughter) but why beat yourself up at all? This is nothing new. American Heart Journal, 1977, His heart disease was so bad, that he couldn't even He started eating healthier, he was climbing mountains, with no pain. All right? (Laughter) Now there are these fancy new classes They cost thousands of dollars a year, but at the highest dose, may be able as long as 33.5 seconds. (Laughter) It doesn't look like those are going to be climbing (Laughter) Plant-based diets aren't just They can work better since you're treating Normally I'd go on to cancer and talk talk about how diet may playing a role each of our top 15 killers, but There's only one diet ever been proven in the majority of patients: So any time someone tries to sell you Ask them one simple question. &quot;Has this diet been proven the number one reason I mean, if the answer is, &quot;No,&quot; If that's all a plant-based diet could do, reverse the number one killer shouldn't that kind of be default The fact it can also be useful other top killers like would seem to make the case for Most deaths in the United States and related to nutrition. According to the Global Burden the largest study of human funded by the the number one cause of death in The number one cause of disability Now bumping tobacco smoking to number two, cigarettes now only kill about a half whereas our diet kills hundreds So if most deaths are preventable, then obviously nutrition taught in medical school, right? (Laughter) I mean, I mean, obviously your doctor talks to you about How could there be this disconnect between the science Let's do a thought experiment. Imagine yourself a smoker (Laughter) Back in the 1950s the average was 4,000 cigarettes a year, meaning the average person walking around The media was telling people to smoke. Famous athletes agreed, even Santa Claus (Laughter) I mean, look. You want to keep fit and stay slender? So, make sure to smoke and lots of sugar to stay slim and trim. A lot better than that apple there. &quot;Though apples do connote reads one internal tobacco industry memo, bringing up &quot;many possibilities They wanted to make apple-flavored &quot;For digestion's sake, you smoke.&quot; No curative powers but hey, better to be safe &quot;Blow in her face and she'll (Laughter) &quot;No woman ever says no.&quot; They're &quot;so round, so firm, (Laughter) After all, John Wayne smoked them You know, back then (Laughter) And so were the doctors. Now this is not to say there wasn't Sure, you know, some doctors smoked so there was a little disagreement there. The leader of the US Senate agreed, who would want &quot;Not a single case of throat irritation.&quot; How could there be when &quot;cigarettes Maybe up in Flint, Michigan. (Laughter) But don't worry, if you do get irritated, your doctor can just write you This is in the Journal So when the AMA is saying smoking, when the American Medical where could you turn back then What's the new data advanced by science? Well, she was too tired for fun, (Laughter) Babe Ruth spoke of proof-positive that is when he still could speak You know, if by some miracle back then that could deliver the science directly, bypassing commercially you would have known of studies like this. This is an Adventist study showing that non-smokers had at least 90% But this wasn't the first. When famed surgeon Michael DeBakey linking lung cancer and he had to remind people We were a smoking society. It was in the movies, airplanes; medical meetings Smoking was, in a word, normal. OK. So back to our thought experiment. If you're a smoker in the '50s I mean with access to the science, you realize the best available suggests your smoking habit-- So do you change or do you wait? If you wait until your doc says, between If you wait until the powers like the Surgeon General did in the you'd be dead by then. It took more than 7,000 studies before the first Surgeon General's report You'd think maybe after could give people Powerful industry. Maybe we should have stopped As a smoker in the '50s, one on hand, the medical profession itself And on the other hand, if you're even aware of studies like this. All right, let's fast forward 55 years. There's a new warning Americans about something else Of course, it's not just one study; The mortality from all causes together, significantly lower among those eating So, instead of someone going along imagine you or someone you know going What would you do? With access to the science, you realize suggests your eating habits So do you change, or do you wait? If you wait until your doctor tells you, it'll be too late. In fact even after the American Medical Association Why? Could it have been because they from the tobacco industry? (Laughter) We know why the tobacco why the AMA was sucking up but why weren't more and more There were a few gallant souls speaking up against but why not more? Maybe it's because the majority smoked cigarettes. Just like most physicians that are contributing to our What was the AMA's rallying cry back then? Everything in moderation. Extensive scientific studies have proven Sound familiar? The food industry used twisting the science, misinformation. The same scientists were hired, paid to downplay the risks are the same paid for by the to downplay the risks of candy, and the same paid for by the meat whereas animal foods and processed foods, you're killing off at least So those of us involved in this kind we're talking about 14 million lives Maybe, plant-based nutrition should be considered as the nutritional but how long do we have to wait before the CDC says don't wait to start eating healthier as well. Until the system changes, we need to take personal responsibility We can't wait until society because it's a matter of life and death. A few years ago Dr. Kim Williams became President He was asked in an interview why he follows the same diet he recommends a strictly plant-based diet. &quot;I don't mind dying,&quot; &quot;I just don't want it to be my own fault.&quot; (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)