Transcriber: Adrienne Lin Alright, my friends. Hello. (Audience) Hello. So I want to start off And I know a lot of other presenters have already asked you questions, and they've been kind of hard questions. But the questions I'm going to ask you are very, very simple. And I promise Alright, are you ready? Okay. Your first questions is -- you don't have to answer out loud: Are you having a good day? Okay, got your answer? Alright. My second question for you is: Why? If you're having a good day, why are you having a good day? Or if you're having a bad day, why are you having a bad day? So I have one more question for you. This should be the easiest one of all. My last question is: Tomorrow, would you rather have a good day, or would you rather have a bad day? Do you have your answer for that one? What about the day after tomorrow? What about Sunday? Let's see. Yeah, that's right. Tomorrow's Saturday. Sunday. How about Monday? Would you like to have on Monday? Tuesday? Wednesday? Thursday? Friday? This time next week? A good day or a bad day? So that last question, like I said, is probably the easiest one for us to answer, because we know We want to have a good day, everyday. Did anyone in the room answer, &quot;Yes, I want to have a bad day on Monday&quot;? Of course not. We all want to have a good day everyday. So this is really speaking that we all wish for in our heart of hearts. We have a good day when we're happy, and we want to be happy everyday. There's never a day when we don't want to be happy. But whether or not really depends upon how we answered the second question. Do you remember the second question? What was the second question? &quot;Why?&quot; Why am I having a good day? Why am I having a bad day? So one thing that my teacher says -- his name is Geshe Kelsang Gyatso -- and he says that, &quot;Much of the time our mind is like a balloon in the wind, blown here and there by external circumstances.&quot; Do you know that feeling? He says when things are going well, when they're going our way, we feel happy. But then if something goes wrong, for example, he says, &quot;If we're forced to but I'm sure none of you (Laughter) He says if we're forced to or if something doesn't go our way, then our happy feeling disappears. So as long as our answer to the question &quot;why am I having a good day?&quot;, Because you know, like, maybe when you get home today, someone will go, &quot;Did you have a good day?&quot; And we'll say, &quot;Yeah, I did.&quot; &quot;There's this lady, how we need to be compassionate and there's this performer who did this you know, this person, and that person.&quot; As long as our reasons for why we had a good day are then we're not going to have this stable happiness that we all want. Does that make sense to you? Because if that's what our happiness because we cannot control people and circumstances every single day -- then our happiness will It'll be at the whim of our circumstances. So if you really wish to have a good day everyday, we've got two things we need to do. So the first thing that we need to do is we need to stop outsourcing our happiness and outsourcing our unhappiness on the people and circumstances. In other words, we need to stop attributing our happiness to what's going on externally, and we need to stop blaming others, -- especially blaming others -- for our unhappiness. So for as long as we do that, as long as we're making it the job of people and circumstances to make us happy, or as long as we're making it their fault our happiness will be very unstable, and illusive. Our second job is to actively cultivate a source of peace and a source of happiness coming from inside our own mind. So here's something I want you to Are you ready? This is another line from one of my teacher's books, where he says, &quot;Happiness and unhappiness are states of mind; and therefore their real causes cannot be found outside the mind.&quot; So if we have a peaceful state of mind, we will be happy regardless of people and circumstances. If our mind is unpeaceful or agitated, then even if we have we'll find it impossible to be happy. So, in other words, it's not what is happening that is making us happy or unhappy; it is how we are responding that determines whether It is what our state of mind is like that determines So how are we going to do this? So we can all It's not rocket science, is it? It's not hard to understand. And maybe, to a certain extent, as I tell you these things, you're like, &quot;Yeah , I knew that already.&quot; &quot;I knew that already.&quot; But how do we actually do it? How do we actually cultivate this stable peace of mind that we can rely upon, regardless of the external circumstances? So this is really where meditation And I would say I would need -- hint, hint -- (Laughter) in order to really But for our purposes today, we can say that meditation is a mental action. It's the mental action of concentrating on a peaceful positive state of mind. If we do that, we concentrate on a peaceful positive state of mind, then we can say we're meditating, whether that's like this, right? See, actually, you don't know because I could be thinking (Laughter) It's only meditation if I'm actually focusing But the trick is, I can do it like this. This is called formal meditation. But we can also learn to do this in our daily life. See, here's a perfect opportunity. (Laughter) We concentrate on a mind of patience. We're not disturbed, not unhappy. So why don't we try it now? Are you up for it? Just a short meditation. According to the clock, so this is going to be a very brief one. But let's actually try it, let's try to tap into our own potential for a peaceful positive state of mind. So now, I'll ask you and place your feet flat on the floor, and your hands within your lap. And then you can lightly close your eyes and become aware of at the tip of your nose. And as you breathe out, you can imagine you're breathing out any agitation, any mental busyness, any frustration or unhappiness in your life. Breathing it all out, like dark smoke. And as you breathe in, you can imagine and believe that you're breathing in which is a very nature of inner peace. And you can imagine that fills your entire body and mind. And for a few seconds, simply enjoy this inner peace coming from within. And now, as we finish, just be determined to into the rest of your day to benefit yourself and others. So now, we rise from meditation. Thank you very much. (Applause)