Shortly after 6:30am on 6th June 1944 along Division emerged from their landing craft into a or wounded hundreds. Over the next few hours many the beach under murderous machine gun fire. The that morning was the courage of small groups breach the defences of the Atlantic Wall. In this footage from that day and the testimony of those the men of one landing craft, on that one day, who When finally it was decided in early 1944 Allied assault into north-west Europe, from easy. Let's find out why. The actual in the Normandy region of France. Split across 3rd Infantry Division would come ashore on Sword Juno, to their west the British 50th Division the Cotentin Peninsula US forces would arrive on to be assaulted by American troops of the 1st Omaha itself was in truth very different from and is, a picturesque crescent of golden sands. to assault, is this, a continual line of high just beyond the beach. Rising to a height but from a defender's perspective, it offered great opportunities to dig in and create defences, to take them. If there was a weak point to it was these - a series of five natural inlets inland to eventually meet this main road set back had been identified by the allies as the key to inland that did not require scaling those bluffs, vehicles could take to get off the beach. In fact, their entire defensive network in was based on that very premise. This stretch of a series of strongpoints, known as Widerstand or of defensive structures from concrete pillboxes to large casemates concealing anti-tank was strategically sited to offer mutual support beach. In this area there were 15 different the line of bluffs, manned by approximately 18-anti-tank guns and at least 9 mortar But cracked it had to be. And when allied planners with all other beaches, had broken them down into and men of the 29th Infantry Division were to sectors, and Easy Green and to the Eastern half of sectors were to be assaulted by men of the highly One'. It is on those men, and specifically So what about those doing the we'll focus on just 32 men who came shore the first wave that morning. They were these under the command of 29 year-old By turning to the vast records archive John Martin Spalding was born on 17th December family. His father Hugh was in the US National working in a Tobacco Warehouse in Owensboro, raised. A further record for February 1941 in the Army at Louisville Kentucky before later being commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant in he found himself on the eve of D-Day. Yet to see Alongside him in his boat section and acting Sergeant Philip 'Phil' Streczk. Despite being a New Jersey native of Polish heritage, was he had already seen service in Tunisia than three silver stars for gallantry and a soldier. His leadership qualities had seen him be sharp minded and sharp tongued, he was said but when it came to a fight, Also in the section were these Colson and Bisco, along with 20-year DiGiatano who had the ominous duty of And so, it was these 32 men, along with the the job of prizing open the defences of Hitler's quite simply was to land in this area, advance neutralising the enemy defences along the way, they would unlock one half of the E-1 Draw, Le Ruquet valley and outflank all remaining This aerial image, allows us to explore 'Easy Red' sector we can clearly identify the which was in fact still under construction on the remnants of a knocked down house, known was a key orientation point on Easy Red, and its this concrete block, which was present in 1944 and were once located. This will be the area in To tell that story we have the benefit of momentous day. By 6.30am on 6th June his craft, entirely seasick-men found itself heading for When we got 200 yards offshore the boat halted drop the ramp. Sergeant Fred Bisco and this a navy man had mounted the machine gun on fire. We were now receiving not only machine We had come in at low tide and the the boat we spread out in a V formation noticeable decline of sand beneath our so we tried to swim. Sergeant Streczyk and the 18 foot ladder which was to be used for crossing arise. They were struggling with it in the worst trouble afloat. As the ladder came by me I we don't need any help", but hell I was What Spalding and his men had very quickly found they had in fact hit a sandbar and had to before even reaching the shore. Now, cold, of yards from the dubious safety at the base their way as best as they could towards their a tragic one. The fire they took was less than First, they had landed in front of a relative weak part of the beach. Sadly, the other reason was had not. Drifting left on their run in, they had the most formidable defensive positions on Omaha. plenty of easier targets much closer by, and the the rest of E Company and the 16th was horrific. beach was still no easy task. In navigating mortar and plenty of small arms fire, pres and waterlogged clothes would allow. It was during but thankfully no-one killed. That when reaching this area around the 'Roman Ruins' men under WN62 several hundred yards to his hit and killed by a sniper from the Bluffs above. Beach that finally Spalding's men were able to concealed machine gun positions to their left. he was told to head back on to the beach to best to drown him on the way to shore. It was now took stock. Clearly they were alone, though in gulley to their front, and it seemed that they down the beach. So, there was only one choice, In order to do that, first a section of barbed Bangalore Torpedo, which was accomplished by up a path right here to climb the bluffs. his experience to avoid the hundreds of to advance along this track, possibly passing a all the while using the many dips and as they did so. It was by now about 7:30. heavier small arms fire and with the constant the men of E Company, as always, led by Streczk next hour that advance continued with the probing the enemy line, occasionally in a truly nerve-wracking experience. For the E manned by a lone machine gunner just short decidedly problematic. Here's Spalding again. us, so Sgt. Bisco kept saying: "Lieutenant watch type mine and it seems that the place was The Lord was with us and we had an Trying to get the machine above us Sergeant shot in the left arm almost immediately. Phelps moved into position to fire and was shot in had moved up. We decided to rush the machine lone German operating the gun threw up his hands but we needed prisoners for interrogation, so I Records tell us that the Polish speaking Sergeant the Polish prisoner who had so stubbornly manned continued to advance towards the top of the bluffs of Private Bowen, the section medic. this time with Sergeant Clarence Colson in BAR from the hip as he did so. He was amongst bluffs a few minutes later to find a well made firing down on the rest of the section at its far This pillbox was the one that was holding the right down the back end. Maybe they heard me shoot The pillbox had a door that goes downstairs, the BAR. It had a bipod on it and I got it set All of sudden a white flag came out and I I motioned for them to come on up and was dead in there or anything. But it was a pillbox, the beach just got a whole lot safer. through the horrors of Omaha beach, there was a either side of them, some men had breached and finally there was a route inland. likely that shortly after Clarence Colson 16th Infantry Regiment under Captain Joe Dawson, and also made the ascent, made contact. In a Dawson's group would turn left to assault towards right and continue to attack towards WN64. that. For both groups, there was still plenty hedgerow to hedgerow with rifles and grenades, the seemingly impossible had been The remarkable accomplishments of Spalding, 16th that day were not unique. Further down the little those still trapped under the guns of the a small, but vital toehold on this part This photograph, a frozen moment in time from at the importance of what exactly those men by abandoned landing craft and all across the dying and wounded. Had it not been for the that day, the toll may have been far, far worse. perhaps the very first to scale the bluffs, there Ramundo and Bisco would pay with their lives, a including Spalding, Streczk, Coulson and the Medic Others still got a marble one. Several of the the war, falling in the many bitter battles meet with tragedy, were Spalding and Streczk. fatigue later in the war eventually went home to and had three more children, living a seemingly which appeared in the Owensboro Enquirer on the life of a man who had achieved so much. soldier within the 1st Infantry Division, marry and have four children, but the horrors from North Africa to the Hurtgen Forest would physical pain from wartime wounds, Philip became perhaps the last of so many casualties Thanks for watching. We hope you found this video We want to offer a special thanks to the team at to learn more about your own family history tree for free, why not check out the link in the be sure to take a look at our video exploring countryside immediately after D-Day. That's