It was July 1, 2009. I was living in Hamburg, Germany at the time. I was in my apartment whom I had just married. Two strangers rang the doorbell. I didn't answer. A few minutes later, I was walking towards my car They introduced themselves and, in German, they told me: &quot;We have a warrant from Interpol and the FBI, come with us!&quot; This man is one of the few to have gone for financial crime. He was imprisoned in Chicago, in the United States. I was accused by the FBI with 460 million dollars fraudulently acquired. His story reveals the excesses whose consequences the whole world My name is Philip James Baker, I am the former manager which collapsed He is one of the actors and for whom it is urgent today I know what it's like I am guilty. I saw how things worked, and I can tell you everything can start again. It's another hungover wake-up call this morning. Yesterday, after Wall Street, Lehman is the largest bankruptcy in US history. Employees leave Lehman Brothers taking Financial crime has plunged the world impoverished states Iceland is on the brink of chaos after the fastest collapse of a country's economy in history. Ten years later, the shadow of the 2008 crisis still looms. This black finance is not only At the controls, there are men who have committed serial fraud. It's not the companies, It is the individuals Banks don't think, This is fraud, Ten years later, When you say the name Dick Fuld, I think of a crook. Sorry to be so blunt, They were happy to accuse us and to say that it was only How many Wall Street executives went to jail after the crisis? I don't know any. They have plunged the world into crisis. They suffered no consequences. The titans of Wall Street I went to prison. Some will say that I did wrong. This is normal. I agree with that, but what about the titans I was born here in Toronto, in August 1965. Philip was born with a hole in his heart. He spent the first year of his life He underwent heart surgery between the left and right ventricle. I was on the front page of Canada's largest daily newspaper. It was a picture at the hospital The article was about children The terror of the hospital can scar I think that later, This operation made me want to be part of the party, to be at the center of the party. I think this psychological trait and made me what I have become, someone who wants to be Financial gangsters are looking for the same thing It's not just the money, It's also the reputation. What we do not understand enough, that's their only way to have with certainty, It's cheating. It's not about being lucky or to win his bets. This is cheating! Philip started He didn't say much, except that he had a partner Our business started and it became a billion-dollar company. Lake Shore was This investment fund was specialized like gold, It was the salesman. He was the one who went to get the customers. individuals or institutions to entrust him with their money. Our clients were large investment banks. Goldman Sachs, Royal Bank of Canada, Scotiabank, Credit Suisse, UBS, quite a list. We operated in nearly 40 countries. In Brazil, Peru, Panama, in Colombia, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong and, of course, Europe. He became a successful investment fund boss. He had opened offices in Switzerland, London, the United States and Canada. The commercial part was based in London. My offices were in Mayfair, the world capital of investment funds. He had the good life. He was always trying to prove who doubted it. So he built this life for himself with a driver who drove him everywhere in a luxury car. He had a beautiful apartment I had a life of luxury. I had a butler, Everything I ever wanted, I sponsored and competed against Hugo Boss and UBS, just for fun. It wasn't a browser. He had to pay to face teams between New Zealand and Australia. We were earning millions a month, placed in offshore accounts. We didn't pay taxes. I was living a dream! We didn't worry about anything, but actually, I had something to worry about. Investors from all over the world because it generated very good returns and that's what investors want. It turned out he was doing something else. He embezzled investors' money, and while they thought they had it was not so. Philip Baker and his partners had invented everything. They were lying. [English spoken audio] The second thing, even more serious, is that by seeking which was essential, they presented to the potential client commercial documents in which they lied again. Instead of saying they lost 50% of their funds in the first year, they said: &quot;Hey! Look, we have this long history They weren't just lying They also lied about the longevity &quot;We have 14 years of experience.&quot; Which was wrong. The reported trading results were false. This is fraud. Only one euro of undisclosed loss, This is fraud. The victims are all those those who lost their money during the first part of the fraud and those who entrusted their money to him Millions of dollars have gone up in smoke. Why did I break the law? I wanted to keep what I had: money, family, power. Everyone does that, right? What do you mean ? How many people would say, &quot;I don't want power, I don't want the money&quot; and turn their backs on all that? We must accept and that there is a penalty for that. It's something he'll live with Are you Yes. It's something to see his name: against the United States of America!&quot; It overwhelms you. Then you have to look into the eyes When you have to face this, this gear, there are no words to describe I finally decided I got 20 years in prison for fraud. It is impossible a high-security federal prison in the United States. There are gangs, There are violent criminals. There is no separation between You enter a world without a name. It's all about survival. Days come and go. You spend your time doing nothing. You have no hope. You have absolutely no future, and you have nothing left to achieve. Philip Baker is a criminal. Is he one of the masterminds Absolutely not! This is someone who committed not very smart and who admitted This is a typical example of justice who wants to show everyone that she takes on financial crooks when the world demands it. [English spoken audio] Once again, not to big fish, and certainly not to the leaders whose decisions Ten years after the financial crisis, how many white collar criminals Kareem Serageldin of Credit Suisse is the only Wall Street banker to have gone to prison in connection with the crisis. He lost a few million dollars. Not really a big fish. Not a real Al Capone. Can you give me the name of a major bank executive who went to prison? Here is the number of people sentenced in connection with the crisis in the United States: 324, but believe it or not, no Wall Street executive Yet today there is no doubt at the origin of the crisis. Crimes don't work by themselves. Behind every crime, a crime of banditry there are individuals, there are people There were men and women, and also policies which are at the origin of these financial crises with a strong criminal dimension. This is the story of big banks by transforming toxic mortgage loans into financial products and selling them worldwide. American politicians It all started with the desire Our government wants to promote because it's good for America, it's good for our families, It's good for our economy. [English spoken audio] For years, Presidents Clinton and Bush sold home ownership American workers are no longer paid, Not the middle and working classes. What to do when you want to from the house for all, while salaries are frozen? You are encouraging people to get into debt. The authorities have kept so that everyone can borrow. Wall Street and politicians worked hand in hand. Wall Street in the pursuit of profit, policies in the search for economic growth synonymous with upcoming electoral victory. This is how the housing bubble began. When a bubble grows, Everyone is a genius. Credit institutions developers make money, construction companies too. Everyone loves bubbles. But it was a devilish pact who was preparing the storm. When there is a bubble, those who lend money and borrowers because they think things are less risky than they really are. They take these risks in particular by creating financial innovations. Wall Street created subprime, very risky real estate loans, which allow lending to Americans Then loans were given to people It has become totally crazy when NINJA loans appeared. NINJA in English means no income, no job, no assets. It was about lending money to people on their income, on whether they work or not, whether they have savings or not. [English spoken audio] This allows you because now you can make loans who are unable How many people are there who Tens of millions in the United States, tens of millions in France. This is called predation. The people who were given the worst loans were in the vast majority of blacks, of Hispanics, of elderly people and women. This is incredibly immoral, and that's why we call it a crime. These loans have become for the banking industry All the major institutions wanted to be part of the subprime party: Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns, JP Morgan, The frenzy was total when we were able to lend to the Americans by falsifying their financial situation. Banks and Borrowers then became accomplices in fraud. My name is Richard Bowen. I was vice president and head of the control department at Citigroup. Citigroup was then the largest bank in the world. My responsibility was to make sure of real estate loans to credit institutions were in accordance Early 2006, I discovered did not comply with our regulations. They were defective. After discovering this in June 2006, I thought it was my job. So I started issuing alerts because I had to make sure we I sent emails, I made reports meetings. I'm not shy. I called out to people I was told &quot;yes, but nothing happened. Between 2006 and 2007, the volume of these bad loans has increased by more than 60% more than 80%. Eighty percent? Yes, 80% of the loans we bought by assuring them and that they complied were not. Are these false statements? Exactly, and that constitutes fraud. I have seen with my own eyes which were falsified and which, however, as if they were in order. [English spoken audio] Typically, borrowers declared incomes greater than $100,000 per year, when in reality they were around $16,000. This means that their income There were restaurant servers who declared that they earned This is clearly unthinkable. Yet that is what was [English spoken audio] Richard Bowen and his teams, very professional, that these loans were defective. However, the bank was reselling them Citigroup didn't want to know, because knowing meant stopping this business. It was all about money, had the idea of changing mortgage loans into financial products, that is, to group them together in the form of They were buying back credits aggregated them, registered them as financial securities to then be able to resell them to investors around the planet. Throughout this process, It was the perfect product. Everyone who got a mortgage made money. On November 2, 2007, sitting at my kitchen table, I gathered all the elements I sent it to Robert Rubin who, was to be appointed chairman of the bank's board of directors. I also sent it to the Director of the Risk Department, of the Financial Department and the Audit Department. I told them: &quot;URGENT, READ IMMEDIATELY, FINANCIAL PROBLEM.&quot; I wrote it in capital letters. I requested an external investigation. I said, &quot;Come, because everyone already knows.&quot; And no one contacted me. No one contacted me in December. Not a word. [English spoken audio] From this moment on, when I took my car, I did like in the movies, I looked underneath, I opened the trunk and checked. I was scared. On February 6, I received an email which announced a reorganization and that I was relieved The following week, I was placed on administrative leave and I was told A few months later, $45 billion in Citigroup to save the bank from its toxic loans. Robert Rubin, Chairman of Citigroup, with $17 million in compensation and $33 million in stock options. Greed was undoubtedly as is the case Citigroup was not alone. There was a comparable level of fraudulent loans in all the major Wall Street banks. Ignoring the risk of bankruptcy, banks started to borrow and transform them into financial products. The largest subscriber is Lehman Brothers, with a volume of 106 billion dollars. Lehman was one of the largest of the most toxic loans ever. Lehman Brothers is one of the in the history of humanity. My name is Anton Valukas but they call me Tony. In 2009, three months I was appointed, by the Federal Court investigator. I was totally independent and my responsibility Lehman went bankrupt. When we talk about the Lehman bankruptcy, We are talking about the biggest bankruptcy in the history Total amount of this bankruptcy: $693 billion. What happened has been revealed. Lehman Brothers was the fourth largest led by its famous boss Dick Fuld. Hi, I'm Dick Fuld I am the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lehman Brothers. It's time to join I have been working there for 30 years. and I have never known a period If I say to you: &quot;Dick Fuld&quot;, what is the first word He was someone who was seen In 2008, the same year of the bankruptcy, It was ranked by Forbes magazine as among the highest-paid bosses in the United States. They called him the gorilla, because he was abrupt, rude, not the kind of guy The kind to throw himself against a wall Hyper competitive, hyper narcissistic. Crush those who bet against us. Crush them hard. It's not that I want Don't be mistaken about me. I am gentle, I am kind, but what I really want, it is to reach their heart, tear it out and eat it, before they die. This is the man who lost Lehman Brothers, the man who presided over its decline, the man who could have acted but chose not to. The man who refused to see the signs The man who triggered, what would become the Great Recession. [English spoken audio] My name is Oliver Budde. I was a lawyer at Lehman Brothers I have witnessed many things or even illegal. So I decided to leave banking. I was making a lot of money, but I couldn't close my eyes The signal that came from above of Dick Fuld and the leaders around him, was: "Go ahead, push the limits." The key at Lehman was to balance risk and reward. It doesn't matter what law there is If the reward is strong enough, do it, we'll sort it out later. It was a culture of risk. Only money mattered. Lehman Brothers' Risk Assessment Program was a model on Wall Street, The problem is that it was simply ignored. It must be understood that Dick Fuld built his fortune He was a billionaire. When we told him he would answer you: Have you made billions of dollars? And it was true. In 2007, Lehman Brothers' profits reached $4.2 billion. On the eve of the crisis, Lehman Brothers' financial health couldn't have been better, at least on paper. The bank has increased its consumption of toxic products by borrowing more and more. In 2008, Lehman was massively indebted. Lehman Brothers had one of the highest debt ratios American financial institutions. A debt ratio, it is the ratio between your debt your capital. This ratio varied between 30 and 40 to 1. In other words, for every dollar she had 30 to 40 Lehman was under scrutiny from all sides, because he was seen the next domino to fall. Lehman then embarked a financial plot, to appear healthier, Repo transaction 105. This is something to hide part of its debt. You know, she gave as security In the end, it was $50 billion. She borrowed 50 billion and in exchange, she gave 50 billion in financial securities. She said it was a sale, not a guarantee in exchange for a loan, but a sale of 50 billion in assets and she treated this money, but like cash that she had. She used this cash Thus, she could reduce her debt ratio. But as soon as the quarter was over and that she had made public she canceled the transaction. She gave the money back, recovered the financial securities and the debt ratio returned to its previous level. They did this to deceive the public. There are no other reasons. The result, in June, their debt ratio had dropped massively and everyone said, &quot;Wow, Lehman is in great shape!&quot; Our company is strong today. She will come out of this cycle even stronger. We have succeeded in the past, we will succeed again. So they fudged the numbers? In my opinion, absolutely, They fudged the numbers. In their own emails, they talk about a drug of a ploy to appear healthier than they were. They knew what they were doing. So they were hiding information Yes, that is what we can conclude Isn't that illegal? If you make false statements wittingly, a jury can find There were grounds for such conclusions to be made. Including against Dick Fuld? Yes. But no one has been arrested or charged? No, No jury, no trial None of this happened. In 2008, Dick Fuld was questioned on the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers. I have no recollection of hearing on what was called the Repo 105 transaction when I was a Lehman executive Was it possible that Dick Fuld Of course not. Senior executives interviewed said he knew about it, and that emails had been sent to him which showed the existence Dick Fuld replied: &quot;They may have sent me but I don't know how to use I don't know how to open I have never seen them.&quot; That was his version. Once again, Wall Street was lying about its financial situation. And at the same time, millions were spent on bonuses It was the jackpot. The place to earn money It was Wall Street. On the eve of the crisis, bonuses have reached levels they have never reached in the world. Millions of dollars a year, It was the perfect job. On Wall Street, bonuses have increased to $30 billion in 2007. We could have it all: a sublime apartment on Park Avenue, a beautiful house in the hamptons and a beautiful art collection. Choose the house you want, the holiday home you want. Buy two or three cars, When you exceed a million, They lived in excess. They were willing to take risks There is a lot of narcissism and antisocial personality disorder on Wall Street. Then there is this feeling to be above the law to get caught. It's a question of domination, of power, of position. I am bigger than you, stronger than you, They are looking for thrills. The risks they take at work give them great satisfaction and this has repercussions Lots of drugs, lots of cocaine, prostitutes too and risky sexual behaviors. They spent a lot on sex. They could spend hundreds, several thousand dollars a week. This whole culture swims in an ocean of greed. But what matters most, who will dominate in this ocean of greed? Who will have the power? Who will succeed in crushing the other? These Wall Street leaders could earn up to $100 million a year. For years, 70, 80, 90, 100 million dollars a year. He had a multi-million dollar house in Greenwich where he lived most of the time. He had a multi-million dollar apartment on Park Avenue. He also had a house in Florida and a property in Sun Valley, Idaho, a kind of cabin in the woods, but at several million dollars. Since 2000, you have pocketed That's almost half a billion. Your company has gone bankrupt, but you kept I have a very simple question: I would say that this figure is not accurate. I think the amount I pocketed was a little under 250 million. It remains high, it is true. You deserve prison! Criminal! In fact, both of these amounts were wrong The real figure was 530 million Dick Fuld said That's 200 less He did it under oath Take it on board! I don't know if I had the chance even if it were to hurt I would think about it. The temptation is great. People are simple. They do what they are rewarded for. If they are rewarded with other people's money, Voltaire told the story who lost a battle When he returned to England, we killed him. To set an example for others. Voltaire was an intelligent person. It's human nature. People do what they are rewarded for. The real message is it doesn't matter if what you do is right. It doesn't matter if it's honest. Do it, because you will be rich and I will be rich. [English spoken audio] In the financial world, today's compensation system has not only created the most criminogenic environment, he created the greatest crimes and there is nothing comparable. It's astonishing, Wall Street has had What had to happen happened. The house of cards has collapsed. Lehman Brothers, a 150-year-old company, has declared bankruptcy. Contaminated by Lehman, which employs 25,000 people, Businesses are dying of cancer, investment banks At one point, the assets have become and all those who possessed them had a big problem. This is what happened to Lehman. People fled the bank. Nobody lent him money anymore So she collapsed. [English spoken audio] On September 15, 2008, Lehman went bankrupt. The stock market has suffered its biggest fall since September 11, 2001. Banks stopped lending money to each other. The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers triggered Markets fell in Taiwan, India The 2008 crisis gave rise to financial contagion. [English spoken audio] There is a global recession. Real estate prices have collapsed everywhere. Many people You could go south of Chicago &quot;foreclosure, foreclosure&quot;, and many businesses We must consider that we have dealt with a large crime scene. So there are victims, These are the poor and working classes of society. This means that there are authors, These are the economic and financial elites. [English spoken audio] This is a fraud. This is no coincidence. It's not, oops! Between 2008 and 2011, are losing their jobs around the world. In Spain, the unemployment rate has reached 20%. In France, it exceeds 10%. Thousands of factories are closing, including 900 in France. Among them, the automotive subcontractor New Fabris. The plant closed at the end of July 2009. Three hundred and sixty-six people on the tile, and without work. We were left outside. We were not taken care of. We had no more work, nothing, we didn't know how to turn around. We were a bit trapped. I struggled to find something. I found some little things. Then at the end, so as not to bring back much Children, we give them a little less. We do Christmas, all that. There were problems with people they fell into alcohol. There were divorces. Everyone was affected. The impact in the world is measured in trillions of dollars. The losses that followed were incalculable. Nothing like this has been seen since 1929. Governments are releasing banks and engage in austerity policies. [English spoken audio] This crisis has changed Without the crisis, there would not have been Brexit, and Donald Trump This is a major turning point. It is impossible to predict But the 1930s transformed the world because it brought Hitler would certainly not have become without the Great Depression. It can change everything. None of the big Wall Street bosses have been prosecuted. I lost everything: my money, my wife, my family, my relationships. All. After eight years in prison, in his home country, Canada. He is now living under probation. I still owe money I have 154 million reasons Is this what you owe? $154 million. Plus interest. I am a little fish, so I was chased. They got away with it. The system works like this, and until he changes, the powerful will get away with it. The legal record of the subprime crisis is calamitous. Because it is a crisis with criminals, victims, but there was no trial. The American Justice System decided to make transactions. It is his habit, therefore, to avoid trials. Trials are bad publicity, we are not certain So she decided in advance to negotiate fines. And what did we get? No trial, to fraud. Merrill Lynch Bank of America: $16.6 billion fine, Citigroup: $7 billion fine, Goldman Sachs: $5.1 billion fine. Lehman Brothers: $2.4 billion fine Bear Stearns: $500 million fine. [English spoken audio] There were but no one admitted their mistakes. No one has admitted guilt. There was no prosecution. I always thought that these fines were nothing less than to make the evidence disappear. So that the world never knows how widespread the fraud was. These crimes are so much more serious than any common law crime. It is incomparable. As Balzac said, behind every great unexplained fortune a fraud is hidden so properly executed that she was not prosecuted. We are in the heart of Manhattan. On this side, it was the headquarters of Lehman In front, this is the building with his new company, He does the same thing. One would have thought but no, everything is fine for him. [English spoken audio] The world has collapsed. It cost trillions, but not to Dick Fuld. He kept and today, The stock market has been doing well since the crisis. Dick Fuld has always refused on the fall of Lehman Brothers. What is the difference and these bankers? Gangsters who rob a bank one, will steal an average of $2,000. Two, they always end up being condemned, and three, they will spend 20 years in prison. None of this happened and they kept their reputation. You come to see us today after buying cookies telling us: &quot;We're sorry, We won't do it again. You know what, there are people in who rob some of your banks and who say the same thing: didn't do it on purpose, Let them go! The banks promised to change. They started again. This is the latest big scandal His revelation had the effect of a bomb. The Libor manipulation affair. Four men have been sentenced for their role in one of the key scandals of the global financial crisis. I am Alex Pabon. I was a trader at Barclays. Alex Pabon, the scapegoat. I was sentenced to two years and nine months July 1, 2016, and I spent nine months in prison I was a junior trader, How much did I earn? About $350,000 during my final year at Barclays. The only thing that mattered It was to make money. It was a very aggressive place. There were people shouting, people breaking their phones. The atmosphere was very charged. Libor is the most important number in the world. Libor means London Interbank Offered Rate. This is a rate that allows you to calculate will pay every day So every day, there are hundreds It is an almost incomprehensible figure. Hundreds of trillions of dollars in financial products, of loans, derivative products, depends almost exclusively on Libor. This is a completely fabricated figure. that someone is responsible for determining daily. For this, every day around noon, some major banks give an estimate of the rate [English spoken audio] I was sentenced for sending to ask the person to increase or decrease this rate in the interest of the bank's positions. He asked his colleagues inside to modify the Libor upwards or downwards depending on its positions. The bank benefited from this, and he benefited from it. [English spoken audio] During the trial, the accused were but the doors were open. On the day of the verdict, there was a bailiff, It was surreal. You sit, you listen then it's your husband's turn. Two years and nine months, it's long. Then it was over. There were journalists everywhere. I said goodbye to him. In fact, I didn't even say goodbye to him because they took him on board. They took him away and that was it. What did you have in mind? We came home, and life went on. Are you a white collar criminal? I don't know. I don't think about it like that. Do I consider myself No. Am I aware He believed, with some justification, that there was no problem, because everyone was doing it. This is how You are encouraged to push the cork to exploit ignorant customers, to earn as much money as possible. Their boss knew. Their boss's bosses knew, At the top of these banks, [English spoken audio] Bob Diamond ran Barclays It was an American who was responsible of this culture of rule breaking. He ended up losing his job but he went before the British Parliament and there again, swung the traders &quot;These guys are breaking the rules. They deserve to go to jail.&quot; When I read the emails from these traders, It made me physically ill. This is reprehensible behavior. If you ask me [English spoken audio] The bank threw us to the wolves. It was necessary to find those responsible. They are scapegoats The truth doesn't matter. Barclays manipulated Libor between 2005 and 2009. The bank paid a fine of $450 million. No executives have been prosecuted. [English spoken audio] If you are in charge what you do in such a case you catch the guys down below It is very effective. These guys are cooked. So you use them and you go up until you reach and you catch the mob boss This is not what happened and that's not what happened [English spoken audio] If you have any suspicion, you have to dig, as in all sectors This is what Iceland did. My name is Olafur Hauksson. I am the Attorney General in Iceland. Before that, I was the special prosecutor in charge of Icelandic banks in 2008. What is your reaction that banks are untouchable? [English spoken audio] It's scary to think who would be above the law. My role was to know It was discovered had been taken at the summit and that the responsibility was there. [English spoken audio] The question is: who is responsible? And if there are those responsible, we must react, whether they are bankers or not. Iceland Convicts 26 Bankers Thanks to Olafur Hauksson's Investigation to prison. Among them, the leaders of the two major Icelandic banks. Prison was the beginning of redemption. The judge told me: "Do something with your life." That's what I'm trying to do. I want to speak publicly so that everyone knows what can still happen to us. Imagine, you drive your car There are signs and there is the police. You slow down. Then you roll, you leave it behind, and you start to speed up a little bit, then accelerate again and again. This is what happens, We forget the disasters and start again. So do I think Yes, I think so. The seeds of the next financial crisis are already planted and they begin to sprout. You can't see it yet, [English spoken audio] There is no doubt about it. that there will be a crisis I can't predict but I know that the engine because bad behaviors are not sanctioned. [English spoken audio] We the citizens, and those who lead us, we didn't remember anything because we never The bankers, themselves, have learned their lesson. And the lesson is: it's nice, it's perfect. There is no uncertainty. I will be fabulously rich and I won't have to Thank you, my God.