- From software to hardware. Today I'm gonna share that I use almost every my personal information, If you are looking to make an upgrade to your own privacy online, I think that you'll find this list A quick note before we begin. None of the companies or or sponsored this in any way. These are legitimately the tools that I use on a daily basis. My goal with All Things with the tips and the tools that you need to secure your accounts So if that's something to subscribe to this channel. Alright, let's begin. By far, the most utilized tool on this I use it every single day. Now, there may come a time when of the login process, and I really think that's a password manager is a who uses the internet. The primary purpose of using First, it helps you create unique and secure passwords, which of us are really bad at doing. Second, it removes that by auto filling those all of your devices. Now, I personally use one password, but I also really love Proton Pass and Bit Warden as alternative options. If you're looking for of my videos before, you already know how I feel about In fact, in the video where I described my I shared this rule that I have. If an account allows for a This two FA key from and I have a backup that something were to happen to this. There is usually some point to plug this key into my computer or tap it on the back of my phone in order to authenticate my login I've moved away from the because of how Google uses of data and connect it Even when you're using still persists. Now, there are a lot of Firefox, DuckDuckGo, I've landed on Brave. It's the one I like and it's my devices for over a year Now. The next two tools are related I still have a Gmail address and I don't see that but I also have a secure email with my accountant, my lawyer, and other people that deal with my most sensitive information. For this, I use Proton Mail, although there are other that you can see here in this video. Now, in addition to secure of email aliases. We are asked to give over our day, and in my experience, for a simple login or marketing purposes. In those cases, I've that I give out for shopping and even coupons. Most secure email providers allow you to create these aliases, but I've also used Simple Login to do it, and that works really well. Both of these work just fine. Speaking of communication, I use multiple messaging I think we all do that based on where we connect with different people. In some cases, it really conversation with somebody on Twitter dm. I'm not necessarily gonna to another platform. Now, I feel pretty comfortable of iMessage to be honest, but in the cases where not device or we simply want of the Apple or Android ecosystem, I use and recommend Signal. Now, there are other great Freema and Session, but enough people already have that the easiest to use, The next three tools are all to mask my personal data. It's kind of like email aliases, but in this case, I'm trying my mobile number, and with a virtual address, and a virtual credit card. While privacy is certainly I'll be honest and tell you that control and access are equally important. I hate dealing with physical mail, so having a virtual address and handled digitally is such a relief for me With credit cards, with fraudulent charges and the hassle of getting I would much rather have merchant can place a time and or money limit. I've talked about that in another video, and of course, the secondary to my SIM card is super helpful. As somebody who lives overseas and needs to get certain where I am also, I just don't like giving out Personally, I use post scan mail for my virtual address and hushed for virtual phone number. Finally, there are two services that I don't necessarily but they're working in and they've become really valuable to me. The first is a service that to find where my personal and then make legal removal request. That's delete me that you've It's effective, and most how much information is floating around that can easily be erased. The second is a credit monitoring service. Now, for most people, I think that setting up a credit to keep you safe, but who have already been the there is value in having external Oh, and I also monitor my kid's credit. You'd be shocked at how and how damaging it can Those are the 12 privacy and security tools that Again, none of these companies but I will have affiliate links like to support what I'm doing here. Also, feel free to leave that I've missed anything.