Fuego is Spanish for Fire, and Renault hoped Fiero, would inflame customers desires in Its unique styling, with black louvred panels it launched. Yet in just 6 years the Fuego disappeared Why did a car that was the number 1 selling production so soon? This is the Renault Fuego Story. (music) Robert Opron worked for many years at Citroen where he designed the SM, the CX and the GS. But with Citroen's 1974 financial collapse looking for a job. He found it working for rival Renault. The company was looking to replace the outgoing, coupes with an updated model, so Robert's its successor. Coupes were selling well, with the Ford Capri the Volkswagen Scirocco and Opel Manta selling Before this, Renault had asked for a design 15 &amp; 17 restyle, but it had been rejected. Renault also considered moving the new car on the Renault 30, but they decided they'd They also felt a larger coupe would step To save money the new car should use existing The chassis and rear suspension came from been based on the Renault 12. However, for a better handling car, it was 20 would be a better choice. This front suspension choice would be so successful 18, making the 18 and the Fuego's underpinnings Renault's new coupe would use several engines The 1.4L would be lifted from the Renault from the Renault 25. But unlike other cars of the time, none of Robert Opron knew great fuel economy comes be no different. But the honour of styling the car fell to Rather than the fashionable square lines of and produced a fantastic rounded, aerodynamic and all their luggage. A 5-door version was investigated, but was It had some wonderful design touches as well. To make it look like it had a lower stance went the length of the car and accentuated a little bit like the 1976 Porsche 924. As the 924 was the "poor-man's Porsche", The interior would be created by Francois It was a simple, clean design that put everything The layout was well received, and like the 18 update. Production of the car, dubbed the Renault Billancourt in France and at Renault's Maubeuge It's a town I'm very familiar with as 1980 onwards, and until I looked into this been produced there! (80's music) After its launch at the Geneva Motor Show, cheaper than the competition sales were strong, underpowered compared to those same cars. With no fuel injection the 1.4L base model - produced just 65hp (48 kW). Like the 1.3L Ford Capri, such an insipid looks promised so much. The most powerful engine at launch was the would arrive the following year. By 1982 a 2.1L turbo diesel would also be Diesel was a popular fuel in France, and the from rapeseed oil. The 2.1L engine was relatively large, as could addition of a turbo it was, Renault claimed, speed of 110mph (177 km/h). Unfortunately, these never made it to the Renault had been selling cars in North America a renewed push in the 1950s as cash-strapped, With the help of AMC - the American Motor to have some success in the 1970s with fuel "Le Car". So, it was with renewed vigour that Renault They hoped the combination of good looks, low running costs would win the day. It did find some success, particularly in winters proved too much for the car's rustproofing North America wouldn't be the only export UK versions of the Fuego made it to New Zealand With Renault's selling well in Argentina, Renault investigated a convertible version shown to the public in 1982. This was always intended for the North American idea was dropped, and the Renault 11 convertible With Renault competing in Formula 1 at the them to help promote the car. However, although the car was entered into any notable wins until late in its life when Competicion 2000 in Argentina 8 times. Renault's 1983 update included small styling It also received a revised dashboard, but It got remote keyless entry - and supposedly have this feature. Another first would be steering wheel mounted But the best part of the 1983 update was the car some acceleration. The 1.6L 132hp (98 kw) engine could get to 60 and there were hopes it could compete with Like many cars of the time, Renault shouted graphics down the side, and in front of the thrown around by the driver. The car got some premium features to help control, air conditioning and a trip computer. One nice detail was the leather seats with Sales had started well in 1980, but the update The Fuego had been the best-selling coupe was on the market. But with poor reliability reports in North rapidly, sales dropped. Coupes were the fashion fad of the 1970s, were hot hatches like the Peugeot 205 or Golf Renault didn't have anything to fill this Production of the Fuego ended in France in Although production had ended in Europe, production popular, going toe-to-toe with the Ford Sierra Production continued for longer than Renault So long in fact that Renault updated the model steering wheel, seats and a third brake light Production of the Fuego finally ended in 1992. Although a Fuego II was planned with a style less than stellar, and Renault's finances the mid-80's, any direct replacement was Customers would have to make do with a Renault version of the Renault Megane arrived in The Fuego was a fashionable car, but it was By 1980 the world was buying smaller fuel It would be several years before Renault could Clio that would bring the company more success. A big thank you to all my Patrons To get early advert-free access to new videos, supporting me using the Patreon link below button to get notified of new videos. Thanks for