It's a constant hubbub. All day, Kolkata city center To unclog it, the mayor They were quickly replaced legs, tricycles, men, But at what cost ? Come on, come on, move on! In Calcutta, men The biggest loads the horsemen. We pull four tons there. There are four tons Between the horsemen It's up to whoever goes first. Calcutta counts The third most which reflects the state of the country. In the midst of an economic boom, All kinds of small crafts Cane juice presser, most surprisingly: In the countryside, These teenagers play the balancing act We attack between three Come on ! Pick up! Erase your fears an art that can be taught They are cobra hunters. For us the cobra is sacred. In Calcutta, the only way to transport is to call They are a few thousand Here, take the order form and there will also be this one to do. OK ? Taj runs a small business He does not yet have the means so he rents it for EUR1 a day. It's me who am Especially in the event of an accident. When it happens, I have to take care But also goods, carts. Go on ! Push, push! The men are piling up on their wagon people, screws, In all, four tons of goods. Come on, let's get up, get up, get up. Come on guys, Three men shoot in front. Two grow from the back. They have six kilometers to go where the trucks park. Come on, let's move on. Advance, advance. Come on, shoot! Once the convoy launched, Taj, their boss Come on, double! Come on ! My job is to manage people Avoid creating I talk to people, I do We are in a hurry. The cart is launched and Come on guys ! Go ahead, advance my brother, Go ahead too. Is it harder in front or behind? It's much harder Stop! It's exhausting, I'm exhausted. It requires such physical effort, And sometimes we get hurt. We hurt our legs. Yes, the goods The hardest is to retain the four tons Slowly slowly. Careful, hold it. Gently. There are four kilometers left. How much do you make We usually do two. Horsemen deserve They walked This is where we deliver the goods and what This is how it works. Trucks cannot enter All these men are from Bihar, one of the regions Take one each. Take it, it is for you. When one of them he is immediately replaced Like Bindeshwar. This 39-year-old farmer could no longer I am extremely poor I do not have a choice, I looked for something else So I started My life now At least, It's a really hard job, Bindeshwar wins 30EUR more than In the countryside, this salary, Yet they take In Samsi, a hundred families a lot of cold blood. men are hunters Wait, look. Look, like this. You saw ? Just go, Ali, the hunter teaches the last of his So it goes I already used my son That way he can do The cobra's venom That of the king cobra is so poisonous only one bite There's no otherwise I wouldn't put it I know exactly And he attacks There, the cobra is calm. He takes the sun. My son is calm too, he is learning. It gives him courage Six years ago, Ali and the villagers were winning They sold venom The whole community but the state took over and forbidden to capture, In a corner of the village, See those cages? All that is over. Our profession is dead. We, the charmers, We don't even have permission when we know how to make it. And that's how we lived. Every time I see these empty cages, They ruined everything. If the police arrest him with snakes, even jail. Hey little one, Be careful, it's hot. But with six mouths to feed, he has long braved This food on our plates, it's thanks to the shows There aren't many already. And if I stop I don't know how to do anything else And if we can no longer exercise go beg or take Ali and the men of the village keep chasing They are about ten men When your father goes hunting, No, afraid of what? Afraid that it will happen Impossible, it's the best. Gentlemen, our destiny Hope the hunt is good. I hope you don't have a belly In the rice fields the harvest is in full swing. Rodents swarm there, Cobras hunt rats There are traces, where the cobra goes, You see it perfectly here. The trace is fresh, that means it Without it, impossible This land is hard Ali leads the hunt. He only intervenes The men have been exhausting themselves for 40 minutes, But Ali knows He went over there The hunt is gone Look at her. There's no There's a snake there, that's for sure. Look, there he is. Push yourself, push yourself! Step back, step back! Watch out, he's going to attack! But no, don't worry. Let him go, It's not a cobra, Leave it, leave it. This type of snake does not look during the shows. It's not like a cobra Come on, let's dig. Time is against them. Late morning, The cobras will then sink For Ali and his men, Next to Dhanbad it's a western The stagecoaches took And the thugs, They covet the load It's not gold but a much more ore Stop ! Stop ! Come on, let's do this one. His first truck attack, Bablu made it with In his family, one is a thief At 18, it's now Come on help me, let's pick it up! Come and help me. In general, we are between No more than that ? If there are days, We drop If the truck is loaded to the brim, In the band, The climbers loot the cargo. Come on, come on, pick it up! The less agile Like eight-year-old Sajan And their uncle, Indra. Young people drop the coal, Before, I rode on trucks, Me, I take care Out of pity, Others don't even slow down. The other day, What happened ? A truck was launched at full speed. He tried to climb on it Slow down, slow down, stop! There are many accidents. You do not know Today, for example, You know, at the slightest mistake I often scare myself, but I don't have Some days, In two hours, petty thieves have Bablu decides The only way to recover is to put Give him some money! I give him 2EUR, okay? Hey wait, Go for it ! Go again! You don't move! Hey you, you don't start! It's good, it's good, Come on, let's continue! The band must evacuate It's late morning, the time at which pass Come on, pick it all up, quick! That's a really nice catch, you know? As we bribed the driver, Now we go And start burning it. The Column of the Black Mouths One kilometer walk with 50 Now let's sort But these are very large pieces. In its raw state, this ore is of interest only To make you have to burn it hundreds of families Gradually, My dream was to study But since I come from a family my dad used to do He couldn't pay for my studies Since my childhood, I didn't know anything other than This village is not listed He doesn't even have a name. Officially, it does not exist. It was built over time More than 1,500 people live here. In earthen houses. Only Bablu's family, lives in a brick house. Me, I was born here. I was born in this house. All her wardrobe The rest of his life I would like to have a big house so that the whole family That my brothers and sisters That my wife and I, We don't even have a bed, I dream of having a television But it's impossible, I have nothing Theft and sale of coal to feed But the price to pay is heavy. The transformation Also in Calcutta, In the shopping district, If we loaded the goods the day before, It could be stolen from us. It represents that would have to be reimbursed to traders. It is also And it's very painful. Look around you. We sleep on the ground Anyway, none of us Early morning, that some Like Bindeshwar. Solidarity, As long as I have the strength The day when I can't take it anymore, My dream would be to buy but it is very expensive. This is my dream: Bindeshwar's fatigue caused loss It's already half past eight. Come on, hurry up, And they are banned from driving It creates too many problems Here we go, we're moving forward! Come on, move away! But what the hell are they doing? Before, there was a lot more But gradually, the authorities when they regulated traffic. It's a big city here, it shouldn't exist anymore The world is changing everywhere and we Hey guys, there are too many traffic jams You're the one who's screwing up! You're blocking everyone! But why do you Hated by taxi drivers, they are also ideal prey Especially when they Sometimes they even want We are then obliged You pay Of course we pay Move on, good god! Usually their day But that night, the men No question of leaving late We finish loading it. Like this we take and then we will go Recipe of the day evenly between the five men. Even Taj, the boss does Take it, it is for you. Today, I won 7EUR. This is not bad. And I send Most of these men are one It's been a month I have already managed to send It's not simple. Sometimes I earn EUR2 a day, The hardest part is when because there is no When I win nothing Me, it's been ten years Before, I pulled the cart too, I take care This job is slowly killing me. In the evening, I am broken. Besides my family This life does not make me happy, The horse men They reflect the image of a society tries to erase in the eyes of the world. The furnace has gone down It is now 35 degrees. Ali and his men And still no cobras. Dig it, guys. There are two galleries, look. Yes, I see one going to the right There's a cobra in there, that's for sure. But you'll have to dig hard. That's it, I see it. The sun wears them down, but he is a valuable ally when It is rolled up. Come on guys, dig some more! Like that, it's good. In my presence, They will move away It's up to me to face the danger. Look how he whistles! He is very upset. Remove your hand ! Ali is facing a big buck The Indians call it Naja, because of the drawing on his back. Get away, Held by the tail, the Naja does not have Out of respect for the animal, You like to dance, don't you? Come on, dance for me. It's dangerous a cobra, Once captured, I consider it and I treat it as such. I play with him Stay straight. Like that. In the countryside, the cobras do However, the peasants Quite the contrary. In India, they worship him as a God. The cobra is the guardian It is a symbol of life and fertility. They have another one! Luck smiles on them. This one was crossing If bitten, the cobra's venom men like There is an antidote, it's way too expensive. Ali, in his own way, In the event of a bite, When a hunter is bitten, and I open with a razor blade I extract the venom It stops right away India has twenty It is called rat snake. We use it in shows. Hold it tight, hold it tight! According to Ali, the venom of this snake is Even with four hands, It's a good day. It's the fourth we catch. There are days, no matter how much we turn the earth, We will be able to God brought us luck. Out of solidarity, the four serpents will be given Tomorrow, Cobras and rat snakes, After dark, the Kusunda mine Each fire designates a family. Like Bablu's. All process raw coal Be careful guys, Don't worry, we're used to it. When the coal is completely burned, it will pass from the raw state You have to cover it gradually In a few hours it will be ready Bablu burns its coal He spends whole nights Over time, they attack We often fall ill, As I've been doing this for years, it is certain that my health He will stay The ? I would say 400 kg. No, there will be approximately 250 kilos. Shortly before dawn, Bablu came home Far from the fires, it barely makes The night was short and freezing. I ache all over. I'm exhausted, but it takes It's still too hot. You will have to leave it They will bring me my bike Did you see how it reduced? And if there are too big pieces left, It's hard work, but hey, at least we will win We'll at least fill five bags. Fully filled. That'll make us 250 kilos in all. They have five kilometers to go nicknamed the capital of coal. To the extent that Watch out, there's the police. In the eyes of the police, Bablu is not He rarely goes to jail, That day, They've been pushing for an hour already We do this many times I hurt all over, But hey, we have to keep going. Bablu's biggest customer is a He buys her almost all I'm selling it for EUR2 a bag. It's my favorite time If one day I have children, I would not like I wish I could Difficult to imagine the descendants For three generations, all the men in the family From the first rays of the sun, snake charmers The animal is cold-blooded. Without this heat, Joy is in every house. In few hours, My grandson will also catch He will become a charmer He too will make you dance As my grandfather learned I would teach him our art. Our life as an artist is not without risk, I know a lot of charmers We have to Catch it, show it, In some months, It will sound the big departure. The snake charmers will go play Ali will head to Nepal In these other countries, The rest of the year, the mountebanks give in the surrounding villages. Come closer, come closer, This is not a joke, Some like that, Come on, clap, clap! And you can Come on, get out of there! Slowly slowly. Wait, wait, calm down. Go attack. How you gonna do Come on, try again. Be generous, Go give, give! Rupees, rice and Look, Come on, get out of your box a bit. Straighten up ! Here is one of the worst It's called the King Cobra. If he bites you, Instantly. And now, I will open all the boxes Thank you friend, he gives me Come on again! Look, another 10 rupees. Come on, who else? 800,000 families live A ten-century-old tradition tries to make it disappear That day, Ali won EUR6 What to feed his family