Greetings friends. Is it safe to buy gold here in Dubai? And is it any cheaper? We're going to find all that out today because we're here to buy some gold for my mother-in-law. Now, there's a few things you need to know. First off, the best place to buy gold here in Dubai, is at the gold souk or the gold and diamond park. And secondly, you need a certificate of authentication, and you need to make sure the gold is hallmarked. But what is Hallmarking? Hallmarking is a stamp on the jewellery stating its purity. But why would I trust just the stamp? That don't prove diddly squat to me. So in this video I will show you how to get your gold checked at a lab too. But first, let's see what's available at the gold souk (market), hear about scams, see if there's any benefits of buying gold in Dubai and of course, is gold actually cheaper there? And my first tip is simply don't trust the hustlers that you can see on the left and the right sides behind me. Do not go down the alleyways with them. Mostly they're selling counterfeit goods. So if they're selling counterfeit goods and they're also trying to sell you silver and gold, can you really trust them? And I know from my experience in India, especially in Chandni Chowk, that these agents, whenever they take you to a shop, they charge a commission from the shop owner, and it comes out from your pocket. So how is gold priced in Dubai? There's three components. There's a gold price which is displayed in store, then there's 5% tax, which I will show you how to get back at the airport and finally, this is the secret to saving money, there's a making charge for the designs. It's anywhere from zero to a whopping 50%. Keep watching because I did find a 0% making fee mall. Babe, so basically where you can save money is in the making fees. You've got to bargain hard on those making fees and get them down as low as possible. Now, there's two benefits of shopping here in Dubai. The first benefit, you have a massive, massive array of different designs here. It's incredible, right? Like, there's hundreds of stores here right. It's a good thing and a bad thing because you don't know where to go and what to choose because of so many designs here and so many shops, you have no clue. Like I'm clueless. That's exactly our next challenge. Okay. And then the other second good thing is there's less scams here because they have a body which certifies all the gold here in Dubai. All right. So now that we know all that we need to find a shop, we need to buy something. So how do you think we're going to attack this? Because like I said there's hundreds of shops here, an incredible variety. Let's do it the desi way. Go to a few shops, find out their making charges and how they're charging and then we'll decide where to buy. Yeah, that's good advice. Let's, let's shop around. Don't just go to the first shop you see. we can find a shop with some real Desi designs that that your mum might actually really like right. Yeah. Yeah. Do you like this one. Yeah, I like this one too. I was thinking I'll take one? And you can take one. Okay, cool. It looks nice. Cute right? Oh yeah, your mum will like this one. Turn this way, so I can. Yeah, that's right. Is this your store? Yes. Started by my father in the 1980s. And you're a subscriber of the channel? Yes, I am. - Yeah, he knows me. He came out to me just before as we were shopping in his shop here. And bro, so just tell us how safe is it to buy gold here in Dubai? So Dubai in general, I'm not even going to talk about my shop. But anywhere you buy gold in Dubai, it's very safe because the laws are very strict here. So basically, they do a random check, every month. The government comes in, they pick up a few items of jewellery, they take it to the lab and they give us the results. If there is any difference in the purity of the gold, I know that they will probably seal the shop or.. You'll get in trouble if you're selling bad gold. Because they want to protect the reputation of this place. It's a great place to buy gold, right? - Exactly right. And you were just telling me there's a laboratory nearby that we can go and actually test out gold there. - Right. We're going to do that. We're going to buy something in this market and we're going to go test it. Perfect, so this little certificate here this is how you get your tax back at the at the Dubai airport. There's a counter there for this and you'll get about you won't get the 5% back. You get like 85% of the 5% back, whatever that is. There's some service fee that the 15% takes up. Okay, so always keep your receipts here and get all the tax back from all your purchases here in Dubai except online purchases. As it doesn't include like Amazon, UAE or whatever. It's only for stuff that you buy in shops here. So in one of these shops back there, we met a guy who's Karl's subscriber. Thank you, Mayur. Thank you Mayur from Gujarat. And Mayur told us that near gate number three, when you take a left, there is a gold centre building which has shops, and those shops do not charge any making charges. Yeah. So let's check out the gold centre. There we'll get the best bang for our buck, right. - Yeah. So we're in a shop with zero making fees right now. And I asked how can they make any money if they don't charge a making fee? But there is a tiny, tiny amount of profit for them in the gold price. So these guys operate on selling volume, volume of gold. So we might actually buy something here. And then let's go to the laboratory and get a test to see if it's real. And just chat with the people in the shop, get to know them. You'll often see one of the family members in the shops because this is just like India. You'll have one person from the family watching the money, you know? Yep, that's what we found. A lot of the owner's sons are here. We just met a young Indian fellow and he was inside one of these gold shops and what he does, don't do this. Don't do this. To pay for his trip back to India, he buys a bar of 24 karat gold, a big bar, more than he's allowed to carry into India. Then he sells it when he gets to India and he keeps the profit and that profit pays for his flight back home. So yeah, if you buy gold bars, there's obviously no making fee. You're just paying the gold rate plus tax, but you're getting some of that tax back at the airport and it's enough profit that it can pay for his flight back to India. As long as he smuggles it, he's taking way over the allowed limit okay. Don't do this, don't do this. It's not worth getting caught as a smuggler. And if you're going back to India like we are, males can take 20 grams of gold up to a value of Rs50,000 back and women can take 40 grams worth one lakh rupees. I had to come back a day later because it wasn't easy to find a lab that tests gold for consumers. And I would suggest that the gold souks set up a free testing station to give consumers 100% certainty in their purchases and also use the findings to prosecute scammers. All right. I've got to the bottom of this. Some laboratories like ARY they will test for the public and they will do that laser test. It's called an XRF test. It's 20 dirhams and it will give you an approximate rating of the purity of your gold. They won't melt it down, they won't wreck it, they'll put it in that machine and a laser will you know, give you a rough reading. So yeah, it is possible. You just got to find these labs. They're just so hard to find. They're always down these little alleyways. And good news. My gold was found to be 22 carat as advertised. Now, is buying gold in Dubai actually cheaper? Well, it's debateable. You will roughly save 10 to 20% because the gold rate is cheaper and is 85% tax free in Dubai. But make sure you get the making fees down or else it could end up being more expensive than India because India has cheaper making fees than Dubai. If you're just buying gold bars, it's a no brainer. It is cheaper and that's why they're smuggled. Now, let's get back to India and let's give this gold to my mother-in-law, see how she likes it. We're back at home in Delhi now. We're going to give my mother-in-law the gold now. But right now she's just she's always treated me like a son, actually. So right now she's making my favourite dish because we've just come back from Dubai.