The Sam and Rose Stein is committed to advancing lifelong health and well professional training, and community service. As a nonprofit organization at the University of California San Diego School of Medicine, our research and educational are made possible by the It is our vision that will be an achievable To learn more, please visit our website at aging.ucsd.edu. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm thrilled to I'm going to be talking about healthy longevity They say that the keys to a long life are exercise, lots of sleep, or as my patients will three things I plan I want to begin by talking Irving Saxe, he was really He was born in 1915, and he grew up during He was an older dad, he was in his mid 40s when I was born, and if he were alive today, he'd be approaching He went to law school on and he completed it just He was immediately pulled into counter intelligence training He trained in German that quite fascinating and he entered the German theater While he was there, concentration camps that had just been recently liberated, saw walking scarecrows He stayed on in Germany during the occupation and he became a Nazi hunter. He was the co-director of denazification in the He became an assistant the Nuremberg Trials he came back to the States and started our Then some years passed, and I was always at his knee, learning about these things, learning how much it impacted him and his He was dedicated to me, he was my protector and This is a picture of the old Johns Hopkins where I grew up and It was where my dad 1981 with an unusual type, a fairly rare type of We were told by Patrick Walsh, the chair of urology that my dad's prognosis, this is after surgical the prognosis was in months. He probably wouldn't survive &quot;Well, I did have survived for almost But that wasn't this was my dad, my protector, and I was not going to I went down to the several stories underground and I immersed myself looking on the old This is beginning of the had personal computers I was searching for find on cancer in general, my dad's specific type, anything that could I was searching for attributes of long term cancer survivors. Was there something we could help or causes of My dad was not a candidate and at this point, I It was in this context that Anthony Sattilaro, Doctor Sattilaro an anesthesiologist, of Methodist Hospital I came across this I believe it was on the copied on the microfilm, where it described dying of widespread It had spread sternum, to the ribs, He had already had and surgical castration, and he had already exhausted all available treatments, By chance, he happened got introduced to and adopted a whole food plant based diet, a fairly strict one the teachings of classical He started taking meals with a local community of folks Within a few weeks of starting he noticed that the pain he had been having round the clock, for which he had been constantly had gone Several months later, he was losing weight, Cachexic and he and his health had turned He then went back and they found that had disappeared from his The only thing left were areas where space occupying Doctor Sattilaro's story in Saturday Evening later in the books, Recalled By Life, Living Well naturally. With my dad's blessing, Sattilaro had his this is the beginning I was just out of Johns Hopkins from his cancer surgery. With his blessing, he said, &quot;I want you to go an upcoming conference and Find out what you can.&quot; I did and when I went there, I encountered a not just doctor Sattilaro with similar incredible I changed my own and I came back my observations with my parents. They were understandably but I urged them and with my support, they Half measures at first, at the five year mark, my dad was still Now, at that point, Johns Hopkins' with that particular But it was also at that he experienced a relapse, an overt relapse of what He didn't have good treatment to really go full bore and and he did it by the book for At the end of that time, had a repeat biopsy, and they discovered that There was no sign of the cancer by several different measures, including biopsy and he experienced a spontaneous Not a cure, but a remission he lived for about far outliving his prognosis. Most of that time, he had a he traveled, he spent He attended senior lectures at places OSHA didn't exist then, but places like that at the He had this pesky nuisance this cancer that he had to deal with follow ups Toward the very end, his health declined, it was mainly confined to the last few months of his life. When he did die, he did in the last few he was in the hospital. During that time, he called to his hospital his brother and his Each one he gathered over, and he said, &quot;Listen, I know I'm going.&quot; He said, &quot;But I want to and I want you and &quot;I want you to deliver not just any eulogy. I want one filled with wit, with humor and with lies.&quot; That was my dad. Before he died, he had my own training and most of my career my training in early then in public health, epidemiology and and later in medicine. In that process, I studied the leading causes of death and the literature on two of the heart disease and cancer. I conducted my own research, several different cancers of the pancreas, I also in the process learned about the those who lived before the but who had great understanding of health and its determinants. I studied a good bit also This chart shows us, as you can see, those two The darker one is heart disease, the lighter one is more than half of all deaths Let's take a little deeper Heart disease is thought to be very much a nutritional disease. Other lifestyle factors The antidote in some ways, I see as a whole food one high in unprocessed wholesome and doesn't mean it has to be vegetarian but is based in plant This type of diet has been shown to improve lipid profiles, to optimize blood the best markers we have A1c, to decrease inflammation, to enhance the functioning of the endothelial cells that and to decrease the overall Adoption of this type to arrest or reverse existing within a few weeks to increase cardiac perfusion, to decrease the risk and other coronary events, and to serve as a low coronary bypass and This is an example. It comes from the practice a surgeon from the It's one of his a very intensive whole food The side of the slide to the left anterior descending, the most prominent of the most important When people have a heart it's often referred You can see, just it's obvious that the patient very closed up LAD with poor blood flow when After 32 months of the vessel had returned to almost complete normal patency. There are a number of who have had these results trials by Dean Ornish that show the reversibility Not 100%, but it's contingent on how dedicated You've probably But many years ago, he had had bypass for the bypass graphs fail and he knew he didn't He turned to Dr. Ornish and completely He's alive and as I understand, relatively well to this day and I think it made a huge difference for Now, up until the time I had the idea that especially cancer, us out of the blue the damage from a bolt out Yet, after my dad's experience, when I looked at there's huge, inexplicable, differences in different Here's a chart that shows us the differences Sweden, and the United States. You see the rate of invasive prostate cancer the time this was done was over 100 times higher In rural China, that's Most of the large cities their diet and their gone up or their prostate But at this time, when this was done, it was Not explained by PSA testing because these data screening tests by age differences, Something is different Based on that and the I undertook two one when I was in other here in my These data in this graph show the experience of patients in the second In that study, we prostate cancer that had They had already had surgical which should have been zero, if the prostate had been removed and the cancer there should have been Their PSA rates were We looked at their PSA rates, which is a rough spread of the cancer in and then we enrolled them in a strict diet and lifestyle a whole food plant based I taught them classes meditation and we had We really got them to change. You see each pair of bars is the light blue then the maroon You can see in almost except for maybe one, the PSA rate went down and in several meaning suspected shrinkage of the volume of I also wanted to share a little bit about during this time about the Many societies around the world had philosophies and developed approaches to care aren't well and to promote But perhaps the detailed of these was that which was found in Many of the core principles of traditional Chinese medicine, some would say classical Chinese the treatise called the Yellow Emperor's Classic of Medicine. This book was written over 2000 years ago during was a font of information for traditional the practice to this day. It consists of a series the Yellow Emperor and where they discuss all attributes One core principle that is that health expressed in that book as a dynamic state of balance and it's between a person and the As the outer we change inside to stay well, we don't get thrown off balance. It's also a balance between all the different our mind, our A more recent discussion of this was written by about a little where he made it comprehensible to those He described ancient Taoist again, to promote Chang Ming means long life. Longevity, he said, He said, &quot;Don't be fooled The latest and greatest He said, &quot;Long life and good living in harmony with in balance with the it's a dynamic state the ever changing and opposing Again, Chang Ming unprocessed, mostly plant based foods, engaging in mindful, moderate exercise movement, aiming to achieve a balance fostering inner cultivating the life When we turn now what it tells us about aging, while many diseases have heart disease, Aging has effects, as appreciate on many the body on the decrease in the density and increased brittleness, decreased muscle strength, size, tone, increased and decreased tolerance less flexible joints, more stooped posture, loss of height as the spine shortens. On the immune system, a slower response against pathogens like an increased risk of decreased effectiveness slower rate of an increased risk of and an increased risk of cancer. On the brain and this is an area many people are there's decreased blood flow actually shrinks with each There's a loss of brain cells, decreased production of increased production in which is a protein implicated a decline of attention, multitasking, short term I have that sometimes myself. Yet, interestingly, a possible flourishing ability to see and disparately between things that maybe you had learned before, but now you see their increased emotional and wisdom. Interesting. Now, the science of aging. What can be done to Well, there are a lot of Johnny Come latelys green We read about these as Yet, of all the things studied, perhaps the one that demonstrated is Something that occurs adopt a whole food A properly balanced one will reduce your caloric Caloric restriction is the singular most effective At least in animals, it increases the lifespan Decreased of reduction in Slows and may reverse cancer Demonstrated in a variety of species from worms to rodents, dogs, and possibly, although the data is not fully If it applies in good chance it Here is something that of caloric restriction You can see that with a small amount of restriction survival goes up by significant, modest but significant with more profound caloric Something that if perhaps could add Other evidence-based scientifically, healthy We need a balance of aerobic, weight bearing, balance, Avoiding smoking. Limiting alcohol, reducing stress, keeping Everybody here today. Good work. Fostering social connection. This is also echoed in the work of Dan Buettner in places that are believed healthy populations One in Lomainda Common characteristics living in the blue zones. Minimizing stress. They don't even think about, it's just how they live. They have calm, easy lives. They don't think about just moving regularly They don't think about They have a clear already and their families Their diet, they don't spend a lot of time but they mostly eat Some of my takeaways, the emerging keys to Our genes are not our destiny. Many people think that have a fatalistic attitude it runs in my family or there's nothing I can do. I disagree. Now, Western many of the causes perinatal mortality, Most people, today, die heart disease, cancer, Yet, most chronic diseases are the long-term result of what They're largely preventable. Now, that's easy to say if I and I had made the But what if you're Well, I would say it's not too A healthy diet and lifestyle, even if you adopt even if you adopt it after Like the men who had it may help to prevent, to slow, arrest or reverse many diseases. I would also point out that another predisposition some condition later in life. These pre-dispositions do with genetic inheritance, something we were exposed to prior earlier physical We all accumulate these dings, these issues as we But while they may make they don't often guarantee full blown disease just because you have There needs to be a co-factor. That pre-disposition can but the water still needs to be poured on it to grow a disease. That water, I would submit, comes in the form of a poor diet and an Sometimes, if we even after it started to once it'll stop growing The potential for healing, I would think exists It's not a guarantee, but there's nothing to lose. Now, another important key I think is to think about health span rather I'm sure it's no is a multibillion It tends to feed on the disease or of not living But instead of fixating on diseases or how long we'll live, I think that our living healthfully and happily. Some years ago, 1987, a pair of gerontologists, Rowe and Kahn coined They proposed that maintain wellness for as long as possible and as close to the end of They said that if we do this, we're more likely to remain disease and disability a great quality of life and to increase our lifespan One of our final goals, and I learned this a bit One of our final goals should We're all going to die of Maybe we'll be a natural death, but most people have something. But our hope is that occupies a very short the very end of life well and healthfully up until When our time comes, the goal is to experience a peaceful death Now, one last thing and that is what Because that's a really key important cornerstone, I think, of healthful aging and something that I've been I think a healthy diet Call them the five pillars It should be based on whole, not refined or processed food. It should be mostly plant-based. Again, it doesn't require being a strict vegan or vegetarian, but most of our It should be locally grown. It should be in season. Now, these aren't Sometimes it's hard to find but as much as possible, and it should be balanced. Not just nutritionally balanced, but also aesthetically balanced. A variety of colors and cooking methods that are Also, we want our plant-based to emphasize these; whole intact kernel whole Grains have been much maligned because they're which they don't Some do, but many don't, or because they're confused Whole grains are the opposite and they're quite nourishing. Vegetables a wide variety with an emphasis on dark green which are excellent for Beans and legumes, fruit, seeds, nuts, secondary food groups, If you're eating food aim for cold water, wild small fish, for pasture Not for commercial feed lot, things that are or things that will get into us. We also want to have Things like seaweed Seaweed, for example, contains every the human body because it's and we evolved out of the ocean, and our biochemistry links to the mineral balance Seaweed is a wonderful We want to have fermented foods. Not so much probiotic but probiotic foods that are going to give us microbes to help diversify our gut microbiome to inoculate The other plant foods The nourishment for microbes. This is the way to grow a We want to also have You may be putting and saying, well, okay, brilliant, cold porridge But actually, it doesn't A whole food plant-based cuisine is diverse and beautiful, appealing to the eyes, to the palate, very satisfying. Here are just a few examples and teach how to cook in Congee, which is an made of slow cooked I have congee every Kidney beans stew. Curried vegetable medley. A side of a seaweed, How about a berry without the moe in it? One of my favorites, dedicated to Caldwell Esselstyn, the surgeon from the Cleveland Because he emphasizes every day his heart disease patients having servings of dark We teach a lot of these This is a shameless integrative nutrition That's my colleague She and I co-run this program. If anybody's interested here's some of our contact info for the Centers for for the Krupp Center for named after Dick Krupp, who endowed us Ms. Leslie Sebastian, today and yours truly. Anyway, thank you very much. I appreciate your time. Thank you so much, Dr. Sachs. Really appreciate to go ahead and introduce Doctor Lim is the of the McDougall program, a virtual nutrition and lifestyle wellness countless individuals radically improve their A little fun fact about Dr. Lim is that his talk the benefits of a of the most viewed programs with a combined total of almost He is a local celebrity. Good afternoon, everyone. It's a real privilege I'm very excited to A friend made this saying the other told me this and it really applies. He said, you're like a Working with Dr. Sachs we've been getting really relating to each It's been fun. As Dr. Sachs alluded to, a lot of chronic 80 to 90% is largely yet we still have in our society in our Clearly, there is a gap. I'm now in my tenth year as medical director of Ever since COVID, we run online programs that are people from around the world like Dr. Sachs just presented, I use the word into transformation to me, implies something It's not just a that then people relapse. It's deeper than that. But here's the issue, is that in my tenth year now, this is what I've the challenge of Anyone know who this is? Sisyphus? In Greek mythology, Sisyphus for his he was damned by the gods to an eternal fate of rolling this large boulder up Just when he thinks success and has finally made some headway down and he's starting back at ground zero and has a I've had a lot of these great epiphanies, Yes, I want to do it. Yes, I'm going to Yes, I'm going to change and they make some But then, like this experience of the boulder rolling back down the hill, and sometimes they don't even feel like they're They feel like they've They're higher than first started at when they It's really gotten me fascinated Now, many of you have areas that are not that you do autopilot without thinking that may and this is the case for me. Movement is not This is a snapshot of my Fitbit that my brother Jonathan, he's here in the This shows my activity. It's one week old. This my 44 miles 89,000 steps. My sleep could use some The picture on the me from 3-4 weeks ago, there is a six-mile The day before I thought I've been getting Let's go ahead and sign up. You tell me to go run 6, 10, 12 miles. I'm there. It's autopilot. It's built into my routine, my schedule. It comes easy. Similarly, a whole this is the crux of the have been addressing heart disease and diabetes and high blood pressure and In fact, today is a 12-day program that After today's talk, I'm Zoom with 40 participants mostly US, but we We have someone from Argentina, and they have had just even just over these 12 days, eating a whole food just like Dr. Sachs described. This is routine for me. Going to a grocery store and buying my items to last cooking up huge making large salads for lunch. This is an example when you're eating a whole I oftentimes will steamed greens or But here's the thing. On the outside, people so behavioral change You're eating well. You're at a healthy weight. You're super active. But what really intrigues me is this definition of health It's from the World Health It says health is a and I underline complete physical, well-being and not merely the absence of Because so often any intervention program I want to get on or I want to get down They're focused on concrete and they're missing this invitation to health as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. When I look at health in then I think of all everything that I can These are just a few that I see in my own life and I see in the lives of my patients. Certainly nutrition physical activity, and are we moving our As Dr. Sachs said, are we incorporating Are we incorporating Are we making sure Stress reduction is I think that in our very it is so easy for us to get distracted and to be We're in the past, We're everywhere Stress reduction and having a major lifestyle intervention In fact, one of the lectures I give at the McDougall program is on emotional eating absolutely one of our of coping with stress and The influence of our surroundings, whether it's inviting, whether getting good work done, meaningful connection One of the challenges in our distracted culture is We saw this especially come out, of course, during COVID. A sense of purpose and meaning. Dr. Sachs referred One of the core pillars these areas around a high percentage of people was this concept of Ikigai in Japanese or why I my sense of purpose and meaning. What Dan Buettner, and writer of the book is that those one critical thing in common is they all had a deep Spirituality, out of the 263 centenarians that Dan Buettner interviewed, 259 of them had some sense of something Now, for me, I'm Christian. That's my spiritual background. I know for me that is absolutely Avoidance of the obvious ones that smoking, alcohol, drug use. But I get people to I tell them to their relationship Social media. What's their relationship Again, Dr. Sachs mentioned In Christian tradition, we have this notion Oftentimes we're You can take any good thing, and if the relationship that can become an Then last sleep and just that There's so many studies sleep to our physical health, I invite patients the program to look at health much more than just their weight and much more than just When I look at my own I may be eating healthy but there are my This is one of my I took this picture yesterday. This is just to the left of It's at home in my study. This is my nerve center for My whole practice is I just put it all to the side. You can't really appreciate, but there's a box That's because I can't stack anymore on the table next to me. Then, what you if I look diagonally to my right in my study, I wish I could tell due to some stressful but this has been my life. I have so many project It is mind boggling. That's not the only one. This was taken at just over an hour ago. It was like deja vu. See, I had the honor last year's talk as I was working on slides in the car on the way to the I made a resolution, like, Let me not repeat Let me learn from it. Yet here I am at 12:05 with my parents driving us over here. I relate to Sisyphus, and the quote that really captures it for As I mentioned, I'm Christian. This quote, let me set the who is one of the most important He's arguably written This comes from &quot;For I do not understand for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from Thanks be to God through Romans 7:15, 24 and 25. This is the predicament. I empathize and I relate on a deep level with my patients, with my fellow human being. I've come to realize that it humanity that everyone I know, they may not show but there is something In fact, they may not but there is something. What do we do with that? Well, I have over the years presented at a talk There was just one like a back of the drawing a simple framework that has really just Every program for the I've shared this, and that's what I wanted to It is really based on There's not going to but I think people have just appreciated the simplicity of it and the applicability of it. It's four steps, and the very first this place of lack of This is arguably the of the entire behavioral If you think many of you have alcoholics anonymous, Admit that you have a problem. Admit that you have a problem. We admitted we were alcohol that our lives Just think for a moment about the power of My most difficult do not see that the The problem is out there, the problem is my spouse, the problem is my kids the problem is my work. They're looking Awareness is just an without which you will not, in my mind, be able to make progress in a long term, You can't fix what you The beauty of this is that It is a skill. It is a but it begins simply I have patients literally their day and notice those those times that they those times that they feel tension and notice Without fail over a just honest noticing I usually share my own struggles because that helps them feel Here's what I'm grappling with. Then starting to of these patterns of behavior, these habits that they've done blindly or unconsciously Sometimes it helps to look back and identify What was the antecedent them feeling sad The beauty of awareness is that it improves intentionality. Even without committing to do anything about it, as Victor Frankel says, response, there is a space, and in that space is Simply by observing, sometimes it helps people to gives them a greater sense of empowerment and an a rational choice that is based on their The thing I emphasize here it's not a destination. It's not like you're aware, you're not aware. I come to appreciate and I have committed my life to just continuing to Every day, I'm seeing things before that I'm now becoming A huge teacher for that, by the way, is nature. You go out in nature, just being distracted you start to notice things, you'll see things that Yesterday, I saw falcon. I've seen more falcons and and I don't think in prevalence in my area. It's that now I'm pausing. If I hear a flutter of wings I stop and I pause and I just look instead of just walking That's the first A good exercise for you We don't have time to spend But I would encourage you, if you look at this is there one aspect of your currently most That is an aspect of awareness because people come I've got to get off this to, change the way I eat. They leave, realizing, I need to work on or I need to deal with certain stressful the home that I haven't I haven't even been connecting with the way that Think about it for a moment. Just to yourself, imagine your health that most interested in improving. As you grow in your awareness of the various aspects maybe those areas you the most consternation Usually, one or two rises Okay, this is what I This is the one that I want The word I used to capture, It's not quite in the realm but it's bubbling It is that factor that bridges the gap between a desire to do something and Here, specificity There's a big difference I found between patients who say, I want to start exercising more versus those who actually put such as, I commit for to exercise for a minimum There's a saying that some the definition of insanity again and again and expecting Yet, that's oftentimes We engage in the same thing again and again I do encourage people when it comes to intention to they've most likely had many many attempts at incorporating physical movement The only problem is that incorporated the lessons They just try and It's like insanity. Then the last thing with important to connect Because what I've realized is in the moments of temptation, whether it's attempting sitting on the couch when you know you want to be exercising. The bottom line is that There's the short term wants what it wants Then there's this what would be better for me? The more that people connected to their values and priorities that they're This is why I tell patients In this process. There's you continue to eat Or there's something that the couch when you know Or there's something that a state of disorganization when I know I would be happier. I need to count the costs. I need to be very is that has me Then connect with my deeper why. Because that deeper why your behavior in that moment of decision to a If we took this exercise If you could identify Notice how I use Because a lot of times we want the outcome, and we want it now. But I try to help more realistic goals and take one tangible step that they If you could identify you could make in this area, either starting a new an old one, what would it be? Step 3, remember, four steps is taking action because a the land of good intentions [LAUGHTER] as Doctor We'll start eating healthier. We'll start exercising. We'll start sleeping Then tomorrow becomes We just keep pushing it off. I like this phrase getting Getting it on the in the stands as a spectator, just watching about things and criticizing and judging it's much the court and playing the game. With the beauty of action is this concept Donald Hebb, a Canadian is famous for this fire together, wire together. That can both work Because that means what old habits of ours that those neural networks Those neurons have been firing Stressed out, eat something really sweet or salty that can give me some That is a really well that many patients have. The first time that establish a new neural network, it's going to feel new tracks if you've ever You can either follow or you can lay down new ones. It's always harder to But the idea is go down those cross it's getting that much It's the same thing That's the good news. When you're taking action, you are helping to form those synaptic connections in a way that no contemplating, meditating, That leads to results, and results leads to a sense of confidence that builds this positive I've really come to no substitute for If you just start to notice, you'll notice how much you talk about doing something There's no substitute on the court, doing it, learning from it, failing, correcting, revising, That brings us to the last one. Reflection. This is step four. In a way, this is another It's just on the Whether it's one day, one hour, one week, two weeks. Whatever time cycle you can always reflection on the Trust me, after this talk today, as I was, finalizing my slides I need to do reflection How do I get it so that the night before and enjoy the piece that comes But the reflection piece The reflection piece there's something to It's changing &quot;failure&quot; into this concept of a How can I grow from this? That is one of the most my patients to get because But if instead they What can I learn from this? Then that can be an incredible Then the last concept with reflection is there's practice, and then there's I like this word practice just get comfortable with whatever skills they're whether it's in the realm is they don't have to get it perfect they're just practicing. Intentional practice, though, is where you're really being you're creating a plan, It's aligned with your values. It's not just doing the and expecting different results. What I like about this cycle If people engage in this intention, action, reflection, ultimately, it leads to a new From that place of they can engage in action, reflection, I invite patients to do That's not just but it is continuous. The final piece of this is a quality of being that I put at the center of this and that's self compassion. Because there's a behavioral change where, again, as I mentioned, when will When will I get off When will my study be organized? When will I have my the night before, self is contingent upon That puts a lot of gives them this sense of But there's this quote that She's an actress and singer. She says, You can be a work in progress Really inviting patients to embrace that concept a masterpiece as they are right now this moment As well as an this continuous loop of growth, of falling, getting back up again, I think is a huge act of actually make any change they experience far more sustainable, far more long term, and far more aligned with their true deepest Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] We have so many questions. I don't know that we but we're going to do our best. Thank you to all of We have your questions. Keep having them come in, Let's start with a pressing one, which is for Dr. Lim. What is in your water bottle? Somebody wants to know Water. Normally, what this is in the morning is black coffee. I never thought that I would It had to have that that cream, or the But it just shows called taste Bud rehabilitation. Now, I don't want I, actually, appreciate You're not getting We tell patients, if you want to drink But what matters is what you're putting in your coffee and tea, because it's the and it's all the sweeteners that really turns what could be a healthy part of a diet That's fantastic. Thank you. We're going to start here that comes from our room. Everyone tells me to get but no one including my sleep Do either one of you have input on this really I've actually been working and one of the things in rehabilitating my to try and consciously choose to go to bed a little earlier, not to stay up so late. Second thing is to get up with the sun and to get outside when the sun so that I get it into my eyes, and experience it. I find that helps reset things a little bit. Then I'm not making but I have actually stopped at least for the time being. Anthony, might convince me to go back to black but there are other But I think that those It also I've learned that going for a walk first or some exercise first thing in the morning is like a and it gets you energized. It seems hard, but it helps to set the day. Those are a few but a few things that Those are fantastic and I'm going to try as much as I can to incorporate principles, even just from the Awareness is a key first step. The impetus behind my getting me this watch is he The feedback, it's a really powerful concept Biofeedback is what your body, how it's feeling, it's your blood pressure noticing what it is in certain contexts, doing some intervention, and then seeing what or what your blood pressure, This is providing me literally how many hours of That was not something This has helped me track it. I think that from an if someone's concerned about the sleep know where How many hours are you getting? Notice your fatigue levels. Notice if you need to have the caffeine first otherwise, it's just not right. If you start to pay and then as you're noticing how those energy those grumpiness that's a positive motivation. Wow, getting to bed earlier, waking up earlier, The thing that sold me ''I can really focus, and I don't get tired This is in my world where I feel this afternoon slump where That was motivating to me. I would just begin with that awareness and know know how much sleep and then start from there. I would just echo that the awareness and the importance of intention. It's very easy to get caught poor sleep rhythm, and you have to consciously choose You have to be aware of it and consciously choose the Great. Thank you both. We have a question coming What are we learning the long term longitudinal I think we could probably get two people from center Harvard study, have there trends coming out of these I really feel that you and the big take home message The blue zones, that both basically had nine pillars that these centenarians It was the basic of a healthy plant-based diet, not eating till you're stuffed which was That dovetails with the But what does it take to not Awareness. You have to be You would not believe ''I don't know when I'm hungry, I don't know when I'm full. I don't know when I've What does that tell you? Disconnection. They're There is a huge mind going on that is rampant. The more that people can the more they start or understand their The other pillars were movement, connection, as you What's amazing is that support each of these pillars. Anytime you look at and it looks at some drug, any effect of a drug on pales in comparison to That's why there There really is no at least that I've you think and do on a No additional comment. Then we have a Could Dr. Saxe, this Could Dr. Saxe weigh in on the current emphasis on the need to increase protein For example, one one pound of ideal body weight? I don't know that that certainly not I've seen estimates that we get too much protein and that it may be a driver of certain It may be hard, actually, create an acidic creates a negative and draws from the bones. It may be for people who have some degree of renal failure, harder on the kidneys. Colin Campbell has the China study to the overall risk of We also have to look at what is the source of the protein, whether it's more plant-based A lot of what may be other things that the foods that have It's a complex question, but I think that mostly are perhaps overestimated. There are certain trying to convince us of that. On the other hand, it's complex, and there is a possibility people who are beginning sarcopenia who are losing muscle mass may do well with I think it can't be one formula, one size fits all. It varies according to their life stage, versus animal and so Great. Anything you, Dr. Lim? That in my 10th year now we don't see protein deficiency on a healthy well balanced, whole food plant-based way of eating that is based on fruits, vegetables, legumes, I always think it's an I saw a silverback and what was it eating? Tree branches. When you look at these gorgeous herbivores, they're We never wonder where are they getting But yet we spend countless hours a week why I'm not getting It's an interesting phenomenon. You just reminded me the Cleveland Clinic Rip Esselstyn, and Rip is He was a firefighter, He was a strict vegan himself. He didn't even have fish or anything in his diet He estimated his as really on the low side. I watched a video of him as he's climbing up the fire pole, in the fire station and he's chanting as he climbs one Real men, eat plants. [LAUGHTER] I remember meeting a number of other and some of them may some form of a plant but many of them We have to also question, what is the source I will say that if people are actively in a weight then they may have For example, my 17-year-old son, Joshua, he's going to the gym five out of He wants to put on muscle. Every morning I make him a shake and I'm not that you I take a block of I take a can of beans, black beans or Kelli depending on the flavor of Then I throw in about spinach, broccoli, and then fill it with water or sometimes unsweetened and a bunch of I blend that up, and he He's getting 40, 50 grams in the morning and if I should But he's combining this that starts off his day with regular muscular weight building and he's putting on muscle, which is a very important thing, especially as you get older, because we see so many falls. I know that Dr. Moore and Dr. Many falls in elderly I do think it is very important. I do think it is a blind spot that you have some walking seven days a week for 40 minutes very active and yet, you think about it, any stress on their upper body and they fall and they fracture their wrist or they We really strongly encourage our patients to resistance training at least This isn't on a card, but everybody in this how does that shake taste? [LAUGHTER] Well, taste is in the beholder. In the taster. Joshua says, see, and this is the why piece. I think it tastes fine. I like as good as a because the protein gives But when you see the results and you know what it's doing and you know what you're consuming, that you basically started tofu beans and greens, and these are laying down then it's this positive I think it tastes decent. It's been now about five, six months without fail. it's become muscle memory. I make about two or three of this over the course distribute it amongst so he just grabs it and Basically, our saying is, if daddy makes it, That's how it works. That's fantastic. I love that. Here's a great question from Where does mental physical health in creating They're completely I wouldn't separate them at all. Everything we've about awareness, intention, all of that requires that we that we have courage to face having to admit some weakness. Those are all signs To be able to do those things, and they're all a making effective which is critical as we've been discussing for physical I would just echo that I see countless times my anxious or suffering who are making poor decisions how they move their body, It's absolutely affecting Then, similarly, I see many patients whose physical and then guess what their mental health. Then the beauty is again, it can be a virtuous cycle as their mental health improves. They're more motivated more motivated to eat healthy. As they do that, guess what? That feeds back into They're feeling better They're getting that They're feeling a greater You literally can a virtuous cycle or The key in the enter in with a You've got this. What can you learn? Let's get you back on One thing we haven't which I'll mention that's the power of community. That's really the is people who truly love you as you are. Because those people your pain without just there for you to help pull you up and perspective and a sense of hope when all you see is How do you put a value on that? Just to describe a little bit I was talking about doctor Anthony Satero, who started when he was started to take meals with I didn't mention the He was having every and he described in how when he was sitting group of these folks, They knew about his story. They knew what he and everybody there everybody there was convinced that he was going to get better. The one exception The community lifted that for him until he was Wow. That's fantastic. We have a question from Zoom. Are there any supplements, vitamins, herbal while perhaps not very their efficacy that you would incorporate into your The only supplement we recommend at the which has been running for That's because B12 is made in the soil and because we wash everything so well, we can wash all that dirt that might contain the B12 often so I usually tell my patients to take 1,000 because the daily requirement 1,000 micrograms need and if you have any excess, it comes out in your urine. But the beauty of this a lifestyle approach really one word, simplicity. Supplements are not simple. I have patients coming in on 20, 30, 40 supplements, It's because they're and they heard the Dr. Oz show, and they read this article, and before you know it, they've got this of supplements, no one has ever studied the potential interactions and so when you start permission to let go of trust in these basic Not to mention, they're saving hundreds of dollars a month. We really try to encourage patients to cut back That said, I will If you know a certain you in a very specific I take melatonin on occasion and I have found it Some patients have found know benefits a that they're But what we're moving against is this take a whole bunch of things and hedge Yeah, I'm also a minimalist supplements and as I one of the ancient teachings that we derive today the latest and greatest gimmick or thing or whatever, There's always people have been these kinds of things. Again, like Anthony, not to say that there a place and for people who are eating plant have animal food or small they may be at risk and to be on guard against that by simply taking a I have one or two things, but only one or two that a person has a medical If they're suffering take some vitamin C. But since when they had that problem on the ships that then they discovered lemons and they brought a and the scurvy disappeared. But until then, people One that I'm a fan of, but it's actually a food, but it can only be a supplement form is a About a week from speaking about some did on COVID and turkey tail and some other medicinal mushrooms may have a modulating effect on the immune system and may I typically will pop a few turkey tails before a few the day after just to keep my immunity a little higher Totally anecdotal, but before I learned about turkey one out of maybe about three I'd come back with something I never got sick. I'll add one more thing was one of the saw so many patients on. There's so many doctors But about two years ago, in one of the top medical the New England it basically came out a randomized control trial that vitamin D did not lead to any meaningful whether cardiovascular, or whether the one most common bone Isn't that remarkable? Not a single benefit New England Journal Medicine is they recommended stop testing. Because even those who were who were supplementing, it just made no Some patients still and I was like, well, it didn't show harm either. It just didn't show benefit. It's just yet another that your health is not I thought that was a New England Journal Medicine, that's very reputable journal. Now, that doesn't mean that other sources like from sunlight or from food is a bad thing. Absolutely. I tend to recommend to my that they try and of judicious mid afternoon the ultraviolet B is the highest and they can their body or that they have foods that contain but supplements not Okay, this is for all the They want you to Red versus white, How many ounces do I bet you get this It really depends on what Great answer. That is a great answer. Red or white. Look, I think the red grape skin source of resveratrol and phytonutrients, may I don't know how much of red wine per se or wine in Folks who have a lot of alcohol may have the so called good cholesterol. But a lot of the fat that would otherwise be the lipid ends up France, for example, which has higher consumption, has lower rates of but higher rates of I don't know. I don't think but you need that a generally healthy Yeah, the word that I would alcohol is one of with regards to anything and that's the What's your relationship Technically, the US no more than two drinks a day. Then for women, no more That is per day that It doesn't mean that if you have a man 14 drinks on Sunday, then because that's an overload, but I'll give you an example. This was a story that I wanted to show in my presentation, but I wanted to stick It's a couple from the UK and they gave me permission They came into the on working on their blood and they thought it was What I noticed on their this exhaustive questionnaire is that they were drinking I just asked them about well, on certain we like to basically Now, a bottle, just basically five drinks worth. It's five drinks, five They were doing that It was just they had just That was really when it It wasn't even on their radar. It wasn't even on I just inquired about it, and once I put on their and I made the given that blood pressure and excess alcohol consumption is absolutely a risk factor. To end that they wanted to cutting back or eliminating during this program, Well, this shows the The two of them decided going to completely My gosh, they are just besides themselves Now they're having the impact of giving up Number one, sleep. They both reported their sleep had The gentleman was the night now instead of waking up four or five times per night. He was more alert and more and his wife reported the same. Their blood pressure and they didn't miss it. That was what was most amazing. It had really just I encourage them to look at They were willing and now they're experiencing and their resolve to but to show you the iterative nature of behavioral change, now what they're curious done well in the but we did a whole what's coming up a Because then you and the peer pressure, and we just did a little exercise where they're coming up with an intention, a plan for how they and then they're action and then and then they get to evolve. That's what I would That's an important point. I was just thinking of that. My initial response maybe had come off as a and not that way. Actually, every now and then, I might have a glass of wine. I don't know that there was white or red. They didn't ask about Rose, but so it's an incomplete question, but I don't know that we can other than that maybe red grapes have some other benefits, but I think turning to alcohol, as a way to achieve that there are other ways. That doesn't mean that we depends on our Thank you for that. have just enough time for but this next question, I think, comes down to Do you have pearls emotional induced eating persistent anxiety, or desire trying to get away from Do you two have Well, really the biggest thing first is someone appreciating that they have an That's a big deal when someone a lot of their eating is Then the next step is, What are the situations I'll just off the I'll tell you a few One of the top Post work day because they're There's a famous I believe he's a psychologist, and it's this idea that our and each morning but over the course of the day, dealing with traffic, dealing the willpower is drawn down. Most emotional eating It's not first thing Work and the exhaustion A huge one is If you've been married 30 years and it's a difficult marriage, a lot of spouses drive each Then sometimes just whether it's depression or loneliness, a lot of those can The more that they're it doesn't fix it, but it allows them to The intention can Like one intention is, okay, I'm going to I had one patient who cut back her work hours from an a family practice clinic to realizing the role that stress was having on talking to her boss. By the end of the program, her week was now down to 40 managing the COVID piece of and she just said, I She was just shocked just by having and Just by recognizing it One level is at the Another level of the level of how you You can understand if you're I'm tempted to go get this, and you're now seeing yourself doing it as opposed that gives you a space to say, Is that the only way to I explore with patients alternative ways of providing comfort when you That's for each Various things are journaling, or meditating, praying, going It's essentially and comfort for you to exercise that synaptic track that path when you feel &quot;hijacked&quot; rather than just turn to what's The last thing I'll say is that oftentimes people will have and then that justifies so because they feel so The more that you can help You had an emotional binate this. What happened? What can you learn from so that they can get not view that as some extended deviation from something that they Those are just a couple of ways, but certainly working working in a class where you've got sharing and all of Also doing a few things to reset and balance so it doesn't all get If you just brought if you had planned in the edge would have been so you wouldn't be ravenously hungry the moment you There are simple fixes, too. Time for our last question. These two tie into each other, so I'm Are there plant based and tell us about the 12 Can anyone join? At first, there's so many There's Roube R-O-U-B-E, and there's so many sites that have recipes, Certainly the McDougall program, Dr. Joel Furman, there's The McDougall program, anyone so we have patients which is why it's so lovely I'm seeing patients India, mostly from the US, a lot from Canada. It's 12 days, and it's What some patients do is they'll arrange a consultation with me. You just go online and you would be able to Then in that consultation, we determine whether be a good fit for For those who are interested in a little deeper dive, the program that we run Integrative Health it's a certificate program One doesn't have to take take what is probably the which is an eight-week Well, actually, since COVID, we've been doing it remotely. We used to be in a but it's an teaches about how to and it revolves around but it has many other experiential It's been a great hit and, again, the signature of that. If anybody was interested, I think I had the contact Fantastic. Well, with that, I would like to thank [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC]