While the planets get a lot of the attention smaller, less known worlds in our Solar System are known as the Galilean moons, Jupiter's close together; they are fascinating because moon, a moon that has one of the best chances we know of, the biggest moon in the solar surface can be traced back to the solar system's watching Astrum, and in this video we will and do a deep dive into what makes each one sure you'll understand why they will be both NASA and ESA. We'll start with the curious objects in our solar system. The innermost features that set it apart from anything else aurora and a sulphur atmosphere. Let's get Jupiter has 79 moons that we know of so far. in and around the planet's rings. Beyond moons, named after Galileo who discovered these moons are Io, Europa, Callisto and Ganymede. all of which are much further out than the Jupiter, only 350,000km above Jupiter's Jupiter would appear 39 times bigger in the 42.5 hours compared to our moons monthly orbit. on Io is thought to be up to 100m. This affect oceans tides being caused by the moon, although the tides only usually shifting about 2m from force exerted on it in comparison to our moon biggest planet in the solar system, Jupiter, allow the moon's orbit to be less eccentric, anytime soon. A day on Io is the same as its locked to Jupiter. Just like we can only see face of Io can ever be seen from Jupiter. second smallest out of the Galilean moons. and shares a similar density, meaning it has it has the highest density of any other moon features. Another is that is it composed of the terrestrial planets and our moon, in comparison which are made of water ice and silicates. any known body in the Solar System. Its core surrounded by a silicate rich mantle and crust. as no magnetosphere has been detected around near the crust, and is at least 50km thick. Which brings us to perhaps the most interesting all over its surface. Before the 1970s, we telescopes were starting to pick up hints it may have a surface of sulphur. The first Pioneer 11, although the quality was still is that Io was made of silicate rock and not Pioneer 10 was also meant to take some close radiation interfering with the on-board command was 10,000 times stronger than maximum radiation were the Voyager I and II missions in 1979. and was able to take some impressive close landscape, full of vibrant colours and a total taller than Everest, as well as volcanic pits to be lava flows. Most notable however, was This proved that Io is volcanically active, has been visibly seen beyond Earth (not including the surface of Io is covered in different many spectacular colours. It found that it atmosphere. Voyager II also saw Io in July km, although it still saw 7 of the nine plumes volcanoes had likely remained active throughout came about with the Galileo spacecraft that wasn't especially designed to only study highest resolution images we now have of its at full capacity as it had quite a few mechanical even better images, had it been fully operational. from many volcanoes, as well as confirming magmas, similar to what we have on earth, The surface of Io is spectacularly colourful. the white areas are mainly fresh sulphur dioxide damaged by radiation, which can be seen as planet. In other places, the colour of red reached hundreds of kilometres above Io. The sadly an inactive volcano when Galileo was plume when it passed by, in this image the words, roughly the size of Alaska. on Earth are typically the depression you but these depressions are not found on high lakes with high walls along the outside. Here Io, 200km in diameter. These lakes are directly usually have a thin layer of solidified crust average heat output of Io, but sometimes the lava, causing Loki to produce 10 times more in one of Io's other big volcanoes, Tvashtar. the crust is seen falling into the lava lake. radiant energy from the lava curtain was so In 2007, New Horizons used Jupiter as a gravity opportunity to test its equipment. It focused saw was amazing. Tvashtar, the volcano I just could be seen hundreds of kilometres above eruptions around the moon. I must admit, this seen of space. Even though the volcanoes tend mountains, the highest one reaching 18km tall. not as part of a ridge or range. Although found near them, indicting there are faults of the unique aspects of Io is its interaction has an extremely large and strong magnetic sections. The unusual thing about this interaction thin atmosphere and eruptions are lost to Jupiter in what is known as a neutral cloud. the orbit of Io. But also surrounding Jupiter of ionised particles that follows the rotation torus rotates a lot faster than Io orbits, velocity. Io orbits right through the middle the particles in the neutral cloud, exciting particles feed into the torus, attracted by These particles are lost from the neutral 1 tonne of matter per second, which greatly field. In fact, if it was visible, Jupiter's as the moon in the sky. Io's interaction magnetic field lines, which Io crosses, couple polar upper atmosphere by generating an electric tube is basically a concentration of magnetic and it is very visible on the Sun because Io's flux tube causes an aurora trail around flux tube from Io striking the upper atmosphere in orbit. Aurorae are also visible on Io, poles. The different colours represent the sodium, red is oxygen, and blue from sulphur. the entire solar system. It is a beautiful first ever close-up image of Europa, taken we've had the Voyager and Galileo probes explore never failed to surprise us. We are yet to are many we are starting to piece together. into the Jovian system. Europa is the second it's still the sixth biggest moon in the Moon, with a diameter of about 3,000 km. It Interestingly, the first three Galilean moons orbital resonance, due to their gravitational and the constant gravitational tugging from from ever becoming completely circular. Due magnitude of the gravitational force acting as it orbits. This creates tides that stretch as they have a big influence on the moon's Europa's surface is made predominantly of remarkable and distinctive due to these long, called Lineae, which translates to 'lines' 1-2 kilometres wide but can extend for thousands We aren't sure about how or why these lineae theory is that as the crust pulls apart from fills the gap, in a similar fashion to the by the Galileo spacecraft, you will notice only about 10 km across, and they are known formed by the upwelling of hot, less dense the existing crust up, or by breaking through have broken through, what we can then see chaos terrains. They are really rough patches spots are expected to be soft and may contain Europa's surface, which we will get to later that Europa's equator may be covered in icy may be up to 15 meters high and will have equator. Interestingly, penitentes are found although nowhere near as large as on Europa. system, Europa barely has any craters. Europa Earth's Moon has more than 5000 craters with Europa's surface is constantly changing surface is only about 30-180 million years Additionally, Europa's icy surface is the in the entire Solar System. Its icy crust 0.64, one of the highest of all moons. Europa's Moon. This surface is bombarded by a constant The radiation level at the surface of Europa per day. Exposure to radiation at that level day. The reddish-brown colour spread across to be due to salt and sulphur compounds mixing radiation. A recent study from JPL suggests ions from the radiation penetrates the surface, which would make them release energy as visible dark side from Earth, as we are between it to wait for the future missions to Europa from Jupiter plays a significant role in Europa's atmosphere, composed primarily of oxygen. by radiolysis, or in other words, the process separating the H2O into oxygen and hydrogen. because it is so light, whereas a lot of the and oxygen that escape Europa's gravity the orbit of Europa around Jupiter. In 2012, of water vapour erupting from near Europa's plumes rise up to 200 kilometres from its evidence of water plume activity on Europa, with a new data analysis technique. A dedicated us understand what's inside the moon without underneath that solid ice surface is perhaps is likely to be a global ocean between a rocky clue that this amazing ocean world was hidden and Galileo probes in 1979 and the late 1990s was a drastic change in the magnetic field there is some electrically conductive fluid indicates the presence of a liquid layer beneath is not possible if the crust and rocky mantle likely that the icy crust floats on the ocean around the moon once every 12,000 years. The explains the multitude of lineae on the surface. at specific points on Europa, not all over. changes over time, and one spot never stays more lineae form. Europa is 780 million kilometres away than the Earth, that makes the sunlight or any other moon in the Jovian system for the Sun. So unsurprisingly, it's cold enough Europa's surface temperature averages about the poles, keeping Europa's icy crust as hard on the moon as it orbits Jupiter heats Europa's should keep the subsurface ocean in a liquid only 15 to 25 kilometres of solid, frozen 60 to 150 kilometres deep. Interestingly, Earth, although it may contain twice as much What's most interesting about Europa's in contact with Europa's silicate rocky environment for life as we know it to exist. and energy to form. And Europa seems to have we've seen so far, scientists are extremely but that chemical reactions can take place heating the core that geothermal activity seen on Earth, whole ecosystems can exist light. So, for now, Europa is one of the most Earth. Now, NASA's Europa Clipper spacecraft to reach the moon by the end of the decade. of Europa. ESA is also working on their own Explorer), which will explore Jupiter and and Europa. JUICE is also scheduled to launch by the end of the decade. These probes are water plumes and atmosphere. NASA is also mission is going to launch well after the help us know more about Europa, and hopefully question of all, does it and can it sustain give us a new perspective of our Solar System we have it, almost everything you could want Ganymede. The third of Jupiter's Galilean home to the largest water ocean in the solar sets Ganymede apart from anything else we've intriguing mystery buried deep beneath its and Ganymede is the 3rd of a group known as Ganymede is the largest of these four, with an impressive this is 0.41 times the size of Earth's diameter, thought to be largest moon, Titan. It initially which stretches hundreds of kilometres into than Mercury's, although it is does not density is 1.9 g/cm3 compared to Mercury's Like Europa, Ganymede's surface is a thick underneath which is believed to lie a vast it really is. Because while Mercury has very the abundance of water on Ganymede reduces is so big that it contains more water than estimated to be 100 km in depth on average in our ocean. All of this water means that water and small amounts of metals and other name Ganymede comes from classical mythology, claimed a young boy called Ganymede and took fitting that the moon Ganymede would also Ganymede has an atmosphere that contains oxygen. water - and an oxygen atmosphere - is While it's certainly possible, there are To begin with, the oxygen atmosphere is very 0.2-1.2 micropascals, or about 100,000,000,000 atmospheric pressure at sea-level. That would planet Earth has certainly demonstrated that without sunlight to sustain it, there could on Ganymede. This is because the ocean of bottom would likely be compressed back into deepest parts of our ocean can survive thanks vents. With such a thick ice layer between this would occur on Ganymede. Europa, Ganymede's candidate for life because of this. However, is an increasing amount of evidence for, it drastically. Models suggest that with a salty layers, divided by sheets of ice. If this indeed be in contact with the rocky core, But underneath Ganymede's ice and water that scientists do not have an explanation field. The magnetic field of Ganymede was the Galileo spacecraft began a series of fly-bys field is the presence of auroras, and incredibly, atmosphere. Not only that, but as Hubble studied clear that these auroras didn't wobble as known as "magnetic friction" in a salty field is significant, as it's the feature radiation, enabling all life to flourish. protect it from such radiation - being tucked field and radiation belt means it's still surface still has about 5-8 rem, enough to two months - but it's still better than are not quite sure why this magnetic field and molten. Convection currents within it magnetic fields that surround us here. However, Ganymede is smaller than Earth, and given that the core should have cooled down enough a liquid. This would prevent electrons moving field. And none of the other moons of Jupiter the only moon in the entire solar system that do not know for sure, but the answer might with its planet and neighbouring moons, and orbits around Jupiter roughly once every 7 at some points of its orbit, it is closer comes under a strong gravitational force, as mass is pulled in the direction of gravity. source of gravity, the more it will compress an eccentric orbit around Jupiter, it is constantly is constantly stretching and contracting. repeatedly in your hands, before pushing it noticed that after a while it gets surprisingly friction as the material rubs up against itself. friction adds up. This tidal force creating On top of that, in a process I find fascinating, two of its fellow Galilean moons Io and Europa, each time Ganymede orbits Jupiter, Europa times. This mathematically precise configuration of the moons' gravities pulling on each conserve the resulting momentum. However, pulled by its neighbours' gravity, and is tidal heating is warming up Ganymede enough helping it continue to produce its magnetic it would perhaps explain why the surface of that Ganymede's surface is split into large surface, and lighter regions that make up number of impact craters on these two sections, are actually older than the lighter ones, regions might have fewer craters, but they m high and thousands of km long. Truly an sure how these ridges were formed. One explanation of the moon in an unstable period of Ganymede's could have also warmed Ganymede's core and cause, the magnetosphere of Ganymede has been the composition of the moon. By measuring atmosphere, scientists were able to confirm all without ever having set foot there. And maybe JUICE (the Jupiter Icy Moon Explorer) is set to launch in 2022, and though it won't 10 years after that, its mission is to investigate moons, including Ganymede. Until then, we just that - a mystery. Callisto. Despite we know of, I think the majority of people it at all. Is it just a boring world, or do we know more than you may first assume, and where it fits into the Jovian system. Callisto system, and just smaller than Mercury, at is only 58.4 km (36.2 mi.) less than Mercury's, it's less dense, and its gravity is a lot moons and orbits Jupiter much further out to do so at an average distance of 1.9 million it is still tidally locked with Jupiter, meaning parent planet. However, it does mean that the other three moons, nor do we believe that composed of carbon dioxide and possibly oxygen detected yet. We know, however, that the atmosphere it do not collide, and theoretically the atmosphere processes in just 4 years. Scientists believe lost atmospheric particles though sublimation by some interesting surface features. Now, ancient in the Solar System, with evidence immediately notice the speckled nature of with various sized impact craters, more so fact, it's close to saturation, any new one at this point. Without any geological that has vastly been impacting Callisto's surface so old compared to a lot of other active planets like Earth, there are processes impacts. Earth has one of the least cratered happens on its surface. It has weather, water, activity. These act together to break apart, Jovian moons like Europa or Io have comparatively cause geological activity on their surfaces. This doesn't happen with Callisto. Callisto does not show any signs of geological and so its surface has remained intact after Limited tidal forces and thus no geological way: there are no mountains to speak of on formed at the very beginning of the solar has since frozen over, and apart from the the same ever since. So, let's have a look the biggest are truly impressive structures. crater on Callisto, measuring 1,600 kilometres the largest multi-ring impact crater in the km. Its these craters that add to the unique rings than craters anywhere else. With these it may have completely punctured the thin in the light patches you can see in the middle. notice they have a mottled appearance, there the bright knobs and the darker plain. These of Callisto's surface, which would make likely making it two billion years younger fractures in the crust, a concentric failure though, within the rings, these bright knobs they are believed to be the degraded remains past. We don't know exactly why they have due to micrometeor impacts, or simply the brighter than the lower plains because the will have fallen down the knobs over time, impact craters are also fascinating due to shallower on Callisto compared to our Moon, well over 100km wide, however it's only was breaking apart before it impacted, causing surface, or it could be that the surface has impacts that occurred later on. This crater at least, yet you can still clearly see the clear evidence of how unchanging this remarkable there is even a large dome found in the middle. you will see a few concentric rings and a the case on our Moon. However, Callisto has where just the opposite happens. Look at Tindr a pit in the centre. Why does Callisto have fact that Callisto's crust is not just brittle, or a salty ocean underneath. Estimates put The Galileo space probe, which spent several chunk of its time aptly studying the Galilean field could not penetrate through Callisto, under the surface at least 10km thick. This unless the ice layer is at least partially can be maintained below the ice to create Callisto has a small silicate core at its begs the question, can Callisto be conducive under their surfaces? Well, life as we know Callisto might have an ocean of liquid water kilometres (500 million mi.) away from the star. And the absence of tidal forces in doesn't the only source of heat, to warm the sub-surface visiting Callisto wouldn't prove anything. ejecting water directly from their subsurface prospects without ever going into the oceans so scientists would have to penetrate the combined mean that, unfortunately, scientists for life appear to be less favourable on Callisto shouldn't be ignored. If we ever go to explore a perfect base. You see, orbiting at a distance from Jupiter means that Callisto is located its environment thousands of times more conducive Callisto also has a lot of water-ice, that of course is the staple to keep humans alive. oxygen for breathing. Callisto's geological on the surface relatively worry free, and means it's faster, easier and more efficient explore the inner Jovian system from a safe farther into the outer Solar System. Lifting its low gravity, and you could also get a It's true that this is a futuristic prospect, species, this is a distinct possibility. Callisto during its few flybys, there is still filled. With any luck, we'll get that from Explorer (JUICE), due to launch in 2022, which explore Jupiter and three of its largest moons, several close flybys of Callisto during this into questions like: does it have a sub-surface life? Beyond that, there's also the questions what more we will still discover about this everything you could want to know about the video? Then I hope I earned your like and members for supporting the channel, it really like these in the future. If you want to support the best, and see you next time.