- The Foreign Legion is a family and above all a state of mind. The Legionnaire. When you will win your white kepi, you will understand. One becomes a legionnaire and remains so until death. - I don't want to see anyone here! Go on ! Rear ! He stays there. Daniel, line start! Daniel, line up! You move your arm again like that, I'll break your hand! - Even if I have a heart attack, I don't move, okay? Rigor ! Discipline. - I never abandon the dead, the wounded, or weapons. - When you put on the kepi, okay? Here, after, like this. It's not here. Like this, okay? Right here... Normal. OK ? Get up, get up. - Walk ! Left, left, left, left, left. Slow down. Stopped. Every morning at Fort de Nogent, one of the two recruitment centers of the Foreign Legion, some men from all over the world apply for a 5-year contract. They will change their name and, for French nationals, to become foreigners, because the Legion accepts the French, but on condition that they take an assumed nationality. - Why did you come to the Foreign Legion? But that the main reasons. - The sporty aspect, the travel aspect, too. - The adventure, what. - Yeah, that's it. - Now your last name is more Revel, but Rossini... Christopher. You were born on November 6, 1982 in Toronto. So now you are more French, but Canadian. Okay that's good. - Why do you want to join the Foreign Legion? - Because I don't want to hang out in the street, I want to work, and I want to work for the French State. I want to do interesting work in relation to me. - Do you have a criminal record? - That is to say ? Problems with the law, all that? - Yes. What ? - Summons to the police station. - Why ? - Fight. - From now on, you no longer have the right to contact anyone outside during the selection period. The selection takes place in Aubagne. Every day, about thirty candidates arrive there. Of these 30, only four will become legionnaires. A chance in 8 therefore that Rossini, the new Canadian, or Maynard, the Cameroonian, are engaged. All hope to become legionnaires and wear the famous white kepi. - You go to the master corporal there, along the walls. You will undress, you take off the jackets, the pants and you stay in your underpants. Here we go ! Socks. They reunite with their new name and all the same underwear. - 1, 2, 3... - One brief each. You distribute, you give the socks to everyone. During the next 15 days, many of them will be eliminated, but right from the start, they have to put themselves in a new skin. - Pass the T-shirts. Same there. You put on the t-shirts. If it's too small, you swap between yourselves. OK ? Each of the following tests will be eliminatory. - That's the test. We will lead by example together. Four answers is good. That's it, yes or no? From the first evening, Master Corporal Ordon, a Pole, will give them the basics. - In silence here, there. Are you kidding or what? To the Foreign Legion, we have everyone, ex-lawyers, ex-CEOs, MiG-25 pilots, section chiefs of the Red Army, down to the bums. Everyone had their chance, they stayed, they did things. It's up to you to show that you deserve to put on your white kepi and show especially with that, your heart, the muscle here, what you can do for the Foreign Legion, for the glory of the Foreign Legion and for our host country, France. And for now, you're going to shut up here. I want total silence. At the Foreign Legion, we open the valve slightly, minimum corporal rank, 2 or 3 outdoor missions carried out. There, there is something to chat about. For now, you eat when you need to eat, you sleep when you need to sleep. Is that clear ? - Yes, Master Corporal. - It's not clear to everyone. Is that clear ? - Yes, Master Corporal. - Come on, great. The only ones the Legion does not welcome on principle are the perpetrators of blood crimes and drug traffickers. - 5... 6... 7. They have one minute to shower and then a quarter of an hour to tidy up their dormitory. - It's hot, it's speed and everything. We gotta hurry, we gotta do the right things, if not afterwards, it shouts at us, it yells at us. We are obliged to do well, to be very attentive to what we do, because otherwise, we will start again, and if we start again, it's not good at all. - Everyone is in the same boat as us, so we try to help each other and then that's it. Lienard is a former policeman. Military life, he has already practiced it. - It's square, it's strict. That's what some people need to motivate them a little. - What motivates you, then? - The hierarchy, the military spirit. - There, what is that? There are hairs. Come. You two come here, there. Specialists there. There, what is this filth, there? It leaves with my finger, with the nails. This is not good. This ain't a fuckin' home for refugees here. You are in the barracks, At the Foreign Legion, the barracks are our home. Is that how it is with you? What ? Come on, the material, it's over there. When you do something, you make exactly like at home, at home. The barracks to the army, especially to the Foreign Legion, gentlemen, it's worse than a private clinic because it's our home. It will soon be yours here. Is that clear ? - Yes, Master Corporal! - Nickel chrome. We'll see. There. Here, waking up tomorrow morning, 4:45 a.m., so there's no room for lazy mornings. Quickly, you get out of your bed, shave, the beds are made, kick in the room, you go outside. It's clear ? - Yes, Master Corporal. - Nickel chrome. Rest. - Every day is hardship. But you have to manage to pass them and succeed, above all. But it's good, it's proven challenges to self and others, what we are capable of. You have to be proud to be a legionnaire. I'm already proud to have entered it. So if I am, even better. - We'll see tomorrow how it is... The continuation of the program. The psychotechnical tests, I'm not sure I passed them. So we'll see the answer tomorrow. - It would still piss me off to stop compared to the psychotechnical tests we took today. But I believe it will be fine. After, tomorrow, we attack a new day. We forget this one and move on. - Good night. - Good night, master corporal! - Don't forget the alarm clock, 4:45, tomorrow morning. As soon as they wake up, they will find out which among them won't even spend a 2nd day here. - Maynard ! - Present, Master Corporal! - Rossini. - Present, Master Corporal! - Sabi! One! - I think it's over. - Oh yeah ? - Yeah. - Let's go to Paris, huh. - We're going home. - I have serious balls, there. Because there, it's direction the neighborhood and that's it. P*tain... It fucks the hate. Rossini and Maynard are eliminated. They will be able to represent themselves next time if they wish. The first day was how the brain works. For those who stay, the 2nd day is how the body is. - Medical tests now. Next step: sports test. Still as confident as at the start. No problem. 200% motivated. - Have you ever had problems with your knees, your ankles, all that? No drugs, no... Do you f*me or not? - Not at all. - Swallow saliva. - A priori, he is suitable, for you? - A priori, he is suitable. There should be no particular problem. He is in good shape, he is a good sportsman. So it should go very well for him. In any case, at the medical level, there is no problem. *- 45 seconds. 1st physical test: run more and more quickly for about twenty meters. Those who don't arrive before the loudspeaker beeps lose points. *- 45 seconds. 30 seconds. Lim Lemeyer is American. He is from San Diego, California. One of the essential tests for the Legion: motivational interviews. It's Lim's turn to pass the boss of this selection, the Polish lieutenant in the Legion for 17 years. - What would you like to do in the Foreign Legion? - I would like to go to Djibouti, in the 13th demi-brigade of the Foreign Legion... or the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment. - To choose this regiment? - Because it's the best parachute regiment in the world. - Do you know the salary of a legionnaire? - No sir. - It's about 1,000 euros per month. - Yes sir, I would be more than happy with that. - Is that enough for you? - Yes sir. More than enough! The 2nd interview, this time with a psychologist. - Have you ever had any problems with the police? - Yes sir. - Which problems ? - I had a problem... 2 years ago to defend my friend in a fight. There were two guys, my friend was drunk... I got out the car with a baseball bat and I punched both guys and got arrested for assault. - Have you been in jail? - Yes sir. - How long ? - A year. I have made many mistakes in the past. I made bad decisions and I'm going to take good ones now. I just need a second chance. I know the Legion will make me a better man. - What are your faults and qualities? - Sometimes I'm a bit lively, I want things to be done very quickly. - Impulsive? - Yes sir. - Linkard! - Present, my lieutenant. - Hide your glasses from me. It's a civil way like you're wearing them there. You put them in your pocket or you put them over your eyes. - I'll put them on my eyes. - And not in a Pink Floyd way. There. Sit down. What do you like here? - The military hierarchy. - And what don't you like here? - Nothing. - There must be something you don't like. - Well, maybe the candidates are a little lax. - Why are you coming to the Foreign Legion? - To return to military life and at the same time, why not, carry out missions abroad. - Why do you want to do missions? - Don't hide your face, also for the money and... But also to see a bit of the country and... - Do you have a question to ask? - No, Lt. - You can dispose. - Thank you, Lt. - In your opinion, what would be your main faults? What would you like to improve, change, if you had the chance? - Sometimes, I am criticized for being authoritarian, which can be a quality for here, but on the outside, I am reproached for it. Otherwise... - That is to say, authoritarian? Too frank, too direct? - Yeah, I don't necessarily mince words. I say what I think. It avoids having insinuations or misunderstandings. Otherwise, a little... I'm not going to say manic, but more very organized. - It shows. - Oh good ? - Yes. - I dunno. - You have a very high conscientious character so the meticulous, picky side stands out. - You see, I'm not making this up. - Same manic side. Yes indeed. Storage freak and such. - I got better. - When you're in a group, how does it usually go? You're more like... - I am very sociable. - You're more of a leader type, a follower type, kind of listening or a little behind, a little in reserve? - No, never in reserve, always... More often forward, in fact. If I know the field, I will highlight what I know just so that others can benefit from it. After 2 weeks of observation, interviews and inquiries into the past of these candidates, hiring managers will decide of those they are going to keep. Each year, the Legion must recruit more than a thousand men. The meeting must remain secret. In a few minutes, the lieutenant will announce the results. - If you don't take your initiative, I might say: &quot;Don't laugh, don't laugh, don't laugh, don't laugh&quot;. Master Corporal Ordon is there to make sure everything is nickel chrome. - There's nothing funny about that, boy. Here ? - Here ! - Here ? - Here ! - Here ? - Here ! - My... - My... - Lieutenant! - Lt. - Rest for everyone. What is that ? Shaved? Nope ! - Yes. - What no ? Yes. What is that ? Go shave. Rapidly. Rapidly. The same. Go shave. A legionnaire, he is clean-shaven. It's only the pioneers who have the right to wear beards. For the moment, you are far from being pioneers. So your faces are nickel chrome. Eh ? Clear eyes, clean-shaven faces. You are clean, spotless, like all legionnaires. So this is the last time, huh, that I make the remark and that I am obliged to verify. As for children. You are big boys you know very well what to do and how to do it. Rest ! Think already, later, when the lieutenant is going to announce the results, for the guys who will be selected, are you able to do the 5 years with honor and fidelity? Come on, you have 5 minutes. - You know what's going to happen now? - No, I'm worried. I hope I have succeeded. I ask myself many questions, So many things happened! - Do you think you have a chance? - I know I can do it, but you never know. - This is the big day. - Are you confident? - We try. Do not leave defeatist. A few more minutes. - Come on, for the session. - Commission results. Jacob! Go here ! Wake up ! What did we say earlier? You didn't understand anything! Nothing. Take care, there! - Danic! - Present, my lieutenant! - There ! Come on, action! To the side. Come on, to attention. - Ibov. - Present, my lieutenant! - Go on ! Come on, to attention. Head up. - Come on, go! - Come on, glue. - Lim. - Present, Lieutenant! - Action. On the right, those who are retained. Among them, Lim, the Californian. On the left, the failed. Among them, Lienard. - I'll be back, no problem. - Are you disappointed? - No, because I was expecting it a little bit. - I'm not a fuckin' boy scout instructor. I am a master corporal in the Foreign Legion. We are in the Foreign Legion, I give the orders, you are soldiers, you execute. I'm here and I won't let the regiment go, where there are my brothers in arms who are in action, someone who doesn't give a damn about the Legion and France. You will quickly see how I will find the specialists. Dalmatians! - Present, master corporal. - Danic! - Present, Master Corporal! - Horn! - Present, Master Corporal! - Lim! - Present, Master Corporal! - All the mattresses, you have to put them down, and all the blankets, you fold correctly with care! Move, move, move, move! Now you are going to run, I already tell you! Go on ! Go, go, go, go, go! Room manager! Look here for the shoe polish. Come on, get active! 'Cause you, you're regrouping your fuckin' business. And these are your men. Go on ! If you have nothing more to do, instruction room and you sit down! - Is it a big problem for you not to speak French? - Yes, it's a big problem because everything is confused, I do not understand and I have to learn French as soon as possible. - Is it a dream to become a legionnaire? - Oh yes ! I want to do something with my life. Many people waste their time doing nothing with their lives. - Are you ready to die for the Legion or for France? - Yes, I am ready to die for France because... it's my fault, I got into a lot of trouble in the United States. No one gave me a second chance and today I have an opportunity and I feel that I will owe a lot to France... if France lets me become a soldier. I will be indebted to France, whatever happens. The Foreign Legion was created almost two centuries ago. Memory, tradition, ritual. The new ones will receive their letter of commitment in the museum of Aubagne. - 2eme section, gather for the handing over of the contracts in full. - At your command, Lieutenant! - Rest. Volunteer Lim. - Present, my lieutenant. - Volunteer Jakov. - Present, Lt. - Voluntary Vafaina. - Present, my lieutenant. - Listen to me. You can become legionaries. The legionnaire is not stupid. The legionnaire is smart. Two, the legionnaire is physical! He is physical, he runs, he does pull-ups, he climbs the rope. He is strong. The legionnaire, he is strong. Three, the legionnaire is a good comrade. Good comrade. Here we remember. We remember the Legionnaires who died in battle. 36,000 deaths since its creation in 1831. In 181 years of existence, the Legion has been in all wars. Some of the greatest battles, Sevastopol, Narvik, Dien Bien Phu, Kolwezi. In 1863, in Mexico, during the siege of Camerone, 65 legionnaires face 2,000 Mexican soldiers. The last 5 valid legionnaires agree to surrender on the condition of being able to treat their wounded and keep their weapons. The legend was born, the Legion never abandons its people. This 7,600 strong elite troop is able to intervene at any time in the hotspots of the planet. There was Chad, Lebanon, Yugoslavia and, from 2001, Afghanistan. The Tora base, a FOB in American, a forward base. The French installed it in an old Russian fort who controls the valley of Uzbin. The Taliban use this valley to go from Pakistan to Kabul. For them, it's the strategic road in their struggle against the power in place and against the allied forces supporting him. It's in Sper Kunday, a few kilometers from here, that on August 18, 2008, 10 French soldiers were killed by the insurgents. The day before our arrival, 4 other soldiers died. - Well, I wanted to do this little ceremony which will end with a minute of silence in memory of the 4 French people who died yesterday, including 3 who died in Kapissa due to bad weather. One of the VABs of Rouge 3 fell into a ditch at the level of the gorges. The VAB fell 5 m and Corporal Chechulin, who was a rear gunner on the rear TAP of the VAB, died in the accident in place. In place. Take care of yourself ! Since 2001 and the arrival of French troops, 40 soldiers died in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a harsh land. Apart from the armies of Genghis Khan, no stranger ever reached to submit its proud and fierce tribes. The legionnaires of the foreign cavalry regiment of Orange. Warrant Officer Reiser and Sergeant Sahraoui. In 2 days they will be among the 800 men who are going to carry out a major operation as far as Sper Kunday. - OK ! - We're coming to do a mission tomorrow. Today, we do a little shooting, we recheck the weapons. And here it is, it allows us not to lose control if we ever stay away for long. - Go to sleep ! Lay down, lay down, lay down! - Okay, no one there. Step up your shot, step up your shot, step up your shot. Fire ! OK, well seen! For all 43, announce as soon as ready. - The Legion is not for the weak. I'm sure. The weak, they have no place here. Warrant Officer Reiser leads a combat section of 30 men, 17 different nationalities. - The first army time is done. End of shooting, now, we are calm, we can leave in 2 days, we know very well that we can support someone. OK, everyone will be clear, all guns will be set, there will be no problem. The operation begins at night. The strategy of the general staff: transport legionnaires on the ridges by helicopter who will be able to secure the advance of ground troops and also prevent the leakage of insurgents. It's also night that the troops prepare to go into action observation drones, these small remote-controlled planes equipped with very powerful thermal cameras. These drones are effective night and day. They will monitor the place of operations, twenty kilometers from their base. Each of these drones costs more than one million euros. This one will fly over the runway to Sper Kunday and broadcast the images he films live. In 4 hours, another will relay. In the early morning light, on the ground, we advance with the section Warrant Officer Reiser and Sergeant Sahraoui. - Is there a risk of attack there this morning? - Yes, the possibility exists everywhere. Danger is everywhere. The peasant who makes his living or the nomad, he can turn into a fearsome insurgent who shoots. Afterwards, he hides with the armament. Already, the Afghan intelligence services, they are too suspicious of these people. It's like that, there. With means like that, they transport everything from neighboring countries. Look on my side, it is a propitious place for a good ambush. For us, it's not good. For them, it's ideal. It is the ideal. All coalition soldiers know the images of insurgent propaganda, from the artisanal production of mines to the attacks. Under every meter of track, there may be an explosive ready to go off, like this one, filmed from an American tank. The Reiser section moves forward cautiously. We are on the front line. - Have you ever killed any insurgents? - The fun is not killing insurgents. Pleasure is doing your job properly, your duty. - Is that what they teach you at the Legion? - Yes. They are patient. And we respect the vanquished enemy. The section takes a stand on the area where she must install her 20 mm cannons to protect the following troops. In front of us, the deminers. When the deminers clarified the passage, the vehicles move forward again. - We're the ones coming up here because all these packages, only we can deal with them, with the low barrel. We are about 1 km from the village of Sper Kunday. Warrant Officer Reiser is on the lookout. - The primary risk was the ambush of mines, IEDs, we went there afterwards. Now the risk is insurgent infiltration who would be there to harass us and then leave. - These rocks, if the guys, they are in place, already, impossible to see them. The only way is for them to shoot. Pebbles, faults, rocks, it gives good opportunities to infiltrate. - A spotted PAX, who revealed himself on the ridge line and who hid behind a rock in 78 340 783401. - Those bearded bastards! - Don't touch the cannons. - There, are you ready to open fire? - Ah yes, ready. Always ready, even with the hood there. If ever we are attacked, we shoot and it flies away. At the same time, 15 km behind, the Tora command post. - PAX exfiltration to the west from Sper Kunday were joined by 2 other individuals. - It is possible that they are people which specify our device. Faced with our action, they are seeing how much strength we have, how far we pull the ridges etc. It can very well be people who go to the fields, since it's time to go to work. And then it can very well be people who have an affair on... Who walk down to Surobi, in the city. Colonel Durieux, boss of the 2nd foreign infantry regiment. He leads the French forces throughout the valley. He has a nickname: &quot;the brain&quot;. - The insurgents watched us and thought we would attack here. During the whole operation, Colonel Durieux will be accompanied by an Afghan colonel. Because everything the French do is done in consultation with the Afghan National Army. On the ground, 2 guns with a range of 40 km ready to hit groups of insurgents near the village, 2 Gazelle, reconnaissance helicopters who will go and verify the observations of the drones. Colonel Durieux wants to reassure the population and show that it can count on the French military. So he will organize a shura, the traditional assembly of village notables, to reach out to them. To show his peaceful intentions, the colonel separates from his bulletproof vest. The chief of the village, he is called the Malek. - I'm very happy to see him. As in any shura, it is with a prayer that we must begin. And it is the Afghan colonel who will lead it. - Gentlemen the big white beards and the guests, welcome. You all know that last year, there was a major battle where 10 French soldiers died. I know it's not the people of Sper Kunday who took part in the attack on the French soldiers. We, when we are attacked, it is sure that we retaliate, but otherwise I am very careful to use the weapons the minimum. And we must say to those who take up arms: &quot;Now is the time to lay down the guns.&quot; We are ready to talk to everyone. My mission is to help the Afghan army and to make there be no more war here. Among these men, it is certain that there are Taliban. They are still numerous in the villages, but not all show their support for the insurgents. A noise in the sky, the Gazelles of observation. No doubt the drone has spotted something suspicious. - There is information that has been given about the presence of insurgents on the other side of the ridge line, there, which is not intersected, but therefore we prefer to put them in flight and then confirm the information to see if, indeed, we see a grouping on the other side of the ridge line. Beyond showing the strength of the allies and occupying the ground, the Afghan authorities wanted to search some houses that could serve as a weapons cache. - The Afghan police wanted to search the houses. I think now is not the time. I don't want to contradict my speech by searching homes. - I told the captain, the chief of the ANP, to come here. so that we can talk together, with you. - Finally, I spoke about it with the colonel, I think that today, you absolutely have to look for nothing because we have done all the shura on the theme &quot;you are the good guys, &quot;the bad guys are on the other side, we trust you&quot;, so who cares to find 5 or 6 mortar shells. - You want to cancel the search? - Didn't you see anything? - No, apart from the few movements on the ridge line, but without being able to confirm that it is hostile. The pacifying strategy of Colonel Durieux, it is also to distribute some gifts, blankets and kites for the children. *- Dragon, panther here, speak. - Panther, dragon here, speak. *- The Gazelles were taken to task by heavy weapons. Authorization for mortar fire on this position is requested. - It's outside the Sper Kunday circus, correct? *- Affirmative. It's the collar. - They have the exact position? *- I am specifying the exact position through the 3rd dimension. - Yes. Received. You confirm the information, if we have the exact position... Granted. *- Panther, here dragon, received. - Authorizing a shot like that, is it always a heavy decision? - Oh yes. Because there is a military aspect, but there is a political aspect in the area, there's an aspect of collateral damage, so it's always... You have to be very careful. There, it's on a ridge line, so no one lives there. We just got shot so we know it's an enemy position and it's outside the area of interest, so it's not going to carry... It doesn't fit into the dialogue I have here with this population of Sper Kunday. - reach out for reconciliation, and at the same time, being firm, that's your philosophy? - Yeah, we have to reach out to the inhabitants, but to show that we are firm towards those who seek... Towards the insurgents who, on the contrary, seek to destroy any attempt at reconciliation. The drone located the starting point of the shootings on the helicopters. At Tora, 15 km behind, the guns were adjusted. - 2e... It's effective. Nothing should go unpunished. Their radio-guided 155 mm shells leave no chance of survival on the surface of a football field. - For the 3rd, this one! - Mission accomplished. Mission accomplished. - We are from the Legion. So far from our countries - Towards the front, we will march To defeat the enemy. A few hours later, the insurgents react. - Dude, there are a lot of these sons of bitches! We will then learn that they lost 2 men, including a commander, during the bombardment of their positions. Their target for this reaction is COP Rocco, 10 km from Sper Kunday. A COP is an advanced combat post. It is surrounded by villages considered as enemies. 250 legionnaires hold this position, surrounded by the insurgents. This morning, the harassment continues. Lieutenant Francois commands the guard. - We heard explosions at the position of OP1, there, 500 m in that direction, on the other side of the ridge line. For now, we don't know what it is. So we'll see. But just in case, we're ready to defend the coast. For the 4,000 French soldiers stationed in Afghanistan, the danger is the CHICOMs, Chinese rockets that can be launched with completely artisanal and very mobile tubes, but not very precise. - Message from Tango 2. He saw a staff, distance about 200-300 m. No weapon, but he's on the phone. - Spotted a staff 450m west of Tango Unit. - Get ready to shoot. - Combat post, 3-2 right. Visual, I see it. - He's there, he's 150 m away. - Ah, visual again, he's back on the plateau and he's running north. - Kick start. - For greens 99, for greens 99, a priori, starting shot. Kick start, maintain observation. - The guys who are up there, you won't fight back at FAMAS. - P@tain ! The shots go off, but we don't see them coming. - OK, 2nd kick start. - 2nd start! - Go inside. Come back. Go inside. We suffer 82 mm shots. Mortar of 82. So they're settling and they're... It's getting closer. All personnel who are not in the bunkers, they are in the VAB, received? - Team 300, you take everyone in the VAB. The insurgents are adjusting their fire. - Another start. - Kick start. It comes from... - It's from up there. - It's from the northeast. Looks like it's behind the mountain. - If it falls there, it's not even worth it. - 354, 40,769. - Correct. - 2 233, correct ? - Correct. - Is there a mortar fire preparing? - We have permission to fire smoke. Firing smoke shells to prevent them from observing and settling. - You charge here. - You're on automatic. Attention ! - Who is it for ? - Charge 5. - OK. - Fire ! Watch out... Fire! - Attention ! - It's Verdun, there, it's a gunnery battle. It's trying to spot the observer, the departures of blows and then shoot the starting shots. For the moment, the infantrymen, we are safe there. Shells to create a smoke screen in order to prevent an invisible enemy from seeing them. That day, the insurgents failed to hit COP Rocco. - 2, 3, 4, 5! The legionary candidates who had been selected in Aubagne arrived near Castelnaudary. Among them, Lim. In this training center, the selection will continue. - 5! - You have chosen to come to the Foreign Legion. I congratulate you, it's a man's choice. You start today the training which will last 4 months and who will make you legionnaires. The legionnaire is an elite soldier. To train and instruct him, it takes time and a lot of work. Take care of yourself ! For the moment, very few are able to understand orders in French. - Chine. - States of America. - Bulgaria. - Ghana. - Romania. - Ukraine. - Brazil. - Sweden. - Mongolia. - Finland. - Germany. - Spain. - Croatia. - Vanuatu. - Russia. - Poland. - Morocco. - Iran. - Madagascar. First test: their endurance. - You have to be a little hard on yourself and on everyone else too. There's no mercy, we can't stay soft, weak or show their weaknesses to others. gotta be tough sometimes you have to think for yourself and spit blood to be good. - It is the management that is there to reframe these young people, so that they get into the mood. And if they don't have enough mind, Well, we're going to help them push themselves to go further. That's what's important, going further, always further. That's the future of the Foreign Legion. They're not tourists on vacation. - We're going to turn around, we're going to recover. - Squeeze! Hang up! Now, last stride, here we go. We don't speed up, we keep the pace. Stop being your victim. To eat, there's no problem, huh. Shut your mouth ! At the end of their training, in 4 months, to become legionnaires, they will need to know at least 500 words of French. - G, H, I, R... - R. - OKAY. - The two aims... - The two sights... - Are not aligned. - The two sights... - Are not aligned. - Downstairs ! At the top ! Downstairs ! For 5 weeks, they will live in self-sufficiency on this farm, without any contact with the outside world. One concern: to become warriors. - Top ! Hands like this... Hurry up ! Come on, quickly! Go on ! Natural selection ! There is no place for the weak. Unpin! Throw... grenade! - Well, that's good! Push! Push, push, push! After 15 days of trials, Lim follows the rhythm, but he has some trouble with his hands. Some problems also with French. - So today, you ripped that off. It's good, it's not much, right? On what obstacle did you have this problem? What did you do ? Where did you pull that off? - Downstairs... At the top... - Upside down? Yeah ? - Yes, Sergeant. - And before, you were never in the army, right? - I'm sorry, I never... I do not have... Is... I did not understand. - You did not understand. - I didn't understand speaking. - It hurts ? - Small. - Small ? If you go to work today afternoon, you put the gloves. OK, you can have it. - Can I have? Thanks, Sergeant. Vafaina is Malagasy. He is 20 years old. And like the others, he learns one of the first rules of the Legion, solidarity. - How should it be stored? - It is necessary that on this side, there is nothing which exceeds from there. Everyone is afraid because afterwards, if someone is not well, everyone takes a cold shower outside and so we are a little stressed. - Are you happy to be here? - Yeah - Why ? - I really like the Legion and as I have been told a lot about it, I too would like to be part of it. - But it's a tough course. - Yeah, it's a bit difficult, but everyone will pass there, so we also have to go through it to be legionnaires. - Everything must be tidy, everything must be the same. - It has to be square. Tidy. - It's still not good. The master sergeant in charge of this apprenticeship is called Cho. - They folded badly. OK ? This is not the same. That, everything, fine aligned. It stinks. Gathering section downstairs. Indeed, the sanction does not wait. - To store a few socks, a few T-shirts, a few pants and a few jackets, the result is not good. OK ? - Yes sir ! - In position. In position. In position. Action, there. Up down. Up down. Up down. Up down. Downstairs ! Downstairs ! At the top ! Tired? - No, boss! - Downstairs ! At the top ! Downstairs ! At the end of the 2nd week, little blues for a Belarusian candidate who wants to leave. - Volunteer Kastrov, 2nd company. - Gives the contract of engagement. OKAY. Employment contract. You didn't find what you wanted to look for. It's normal, we haven't done anything yet. OK ? So you'll find, don't worry, there is no problem, there is no problem. In the meantime, you've signed a 5-year contract. So since you're a guy of honor, you're not a kid, you're 28, you have a military background, so the military life, you have already touched it with your finger, and for me, you signed up for a military career. So you're a sensible guy, down to earth, don't worry, what you came for, you'll find it, we'll give it to you, no worries. Anyway, no one leaves before the end of the instruction for the simple and good reason that he came, he signed up. So he's a volunteer, he does like everyone else, he follows the instruction correctly. It will give him plenty of time to get an idea of what to expect next. Take your contract and you can dispose. Take your contract. This is up to you. Beret on the head. In fact, the Belarusian candidate can join civilian life whenever he wants. The blow of blues affects several of the apprentice legionnaires. Suddenly, the approach of winter worries them. - They want to leave because of the cold. They have a good physique. Mentally, I don't know, but physically, they are good. They want to leave. - You, are you lacking a bit of mentality at the moment? - Here, I lack a little mental. A lot of. .. I've been thinking a lot about leaving for 2-3 days. - It's not that I want to leave, but I miss my family. It's hard. You have to be very tough mentally. - It's very cold outside. I am hungry. No cigarettes. I think I'd be better off at home with my girlfriend. - Sometimes I feel guilty because I didn't tell my family that I was coming here. But I know that in 3 weeks, I will call them to tell them that I am alive. That day, an 8 km walk with 15 kg bags. Vafaina, the Malagasy, had never seen snow. - Isn't it too complicated to walk like that, in the snow? - With us, there is mud, it's a bit like mud. Except that the mud, it sticks, but that, it doesn't stick, that slip. My gloves are full of snow, my hands are frozen. Afterwards, we will make walls. I don't know how I'll get there, but I'll manage. - Go on ! I'm a warrior because there's a lot of stuff. which we try to resist when the force is not really there, but we must resist. - Take. Arms in front. That... Do you know how to swim ? - Yes, Sergeant. - They begin to harden, the men, there? - Yeah, it's part of the training. It's a training. - It is a formation which is hard? - No, it's more mental than physical. There are a few that hold up well. There are others who... But what matters a lot is the will. - Its good ! Disembark, disembark, disembark! Go! Go! Go ! - It's the cold and the fatigue a little too, which start doing, and then, bah, morally, when we move away from friends, family, all the same, after a while, you think about it, we would like to make a phone call, but we are waiting. - At the Legion, are there things you are not allowed to do? - Yeah. - What for example ? - When one engages, one does not have the right to marry before 5 years. No car for 5 years, the cell phone right at the end of the instruction. It is... There it is... And every thing we want to do, we have to ask our bosses for permission or above us, what, to the captain. But hey, here it is. - Is it a little heavy sometimes? - For the moment no. We haven't had a chance to test yet. But hey, that's all. We knew the conditions before entering the Legion. - The farm is a bit of a return to the life before to take away our civilian life. That way, you can get by in places where you will find yourself in difficulty, all that, you can get away with it every time. That's it. In civilian life, you're used to eating your fill and everything. And on the farm, there won't be that, there are no chocolates, all that, Coke... If one day you go to war, there won't be that during the gunshots. - Are you ready to risk your life for the Legion? - Yeah, I'm ready. - Why ? - Because... I am committed, I want to change my life. I've already settled my head. No matter what, I'm... I will resist. - He passed over you, there? - Yeah, I heard. I told you, I heard 12 shots. I heard &quot;bim&quot;, and then, sh*t, he passed. - I thought it was mortar fire. I thought of a CHICOM. - We will leave. - We're going to the shielding, there's still mortar fire. - Oh ! It was close! - OKAY ! Get ready by 6! - Come on, prepare 6! - 3... Fire ! - Can you see what's going on here? - Yes, I observe where it falls to make additional adjustments. - Let's go, we send the stone! - Fire ! - To the mortar! To the mortar! - There, I think they will be calmed down because it's the 2nd time in 3 days and we responded to the artillery right away, there, so we're going to send the mash with the heavy mortar, I think. There they are on a vacuum cleaner. It's called a shell vacuum in tactics. It is a high, dominant position, from which we can see very well, but that the artillery treats very easily all the time. So here is. There, we hear the planes, currently. - How to know if there are injuries or dead on the other side? - There, it's just an aerial reconnaissance that can tell us. Because there, it is far enough. It's still 5 km. - We tried to process the objective. We do not know for the moment if there are wounded or dead, if we killed anyone. - I request authorization to carry out a 2-shot explo on the same elements as before. - Green, this is Griffin. You don't have any comments on the firing request, correct? It's just harassment, correct? - Affirmative is to avoid let them come back for observation. *- Green, this is Griffin. - Griffin, Green here, speak. *- Green, this is Griffin. Requested shot denied. - Well received. - Is it sometimes not easy to impose your point of view? - Me, I'm not here to impose my point of view. I realize. And then I realize different tactical possibilities, and then afterwards, it's the chef who makes his choice. For tonight, there is still a strong threat of attack on the COP. So watch out for stray bullets. That's why I tell you do not frog in the COP. When it pulls on the COP, you put yourself under armor, you hide and wait for orders, okay? It's useless to foolishly take one out on the COP when we weren't even in a combat position shooting. I think now that we are fighting back massively, that's good... Now you have to touch. Until we touch that we will not have hurt one or two insurgent leaders and that we will not have knocked some down, bullshit, they will continue on the COP, OK? - OK good evening. - Salaam aleikoum. There, I will start a small shura with the malek and a few white beards, in the house of the malek. - Salaam aleikoum. - Lieutenant Ponticelli. To save time, we're going to lower the vehicle. We have to back up, there, guys, because there are children and women. So you push them back, they stay along that landslide there. Its good ? - Yeah, it's good. - It is believed that security is deteriorating in the area. OK ? There was an attack in the evening on the disembarked elements, there was an attack on the COP with CHICOM fire and RPG fire. The day before yesterday, there were 13 mortar shells who fell on the ANA posts, near the COP. Finally, early this morning, there were still shots that went off and there are 10 men on foot who have been seen walking near Kabratu. - Yes, I heard that there were insurgents in Kabratu. Personally, I haven't seen them. - The ANA respects people, does not search houses. Now don't lie. And the captain of the ANA, he had been very clear, he had said: &quot;If the next time, &quot;there are people who shoot us from the houses, &quot;we will destroy the houses.&quot; OK ? So don't lie to us. We know that there are people, they play, they welcome the insurgents. - This is becoming a real problem for us. We see them preparing their operations very close to here. We maleks have no power. - Until now, we had good relations with the population. What is certain is that the last time they attacked us, they passed through this village, so here it is. He can be hostile at times if there are insurgents coming into the area. If there isn't, the population won't shoot us like that. - Ponticelli, gust to the east, there. So the PAX from your home, there, you dismiss the device. We will only keep the necessary PAX for securing the distribution area. - Gust heard in the west. So I ask in particular to 23-21 to be particularly attentive to the observation. There, for how long, there, to distribute? - It's done in 10 minutes, a quarter of an hour. - OK, you take into account the Malek with Farid, that he doesn't get lost in the... - Is the atmosphere special here? - Me, there's... You have to be careful because there are a lot of people. Well, there's the ANP at the top who controls by doing checkpoints, there is the ANA which is in the talweg which can also control. So the risk, like, it's crowded, there must be no suicide bombers or things like that. - This village, does it seem acquired by the insurgents for the moment? - It's hard to say. I think that in all the villages, there is a part of the population that is favorable to the insurgents, a part that is more favorable to strength, and then a large part which is fluctuating, let's say, who will rally to the strongest or who will rally to the one who defends best his interests. - And there, you think it will be useful, this kind of gesture, or is it illusory? - No, absolutely. It's useful. It is useful to do this because it allows us, already, to have contact with the population. And they see that we are not here only for armed actions. - Come on, 40, leave immediately. - There you go, 5,572. 5-5-7-2, 5572. - Its good. - You put... *- Correct. I am able to send it. Do you still need the PDA downstairs? - Affirmative. Since a while ago, we observe and I put the watch in their direction. *- Well received. - We are waiting for the maleks to start the shura. - Is there a risk of being attacked by the insurgents? - Well, a priori, they listen to... A priori, they heard that they are preparing and that they gathered the ammunition and rockets to attack us. On attend. - Does it scare you? - Don't. Don't. - Don't you know fear at the Legion? - Yes, everyone is afraid, but you have to know how to control it. Damn, I don't see it, this Mongolian. - You see there? - Ah yes, it moves, there, yes. Right on the ridge line. *- Charge in the region and the aim of the insurgents would be to keep us from leaving. OK ? - They won't let us go. They want us to stay here. Enemies. - I think they're going to attack us. It's possible. It moves in all directions, they see PAX in all the sense, north, northwest, northeast, everywhere. They move by 6, by 5. - Are there Taliban around here? - No, there are no Taliban. - Yesterday there were. Last night. - They left last night. - Over there ? - Come, I'll show you. The low ! Behind the big tree! - What are we doing ? - Turn back ! You go-y ! Turn over there! - Lie down there. Lie down here. Hold on ! - Back up, back up! - To be ! To be ! - OK. - How many men do we have here? - Of them. - Prepare another 5 shells, there! - Take shelter! Nobody here ! - Come on, behind, behind. - Rear ! And stay there. - Correct. *- Received. It was you who set the shot. - Correct. - OK, prepare 6 shots! Prepare 6 more shots! OK, same here! Collect the items from his home. Take shelter! Take shelter! Behind me. Take shelter. Come on, fire! Give gas, give gas! Two at once! Fire ! Everyone get down! I have a visual. 100 m to the right higher on the ridge line, the shots start. - Get up! - Where it shoots, there! Where they shoot now! Below! Prepare 6! - Fire ! - It's smoking, huh! - Clear all loads! Pick up all charges, empty cocoons. Come on, quick! Quickly done ! Clean the area, you never know what time you'll pick up! - Come on, clean up the area! Scratch the tubes! We fired a little mortar. We fired with heavy weapons. Now there are helicopters coming. - Are the helicopters the Tigers? - Yeah, it's the Tigers, you can see here, there. - You were hot. Does it make you feel good to shoot the enemy a little bit? - They shoot at us, we shoot at them, that's all. Here, it's our twins, okay? See the ridge line just ahead of us? A priori, from there, someone shot us. You cover from there for us, just in case. - OKAY. - Its good ? *- Affirmative, it's on board. - Let's go ! - Come on, come on, don't forget anything! Don't forget anything! - We move, we move, we move! Welcome to Afghanistan! - Welcome to Afghanistan. - Welcome to Afghanistan. - Welcome to Afghanistan. *- We spotted two in total. - Aim right! There ! - Helicopter ! - There's a staff behind. There's a head sticking out. - Eat well over there, okay? If it is, the motherfuckers, they will pass from behind. - Do you think it's over or... - It's not sure. It's not sure. If it is, we still receive fire from the north, it is possible. - What does it matter to you... Do you have adrenaline rushes or are you okay? - Of course we have adrenaline rushes. Of course we have adrenaline rushes, for everyone. - Why ? - Bah, it ricochets next to the ears, the adrenaline, it rises. - Are you afraid of dying? - Non. I believe in God, I'm not afraid to die. - Get ready for dust! - Here's some blood sausage! Here's pudding! Here's pudding! For the Alsatians, the Swiss and the people of Lorraine! For the Belgians, there are more, for the Belgians, there are more! They are ass shooters! For the Belgians, there are more... - Tonight is their first Christmas present, it's a kepi cover. Because soon they will receive their white kepi, of course. And it's a lamp because you always have to know where you're going, now that we are in the Legion. Whoa, you're bigger than me! Merry Christmas to you. Well, Vafaina, Merry Christmas to you. Merry Christmas. - Wake up, boys! It's not over. Just because it's snowing doesn't mean it's the end of the world. Rest. - 2nd section, watch out! Rest. Take care of yourself ! Okay, guys, you're going to stop bugging us. with your relationship stories, there, all 2, there, the 2 world champions, the boxers. Come here, there. So you, you're not even fucked to be in uniform! It's serious. There. So here, what do we have? 2 world champions. 2 morons who didn't understand that if they slap each other in the face, Well, they don't hit the enemy. There. So that, I don't want to see that in the section anymore. Lim, recite the code of honor for me. - Legionnaire, you are a volunteer serving France with honor and fidelity. Each legionnaire is your brother in arms. - Stop ! Say again. - Each legionnaire is your brother in arms. - You understood ? - Yes, Lieutenant. - Phelps. - Legionnaire, you... Legionnaire, you are a volunteer serving France with honor and fidelity. - Yeah. - Each legionnaire is your brother in arms. - Say again ! - Each legionnaire is your brother in arms. - Say again ! - Each legionnaire is your brother in arms. - Everyone understood ? - Yes, my lieutenant! - OK, now we're going to tie them up like 2 brothers. Eh ? There. And it will last as long as it takes, until you understand, you morons! Go on ! You'll see, the chief will take care of you there. You will see the chief immediately. - Come here. Hop. Take that. - You will learn to love yourself. It will be more constructive than sticking your mouth out, you understood ? - Yes, Lieutenant. - And you ? - Yes, Lieutenant. - Cowardly. - There was an altercation between the two, there, this morning. There. Well, I don't know the reason, it doesn't interest me. What interests me is that they have understood that we are here, we are all heading in the same direction. If for them, it's not clear, at the end of the punishment, it will become so. - There you go. Let's go ! Let's go ! Come on, get some rhythm! Rhythm! - I have to take care of everyone. Guys, they're not going to stay dry like that standing up. There. The 2, there, you give them a particular mission and you put a corporal with it. - You replace him. Mission for you: monitor the 2 pairs that are attached. And they clear the stairs. You stay with them! - In the Legion, there are no fights. It's friends! It's friends, understand, gringo? - Oh dear, why are you stopping there? Who said to stop? Oh there ! One knee to the ground! One knee down. - Isn't that a little bullying? - Not at all. - Bullying... We didn't put a ball on their feet, we didn't dress them in prison uniforms. It's just that they understand that we are all here to go in the same direction. If we have disagreements, we put the small dishes in the big ones and... And then we complete the mission. We can't necessarily get along with everyone, but there are ways to fix the problems. Well, we know that the legionnaire is a bit of a brawler. That's his state of mind. But don't get the wrong objective. - Do you understand? Yes or no ? Here, get 2 buckets and go. Stay on the path. - Why are you crying ? What is happening ? You got hurt ? What is happening ? Explain to me. What is happening ? - I can't feel my hands anymore. - They're frozen. What is it, Romanu? - I can't feel my hands anymore! - It hurts ? Come on, come on, Romanu. Can you walk? Stop crying there! Come. Oh ! He ate this morning? - Very hot ! Very hot ! - Sit down. - Yeah, it's good! Stop crying, huh! It's not a problem, calm down. Calm down, huh. Calm down. - I feel my hands when there is hot water all the time. But when there's not enough, my hands go pschitt, pschitt, evil passes through my hands and rises again. It's really very hard, very, very hard. I never had this before. I see everything black! I see everything black! I see everything black! - It's okay, it doesn't matter. It's not serious. It's not serious. Open your eyes ! Open your eyes ! Open! It's better ! Here, open your eyes. Look at me, look at me. Look at me. It doesn't matter, huh. The doctor will give you medicine. Afterwards, you are going to do the march of the white kepi. - Yes. - Well, that's good. - PLS, oblivious. - How ? - Turon, PLS, unconscious. OK, you stay here quiet, you go up up there. - Like that, are you comfortable? Eh ? - Yes sir. - Open your eyes. No, the eyes. The. Don't close your eyes, okay? Stay like that. Are you cold? Cold ? Did you eat this morning? There. Can you walk? To walk ? - Not. - Not? Can you feel your legs? You feel ? The ? - Yes yes. - Evil ? - Evil. - OK. Its good. OK. Gently, gently, gently. - There. If you see comrades who are not well, you say: &quot;Master corporal, corporal, comrade like this, like that.&quot; Must not leave the comrades, &quot;ouch&quot;, and after, it's too late, understood, that? Understood, right? - Yes, Master Corporal! Civil mentalities are over, we made a stroke of adjustment and forward, dai, dai. That's how it is, guys, okay? I told you, life is not easy. You have chosen a very beautiful profession, but it is also very difficult. We must continue, guys. You'll see later, you won't regret it, okay? Anyway, in life, you have to have no regrets, guys. Never regret anything. You have to live at 200 an hour, at 260. - You tell me when it's good, huh. He can't eat on his own, so we have to help him. I am pleased to do so. It's like it's my duty to do it, huh. That, on the other hand, his hands hurt, but he still eats as much. - 1... - 2... - 3. - Come on, come on, things are going well there, keep going! - I feel good, it's only my hands. I can move those two fingers a little bit. I hope they will be able to help me in the hospital. The staff will take care of me in a very short time. I think they're going to send electricity to my fingers. To wake them up. - I am always ready ! - The lieutenant gave me gloves to protect my hands from the cold. Very well. - Not too hard, but I'll get there. You have to grit your teeth, move on to the end. - I remind you of the importance of the white kepi march. Anyone who doesn't make it to the end of the march doesn't have his white kepi. In the groups, there are some who are more or less fit, well, we have to help them. So I'm counting on you to make it go well and everyone gets to the end. - Lets' go. What is happening ? - Sergeant... - Come on, let's go over there, to the top. Go on. Come on, put your bag. Can you walk or can't you walk? Without your bag? - No, Corporal. - Can't you breathe? Calm down. The nose is blocked or what? - The nose, it works a little, corporal. But the weight... - Share his bag, there he comes behind me. Me, I want to move forward like everyone else, do you understand? - Yes, Sergeant. - We're moving forward, comrade. - Yes, Sergeant. - Come on, give him his gun, there. Go on. Give me your weapon. - No one will carry you here, Vafaina, do you understand? - Yes, Sergeant. - There is no one who will carry you, comrade. Eh ? If you can't carry your bag, your weapon, comrade, you have nothing to do here. We're not going to carry you. Don't think we'll carry you 60 km, comrade. If you want a kepi, you will walk 60 km. - Yes, Sergeant. - No one will carry you. If you can't carry your bag or your weapon, you'll see. Go on ! It's okay, comrade, stop freaking out there. You raise your head, you have balls, you're a man, you steps. Come on, look up, let's go. Come on. We are going forward. We go to advance. Stop. Don't run, comrade! Walk ! Otherwise, in a few minutes, we will have to carry your bag also. Come on, change of bags, there, that's it. You can walk like that 60 km. Eh ? - Yes, Sergeant. - Can or can't you walk? - I can walk like this. - You can walk like that 60 km. - I'll try, Sergeant. - Come on, stand in a column there. Forward, forward. Come on, comrades, let's go, let's go, let's go go. Come on, we're coming. Come on, right, right. Breathe, breathe. Eh ? Breathe, huh. Look, you've come this far, that's good. Breathe. Breathe. That's good already, he's come this far. It is very good. We go... We will do our best to bring it to the end. Give him a hand to put on his FAMAS. Vafaina, in front. - Vafaina, put your beret on your head. Come on. - OK, stop. Come on, let... Come on, lend a hand. Change the bags. Its good ? - No, Sergeant. - Look at me. Eh ? What do you smell? Where is the problem ? - I see everything like that. - Come on, let's take him. Come on, let's take it. - Come with the bags. - Get the bags, we'll take him away. - Finished for him, there? - He's going to board, he's going to join us at the refueling point there, we'll see how it goes. He is in no condition to walk. Come on, get on. - Watch out for FAMAS. Put the FAMAS in front. - Come on, get on. - Symbol of the elite soldier, the white kepi links you to the family of the Great Foreign Legion, which has lost 36,000 of its men since its creation in 1831. The white kepi represents your oath to serve with honor and loyalty and to always respect the Legionnaire's Code. Committed to the 2nd section of Lieutenant Lescop, put on your white kepis. - The law of our. - Legionnaire! - You are a volunteer serving France with honor and fidelity. - Every legionnaire. - Is your brother in arms, whatever his nationality, in race, in religion. You always show him the close solidarity which must unite the members of the same family. - Respectful of traditions... - Attached to your leaders, discipline and camaraderie are your strength, courage and loyalty your virtues. - Proud of your status as a legionnaire... - You show it in your always elegant outfit, your behavior always dignified but modest, your barracks always clear. - Elite soldier... - You train hard you maintain your weapon as your most precious possession, you have the constant concern of your physical form. - The mission is sacred... - You run it all the way and, if necessary, in operation, at the risk of your life. - In combat... - You act without passion and without hatred. You respect your vanquished enemies, you never abandon your dead, your wounded, or your weapons. - You stay in the Foreign Legion, you stay in your family, in your company. What did I tell you at Christmas? - We are all from the same family. - We are all from the same family. OK ? So you stay with your family. The white kepi is a passage, you will have it in 10 days, when you've done everything you've been asked to do. You understood well ? - Yes, Lieutenant. - Do you have any questions for me? - Yes. In 10 days, I'll walk again and I'll have my white kepi? - In 10 days, you are going to walk and you will have your white kepi. OK ? - Yes, Captain. - Well, that's good. Daniel, look up, line up! Boualam, you're not aligned! Kostrov, look up!