I love DC voltage converters like these and I mean you can get them inexpensively from times crucial when it comes to powering your For example a Buck Converter takes a higher into a stable lower one while a Boost Converter into a higher one. And if you got a variable input voltage that yourself a Buck Boost converter which likes converter and thus delivers a stable output That is why Buck Boost converters are in my But here is a little secret you might not commercial buck boost converters you find in fact so called SEPIC converters aka Single I know that term sounds complicated but in circuit topology that actually does not require It could theoretically also work with one but you never see such designs on Amazon or Soooo is using one coil instead of two a secret Well; we will find out in this video in which is so versatile and epic, but also try out version which you might want to build at home. Let's get started! This video is sponsored by JLCPCB who offer assembly for $2. Currently they are working on more SMT capabilities PCBA service; so definitely stay tuned for But until then feel free to try out their within a week of waiting. To kick things off I got myself three kinds with slight variations concerning their used And if you are asking yourself right now why and not like maybe an inverting Buck Boost in a previous video; then let me tell you from one of them in order to reverse engineer it. And I think everyone can agree that it is you can find on the internet. With that out of the way let's firstly answer be scared it is not rocket science because be opened or closed. So let's imagine the switch was just open But what is noteworthy is that while the switch and at the end got charged up. Now with the switch being closed, current 1 because it is building up its magnetic field. While that is going on the middle capacitor current flow also rises linear because it And while those two inductors are basically the load with current and thus keeps the output This goes on for specific amount of time which duty cycle of a square wave signal applied as the switching element in such a circuit. And as soon as the signal changes from high pump the energy from their magnetic fields to the load while of course charging up the Then the control signal once again changes Now by closing the switch for a longer time basically vary how much energy we pump to voltage on the output. But please don't think that you can easily this way. Because as you would expect the amount of lot more than just the duty cycle like the well as the switching frequency. To learn more about definitely check out the But anyway this SEPIC converter topology is outputs like a certain other buck boost converter, can be completely shut off, its short circuit of the converter unlike some others because a capacitor and finally its MOSFET position the same as with a boost converter which means converter control IC and easily build this And now that we understand how the converter back to the one inductor instead of two inductors have a look at the voltage drops across the As it turns out the voltages across them are means you could wind both coils onto the same should still function the same while apparently should increase the efficiency. And by the way I had to double check this you can easily spot. But anyway to practically check whether coupled had to determine the efficiency of one of So at an input voltage of 12V and an output 72 to 62% which is OK I guess. Next I desoldered its inductors and measured these beautiful values at a frequency of 52kHz controller IC uses. Now at this point I tried finding a commercial boy that was certainly not an easy task and So what I did instead was firstly winding who was not designed for this but in the end And my second idea was to simply reuse this cheap from the internet. As you can see one winding consist of 4 wires one is which we can create two strands and inductor design. So I soldered those wires to the PCB according two little points. And after the first power up I was very happy because everything still worked like usual. And after once again measuring a couple of to find out that the efficiency did in fact Now using the other DIY coil initially didn't to cooperate and with it I achieved an even So does that mean that using couple inductors Well, not really because I cheated by creating commercial coils. But if we trust other experts who created a slight improvement with coupled inductors. Only problem is that this difference is so because coupled inductors are simply more And that basically solves my initial question SEPIC converter without hesitation. And If you are not sure which one to get then on MOSFET comes with a very low resistance compared to the SEPIC converter we modified XL6009 controller IC. Now while looking at those efficiencies I of creating my own DIY SEPIC converter that building a high frequency voltage converter makes it pretty much unusable even while only But on the other hand designing a circuit educational and fun. So here is my final schematic in case someone because as you can see it does in fact work 2.5 and 20V DC. And with that being said you should now definitely hopefully learned something new. If so consider supporting me through Patreon. Don't forget to like, share, subscribe and Stay creative and I will see you next time.