The following program was made Hawaiian Affairs, Bishop Museum Program, which is funded by the United States, the Hawaii the Hawaii Community Foundation, Pacific Islanders in by the Corporation for Public (music) (Speaking Hawaiian) "William McKinley, Senate of the United States of there has been submitted to the annexation of the Hawaiian native Hawaiian citizens, the annexation, (speaking annexation in any "My dear Captain Mahan, I need not tell you that as regards absolutely. If I had my way, we tomorrow." Signed Theodore United States Navy, May 1897. (crowd chanting in Hawaiian) Narrator: 1993 was observed in of the overthrow of It was an occasion for retelling stories of Hawaii's the American missionary against her. Events that followed passed off as inevitable and But unearthing the strange five America's annexation of Hawaii were buried in island soil, but America became the world Narrator: The first American originated from many like those found Maine, but none mattered quite little town down river, The first sugar plantation in Hawaii was the Peter Brimsmaid of Hallowell. Punahou, was founded by the Dole who previously had lived in diplomat to discuss annexation Luther Severance, founder of the which originally was a part of Honolulu early in 1851. And thoughts to the King, Kamehameha Severance: "The occupation of the Pacific coast Republic will necessarily induce your islands. This has been negotiated at Washington and ratified by you. I shall deem contribute to the permanent and the vigor and prosperity of Narrator: Severance discussed as a last resort to from the repeated imperial powers of Europe. When expected to be a truly sovereign Severance returned to Maine imaginations of the new editors he had founded, the Kennebec then a Universalist Church temperance, an opponent of new political party called the James G. Blaine, originally a abolitionist, and also a founder Edward Crapol: I think the main very fascinating and in some all these people from this small easternmost portion of the in these islands out in the I call a sort of a Maine mafia bringing Hawaii into the United ultimately, into Narrator: The story of became mired in the enjoyed a brilliant career that American historians. Dr. Edward Crapol: between Secretary Stevens was based on their their as expansionists and as two men Empire and the United States' for so long. They understand how Narrator: the threat of always centered on America's called Puuloa known in English 1872, an American Army Major, Hawaii in civilian clothes, Schofield: "We spent three made a careful survey and found it to be of The natural adaptability to perhaps not surpassed Narrator: To get a naval needed the Pearl River harbor. the sugar industry of Hawaii sugar market duty free. So while Reciprocity suggested a the treaty between Hawaii and exchange of Hawaii's duty free market in return for a strategic Pacific. The well-known story of Kalakaua's eloquent statement on the United States Congress. The Hawaiian opposition to named Joseph Nawahi re-emerges Nawahi was born Kamehameha the He was educated by American and studied law. When he took the bar &quot;Who taught you the law?&quot; Nawahi replied, He repeatedly won election to voters he was so independent anything from the government for (Speaking Hawaiian) Dr. Pauline King: So when exactly what the economic Sugar just grew geometrically. is our only market. Ninety nine goes to U.S. Narrator: Within a few doubled, and the population of original treaty ran for seven from year to year pending Dr. Edward Crapol: When the renewal, there was strong from protectionists, Republican terms of the treaty being producers. James G. Blaine was very interested in reciprocity convince the opponents that this context, not just in pocketbook geopolitical terms that Hawaii were this outpost in the Pacific expansion into Asian markets. the deal, they decided to add United States exclusive right at Pearl Harbor. Narrator: Hawaiian including Joseph Nawahi amendment and King Kalakaua opposition. But by this time, and lawyers, were organized to America's new asking price for 1887 coup d'etat, 900 new guns distributed through hardware white population of the town. rifles were the best armed and country. Although outwardly subverted by an oath exacted by support and protect white stopped short of taking over the the so-called Bayonet They reduced him at least They installed a new cabinet and legislature over to the wealthy the new sugar economy. Dr. Jon Kamakawiwoole Osorio: Bayonet Constitution most of the focus tends to be on what it did of the problems with that, you Kalakaua was an inept king or a then you know, clipping his to be a, you know, a reasonable really important effects of the diminished real democracy and Hawaii. The other thing is what nationhood for Hawaiians. Dr. Pauline King: situation which is extra legal revolution in order to get that Pearl Harbor clause, which is Dr. Edward Crapol: between the Pearl Harbor amendment and, and the coup and (music) Narrator: In point of beginning. Benjamin Harrison, who had pushed the Pearl Harbor president. To serve as Secretary renowned James Blaine of Maine. representative to Hawaii, From Honolulu, Stevens wrote upset. The white cabinet imposed been driven from office. A Wilcox was threatening to replace it with a native added to the tension in Hawaii Hawaii's privileged position in the reciprocity negotiation all negotiation, James Blaine, again planters access to the American Hawaiian Kingdom not only turn American Navy, but also become a States. Native Hawaiians stalled. He reassured the would take care of Hawaii with in-explicably to this day, disappeared from the bill as The sugar industry which drove plunged into depression. It is died in San Francisco, but not gone there for meetings that reciprocity, the treaty that had Hawaiian population having control in 1887, and seeing what petitioned his sister, for a more Dr. Jon Kamakawiwoole Osorio: really pale for the one really important thing, the Constitution does not reflect their lahui, and that is the political reality, the Liliuokalani when she becomes Narrator: Anticipating that the Queen governmental power for types, high officials of the Americans and descendants of the waited to pounce. One of the carefully overthrow, was that the group of indignant citizens, and length relationship with the Dr. Pauline King: There are it is missionary descendants. they've been here an awfully But they are still the WASP or the white Anglo Saxon Protestant start a political party, they before they call themselves they're they're captured in this psychology and ideology and spiritualism of those And they haven't changed. Boston's changed, but they so they are really pretty something that's very Narrator: Sanford Dole was the Dole. When he was a little boy, his study, and gave him a Bible. composed himself and read a read it through. And then, he speak and read Hawaiian, because preach to Hawaiians in their own Sanford moved with his father to Kauai, which was an economic There, Sanford made friends with William Owen Smith, and one day, rambunctious little boy from As adults, Dole, Smith and of Kalakaua and imposed the Lorrin quickly distinguished While Thurston immersed himself created an impression of Sanford Dole: "History derives of its events than from the uprising of a small people may of a great nation." Sanford Dole. Narrator: Dole translated Hawaiian stories, and he made who agreed to having one of her adopted in a hanai, Hawaiian Dole: "Lizzie who is very dear to child. She is a conscientious the protection and good Narrator: In the years after the He sailed with his friends on Harbor. By 1892, Kalakaua was was a shambles. The sugar Stevens, despite his highly entrenched as United States Secretary of State James Blaine, to a protectorate, but in his annexationist. Nothing would do, Dr. Edward Crapol: Late 91 and expecting a change might come Harrison that I think a change events that might occur in (music) Narrator: Stevens as rude and hostile, she had no way of knowing the extent reaches of the American did. In early 1892, Thurston Washington, DC, with a letter of Thurston asked what will happen Blaine was frustrated by the plan. He was also mortally ill. support. Blaine then sent the Navy, B.F. Tracey, whose which today is known as the gave Thurston a friendly across the lawn to the White while the President of the of the Navy, discussed the government. Dr. Edward Crapol: him right to the top so to that President Harrison realizes and doesn't meet with him indirect green light by saying whatever you want to do. B.F. Tracey: "The President to you that if conditions in as you have indicated, and you annexation proposition, you will administration here." "That was all I wanted to know." Narrator: When the new constitution, the committee of annexation had government, served as the basis native government in Hawaii. The States in the belief that John an aberration of diplomatic American policy. On the first troops camped outside, white buildings of the kingdom, to Battle Hymn of the Republic. Dr. Pauline King: One of the &quot;Well, who's going And they said, &quot;Well, Thurston, &quot;No, because I'm not popular someone like Dole&quot;, you know long beard and people like him. connections with the Hawaiian close, et cetera, et cetera. Dole: "Much to my surprise, the Committee of safety wished me to suppress the monarchy, and stead. I told them I would overnight, and give my decision Committee, which had been Safety." Sanford Dole. Thurston: "It was universally felt that a man of Dole's disposition could not with or advocate a selfish or participation as the leader opposition and brought support practically no other way." Narrator: The proponents American Navy rushed to their cause. Young Theodore Roosevelt He had studied law at Columbia Roosevelt declared that Hawaii immediately. Roosevelt's was just emerging as America's Alfred Mahan: possesses unique importance, intrinsic commercial value, but for maritime and military Narrator: Referring to the large workers, Mahan described yellow bottle. In the same building of a canal across the establishing American ocean. Thurston and his cohorts to turn the nation of Hawaii treaty was drafted in 12 days States Senate, but time had run had been elected president. And representatives tell the (chanting in Hawaiian) Narrator: Over millennia, voyaging peoples had evolved thriving society of the ocean forming the four highly Oahu, Maui, and the kingdom of explorers arrived, they only kingdoms were involved in a war all the islands. The arrival of course of the wars of conquest, Hawaii Island soon prevailed Kamehameha, founder of the Thurston portrayed Queen European monarchs, she was in the great granddaughter of the of Kealakekua Kona, an ally of time of the overthrow, the had been modified by the constitutional monarchy, press and The native hui's, literally gatherings, were at patriotic organizations. Noenoe Silva: The first was developed to in for Native Hawaiians, after the stripped the King Kalakaua of Aloha Aina, was formed of Queen Liliuokalani, in order "We particularly resent the presumption of being transferred like a flock of sheep, and untutored savages by an who have no right, no legal conquest by warfare. And, we of the great and just American by force against the wishes of Petition of the Women of Narrator: During the first year, hopes rose and The bell rang every morning before dawn the Hawaiian citizens to pray government. The Queen spent New at Washington place. She wrote descendants were gathered at praises to God, while their men roamed the streets. Rumors assassinated. Finally she dosed, explosion of fireworks and the resumed her writing. transpired in 1893 is of the restored by President Cleveland prayer and the Narrator: Stevens and described event and act of war. Cleveland: of Hawaii was overthrown by a and dependent for its success States, acting through its representatives." Grover United States. Narrator: step down and restore the Queen to backup his demand militarily. no right to meddle in the Dr. Edward Crapol: What if refuses to relinquish its power and allow the monarchy going to send troops ashore and government? the answer to that is no. We can act as if we might crunch really comes, we're not political disaster for us to go provisional government, use Narrator: Cleveland was widely brown-skinned queen. A as a Don Quixote, who had tilted subject of Hawaii was displaced public attention. Although its full to the brim, America was depression. The cry went up for the development of world Americans believe the nation's matched by demand for its advised his fellow conspirators being engulfed by domestic his support for an outdated reassurance quite like Sanford seldom stayed at home overnight, neighbor, never sleeping in the Dole: "Having the best weapons are cheaper than men." Narrator: In the fall of 1893, with the entire world retreated not only from his job, Dole: "I had to take a vacation on account of isolated livestock ranch in the I remained there Narrator: More precisely, adopted Hawaiian daughter Lizzie, her husband and their suffering from a severe attack people that Sanford was Anna: "My dear Sanford, get head at all." Anna Dole. Narrator: The problem of the provisional government now was d'etat government, which was they governed. From Washington, draft of a new constitution. state of Mississippi's the vote away from black proficiency barriers to prevent and a combination of income and but the well-to-do. To keep the away, he proposed that they Hawaiian monarchy and supporting Dr. Jon Kamakawiwoole Osorio: at all means that They have to swear that they will not support the Queen. They that. To participate in the Hawaiian. And that's- it's Hawaiians simply will not do. Thurston: "The object of this one, to finally and more particularly upon the monarchy is pau, over, and two, from participation in the government, all those who are Narrator: In addition to for advice to Thurston's alma New York City, and at then Burgess. Burgess taught an student, Theodore Roosevelt, Northern European descent had exercise of free government and advocated that only property strong president be appointed, be drawn from proper Teutonic preparation for a constitutional Government reduced the voter previous size. Seventeen another 18 appointed mostly Jefferson's inalienable rights pursuit of happiness, the acquiring, possessing and constitution empowered the register, control and identify nationality of persons, as well business and employment. The at immigrant workers who were plantations in droves. Changqing: "By what right do our white skin brothers assumed to should do business and trade and consent?" Changqing, to a mass meeting at Narrator: The new constitution approved freedom of religion, so construed as to justify acts of named Sanford Dole without the nicety Thurston: "Allow me to passage of the law creating you Lorrin Thurston, correspondence Narrator: On the fourth Sanford Dole, soldiers, proclaimed of the Republic of Hawaii. Thurston: "To call it more character and distinctness. in the name." Narrator: In spite new constitution did its job. immediately granted diplomatic government, as well as the other Noenoe Silva: This incensed the and particularly incensed How can you government in the enlightened governed. The hui called for a two days before the planed gave his famous lei stand Nawahi: (speaking Hawaiian) "The house of as the Kamehamehas built it. We entered our house and who are the lei stand, which they have enter. But I say to you, my enter nor consent at all." Joseph Nawahi, President, Narrator: Hawaii now had a government which represented residents, mostly foreigners. declaration of loyalty to citizenship, for fear of losing origin. The foreigners were which gave them voting rights. Republic, Henry Cooper, newly denizen. The secretary of Frank Hastings, was also a Willis: "It is certainly governmental history, a country without a citizenship." Cleveland's minister to Hawaii. Ke Aloha Aina newspaper: left their jobs and went all coming back the wives asked. to agree to annexation, but we agree. It would be better to die October 5, 1895. Narrator: The Hawaiians believing America would help of the Republic of Hawaii pushed breaking point. They had only a a serious rebellion. They were war for 100 years. Nonetheless, rebelled. Nawahi was imprisoned Jonah Kuhio. 200 were jailed and made up of white The queen was charged with misprision of treason, an what might happen, but did not descendant, who was a Supreme desk and took her papers, against her. At her trial in the refused to speak English. How do and imprisoned in an upstairs (music) Narrator: The Asian immigrants government had fallen into the tied to America. They saw that immediately being granted the began to ask, &quot;Why should we not immigrants signed a petition but they were ignored. The easily denied. By the time of Hawaii, Japan had set its sights among nations. The setting of important to Japan because Japan signed a treaty of friendship. this treaty because it depended (Man speaking Japanese) Dr. Pauline King: equal treaties. accepted within the basis. And it's not a bad idea that, you know negatively, but people in Hawaii as a, as one of Narrator: Japan's relationship Hawaii had been good. But when the white oligarchy in Hawaii the right to vote, it started a suspicion that was to be Washington later on. By 1896, election was coming, and with it in the political climate. Sanford Dole, was now the Washington. He met with Senator from Selma, Alabama, and Relations Committee. Morgan said immigrants in Hawaii, and he on Hawaii. Hatch knew, as did Japanese had been recruited by their ever-growing plantations. shows he nonetheless, Senator Morgan's complaint. Hatch: "We should will appeal to people here. argument to be used than the the country from the Asiatics, base it on." Francis Hatch, Hawaii to Washington. Smith: "Not that the has any definite designs on interests are growing stronger inevitably follow. The Japanese And the more their interests will recognize the fact that we helpless." W.O. Smith, Attorney Narrator: The Dole government Japanese rice wine was subjected members of the United Guild of Dole, with Japanese politeness. Republic requirement that possession, as well as a locally though vagrancy had never been were singled out from four returned to Japan. money were too new. Cooper: "It is of course appear that we are forcing the We should go far enough to show same time, not overdo it." Henry Republic of Hawaii Dr. Pauline King: not stopping immigration. And in situation beginning to be immigration so it's with one another they're continuing the Narrator: occurred simultaneously of William McKinley as president Party to power. Lorrin Thurston Washington to exploit the administration. Liliuokalani, left Hawaii and soon relocated Theodore Roosevelt maneuvered power in the new administration. 1896 photographs, as to be he already had been for at least a dozen years. He had gone west closing of the frontier, and now beyond the sea. All he asked was United States Navy. Nathan Miller: After all, he had The Naval War of 1812. He fought at Naval Affairs, he was in lot about the Navy. He was familiar with details of armor, sees the opportunity. Once Roosevelt came assistant secretary, he became coterie and they met once a week Metropolitan Club in downtown included Senator Henry Cabot Roosevelt's closest friend, on shore duty at the time, and the House and they were all in the world. Narrator: For Roosevelt's important was Captain Alfred as America's leading philosopher Nathan Miller: agreed on certain points Hawaii to control the Pacific, ships in the Pacific to build a America. At that time, they were control Cuba, so they could the canal and the other islands agreed on the idea of a large battleships, not a Navy based Navy, a Navy that could fight a, a sea battle of the Narrator: As the Pacific, Hawaii was there for annexation was stalled. that Americans had a queer lack Roosevelt: "My dear Captain your views absolutely, as indeed generally. If I had my way, we tomorrow. We should build the the meantime, that we should half of them on the Pacific make the President look at Narrator: Only bellicose letter to Mahan, Roosevelt with the situation he a Japanese public, angered by immigrants, Japan sent a warship reassured officials in Tokyo, they had no warlike intentions. thoughts of war. Roosevelt: "Do you think really intend to fight in they will do so now. give them a belly full." Narrator: In Hawaii, the Japan would fight, but that the seriously upset, and that the socializing and drinking, were Cooper: "I'm afraid that too soon from their position." Foreign Minister, Narrator: In fact, limited and experimental. Dr. Akira Iriye: There's a as a place for workers. There's no question in sending Japanese immigrants mean that there was an interest, Hawai`i. If by that it's meant Japan was turning Hawaii into a such design. Narrator: Although the propaganda was peril caused the tide in America McKinley: "We cannot let these her eye on them. I am satisfied as ordinary immigrants, but in order to get possession William McKinley, Narrator: On June 9, 1897, after three long Roosevelt predicted that regarding Hawaii. Three days delegation was called into the Department and asked if the negotiate for annexation. Yes. independence of the nation of all the land in the Hawaiian from Hawaii like to make any little oligarchy, fearful of sugar market, fearful of the Japanese on whose labor their annexation on any terms. Smith: "Dear Brother Hatch, the expression 'annexation at any putting it. But after all, we goodwill of the United States. friends." W.O. Smith, Attorney Liliuokalani: "I Liliuokalani of president of that nation, to and my authority to withdraw consideration. I ask the States to decline to ratify said of this great and good nation the Christian religion to fathers. To the almighty ruler judgeth righteously, Noenoe Silva: Joseph tuberculosis while he was started to fail because of the recommended to him and his wife journey to San Francisco. And on apologized to his wife that she other than Hawaii. When the ship into Honolulu Harbor, it was as There were so many people If there had been a native the President. Narrator: Despite the Thurston's attempt to of Hawaii pushed Hawaiians to a Noenoe Silva: The queen is on the east coast, her. She's writing back to them sending up formulating within documents and sending them to them to the new president. overthrow was illegal, that had called the an act of war, They remind the President that Hawaii was done without the therefore, it was completely him that if a vote were taken vote would be overwhelmingly Dr. Jon Kamakawiwoole Osorio: if Hawaiians had been If the electorate the way it was even had been allowed there could have been no voted the restore the Queen and question that democracy was Carter: which took place here on the 17th of January 1893. As an am ashamed of that action. The fears and not their good J.O. Carter, White Royalist. Narrator: To fill the new leader James Kaulia, was grassroots meetings throughout oligarchy had created the work, and they wanted be hidden forever. Still hoping not take over Hawaii without the leadership of the resistance This petition was to be so conclusively that the great opposed to annexation. Kaulia: "In my capacity as a leader of we persist in our determination the little government of the until the walls of and never will James Kaulia, Noenoe Silva: It was an attempt to their stated principles. To hold them to their government of the people Narrator: Senator John tried to talk Hawaiians into annexation. Morgan announced he Hawaiians. His words were filled up mostly Morgan: "We are not anxious (speaking Hawaiian) We are not anxious to secure secure you from aggression from (speaking Hawaiian) It makes very little smothered by a landslide or by The result is the same." (speaking Hawaiian) Narrator: Richard Pettigrew, Pettigrew: "I had supposed when in favor of annexation. who would talk with me and I Hawaiian who was not Michaelson: I have of the islands is on the island of Hawaii. The and a crowd stood outside as but there were Emma Nawahi said, 'Sign this petition. Those of you who love in a moment, the palms of toward her. A voice shouted from cannot come in. They tell me to Marian Michaelson, Reporter, San Narrator: On November 22, 1897, James Kaulia, and three Hawaiian political societies petition that eventually came to It has 21,000 names, as it was language press. A second Kalaiaina, as part of the same described in the newspaper as it's whereabouts Noenoe Silva: So together 39,000 population at the time was Women, children and men expressing to the that every last Hawaiian was they were 2 years old, or 90 male voter, or a woman. So it not want to be annexed. It eligibility. It was the whole Narrator: Given the intricacies delegation had reason to believe Noenoe Silva: There were already annexation and all that was their story, they lobbied through the snow and the ice. left in February, it was down to going to be impossible to pass vote of the Senate. And, it came back to Hawaii. the people we did it. It's over Narrator: Despite the despite the lobbying of Theodore Roosevelt and Alfred Mahan, the the 1897 Congress. It was the annexation to fail in Kaulia: "Be steadfast in aloha for the aina and be united annexation of Hawaii Narrator: was slowly But letters written to the growing excitement over America distant tropical paradise. Hoight: "Dear Sir, a party of young men here are talking Sandwich Islands to settle. Are you for information on D.C. Hoight, Owosso, Michigan. Easly: "Dear Sir, will information in regard to the requirements, salaries paid and N.D. Easly, Parker Shoe Company: we would like to have a few there handling shoes." Parker Shoe Company, Narrator: Although dismayed take over Hawaii, Theodore possibility of war with Spain its Caribbean colony. Roosevelt: for I think this country masterful races have been Narrator: blew up in Theodore Roosevelt needed no the result of Spanish treachery. Navy Secretary was away, to redeploy ships and reassign to the ships that were most George Dewey was put in charge ordered to undertake offensive islands in the event of war. the annexation of Hawaii was spotlight, stopped by Department. Thurston proposed support naval operations against went to work on Thurston 's idea set aside four vacant lots, coal eight feet high. On April Congress passed a war Southerners alike joined the Battle Hymn of the Republic. One of the oddities American War was that most Cuba, yet the fighting began in broadly worded orders, Admiral Asiatic Fleet into Manila Bay. shouted &quot;Remember the Maine!&quot; By ships had gone down, and the Assistant Secretary of the Navy Dewey's cable to a crowd of the Spanish in Cuba. An American army west coast to support Admiral troops were destined to fight Filipino nationalists, independence from colonialism. In Honolulu, stopping for a rest, while their Roosevelt and Thurston's stash last seemed secure. Pacific Commercial Advertiser: annexation on the war wave. Americans for the first time, Ocean and know something about Pacific Commercial Advertiser. Narrator: One of those was President McKinley, who said Philippines were located within diplomatic representative Sewall, offspring of a family of River and Maine. Sewall was annexationists. Sewall: "The American Philippines and behind it is an settle the problem of Hawaii, position must now be recognized." Narrator: With the show of American Force, Hawaiians who Ke Aloha Aina: "Hawaiians are annexation and give up all their in an American army to fight the to hold together. For annexation Hawaiian people. (speaking Hawaiian) Hawaii must not become a death Ke Aloha Aina. Narrator: Despite a war fever, American opponents of annexation continued to argue that the self-determination were being stepping off into overseas instrument of annexation of Representatives in the form only a bare majority vote in Senators complained bitterly responsibility for approving was being taken from them. The treaty between one sovereign the boards. Speaking in Georgia, Augustus Bacon, said he majority of Hawaii's people Richard Pettigrew proposed that Hawaii be given the right to crushed. Now, the United States agreeing with the oligarchy in Hawaiians would refuse they must not be Two days after the fourth of July, the filibuster ended. the House in passing the joint Dr. Jon Kamakawiwo`ole Osorio: when they were ready. They took Hawaii when the United States as a suitor is they stand, you know, they're into their arms. But to close up, they're not going absolutely need you. And that's Spanish American War. And that in America in 1898. They waited and they finally Annexation was an agreement between a small group take place to simply take the the dreams of a whole group of give them over to the United (music) Narrator: The ceremony arranged to occur on August 12, which turned out to the Spanish American Sanford Dole acted in the Hawaiian body politic, property of the Hawaiian lands to the United States holdings of the Government of 200,000 rounds of ammunition. The five-year process A small band of white men, the United States had given away year old society. The native their members to boycott the final petition. (Speaking Hawaiian) Hui: "Whereas the American independence governments derive their just governed. (Speaking Hawaiian) We annexation. Narrator: The Queen Hawaiians flocked to greet her. Ke Aloha Aina: "We are your From the time you an unshakable resolve and sealed Aloha, for the land, and for our wounded." Ke Aloha Aina. Liliuokalani: "I am taking your keep until the end of my days. (music) Narrator: The a thin volume titled The appeared in what was to become a Brain: "Hawaii was annexed not but by the vote of the Hawaiian to us as a gift. Narrator: The day after the annexation ceremony, the Aloha no kakou" We indeed continue. Narrator: Liliuokalani lived on in Honolulu until her Sanford Dole, in the for by the family of his hanai Lorrin Thurston's memoir for the written in the 20th century. He island drama, and blamed most of stubborn ways. The annexation of the American acquisition of Northern Marianas Islands, and Pacific, as well as Puerto Rico Caribbean Sea. Over 4,000 Americans were killed in the Teddy Roosevelt with McKinley in 1900. became president when In 1902, Congress passed through the Isthmus of Panama, quickly from the Caribbean to of Hawaii. From these bases, approaches to both Latin America stage was set for America to be power in the commerce of nations the American century. (music) The preceding program was made possible by the Office of Native Hawaiian Culture and Arts for the Humanities, the Hawaii Gerbode Foundation and Pacific