This is the sound of a garbage truck in Taipei. A subway in Seoul. 3:30 in Santiago. Auckland Singapore Copenhagen Los Angeles Sydney London Nairobi Venice Shenzhen Kuwait City Mumbai And Songdo. That's in South Korea. Awfully quiet... I ended up in here because I was looking for Songdo is the largest private real-estate and entirely state of the art smart city. some believe it's the future we need. It's only impossible until someone does it. It's also where they shot.... Just 25 years ago PSY would have been dancing Here are some other cities built on water. There is a race to build a functioning workable city and to replicate that model all over China alone would require 500 Songdos to sustain So how did we get here, with an entire industry Technology is the answer, but what is the Good question Carlo. Are we just building cities of the future so we can have cities of the future? When cinema was born only 14% of the world's Right now we're at 54%. Cities today are growing at a pace that none Now, that's a huge deal when you think about of the 20th century aren't sustainable today. We do damage to nature, and we do less damage to nature when we occupy less of it. We're not gonna make our planet grow and thrive by continuing to sprawl out. They're basically saying that when density is done right, it's the best if not the So is future urbanization going to be a good If you care about people, this is the defining The Nantucket Project asked me to explore So I read books, talked to experts, travelled around the world, asked the internet for help This is Lucas, we met on Youtube. They'd show me around, and when I couldn't The best thing about cities and the internet exploring what an even more connected urban Mayor Cavanagh: There is a renaissance in in the Detroit story. That was Mayor Jerome Cavanagh, making a bid for the 1968 Olympics. 50 years later, population still in decline, Detroit went bankrupt. In 2014 we had the water shutoffs in Detroit. Thousands of homes lost water due to shutoffs. And I wanted to focus on helping resolve that so I created an application called City Water water usage in real time. That might sound boring compared to a drone delivering your pizza but let's remember when they became healthier places to live. At the start of the 20th century America's cities were spending as much on water as the except for the post office and the army. We've come a long way to an exciting area! This is Abess. He saw my video announcing made the cut. I was born here, and I'm really passionate about bringing the city back to the point tryin' to become a city that brings tools Detroit is his company's first client. this kind of thing. And the citizens say, "I don't need to have a smart city, but whatever new innovation And it's really encouraging just the fact that the city is willing to do a project like January of 2017 and take that to other cities Because cities don't inherently compete to collaborate with other cities. We could take the best practices in sustainable urbanization and spread them around the world of the 21st century of urbanization. It's easy to imagine adopting Abess's app in Santiago and Los Angeles is a city Well what can we do the rest of the city needs Water again.. We use water from 1400 miles away. That is transported long distances using over 19% of California. David uses solar power to turn air into clean water which he gives away for free to his Every building ideally can make its own water and be water self-reliant. In the same way future cities won't need telephone lines, maybe they also won't need You put water into a bottle it becomes the the teapot. Be water my friend..like that I see, I get the idea. When people are innovating and developing solutions to address our most fundamental What kind of cities do we want? How do we cities aren't buildings, they're people. Part of the job of urban success means to attract and produce skilled people and to This goes together in a city - opportunity Detroit is innovating right now, probably over 100 companies were working furiously like Silicon Valley in the 60s &amp; 70s, Bangalore world's drones are manufactured, right now. There's at least 26% of a technology from Silicon Valley actually comes from Shenzhen. Cities are more complicated than the headlines they make on the other side of the world. saw my video there. Kong where saw the movie and emailed me. on the weekend. Like Songdo, Shenzhen was not a city 25 years giant American-style highways. Currently the US has policies that we're using general tax revenues to fund highways. And that's why it's cheaper to drive to 4000 miles away than it is to walk over to Can you tell I'm eating blueberries? You can tell you're eating what you got. Okay, cool. Our subsidies and policies encourage bad habits but the false message we send globally is Transportation's been a very sleepy field rethink what our streets are about and who Now cities are spending money getting rid choices and less parking are often the best This used to be a motorway and now it's So you got green space, shade, clean water, And sure enough, traffic got better. for people. In Singapore, where they just debuted a self-driving no cars. Same thing in: Which ironically is where this guy invented The future of our cities is about people, and providing choices for how people get around. someone can escape poverty. You'd think commute time. When walking, cycling, and public transportation are the fastest ways to move, nobody feels That's going to be the secret sauce for cities in the 21st century. Check out all these metro cards! That last one is from Singapore, where I didn't It's hard to beat the Singaporeans. In Singapore a Toyota Corolla costs 140 grand and the government only lets you lease it The fact that they embraced having something cost of their driving is a policy that basically In Santiago you can get around in this electric Let's go back there. Hi Oscar! I actually never went to Shenzhen. Nice meeting you over the internet! George and Ina shot the interview and I tuned Remember those giant American style highways? That's what Shenzhen had in mind when they hired Vicky. You know we proposed to them a very different idea. Instead of increasing the highway we where people can actually use more high speed drone to deliver daily groceries. Hiding cars in tunnels points towards a city made for people Considering how quickly China went from THIS surprising this project is happening in Shenzhen. The excitement of a happening place which of openness and not too much regulation. Shenzhen spends more time making things than hiring patent lawyers to protect them. In the West it's called theft, out here it's called sharing. And if you want to know more about that, you should watch my friend Jim's documentary. The point is, it's exciting to live in a city where people are making things. That's why I moved to New York, because I was drawn to all these people who were doing more with The most elusive solutions often spring from Geothermal energy power plant! This is a fog catcher and it can get up to 500 liters of water a day. If you can do something good with low budget resources, you can scale up very rapidly. Sometimes those solutions can end up shaping a city's identity. In Lagos - which is where this music is from by the way they call it KANJU! The word literally means like hustling. Trying to reimagine these challenges in Africa as Flooding is an issue in Makoko, so they built a school that floats by using cheap and available This woman turns discarded plastic into bricks cards or cash - all you need is a phone. In light bulbs. And the people of India have always made more out of less. The inexpensive clay fridge massive homemade meal delivery system could think tank. built a million houses and toilets, been nominated Slum Dwellers International, to 43 different We don't need you to come and sit on my it is my dance, my song, I will play it. He's basically saying - "We got this. If you want to help, channel your support For example here's this self-run recycling We all want to be involved in the futures of the You go and see every city in the world, all renowned architect, philosopher, and so on of hearing from the people. Unfortunately a lot of architects have a sort of a pre-designed approach that they force And not every city can be like Singapore where 80% of the people live in public housing. So that means you don't have slums, nor do you leave the city and its residents in Back to Mumbai. where Dr. Jockin lives, but it's a rare housing needs. My friend Matias works to draw attention to what's actually working in neighborhoods Mumbai to post war Tokyo. American planners decided to focus on infrastructure development. Everything else was left to people of a neighborhood. Like Tokyo in the 1950s, it's your neighbors planning and building your home in Dharavi Up to ninety people can be working on a small site for four weeks and produce a house of that the government are developing. And embodying the kind of incremental growth private developers rarely aim for. The places that are self-built, we often see an incredible amount of care, feeling of ownership, being built. there in the streets solving its own problem, technology or better public management in citizens lives more effectively? Post-war Tokyo, unlike Mumbai, had major funding and state of the art infrastructure - and That's not my kind of place. Go someplace else. I don't think so Mr. Deckard. Around the same time that Tokyo was booming, Copenhagen was struggling. In the 70's we had a couple of energy crises. People started to fight for getting better started developing that mobility system. In many way it was Copenhageners who have wanted to get their city back. Denmark's capital insists on citizen-driven change. I think part of Copenhagen's success is that they've had a very incremental approach this giant master-plan, they've tested and Low-rise, mixed-use neighborhoods, great public This new power plant turns waste into clean ....and it's a ski slope. We don't think of ourselves only as designers, and architects, we think about ourselves also The best part is that they still think they We have very far to go in actually creating choice for the ordinary citizen. If you buy a car in Denmark, you pay 150% tax. It doesn't matter if it's electric. I'm super excited about self-driving cars, but without good planning and policy we might in traffic jams.. For a collection of microprocessors you're awfully touchy. Of course it's possible to make any city around the world a good bicycle city. And the more we get public transit the more room they'll be for one of the very best You could start with getting more people mobilized to be sweet to people than it is to actually A person on a bike puts 1/65th A person on a bike puts a fraction of the And as you'll remember--roads don't pay for themselves. Since I started editing this project New York City bike has broken daily ridership records And the cool part is you can see all the data In the past our streets have really been governed brought very focused data driven approaches And so really seeing how we can take technology to do, but kind of enhance our ability to Well then what do you want to do? Whoa! Some think that technology is going to make us more physically isolated. People will stop moving around, they just won't need to. You basically connect your senses and the senses comes from the internet why would you get in a car, why would you I just couldn't imagine that and the whole and connect with real people, mostly in person. and for these people. It's kind of like them for, and who we're changing them with Super super tired.. Okay, I'm exhausted, I'm sure you're exhausted and I barely scratched the surface but that's what I got. Bye Bye Copenhageners! Bye Singaporeans! Bye Songdonians... Bye Mumbaikars! I'm gonna leave you with this quote from "Lowly, unpurposeful, and random as they may appear, sidewalk contacts are the small change from which a city's wealth of public life may grow." Cities remind us how much we benefit from and actually desire to share physical space one city can't learn from another and the learning--the speed at which I connected with make this video was the most encouraging part And while every city was exciting--it was for the future.