This is The Turk a mechanical chess-playing robot It made its own moves, called checkmate, and even For almost 90 years it toured the world facing and beating them all. Hundreds of articles were written but no one ever figured out how it worked Amazingly, the real secret behind this mysterious and was almost lost completely We modeled the entire thing and how it managed to trick The story begins in Vienna in 1769 where a special event was At the event the audience were being treated to a show by a famous French magician While the audience was blown away, Hungarian inventor Wolf Gang Von Kempelen He worked for the Empress and with a much more impressive creation of his own. And so over the next 6 months in the Kempelen revealed his creation at the next event The audience watched on in amazement as this moving around the chess pieces Word spread quickly about The Turk and soon hundreds of people 10 years went by, but the and so Kempelen took the machine out on the road starting its first European tour in 1783. This is how a typical show would go. At the beginning, Kempelen would and inviting people to look inside It would reveal a compartment full of complex machinery. To show that there was he opened the door at the back and lit a candle so that the audience could see right through the up the main compartment which was mostly empty. With all the doors open, Kempelen pulled out a set of chess pieces from the drawer at the bottom. The Turk was now ready to play. Kempelen would challenge the most intelligent and almost always The Turk would come out on top. Kempelen and his machine playing some of the most skilled For the final game in France Despite being a chess fanatic, After this, speculation behind While many believed it really was some thought it was also being controlled by magnets and some thought there was a but Kempelen was determined and in 1804 he passed away at the age of 70. The Turk was eventually sold to a German inventor Over the course of several years he figured out This time finding even more success in America. But one day, after performing in Baltimore, that appeared to give away The Turk's secret. Two young boys had climbed onto The Turk's storage shed and saw Maelzel opening the cabinet and a man climbing out of it. A few days later the newspaper retracted the article because the boy's story couldn't be verified. This is still a problem in today's world that's why we're working with Invented by a former NASA engineer that allows you to compare articles from a wide range of sources to verify information and see the full picture. Every story comes with a quick reliability, ownership and headlines all backed by ratings from three Independent News monitoring organizations. Take this story about Boeing Starliner More than 150 news outlets reported on the story You can also see a as well as headlines to see With their bias comparison feature we can see that the left and center outlets the affected valves while right-leaning outlets framed these leaks as a crucial test for Boeing's competition with SpaceX. One of our favorite features is their blind spot feed which highlights stories underreported by one side of the political spectrum. For example, if you lean left you probably missed this story on Boeing being blocked from increasing production of their airplane . for a more faithful and click the link in the video description or scan the QR code to get After figuring out the secrets behind his new machine, Maelzel took The Turk back out on the road. One of his first opponents was none other than Maelzel and The Turk spent the next 20 years touring and everywhere in between. The Turk was more popular than ever, Famous Poet Edgar Alan Poe and ended up writing an essay He thought that there was simply that could see the chessboard Maelzel spent most of the 1830s but while sailing back to the US, Maelzel suddenly were now just waiting to be The machine eventually fell who had always been interested in the machine, and without a charismatic owner to put on the show, He remained here for over a decade until one day, It was no doubt one of the best-kept secrets in the world. It traveled everywhere, and yet, even through multiple owners it managed to take its secrets It seemed like the secrets behind but a year later the son of The Turk's last owner These are the secrets behind The Turk. As it turned out, The Turk wasn't automated at all and was in fact operated by a Chessmaster The fake machinery and the bottom drawer and so there was space for the operator Before the left door was opened into the main compartment, The presenter would then open the rear door and show the audience that there was nothing but machinery inside. as the presenter closed the rear door the operator would slide back and in front of him. The presenter would then open up the front to allow the audience to see inside . Having seen right through the whole machine the audience would now have full belief the doors were then locked and The Turk was ready to come to life. The operator would slide back into the main compartment and open a hidden door inside The Turk's body revealing a candle, a chessboard, and a mechanical lever which would control The Turk's arm. The lever was in fact a clever pantograph mechanism using strings that would mimic It had a pointer which the operator could lift By moving the pointer over the chessboard it would move The Turk's hand But how did the operator see Above the operator was a fake ceiling that could be under each square was a small magnet dangling from a copper wire. The chess pieces themselves and so the magnets would get As his opponent picked up a chess piece the corresponding magnet would allowing the operator to see what piece had moved To this day, the original operator of The Turk is unknown but during Maelzel's tours the machine was operated all of whom kept their part of the secret. Over the course of its 90-year career, and won almost all of them. Amazingly, the story of these young boys seeing was almost certainly true, but The Turk And now for the Primal Space giveaway. The winner of the previous giveaway is Marco. Congratulations. In the next video, we'll be giving away All you need to do is sign up at the link below like the video, and leave a comment saying Thank you very much for watching