He was unknown to the broad public He preferred to stay in shadow. In the hardest tasks and never failed them. He was in charge of the became the first KGB minister. A was accused of state treason. Viktor powerful intelligence service of the time, THE LAND OF SOVIETS. VIKTOR ABAKUMOV The year was 1921. 'Everybody envied the 13-year-old Viktor Abakumov was while his classmates were making he would join the Red Army. The same evening he went to the HQ of the as a nurse. That was the beginning of one of the world's most The special regiments were created The Bolsheviks used them to suppress By May '22, the Civil while individual seats In Ryazan province peasants Viktor's regiment was The insurgents were encircled in the Over 20 peasants were killed. Viktor treated the wounded One of them died. This was Abakumov's In 1923 the special regiments were In the next 4 years he shifted from and in 1930 Another 2 years later he was recommended Political Department (OGPU). At 24, OGPU was a Soviet secret service created and organized crime. Formed on OGPU was merged with NKVD. Even as head of the State Security in the lens of photo and cinema cameras. he had always been conscious of his He was a heavy smoker in spite of Abakumov often threw dance parties He was a notorious womanizer. The tall and handsome Abakumov Later his reputation of His budding career had almost come to on him claiming that he was using Abakumov confessed that he actually for his own purposes. He was expelled He might have been fired from OGPU. From a performance report on 'jumping to conclusions. Sometimes 'Didn't take part in investigations. Abakumov got away with a demotion. to the Ukhta-Pechersk Labor In April 1935, Abakumov was Till April 1937 he worked as a the State Security. NKVD - the People's It was responsible for the passport system, However, people remember it first The year was 1938. Lavrenty Beria was Yezhov was suspended. The and the ways of the Many cases were reviewed with some of NKVD needed new people, Abakumov was a perfect candidate. He was appointed acting Head of NKVD given that position permanently. After defeating organized crime in had become criminal capitals of the Abakumov found it a proper A vast number of various nationalities this was used for unlawful arrests. Rostov Chekists claimed exposing a Finnish had been arrested and The new boss cooled the hot heads. For the first time he began to Abakumov spent days and verifying every The result was equally unexpected All the defendants were released with was less lucky: he was The employees involved in the frame-up Some were also prosecuted. Abakumov had spent However, he was a gifted He also was an excellent administrator. He had always studied every case in The SMERSH counterintelligence had existed for only 3 years. In that short period it was able to and become one of the world's most His scrupulousness along with intuition formed the basis for the He had a good sense of timing, and he was most useful. In 1938 Lavrenty Beria, appointed came to his half-destroyed ministry. Beria, in his turn, was getting rid Many qualified employees were fired. One of the newly unemployed he would organize sabotage squads taking part in the Monastery and Rudolf Abel, the legend In 1938, he worked in Moscow On the eve of the war many fired agents the new NKVD leaders needed reliable appreciated. Beria even called on In spring 1940 Abakumov was awarded NKVD senior major and In February 1941 NKVD was divided headed by Beria, and State Security Both were less than enthusiastic they had worked in the field of economy Unlike them, Abakumov didn't only had a romantic view of it. The war was approaching. Nobody doubted The country was unprepared. The rearmament The army was lacking The counterintelligence was equally the Soviet Union would soon face. There were mere months In July 1941 Abakumov became head of The Special Departments Administration military counterintelligence. Special spies, traitors, and saboteurs In the summer of 1941 German troops were toward Moscow. The Recd Army was retreating. and others fought their way out of The number of deserters was hundreds of their agents A number of German secret services were including its main enemy - the Abwehr. Abwehr was Germany's military in 1919-1944. It was headed by professional Later Brigadenfuhrer Walter Disguised in Red Army uniforms, the Abwehr or were air-dropped and posed as soldiers German agents for work in the USSR were They had little idea about Soviet life For example, an investigator would spill and ask him where the commander was had watched the legendary Chapayev 'In the front, on his battle horse!' A foreigner who had no idea about 'And he opens fire!' However, in the very first days of intelligence schools training agents of the Soviet life and culture. The counterintelligence Their ability to solve them would Barrier squads for blocking the retreat The discussion on whether these squads going on for years. Zhukov and Bulganin's order 'Barrier squads are to shoot on spot However, the squads wouldn't be able to A division's barrier squad was no 14,000 soldiers, and a The major task of the squads was their regiments and capture These squads were acting on the where they would set up Extrajudicial execution of deserters only in urgent cases. Sometimes in the heat of the battle would be also shot by barrier squads. In the first 4 months of the was the strayed from their 632,000 of them were returned to their and 10,201, or 1.5%, executed. In April 1942 Abakumov himself barely It appeared that NKVD hadn't including lists of party members It fell into the Nazis' hands. Meanwhile, had been rescued, had already When the truth came out, Stalin asked 'lie to you?' Years later, Abakumov's In spite of the mistakes, the counter The Special Departments terminated the commanders of the Western and In October 1942, Abakumov was waken group had surrendered at the Volkhov The agent and 2 radio operators who had agreed to cooperate with the The verification began. Again, Abakumov He decided these people were trustworthy. Soon he suggested starting the so-called to the Abwehr radio center. With the development of new communication using it for misinforming the enemy. It was important that the agent he could always send a signal to Abakumov would come to many He wouldn't interfere - just listen and Stalin not to hasten the game. It was All radio games were conducted by at the HQ provided them with plausible approved by Abakumov or his deputies. The Volkhov radio game continued for 3 on the eve of the Iskra operation The fake messages were aimed at masking Some regiments were deliberately placed to make them more plausible. Mock January 12, 1943, the long-awaited From Marshal Zhukov's memoirs. 'Nobody 'on the Iskra operation wouldn't be leaked. that the enemy didn't know our capacity, People behind the frontline were being Today people view the anti-spy propaganda However, in the wartime vigilance would Abakumov met personally many of the who had willingly or not switched sides. persuade them to return to the Red still others - intimidated. The ferocious war started by the Nazis wasn't too shy to use them. He would give immunity to agents criticized by many, helped to increase the From May 1942 to May 1943 the 243 German radio stations, with 80 This work allowed making the counterattack Abakumov was meticulously creating able to defeat German secret services. had reached a new level, leaving Abakumov's people were able to and give warning about the The Soviet counterintelligence That was when Abakumov took part for which he is blamed to this day. Civil War, collectivization, hunger, the Soviet power. After the first Red Army defeats The latter began a huge campaign living in the USSR. They published with a motto, Allah Even before the Germans invaded North between local groupings and Soviet The State Defense Committee made a to Siberia and Kazakhstan. The military operations, uncharacteristic People of various nationalities cooperated Belorussians, residents of Caucasus and provided for the deportation of whole were deported during the war time. They or Party membership. However, they the right to live in their native The United States took similar measures All the Japanese, regardless of age and to camps in the East and Midwest. The deportation in the USSR brought culture, and relationship Abakumov took part in the North Caucasus to armed conflicts. 780 people were killed and over of the Chechens and the Ingush. Over 20,000 guns, including rifles, In April 1943, the Special Departments The question arose about the name for somebody suggested Death to Stalin objected that not all spies were It was abbreviated as SMERSH and they called all Soviet counterintelligence had ceased to exist. There were 3 organizations of this name. SMERSH at the Chief SMERSH at the Navy The latter was subordinated to the Navy Commander Kuznetsov. SMERSH i.e. military counterintelligence, The Abakumov's department was the He gave all his time to creating The SMERSH head was only 35, but he His ability to quickly grasp the essence Seasoned generals, several years and answer for their blunders. From the memoirs of Col. Chernov. 'Young 'He gave most of his attention to 'He never cut slack to anyone. He was hurt someone's feelings, he would later Interestingly, many SMERSH members taking care about Hero of the Soviet Union, 'I reported to Abakumov and waited 'about the situation on our front 'I told him they had gone missing in 'A week later he called me to inform 'He gave me 72 hours to settle down my 'since a plane was waiting For SMERSH members, the hardest 'The military counterintelligence With time, the number of complaints planted into the German intelligence, Data on the enemy agents were processed would get full descriptions on their The so-called identifiers were used The agents knew typical Ge3rmans' cover The Soviet Army was permanently changing The Germans were unable to follow all of agents' discoveries, as it had SMERSH was a top secret agency. Few people Its members wore uniforms of various artillerists, infantrymen, doctors, etc. They didn't even have a unified ID. They never showed it to anybody They used any kinds of arms that suited attention, so they carried revolvers, Berettas M34s, Lignoses. Only experienced battle veterans They were all trained at SMERSH There were good reasons for that. was very dangerous. During 136 SMERSH members In June and August 1943, 119 agents region and later used for misinforming at the Kursk Bulge caught 75 Soviet agents were planted into They presented information on 359 German The German secret The Abwehr, one of the worlds' best of military families with excellent with only 4 years of technical At that time, not only armed officers the civilians who cooperated In the liberated regions SMERSH would with the enemy: city mayors, Abakumov once said, 'The Soviet 'than the Nazis. We should expose 'they had placed He had to make regular A Messerschmitt attacked The bomb shrapnel had pierced the car. However, none of the For his contribution into the victory, of Suvorov, stage 1 and 2, orders of the He became member of the committee War Tribunal over the Abakumov's agency was persecuting generals Vlasov and Shkuro, Collaborationism means military, the enemy. The term was coined in 1940 supporting Nazi occupants. Most as state treason. Abakumov met his wife Antonina at the Navy intelligence department. The minister fell in love at first In 1951 she gave birth to his son Igor. Antonina's father was artiste Nikolay hypnotic seances. It is said that seance at the Variety on Smirnov's gigs. In 1946, the State Security SMERSH had became its part, and Gen. At that time he stood at the helm of Ukraine and Belorussia In Ivano-Frankivsk oblast alone 184 were destroyed, 10,000 fighters for of OUN/UPA. UPA is the armed wing of the The insurgent army arouse out of separate Its goal was reestablishment of a in Ukraine's territory. Abakumov was among the initiators of movement. In 1944 the Soviets decided They realized that further confrontation They offered the OUN to surrender Roman Shukhevich took interest in the Stepan Bandera's objections. The In 1948, the State Security Ministry starting with the Jewish Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee under the aegis of Sovinformburo for writer Erenburg, poet Marshak, director The Chairman was actor and chief director Solomon Mihoels. The Jewish organizations case was prepared by Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee. against the Jews. It also quoted names of The USSR refused to publish the book, and cast shadow on other nations. collaborators taking part in execution, of internationalism. The Committee submitted the enraging the country leaders. They viewed beginning of the cold war. The Jewish hostile because of its connections many Committee members were Now, with Abakumov answering to Stalin other Party leaders had changed. He them, never joining any His only protection was the now Abakumov was trying to protect himself. A brilliant agent, he was not the his first enemy. During the war he was Accused in the Aviators' Case led by Soon Malenkov worked his way back had acquired an influential enemy. The Aviators' Case was a criminal case of Soviet planes in the beginning of the leaders of aviation industry Abakumov's former friend Lavrenty The real reason behind their conflict dealt mostly with military industry However, Abakumov stopped and once even raised his voice to him. Abakumov gave orders to organize After the war it was an urgent issue. Stalin was afraid that the popular generals Marshal Zhukov's, generals Kulik, As a result, Kulik, Gordov and Rybalchenko July 4, 1951, Abakumov was The next day he was called He was charged with state treason and also went to prison. Not long the so-called Doctors' Plot. This case started in 1948 with the as a result of a medical error. Stalin aimed at destroying Abakumov studied the case and One of his subordinates, Lieut. Col. wrote to Stalin accusing Abakumov of covering Stalin could have ignored the report but He spent 3 years in prison. He was chained After 8 days in the icebox The healthy man had become an invalid. Later he was transferred to Butyrki He never admitted his fault In that his fate was similar to Marshal and never pledged guilty or give Stalin's death didn't save Abakumov. were Abakumov's enemies. Even They tried to merge their cases, though it was known that December 14, 1954, a session of the began in Leningrad, chaired by Prosecutor in the Nurnberg process. Abakumov, who had waived 'I pledge innocent. This case is a frame-up But the holder of a dossier on all The ruling tandem of Malenkov and The Revolution had once again devoured of Stalin era repressions became The court session continued for less than He was executed December 13, 1954. His last words were, 'I with a shot interrupting him mid word. His wife Antonina had been released His son Igor had spent the first In 1955, a new birth certificate for the 'Father' box and Abakumov's only son became a renowned of computer psychodiagnostics In 1997 the Military Collegium of the of treason from Viktor Abakumov. His personal file is classified and