The gap between strategic thinkers which managers succeed in the future. Think about it in a world where as a good chat GPT prompt. Leaders must consider how they'll add One thing is for sure, those who will stand out as brilliant leaders. In this video, I'll share how you big picture and think long term to make a difference to your organisation find the time for strategic thinking But first, let's address a common Understanding what it means to you're already busy and juggling I worked with a client who had strategic And when I asked what that meant to him, He wasn't absolutely sure In he wasn't involved in any of the So he was wondering how The truth is, strategic thinking isn't At its core, it's about looking beyond impacts, and it's about solving problems. Every manager I've ever encountered responsibility that, if solved, would easier, or improve team engagement. These are perfect opportunities But before you start, there's consider, your organisation's goals. When I left my corporate career, consultant and a strategic facilitator, strategic direction and annual plans. Now a common challenge arose at the and agree on the goal and the scope Often people would say, Everybody already knows Many wanted to jump straight Yet, when we started working on it, within minutes, someone invariably would What often emerged was that certainty people thought existed. So if the first step in being more organisation's goals fully, you These goals are frequently poorly and then forgotten about, or not differently across departments. To see the big picture, you need perspectives from different sources. Be proactive and spend time more about your organisation's In particular, ask about Aim to build a network across view of the organisation. See how everything fits together. Regardless of your position, make sure Strategic thinking is about broader organisational objectives. Whatever efforts you make or problems the organisation achieve its goals. So let's say you've identified be your strategic showcase. A problem that if solved will chance to nurture your skills. What next? A significant part of strategy What will help you achieve the strategic And many start by looking at the spending time analyzing data to find and seeing what the answer gives them. Now, both are valid approaches. Desk research should be part of However, this is not where Strategy isn't just about data and ideas. The real challenge lies in execution. To think strategically, you need to grasp Much of the answer to effective strategy these day to day operations and how they Strategy is implemented by people. They often know what's working and people create elaborate workarounds ineffective technology Moreover People key aspects of their job, or who lack implement new strategies effectively. Another area to pay attention to These invisible walls that Many times when I work with commercial lack of alignment that is between Marketing often developing fully understanding the customer. Meanwhile, sales teams, especially when to build relationships and foster a You see, you have to be able connections, and you won't see The real value comes from data with on the job insights. Now, here are some actions you away from your desk to work with about what works and what doesn't. Collaborate across functions to particularly if you're in Again, ask what works and what doesn't. Be a customer Now, this is going but if you have a customer service Notice how long you wait, how irritating to find the right answer on your And then finally, when you reach a real ask yourself, are you truly delivering on of what your statistics suggest? From an outsider's perspective, Okay. I'll get off my soapbox now. What I'm saying is you need to be curious, The real value comes from connecting the and then assessing what it tells you. I once led a business development operation of about 50 people. It wasn't core to the business, but I'd been told right at the start not it wasn't an investment that the So I knew that the best way to to get out there and experience it. So off I went, What followed were days with different sales reps and managers going on Now they had a challenging job frame finding places to park Making sales one day, I asked the guy I was out with have the biggest impact on our sales. And he said, replace And obviously my first thought But I went on to ask why that He then explained that his van had broken And as I asked further questions, He calls, the difficulty of catching up, himself, and how he believed they could focus on the selling and spending time their tails, trying to catch up on calls. And he added at the end, a So I started joining the dots, looking We did have some seriously old why we were missing our targets and As I dug down and better understood the van maintenance issue was enormous. It was a huge problem affecting So loving a challenge, I went back to investment in the vans was a no go. Well, I'd like to share why I That set in motion a review and a a load of new vans and overhauled improved the bottom line, the service focus on the higher value opportunities. Many people rush to solve problems Strategic thinking requires digging and questioning the status quo. This is where your questioning Asking questions that help you their root causes is crucial. Now the Five Whys technique It works by beginning with the problem And you document the Ask why again. And you repeat this process five Even better look at several And as you dig down, like with will find out how problems often So this method helps you move beyond the underlying cause, which will allow Leaders who can uncover root causes stand not necessarily be strategic leaders if Have you ever had management consultants present a strategic challenge in a Everyone listens. They bring clarity. But ask yourself this, did you I've definitely had that experience. Often what consultants do is conduct organisation what they think is working back in a clear and cohesive way so that So why do people within the organisation First, they can be preoccupied But I think they're also often especially if your contact with the templated board report and presentation. We can often find ourselves problems from a performance slide. But you need to be able to frame in a conversation or a presentation, it guides them to the solution. You need to be able to tell the in a way that resonates and This is where all that experience of such good stead and differentiate you You'll just share so much more All these skills are learnable The more you practice, the But there's one more skill and leaders who do this well use. And it's probably the most important. Remember that manager I mentioned at thinking on his development plan? I asked him how much time he And he replied that it was hard to And didn't have a regular If you recognise this in yourself, of your leadership success. You will find that despite your If you find yourself always reacting to your team and managing stakeholders, You have to give it time, Time is your most important tool If you don't prioritize time Too few managers, from my perspective, Scheduling regular time to plan and day to day operations is essential. Plus you need a strategic challenge you know would be valuable if addressed. Create a plan to explore, define, and better talk with your manager and Who will you need to talk to? Again put that in your plan so that you keep of mind So that you don't get knocked Make your plan transparent and get it out planning to turn your plan into more quarter is hugely beneficial here. Use these sessions to step concentrate on long term goals. I feel so strongly that managers are that I have created a course manager OS. To share the steps so that you can and confidently manage and lead can find out more about it below. Strategic thinking isn't an innate through practice and the right approach, goals, Connecting with operational and effectively framing problems You And your leadership skills and drive This is good as your strategic thinking assets as a leader in the rapidly evolving I mentioned the importance of In this video here, I share more about perspective, which balances strategic This approach definitely had strategic leadership development. And I recommend checking