Transcriber: Leonardo Silva So, we all have some behavior that we would like to change And we certainly all want change their behavior in a positive way. So, maybe it's your kid, So I want to share that I think reveals about what gets people But before I do that, that I think you probably use a lot. So, let's say you're trying What do you tell yourself? Well, most people, &quot;Beware. You'll be fat.&quot; And if this was your kid, you would probably tell him and, by the way, he's in big, big trouble. (Laughter) So, what we're trying to do here is we're trying to scare into changing their behavior. And it's not just us. Warnings and threats are really common It's because we all share that if you threaten people, it will get them to act. And it seems like a really except for the fact that the science shows that warnings have So, graphic images do not deter smokers from smoking, and one study found quitting actually became So, I'm not saying that warnings but what I'm saying is, on average, And so, the question is: why? Why are we resistant to warnings? Well, if you think about animals, when you induce fear in an animal, the most common response you will see fighting, not as much. And so, humans are the same. So if something scares us, we tend to shut down and we try So, we might use rationalizations. For example, you might tell yourself: &quot;My grandpa smoked. He lived to be 90. So, I have really good genes And this process can actually than you did before, which is why warnings In other times, we simply (Laughter) Take the stock market for example. Do you know when people to look at their accounts -- not to make a transaction, So, what you're seeing here, in black, is the S&amp;P 500 over two years, and in gray, is the number of times that people logged in And this is data from Karlsson, it's control [data] for all So, what do we see? When the market is high, because positive information so you seek it out. And when the market is low, people avoid logging in, because negative information so we try to avoid it altogether. And all this is true as long as bad information So, what you don't see here in the financial collapse of 2008, when the market went drastically down and that was when people but it was a bit too late. So, you can think about it like this -- In many different parts of our life, (Laughter) we have warning signs And they could potentially lead but not necessarily so, because there are different routs It can go this way, it can go that way. And, as time passes, you gather more and more information (Laughter) And, at any point, you can intervene and you could potentially but that takes energy &quot;What's the point about worrying It might not happen.&quot; Until we reach this point, at which time you do jump into action, So, we wanted to know, in my lab, what type of information So, we conducted an experiment where we asked approximately 100 people of 80 different negative events So, for example, I might ask you: &quot;What is the likelihood that you'll suffer And let's say you think it's about 50%. Then, I give you the opinion So, expert A tells you: &quot;You know, for someone like you, So, they give you Expert B says: &quot;You know, for someone like you, I actually think So, they give you What should you do? Well, you shouldn't change Wrong. What we find is that people towards a more desirable opinion. In other words, people listen Now, this study was conducted &quot;Well, college students are delusional, (Laughter) And surely, as we grow older, So we said: &quot;OK, let's test that. Does it generalize Does it generalize to your spouse?&quot; And so, we tested people and the answer was yes. In all these age groups, people take in information -- like someone telling you than information And the ability to learn from good news remained quite stable but the ability to learn from bad news, that changes as you age. So, what we found was were the worse at learning from bad news, and the ability became But then, around the age of 40, it started deteriorating again. So, what this means kids and teenagers on the one hand, they're the least likely But what you can see here is that it doesn't matter You can be 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60; everyone takes in information more than information that they don't. And so, we end up (Laughter) Our mistake as teachers, is that, instead of working that people so effortfully maintain, we try and put a clear mirror We tell them: &quot;You know, the image is just going to get worse And it doesn't work. It doesn't work because the brain using Photoshop and fancy lenses, until it gets the image it's happy with. But what would happen and not against it? Take handwashing, for example. We all know that handwashing to prevent the spread of disease, and this is really important in hospitals. So, in a hospital a camera was installed to see how often medical staff before and after entering Now, the medical staff knew Nevertheless, only one in ten before and after entering But then, an intervention was introduced: an electronic board that told the medical staff Every time you washed your hands, and it showed you and the rate of the weekly staff. And what happened? Boom. Compliance raised to 90%, which is absolutely amazing. And the research staff and they made sure to replicate it Again, the same results. So, why does this It works well because, instead of using warnings about bad things that can happen it uses three principles that we know Let me explain. The first one is social incentives. In the hospital study, the medical staff could see They can see the rates of the shift, We're social people, we really care we want to do the same This is an image from a study led by PhD student Micah Edelson, and what it's showing you is a signal when you hear about the opinion of others. And what we found was how likely you are how likely you are So, the British government to get people to pay taxes on time. In an old letter that they sent to people they simply stressed and that didn't help. Then, they added one sentence, and that sentence said: &quot;Nine out of ten people in Britain And that one sentence enhanced compliance and it's thought to bring 5.6 billion pounds. So, highlighting what other people The other principle is immediate rewards. So, every time the staff washed their hand, they could see the numbers go up And knowing that in advance that they, otherwise, may not want to do. Now, this works because we value rewards that we can get now, more than rewards And people tend to think it's because but that's completely wrong, We want to be happy and healthy but the future is so far away. I mean, maybe you'll behave badly now and maybe you'll be altogether dead. (Laughter) So, the here-and-now you that tangible T-bone, rather than something If you think about it, You're choosing something sure now rather than something But what will happen for doing actions that are good Studies show that giving people make them more likely to quit smoking, more likely to start exercising, and this effect lasts because not smoking and exercising becomes and it becomes a habit, it becomes a lifestyle. So, we can reward ourselves and others now for behaving in ways and that's a way for us And the third principle So, the electronic board focused on improving their performance. This is an image from a study that shows you brain activity suggestive of efficient coding And what we found was that the brain but it doesn't do such a good job at processing negative information So, what does this mean? It means that, if you're trying you might want to highlight So, for example, if you take that kid with the cigarette, you might want to tell them: &quot;You know, if you stop smoking, Highlight the progress, not the decline. Now, before I sum up, let me just share A few weeks ago, I got home And was really surprised because So, I was wondering why my husband And so, looking at the bill, I could see is get me to be more efficient And how was it doing it? Social incentives, immediate rewards Let me show you. Here are the social incentives. In gray is the energy use on the average energy use And in blue is my energy use, and in green is the most And my reaction to this was -- my immediate reaction was: &quot;I'm a little bit better than average&quot; -- a tiny bit, but still... and my husband had and &quot;I want to get to the green bar.&quot; And then, I got a smiley face. That was my immediate reward and it was and it made me want (Laughter) And although I have this one smiley face, I can see an opportunity there (Laughter) So, there's an opportunity for progress and it's showing me my progress how my energy use changes And the last thing this bill gave me: it gave me a sense of control. So, it gave me a sense of I was And that is a really important thing, if you try to get people because the brain is constantly trying It's one of the principles And so, giving people a sense of control OK. So, what am I not saying? I'm not saying that we do not need and I'm not saying but I am saying that, if we want we might want to rethink how we do it, because fear, the fear of losing induces inaction, while the thrill of a gain induces action. And so, to change behavior we may want to try rather than threats, which really capitalize to seek progress. Thank you. (Applause)