Today i invite you to discover what some might call the heaviest, most terrible, bloodiest chapter in the history of the United States of America: the Secession War. Better known in the USA as the American Civil War or the War of Secession, which was an armed conflict on land and sea for four years, from April 12, 1861 to April 9, 1865 and even a little beyond. It's by far the deadliest conflict in the history of this country. More than 600,000 people died there, whether soldiers, civilian, or slaves. Some sources even put forward the figure at 800,000 because the devastation caused is so appalling. You'll have understood, this is a minimum estimate. But the fact remains that this war alone caused more deaths than all the subsequent wars waged by the USA until the Vietnam War in the 1960s and 1970s. That's to say! Politically and strategically, the American Civil War pitted the northern states, known as the Union States, against the southern states of the country. This latter regroups in a Confederation, votes for secession and consequently becomes the Confederate States of America. The main cause of the Civil War concerns the status and future of slavery, particularly with regard to the expansion of this inhumane practice in the territories newly acquired by the USA in the aftermath of the War of 1848 with Mexico. What? Does slavery have a &quot;future&quot;? I mean a future in the sense that an entire society agrees to develop and found its economy by having recourse to labor made up of black slaves working without pay and suffering the worst abuses if they do not obey? So, they'll fight for that. A nation is literally tearing itself apart over this issue. Let's go, today on History will tell us, the Civil War, part 1! Subtitles: salvadorarmandoul@gmail.com To fully understand the ins and outs of the worst military conflict in the history of the USA, it's necessary, as is often the case, to go back in time time and put into context. The US won the war in 1865 and slavery was finally abolished. However, to get there, a nation found itself politically and geographically cut in two. Its most beautiful fields, its vastest forests and rivers are filled with blood of hundreds of thousands of dead, wounded and missing. Even worse, the political, economic and social consequences are still being felt in American society. In other words, the Civil War never really ended in 1865. In some ways, the current problems that Americans are experiencing, especially with racism, have their roots in the Civil War. That being said, let's talk about the context. I'd tell you right away that war became more and more inevitable around 1860, i.e., the day after the election as President of the US of a former Republican Congressman named Abraham Lincoln. The new president inherits a country in the middle of a crisis that is political, constitutional, cultural and moral. Lincoln wins the presidency on an anti-slavery platform and against the expansion of this inhuman servitude. Moreover, the elected president hasn't yet taken an oath that certain states are threatening to secede. But then: how did they get there? How? As I said, the practice of slavery and its expansion was probably the most problematic political issue in the USA of the mid-19th century. Slavery is a very particular &quot;institution&quot; and, above all, completely rooted in the mores of Americans at the time. While not specific or unique to the US, slavery was introduced to North America by English and Spanish settlers who gradually settled there in the 17th and 18th centuries. During the period when slavery was legal, i.e., about 250 years, an estimated 645,000 black slaves deported from Africa to North America. But the existence of this institution is less and less unanimous. For example, in the aftermath of the American Revolution, at late 18th century, the northern states of the country gradually passed emancipation laws. However, southern states are slow to adopt such laws, so the political, economic, and moral divide becomes increasingly open on this issue as the decades progress. These ambivalences are also part of a broader context, namely that inmediately after the war of independence, various political philosophies were opposed around the question on the power that the central government should have, i.e., its power to intervene in the affairs of States. This first political fracture is well illustrated by figures such as Alexander Hamilton, who advocated the existence of a strong central state, i.e., a central government with real powers to intervene in the affairs of each state of the Union. Others, on the contrary, think that there should be as bit intervention as possible from the State and in particular from the central power. Thomas Jefferson represents this current of thought well and he even believes that slavery is, and I quote him: a &quot;necessary evil&quot;. Precisely, many supporters of slavery think that it's an economic, social, and even religious necessity, in the sense that God &quot;approves&quot; this practice. Indeed, slaveholders come to believe that this practice, cruel as it's, belong to Christian dogma. This dogma aspires to come to the aid of one's neighbour, through &quot;benevolent&quot; actions aimed at obtaining redemption and salvation. In this sense, slaves experience suffering as Christ experienced. This reasoning seems somewhat twisted, but bear in min that when Abraham Lincoln came to power at the end of 1860, slavery was the main pillar of the socioeconomic and political order in the southern states. The issue of slavery also affects the economic and demographic situation of the country, which isn't at all the same between North and South. I'll give you some examples. In 1860, the USA population was about 35 million inhabitants, of which 22 million lived in northern states against 9 million in the south. And among the 9 million inhabitants in the South, about a third of the population, or 3.5 million individuals, is made up of black slaves! To this great demographic disparity between North and South is added the element of the composition of their respective economies. They develop in radically different ways. The economy in the northern states can be described as capitalist. It emphasizes industrial development and the circulation of capital. The entrepreneurial spirit is more developed than in the South, which goes hand in hand with increased social and professional mobility. The economy in the northern states is also based on protectionism, as it's considered important to protect industries from cheap imports that may can come from abroad. On the contrary, the South wishes to focus its economic development more on free trade, if only to facilitate the sale of its cotton and other raw materials abroad and thus counter the protectionism of Northern States. In the South, as I said, the economy relies heavily on the labor provided by the black slaves. This economy focuses mainly on what could be called &quot;cultivation&quot; of plantations such as cotton, of course, but also rice and tobacco. Socio-professional mobility is less developed there, insofar as it's an essentially rural and hierarchical society. Southern society is dominated by an almost aristocratic caste of white planters, who naturally made their fortunes on the boundless exploitation of black slaves. Exactly! Southern planters claim they're in dire need of slave labor because, remember, these are days when farm machinery is, so to speak, non-existent. So, it takes arms and slavery, for them, is the solution! Because if a resource like cotton, which represents more than 50% of pre-war US exports, can no longer be harvested, the economy of an entire nation risk collapsing, always according to the growers' opinion. So, you'll have understood: we're dealing with two completely opposed economic philosophies. The North is more industrial, with a protectionist mentality, while the South is essentially agricultural, with an approach based on free trade and slavery. Although it's legal and, for some, willed by God, the institution of slavery has always raised controversy among contemporaries, to the point where the abolitionist current is gaining more and more strength and is already contributing to dividing American society. In other words, there's nothing new under the sun as Lincoln takes power. The country was already fractured. Almost everything has contributed to breaking it up since the end of the war of independence. Moreover, the history of slavery and its abolitionist counterpart is closely linked to that of a country which, in the first half of the 19th century, experienced significant territorial expansion towards the West. The 13 Colonies of the time of the War of Independence want to expand. This expansion is particularly strong from 1803 with the sale of Louisiana by France. It also continued with conquests to the detriment of the natives and territorial cessions granted by Mexico after the war of 1848. A sign that expansionism and slavery go hand in hand, the US at the beginning of the 1820s were made up of 24 states equally divided between officially slave states and officially abolitionist states! 12-12! In this context, given that the issue of slavery and its expansion can't be avoided, the South constantly seeks to maintain its balance of power against the North so as not to allow itself to be dominated by the abolitionists current. In doing so, for each new state admitted into the Union, the South demands that the legalization of slavery be enshrined in the respective constitutions of these new states! To prevent the situation from escalating, compromises must be made. This is the so-called era of &quot;great compromises&quot;. For example, in 1820, the American congressmen voted the Compromise of Missouri, at the time of the study of the candidature of Missouri as 24th state of the Union. The accession of this new state provoked a huge national controversy. There are questions about the morality and legality of importing slavery into a new state, just as there's concern about the increased risk that new lawmakers from that state will add their weight to Congress in Washington. Ultimately, to prevent a majority in the Senate from being made up of pro-slavery senators, a compromise was reached. Basically, Missouri is admitted into the Union as a slave state, along with Maine, the 23rd state, which is admitted as an anti- slavery state. Why? Well, in order to keep the balance of power between North and South in the Senate, because each state, regardless of its population, has two seats in the upper house. A sing that the Missouri Compromise didn't solve the problem of slavery, the debate continued to rage at the turn of the 1850s. The period from 1846 to 1850 was one of debates around what was called the Wilmot Clause. Proposed by Congressman David Wilmot, the clause is actually a bill. This proposes to prohibit the expansion of slavery in all new territories ceded by Mexico to the USA in the aftermath of the Mexican-American war. The bill was defeated, but the debates it engendered increasingly aroused discontent among contemporaries and the idea of coming to secession gained ground. In an effort to keep the Union of the USA, a new agreement came into effect known as the Compromise of 1850. Like the Compromise of 1820 on the entry of Missouri and Maine into the Union, that of 1850 seeks to maintain a balance between the representation of slave states and non-slave states in the Senate. More precisely, the compromise of 1850 appears to be even more pernicious than its predecessor. Why? Firstly, it aims to admit California into the Union as 31st free state. However, the agreement doesn't regularize the situation of slavery in other territories ceded by Mexico in the aftermath of its defeat. I'am talking here about the future states of Nevada, Utah, Arizona and parts of New Mexico, Colorado and Wyoming. It's then proposed that the fate of the slaves be decided later. Where the compromise takes on a character, let's say more &quot;hypocritical&quot;, lies explicitly in the reinforcement of a law called the Fugitive Slave Act. Well, believe it or not, this law obliges the inhabitants of the northern states to capture and deport to the south any escaped slaves. This piece of legislation entails not only the responsibility of the federal government, but also that of individuals! Therefore, instead of easing tensions, all these compromises in fact cause the opposite effect. It reinforces the political and social disparities between the northern and southern states. By itself, the Fugitive Slave Acts, resulting from the compromise of 1850, forced anti-slavery, despite themselves, to participate in the institution of slavery so as not to be illegal. All this only further polarizes opinions. And despite all these political acrobatics aimed at satisfying everyone, nothing prevents the hardening of positions on one side and another. The harshness of slavery conditions is reinforced in the South, while abolitionist movement is strengthened in the North. The American general public and the whole world also became aware of this terrible reality when the famous novel Uncle Tom's Cabin by author Harriet Beecher Stowe was published in 1852. Although it's a fiction, this novel presents a point of view difficult to dispute about the living conditions of slaves. The book was a phenomenal success, both good as bad. Northerners feel the novel opens their eyes to the horrors of slavery. As for southerners, they perceive this publication as slanderous. One thing is certain, the book leaves no one indifferent to the sad reality of slavery and, of course, polarizes once again the divisions between North and South. Whether they were abolitionist or slaveholders, Americans realized in the 1850s that the territorial expansion of their nation could no longer be based solely on the fate of slaves. Moreover, the country experienced bloody clashes long before the civil war when, between 1854 and 1859, it was once again necessary to rule on the fate of slaves in the context of the organization into states of the Kansas and Nebraska territories. Unsurprisingly, their integration into the Union didn't pass like a letter in the mail, especially since the adoption of the Kansas- Nebraska Act in 1854 which, in a way, eliminated the limits placed on the spread of slavery by the previous compromises. Unlike previous compromises, in this case it's the settlers of these unorganized territories who will decide the fate of the expansion of slavery before joining the Union. There's no longer any question, for example, of keeping a certain balance by admitting into the Union an abolitionist State, then another slaveholder in order to maintain the balance of forces in the Senate. Consequently, many settlers from the North and the South flocked to these territories to influence the debate and especially the results of the vote in the referendums organized in each territory. Passions are on edge and violence is breaking out! At the same time as the colonists flocked, abolitionists furious with the situation, including Abraham Lincoln, founded the Republican Party that we know and whose future electoral platform intended to slow down the expansion of slavery in the new territories. The violence eventually subsided around 1859, but at least 50 settlers were killed in these debates, turned into a pitched battle. For Lincoln, there's no longer any doubt: now slavery constitutes the real danger for the Union. Did I say that the violence is stopping? In Kansas, perhaps, but elsewhere: no. The issue of the future of slavery doesn't take any rest and leads to a new wave of violence in its wake. We're this time in the small industrial community of Harper's Ferry, located in the current state of West Virginia. On October 16, 1859, an abolitionist named John Brown and 19 of his followers organized an attempted slave uprising. They attack the federal armory located in this town. Their main motivation is to capture weapons and distribute them to slaves of the region in order to foment a possible rebellion. John Brown is seriously injured. He and his small troop are surrounded by Marine Corps soldiers led by a career Federal Army officer, Colonel Robert Edwards Lee. This puts an end to the insurrections. Losses are reported on both sides. At least seven people die and ten others are injured before Brown and his last followers are captured. Brown is entitled to a trial for high treason. Found guilty, he was sentenced to hang and then executed on December 2, 1859. For the most vigorous abolitionists, the death of John Brown made him a martyr to the cause. The fate reserved for slaves leaves no one indifferent. After all, they number more than 3 million and represent about 13% of the population of the USA. Not without difficulty, Lincoln, who aspires to become president, wins the nomination of the Republican Party. The new leader intends to make slavery a major issue in the next presidential election campaign scheduled for the fall of 1860. Indeed, the Republicans are campaigning to minimally banish slavery in all American territories not organized into states. Southern states see this as a violation of their constitutional rights, as well as a first step in a grand republican scheme aiming to abolish slavery not only in the territories, but in all states. So, on November 6, 1860, Abraham Lincoln becomes the 16th president of the USA. He received about 39% of the popular vote, which assures him the election. However, and this is where the shoe pinches, Lincoln gets no Electoral College votes in 11 Southern states. In short, in the South don't like him! It's therefore the Northern voters who place him in the White House. For their part, the Southern states elected representatives, whether they're representatives or senators, are speaking out for the discontent of their white voters. For example, just four days after Lincoln's election, on November 10, 1860, a first senator submits his resignation. Is James Chesnut Jr. from South Carolina. The next day, he's imitated by the other senator from South Carolina, James Henry Hammond. And to add a little bit more, on November 18, the Georgia legislature votes a budget of one million dollars to raise and equip local militias. Outraged by Lincoln's election, Southern states are seriously considering seceding. They literally fear losing the balance of power to the Northern states which have a much larger population. Unsurprisingly, the first six southern states to consider secession are those with the highest concentrations of slaves. However, it remain to be seen which State will dare to take the plunge, in what appears to be a real crossing of Rubicon! This first state is South Carolina on December 20, 1860. The state secedes, which means that it deliberately decides to leave the Union of the USA. Demographically, South Carolina is probably the state with the highest ratio of black slaves compared to its white population. Secession takes place in a popular convention which votes an &quot;ordinance&quot; of secession, the result of which was, hold on tight: 169 votes for, 0 against! Taking note of this popular decision, the state legislature in turn formally voted a &quot;Declaration of Secession&quot; a few days later. South Carolina therefore becomes the first state in the Union to secede since the election of Lincoln. It was in this gloomy and tense atmosphere that American people, at the turn of 1860 and 1861, began the usual celebration of Thanksgiving and Christmas. The United States is more divided than ever. The country is probably experiencing its greatest period of tension and uncertainty since the war of independence a few decades earlier. But we might wonder: a single state that secedes is serious, sure, but is it so dangerous as to lead to war and ultimately compromise the future of the Union, and the future of all the United States of America? Well, following the example of South Carolina, a second state, Mississippi, in turn seceded on January 9, 1861. The next day, it was Florida's turn. Two days later, that of Alabama then, during the course of the month: Georgia, Louisiana and Texas! Am I in the field if i tell you that there the situation begins to seriously deteriorate? In barely a month, seven states defected and severed their ties with the federal government! Not only were ties severed, but the breakway states decide to form an alliance, better known as the Confederate States of America. Compromise efforts on both sides end up failing. Various seizures of federal military arsenals took place at the turn of 1860 and 1861 in the southern states, especially in the territories claimed by the new Confederation. The war is on! These states adopt a provisional constitution, then establish their capital in Montgomery, Alabama, eventually moving it to Richmond, Virginia, at a distance of barely 160 km from Washington. The Confederates elect an experienced politician as president in the person of Jefferson Davis. This former senator and minister is fully aware of the magnitude of the challenge awaiting the young and fragile Confederation. Considered a moderate among southerners, Davis took the lead in a new political federation was perceived in the north as nothing more than a rebellion. Aware that all the resources of the seven secessionist states are insufficient to face the Union, Jefferson Davis must act and quickly! He sought to rally to the Confederate cause eight other southern states, which were officially neutral at the beginning of 1861. Davis even tried to convince certain northern states, where abolitionist sentiment was weaker, to joining the cause, if only be to increase the Confederation's chances of survival. In doing so, supporters of the Union and Confederacy are convinced of the correctness of their respective causes. They see themselves as the heirs of the fathers of the Revolution, of this great generation which made the war of independence of the USA at the end of the 18th century. For their part, the Confederates saw in George Washington, the country's first president, a model to follow against the oppression of the central government. They therefore sees this war, which is about to begin, of course, as a second war of independence. Nothing less. It can therefore be said that after the election of Lincoln, American states are divided into four groups or affiliations. Let's take a moment to review them, if you want. A first group is represented by the northern states where slavery is formally prohibited. A second group, much more restricted, is conformed by these northern states that authorize the practice of slavery with varying degrees of rigor. These are the Border State of Kentucky, Missouri, Maryland, and Delaware. Then comes a third group, the southern states that seceded before April 1861, that is, before the start of hostilities. Finally, the fourth group also represents southern states that didn't dare to secede at early 1861. Naturally, they're courted by President Davis. In this context, and in the face of this secessionist outbreak, northerners feel they have a duty to save the Union, i.e., to save the democratic republic of the Founding Fathers. Incumbent Democratic President James Buchanan and the new Republican Lincoln administration both reject slavery. From the outset, they declared it illegal, which didn0t prevent them from using seduction maneuvers against Border States, members of the Union where this institution still exists. President Lincoln firmly believes that the Union is permanent and indivisible. He intends to make the maintenance of this Union the number one priority of his administration. In his inaugural address of March 4, 1861, northern president specified that he'll not start hostilities nor provoke what could be called a civil war. Directly speaking to the Southern states, Lincoln tries to calm their fears and apprehensions about the eventual abolition of slavery. In fact -and follow me carefully, due words matter here- Lincoln says he has no intention to interfering &quot;directly or indirectly&quot; against the institution of slavery &quot;where it exist&quot;. The president then thinks that he doesn't have the moral, and even less legal, authority to abolish this institution, precisely where it exists at the time of his election in 1860. More soberly, Lincoln says that one part of the country believes that slavery is a &quot;right thing&quot; and it must extended, while the other part believes rather than it's a &quot;bad thing&quot; and should not be extended. Essentially, Lincoln reminds us, this is where this nation's one and only problem lies. We understand then that the new president of the US seeks to spare the goat and cabbage. Naturally, Lincoln tries to allay the fears of the South, but above all he must not alienate his many northern supporters, several of whom claim loud and clear that what they consider to be, with greatest severity, a rebellion. For Lincoln, who believed that the Union was as old and enduring as the country's Constitution, it seemed impossible that the nation could be politically divided. The president reiterates that secession is illegal, but without further igniting the fire. With secession proclaimed in several sourthern states, certain federal government military installations suddenly become, , so to speak &quot;foreign territory&quot;. They're therefore likely to be claimed by the Southern States, willingly or by force. These military infrastructures then become outposts in enemy territory. The best known example is that of Fort Sumter located in the port of Charleston, South Carolina. Despite the Confederates' declaration of independence, the garrison of the federal fort still flies... the flag of the United States, even if this garrison is suddenly surrounded by the Confederate militias. Lincoln tries somehow to deliver supplies to all the isolated federal garrisons, including Fort Sumter, which is of strategic importance by its position just opposite the port and the city of Charleston. Lincoln knows he must use the greatest caution. As I said, he doesn't want add fuel to the fire. Concretely, this means that supplies will be sent, but not additional troops, at least as long as the Confederates don't prevent the supply of the Federal garrisons. However, the most radical Confederates can't tolerate the presence of a US military garrison within their radius of influence. And you'll have understood it: if Lincoln backs down, if he decides evacuated these garrisons, he risk irremediable losing his authority and losing face against Congress, his cabinet, his supporters, the general-staff of the army and public opinion. In short, it get tough! Cut clearly, the situation is hopeless, both for North and South. Without making a bad pun, the killer question is: who will shoot first? Who will dare to open the ball of hostilities? Who will carry, vis-a- vis history, the odiousness of having started a civil war? The answer, well... is unclear. For a few months, at the beginning of 1861, negotiations took place concerning the fate reserved for the federal garrisons in Confederate territory, and they obviously discuss the situation of fort Sumter. In this case, the local Confederate commander, General Pierre Gustave Toutant de Beauregard offered thee northern commander, Major Robert Anderson, one last chance to surrender the fort and its garrison without bloodshed. Anderson rejects the offer of surrender without a fight. He even tries to find out from Beauregard who will shoot first, or at least who will dare to open fire without warning the adversary! So, I repeat the question: who will shoot first? The answer? The Confederate States of America! Beauregard' despatch was sent to Anderson on April 12, 1861 around 3:20 am. Anderson learns that the Confederate batteries situate in Charleston will open fire on Fort Sumter around 4:20 am. the same day, i.e., in an hour! Thing promised, thing due. The first shots were fired in the early hours of April 12, 1861. The Civil War began! For 34 hours, the Confederates bombarded almost continuously the small garrison composed mainly of professional soldiers. This last replica as best as they could with the few guns at its disposal. But its commander makes the decision to capitulate the next day, April 13. Ironically, what can be described as the very first battle of the Civil War doesn't cause any casualties. Indeed, no soldier was killed on either side. However, the new cause a shock wave, both in North and South. In the South, of course, they're jubilant! This victory constitutes a first step towards complete and definitive independence, at least in the minds of the most optimistic southerners. In the North, however, the news is macabre, dismal. A garrison of professional soldiers who capitulate in front of a small troop of rebels, a troop mainly composed of amateur soldiers? It's impossible! Inconceivable! And yet, the reality is this: the southern flag flies in Fort Sumter. Now it's official. The United States is in a situation of civil war. Southerners captured an important federal stronghold just a month after Lincoln was inaugurated as president. Lincoln -to put it mildly, you might say- is facing the worst crisis of his embryonic presidency. The fall of Fort Sumter prompts him to officially declare a state of insurrection. In doing so, he's calling for the mobilization of 75,000 volunteers who will lend a hand to the 16,000 professional soldiers of the Federal Army. But his appeal was relatively badly received in the states of Virginia, Arkansas, North Carolina and Tennessee, where slavery was well established. In the next weeks, the Fort Sumter episode and Lincoln's mobilization decree, these four southern slave states and the unorganized territory of &quot;Confederate Arizona&quot;, severed their ties with the federal government and joined the Confederation of American States. The incorporation of Virginia into the Confederation represents a major gain for Southerners, as it's the most populous and industrialized state in the South. Not surprisingly, Virginia municipality of Richmond replaced Montgomery, Alabama as the capital of the Confederacy. In doing so, the Confederation now includes eleven slave states in a country that then had 34 states, compared to 50 today. Southerners also came to consider the Kentucky and Missouri states as part of the Confederation, as the slaveholders living there didn't recognize federal authority. Depending on the turn of military events, these latter states which risked rapid invasion by the Northern, planned to participate in the Confederacy's war effort by forming &quot;government in exile&quot; which Southern President Jefferson Davis intended to recognize. As for Delaware, Maryland, which were the northernmost slave states, they declined the offer to join the Confederation and were quickly invaded by northern troops. Despite forming and endowing him with a constitution, Lincoln didn't recognize the existence of the Confederacy. Moreover, as I said, the president interprets the situation in the summer of 1861 as an insurrection and not a war in the classic sense of the term. However, if it isn't diplomatically recognized by the Washington government, could the Confederation, in an ideal world, obtain any diplomatic recognition from a foreign power, in this case a European power? The case isn't simple. Both North and South are keeping an eye on the reactions of European governments. The situation immediately seems a little more complicated for the South. Indeed, the pre-war southern states dwere highly dependent on the European market for their exports of raw materials such as cotton. They still hope that Europe will buy its foodstuffs in order to finance their war effort. And with the aim to stop Southern exports to Europe, as well as to harm the supply of the Confederation, President Lincoln ordered the establishment, as of April 19, of a maritime blockade of all Southern ports. But the task is colossal. Its need to monitor no less than 5000 kilometers of coastline, from Virginia to Texas! With this in mind, the first Union Commander-in-Chief, General Winfield Scott, hatches a plan that the press ridiculously dubs the Anaconda Plan in reference to the snakes that coils around its victims to suffocate them. The objective of the Anaconda Plan was then to asphyxiate the economies of the Confederate States. In addition to the maritime blockade, Anaconda Plan provides for a major offensive all along the Mississippi River with the goal of cutting the Confederacy in two, stopping the entry of supplies and hindering the movement of Southern troops. But don't worry, I'll come back to it. Still, the Confederation had difficulty in gaining recognition from foreign powers. Southern diplomats in Europe tried to convince the French and British governments of the correctness of the Confederate cause, but without success. Paris and London officially declare their neutrality in the war against in the USA. Moreover, the Confederates quickly realized that France and Great Britain could get their cotton elsewhere in the world, despite the strong demand from European industries. In this context, there's no need to alienate the North by diplomatic recognition of the Confederate States of America. The fate of weapons will decide. On July 4, 1861, day of the declaration of independence of the USA, President Lincoln also declared that the insurrection which begins threatened the democratic foundations of the country established by the Founding Fathers. Ultimately, Lincoln says, the war will test whether or not a government elected with the consent of the governed can survive this terrible national dispute. For Lincoln, you'll understand, it's not so much a war as an insurrection. But no matter! War or insurrection... the words end up losing their meaning. In fact, the conflict that begins involves many people. In the next weeks, in the spring and summer of 1861, hundreds of thousands of volunteers from both North and South flooded the recruiting offices. For the North, let's recall that the state of military manpower at the start of hostilities is skeletal. Prior to Lincoln's call for mobilization, the Federal Professional Army, as is know, had only 16,000 officers and soldiers. It's obvious that it'll be necessary to mobilize more soldiers, if only to have a military presence in all the theaters of operations likely to see clashes between the Johny Rebs, southerners, and the Billy Yanks, northerners. But the governments of the northern and southern states are unprepared for the coming war. However, this doesn't prevent Presidents Lincoln and Davis from urgently calling for volunteers. For example, two days after the surrender of Fort Sumter, on April 15, Lincoln called for an initial levy of 75,000 volunteers. These will serve alongside Federal troops for up to 90 days, as stipulated in their enlistment contract. The brevity of their contracts suggests that in the mind of leaders in Washington, the war will not only be short-lived, but once again, it's just a rebellion. Nothing suggests a long war of attrition. And even if the experience of the profession of arms is sorely lacking in these volunteers, the enthusiasm isn't lacking. Many people are rolled up with patriotic slogans, under the sound of brass bands, social pressure, or even alcohol and a few small pecuniary bonuses! In short, the raising of large military contingents in each camp is done in improvisation. On paper, and according to the male population of fighting age, the Union would be able to mobilize a little more than 2 million combatants against a maximum of 1 million among the Confederates. In principle, therefore the southern leaders know that the challenge will be daunting since, in the best case, they'll fight literally 1 against 2. To this unfavorable prognosis, let's add the one you now know of the weakness of industrial, technical and financial resources of the Confederate States, especially since almost all the pre-war armament factories were in the North. Despite everything, we must not suspect or take too lightly the skills of the South to led a struggle that could be longer and harder than expected. President Lincoln knows this very well, unlike many people in his inner circle who expect to fight a &quot;fresh and cheerful&quot; war and get home just in time for Thanksgiving! Moreover, far from being dampened in their enthusiasm, many white men want to enlist. These have absolutely no experience with weapons and they're intoxicated with patriotism and spirit of adventure. For other Americans of military age, the choice seems more difficult. By example, many people have ties see ties or interests that binds them both to the North and South. Some have close relatives who live on either side of the border. Still others have families in which there's no unanimity as to political opinions. Entire families are divided over the issue of slavery and other considerations such as the right of states to self-determination. The most famous case is probably that of Robert Edwards Lee. A career soldier who notably participated in the Mexican-American War in the 1840s and who recently led the assault on John Brown's insurgents at Harper's Ferry, Lee was a Virginian literally torn when war broke out in 1861. His long and brilliant service make him an ideal candidate to take over the operational direction of the Union armies! The Lincoln cabinet makes him an official offer in this sense, but Colonel Lee declines. Among the reasons given to justify his refusal, he puts forward his deep attachment to his native Virginia, and more particularly, to the land where he grew up and lived a good part of his life. And remember that Lee's position isn't so different from that of thousands of other Americans torn by their positions. For many, neutrality is simply not an option. Everyone have to choise his side. Clearly, brothers, friends, cousins will fight side by side or face to face! The Civil War that begins doesn't only politically divide the country and its states. Above all, it divides families. The polarization of political opinions in American families alone may be a factor that can partly explain the length and violence of the fighting. In this perspective, I mentioned that many Southerners see this conflict as a second war of independence. Add to this that the logistical organization of the armies alone constitutes a factor in prolonging the conflict. After all, recruits must be fed, clothed and armed. They must also be transported by rail, by boat, or on foot to the battlefields. As we know, the North has more resources, but it doesn't prevent that the organization of hundreds of thousands of men into a cohesive military force takes time. You have to manufacture weapons, ammunition, equipment, medical supplies. You have to think about the supply of food, water, alcohol -yes, you have to think about that- and fodder for the animals. Again, nothing is simple and nothing can be done on the fly. Factories are converted for the production of armaments. The banking system is also mobilized. Its also witnessing a massive reorganization of means of transport and supplies on a territory larger than many European countries combined. The war must be carried directly into enemy territory. The logistical dimension of the war was also quite a headache for the South. The Confederate States have less rail infrastructure than in the North. Moreover, to mitigate the effects of the naval blockade, the South is obliged to devote military resources to the defense of important maritime ports to ensure its supply, in particular in New Orleans, in Mobile in the Gulf of Mexico, in Charleston and Wilmington facing the Atlantic Ocean. So, no matter the magnitude of the task and the difficulties associated with it, the war that broke out in 1861 was, for some, &quot;attractive&quot;. Let's put it this way. Perhaps it'll offer certain groups in search of emancipation hitherto unsuspected possibilities. In this context, and not to be outdone when their services might be needed, African-Americans living in the North are already beginning to form military units that aspire to be recognized by the authorities. This erupting war also seems attractive to women. Many of them want to lend a hand in the North as in the South, in the auxiliary services of the army as nurses or to manufacture military equipment. President Lincoln's call for mobilization also seems to have been heard by another class of inhabitants whose full potential for military contribution was unknown until then: immigrants. In the 1840s , and more particularly in the context of the famines in Europe, the USA welcomed large waves of immigration from Anglo-Saxon countries, particularly Ireland, as well as from Germanic states. As far as the Irish are concerned, it should be noted that the vast majority of this first generation of immigrants live in the northern states, and in particular, in the major urban centers as Boston or New york, for example. The immigrants of Irish and German origin alone provided more than 400,000 soldiers for the war effort of the belligerents. Of course, these immigrants find themselves under strong pressure. They're subject of numerous advertisements and citations of all kinds in order to serve in the armies, if only to give back a little to this America which welcomes them with open arms. In the North as in the South, governments quickly recognized the contribution of immigrants to the war effort and strategies for their recruitment adapted accordingly. Quickly, new regiments were founded both in the north and the South, taking exclusively into account the ethnic heritage of their future volunteers and cadres, all with the goal of nurturing pride and the feeling of belonging to a homeland and to a cause. Elsewhere, a sign that this war is only an exceptional situation and that life will resume its normal course sooner or later, some believe that it'll be over for Thanksgiving or Christmas. After all, it's just a small rebellion! The fall of Fort Sumter is only a &quot;local incident&quot;. It's an affront that will be quickly avenged! What's more, the Confederates had just transferred their capital from Montgomery, Alabama, to Richmond, Virginia. From Washington to Richmond, there's only one step to take. They'll capture the southern capital and the war will be quickly concluded! This is a very attractive scenario. But this enthusiasm and this desire to do one's duty well animate the fighting spirit of the new soldiers. They're in a hurry to do battle with the enemy! The problem is that despite their patriotism and willingness to learn, they're sorely lacking in training and experience. Clearly, North and South raise armies composed of amateurs, both among the soldiers and among the officers. And to illustrate how awkward and crazy the situation was at the start of the war, in 1861, a former West Point graduate, George Douglas Brewerton, tried to remedy the problem by designing an educational tool to improve what might be called, to use a modern expression, the &quot;professionalism&quot; of the armies. Realizing at the start of hostilities that the vast majority of volunteers had no practical or tactical military experience, he wrote in simple language a small instruction manual with the evocative title: Automaton Regiment. Aimed especially at young army cadres, this manual is meant to instruct its readers in planning the movements and disposition of troops on the battlefields. Because it must be considered that in 1861, the few professional officers and soldiers were quickly overwhelmed by the massive influx of these inexperienced recruits. Even worse, many are the regiments to be raised by amateurs who owe their ranks and their sudden military rise only to their fortune and their political influence. So, before sending all these beautiful people to tear apart, they must at least be instructed! Another problem: the logistical structure of the new armies thus raised isn't at all adapted to the types of operation and battles to come. It's need to set up camps, which are often located in the middle of town, if not outright in a field under the stars. For long days, the recruits learn on the job the handling of weapons. They also receive instruction on how to wear and maintain their uniforms and equipment, as they're taught somehow to live within an organization where respect for autority and hierarchy is essential. Recruits come from all walks of life, mainly from urban centers for the Union, but also from the countryside, which was frequent in Confederate armies. In this case, the Confederate recruits are mainly made up of young men, or even teenagers, from rural areas where poverty is endemic and who, contrary to an erroneous image often conveyed, don't own any slaves nor show anyinterest in the maintenance of this decried institution. In fact, the key element that motivated all these men to enlist in 1861 is more linked to a fear of seeing their &quot;country&quot;, i.e., their native state, being invaded by the Yankees, like the apprehends General Robert Lee regarding his precious Virginia. Of course, this reason for wanting to fight for the Confederation is the subject of many debates and historical disputes still unresolved. We must be aware of this and keep in mind that not all southerners are fighting to maintain slavery. Because despite controversy this raises, it's impossible to deny that the defense of the native land could indeed have played a role in the enlistment of these men for a cause that seems frightening to us today. Elsewhere, Confederate recruiting posters early in the war, particularly those from border states such as Virginia and Tennessee, contained unambiguous warnings of the violation and destruction of property and people in the event of that the armies of the Union invaded the South. That said, the mobilization continued throughout the summer of 1861, in both North and South. Among the southerners, the mobilization was particularly strong in Virginia, a border state which is at the heart of the Confederation's strategy. Despite all, it's still difficult at this stage to identify supporters of the Union from those of the Confederation, especially in the border states. Allegiances aren't yet clearly defined, but secessionist sentiment is growing stronger in the southern states. The United States are indeed divided. So I've talked about white men, women, immigrants, but what about the fate of slaves once hostilities begin? Given that they're &quot;free&quot;, but treated as second-class citizens in the North, and downright like cattle in the South, what fate likely to be in store for them in civil war? It's difficult to tell them clearly, at least in 1861. When the war began, many slaves from the South tried to join the North, if only in the hope of get a minimum freedom, if not to contribute to the Union's war effort. But the fate of fugitive slaves has always been a problem, and the outbreak of hostilities was no exception. For example, Unionist General Benjamin Butler, who in 1861 commanded Fort Monroe in Chesapeake Bay, was force to accommodate 3 runaway slaves within its walls. Then arises the question: what to do with these men? The answer isn't simple, because it concerns the legal status of these people at the time. Are they firstly people? In other words, in the war context, in 1861, these men aren't &quot;men&quot; -so to speak- but &quot;contraband of war&quot;. ?&quot;Contraband of war&quot;? Yes, because General Butler has decided so. He considers these fugitives and the others who will follow, like goods captured from the enemy! As if we had captured rifles or cannons. Butler no longer feels bound by the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 that I mentioned earlier. To make sure, he even asks the opinion of the Commander- in-Chief of the Army and that of the Secretary of State for War, both of whom agreed with him. In short, this rejection of the Fugitive Slave Act by General Butler and the Union General Staff opens the door to thousands of blacks slaves who, no doubt, will want to take advantage of this new legal vacuum to flee north and regain some semblance of freedom. It's not yet a complete emancipation of slaves, far from it, but a precedent is created. What's more, General Butler also claims that if the Confederates don't mind using slaves in their war effort, then why wouldn't the North do the same? Here again, Butler receives the blessing of his superiors who thus authorize the employment for the purposes of the war effort of this &quot;contraband&quot; labor. This, therefore suggests that in 1861, the Civil War was more a conflict of &quot;confiscation&quot; than a war of &quot;emancipation&quot; of slaves. And while all this ditherings is happening, the armies are marching. Since April 1861, barring the Battle of Fort Sumter in South Carolina, the war has sees only a few skirmishes here and there across the country. To complete the victory against the Confederacy, the Union will have to show audacity, imagination and resilience. Some great goals are part of the northern strategy. As I mentioned, a very tigh naval blockade of Southern seaports is necessary to stifle the Confederate economy. Secondly, Southern territory is geographically separated to the west by the Mississippi River. Its control by the Onion so makes it a very popular objective to isolate Texas and the ports of the Gulf of Mexico. Obviously, this strategy, to say the least indirectly, aroused controversy among northern general staff and in public opinion initially favorable to Lincoln. Why? Firstly, because the Union doesn't have enough ships to enforce the blockade. Then, because they want a direct confrontation, on land! Richmond is only about 150 km from Washington. What the hell! !If they attack the southern capital, it's over! Of course, once again, the North preach by excess of enthusiasm. Can we really believe that the southerners will let themselves go? Let themselves be surrounded and economically asphyxiated without flinching? But no. Despite the naval blockade, they'll fight and even immediately. The first real confrontation, the first real test of this war occured on July 21, 1861, at the junction of the Manassas Railroad, not far from the Bull Run River, in Virginia. It was then that the famous battle of Bull Run, or should I rather say the Battle of Manassas? In fact, it depends on your point of view. Northerners used to refer to Civil War battles by the names of nearby rivers. For their side, Southerners preferred to identify the battles according to the names of surrounding municipalities or nearest railway junctions. In short, it's your choice! For my part, and in order to simplify things, I'll use northern toponymy. That said, the armies of North and South are within sight, on July 21, 1861. The situation is terribly confused, even before the first shots burst. Why? Well let's note from the outset that soldiers of North, and more those of South, didn't all have, in 1861, standardized uniforms. For example, soldiers are still dressed in their civilian costumes, others still wear the blue Union uniform but fight for the Confederates, because they're former career soldiers of the Federal Army! It's therefore sometimes difficult, in Bull Run, to distinguish friend from enemy. Even worse, these soldiers have almost no combat experience. They aren't used to marching in formation nor accustomed to the sound of cannon. The dress of their uniform and the upkeep of their weapons can also leave something to be desired. Even the name of the first battle, as I said, is confusing! Worse still, and believe it or not, many civilians, mostly from Washington and surrounding areas travel in cart, with picnics, to witness what's supposed to be a grandiose event: the annihilation in the egg of the Confederate rebellion. Added to this contextual and logistical confusion is the more classic one of the confrontation itself. For hours, northerners and southerners shoot each other. The dead and wounded already number in the hundreds. This battle of Bull Run is one of the first in history where the railroad plays a crucial role in the strategic movement of troops. For example, when the situation seemed hopeless for the Confederates, they received reinforcements at the last minute, arriving at the railroad junction of Manassas and immediately thrown into battle. The Confederate's victory is thus achieved. There is a rout in the Union ranks, whose routed formations are desperately trying to reach Washington. Oh yes... I forgot a small detail: civilian spectators have cleared out a long time ago! There's total consternation in the North. However the telegraphic dispatches announced the victory! But, it's not. Victory in this first great battle of the Civil War went to the Confederates. The North is humiliated. Surprised by this victory and not yet fully organized, the Confederate forces in Manassas were unable to march immediately towards Washington. This then means that the war will be much longer than expected. In the immediate future, wounds must be heal, reorganize, and above all, face the next commitments with a much more rigorous level of preparation. They ended up realizing, surprisingly perhaps, that war by no way is made for amateurs, nor for Sunday picnickers! I leave you with this somber observation: the United States, if we can still call this country so, are more divided than ever. This nation lives the worst ordeal in its young history. The Battle of Bull Run is only a very bitter foretaste of the terrible clashes to be expected. Come on, it's over for today. I hope you liked it. But first of all, thanks to Carl Pepin with whom I work on these series. Besides, you have to give him love because he deserves it. And if you like it, you know what to do: a like, you share, bring the video to life. You can also go see the Patreon. I'm Laurent Turcot from History will tell us and I'll see you the next! Bye!