-All right, we're checking out for me to climb is my desire Alex has created this vile monstrosity which vehicle can climb the highest? There's over a hundred different climbs. Each one with its own challenge to use to do this. In the end, he said only one can do it, Now, obviously, you can see it says, &quot;Believe me, you better test He gave me He said normally-- --just because, by the way, to get it out of the way. He says, You know what? I can't even get-- Yes, there we go. He said that normally it would be but this challenge is so impossible as I want and he's given them Can I push this car up [sound] and then use the hydraulics? There we go. Hey, I think, he said there's 140 levels. [chuckles] I think we're really getting somewhere. You can see in the distance It goes to the sky box. What I'll probably do-- oh, there we go- Oh yes. here we go. What you got to do is you got See that? I can probably get to level 20 with this. I'll bet, watch. Ramped it, no big deal. We're going to pop it, ramp it. Let's add a bit more fun every three levels now. What do you say? I don't like it when you smile, Alex, it makes me frown. Oh, this is like a ramp. All right, so this one's not that bad. It's got an arc to it, that we're going, so this is fine. Pop it. There we go. [chuckles] Pop it. [laughs] Oh, nothing like a nice 360 just doing a little break dancing on it, Okay, so that's level 10. Then I can't. I don't even want to know. Let's get all the meme vehicles out Maybe he put something-- oh hey- yes. Woo, woo, I was going to say, in one of these vehicles. He modded it so it could do things Here we go. Okay, this one pops it, too. Now I'm stuck inside It makes me wonder though. I wonder for a different car? All right, BMX bike. I have done impossible things In fact, I'll bet-- watch, here- I'll bet I can get halfway Level 50 or level 60, I'll bet, Here, watch. Now when you get to someplace, You can do a bump pop, so that there. Then this is just a ramp, so that's easy. We can get over that. I have climbed full walls with this. I could climb a building with this thing. Oh, the incline is going the opposite way. Well, that's interesting. Also, I don't know but-- well, that was great. What I was trying to say is, but there is windmills up there. I don't know what a windmill has to do All right, pop over this. Level 10, okay, this Level 10, easy. No problem. This is 12, I think. 13, okay. What is this? Think it's glass. Can I kick this? Oh, it's totally glass. All right, so we'll break this out. Here we go. I just wanted to see Totally can. Wow, oh yes. Now I got stuck. Just got a mouthful of glass. Tastes like fiber. All right, here's [screams] Maybe I'll just fall off I need another vehicle Okay, the BMX is back there. That's fine though. Okay, speed. Sticks to land. Yes, six to the landing. We're going to use speed and agility now, Look at this. agility, look at it. It's gorgeous. It's green, all right. It's the color of money and vomit, boom. Maybe I could get the hydraulics a little better and time it. Oh, God. You may say to yourself, great. Are you kicking this off of the platform? I've been kicking this and I will keep kicking this because it let me down. It let me down in ways [music] -Oh my God, fall. [chuckles] Come on. Oh, God, just do it for YouTube. It's right there. [sobs] This is impossible. This is not how gravity functions. [laughs] [music] -[laughs] Yes. Oh, I just made Oh yes, look at the wheels, baby. Oh, we're riding high on this, boom. No. Oh, God, hydraulics? There we are, no problems. Going to get to the bike, that's my plan. Oh, oh, oh, come on, come on. I'm right there. Come on. Okay, think that's about as far Although, I can get back to my bike now. Are you ready? There we go. yes. [moans] Just clearing out the glass All the speed, yes. Okay, we're getting to level 20. Now if there's no glass, [sound] My bike betrayed me. I said I could pop this stuff easy, Okay, and then-- -[laughs] I'm going to try a different car. Okay, well it's let me down, it has allowed me to use it that they have no reason- --for being. Oh, it's doing really good. Okay, yes, we're already at level eight, Just pop it over this, there we go. I was going to say can I I can absolutely beat the tractor. This is incredible. Oh, I can use the glass as an extra ramp. Ooh, line this up, maximum speed, go. Pop it. Oh yes. Oh, this is happening. Oh, this is fantastic. Okay and then regular pop. Good. Can't believe how well this climbs. Pop. now I can't hit the-- There we go. Yes. [laughs] Yes, yes. Okay, and then up. Can I get past the bike? Yes. Okay. Now, we're at-- okay, pop it and then climb it. Okay, still going. We got something of a problem here. The chassis underneath is catching so I can get the front wheels over it, the rear wheels. [laughs] Okay, never mind, I can totally bring so now there's blocks with spaces in them. All right, maximum distance. Then we're going to get speed. We're going to pop the front. I don't know if I can pop it Pop the front, okay, there we go. Yes, yes, yes, perfect. Okay, level 20 legit now with this thing. [chuckles]. Oh, come on, come on. Wriggle it, wriggle it. Oh my God, I'm dancing with this thing. Yes. Okay, I've been at this for a while. this is as high as I can go. Oh, yes. If you're going to climb, in the game. Now Alex said each one of these represents so we're already at-- whatever, two feet and- oh, all right, We're already at two feet. Oh man, this thing's totally Come on, hydraulics. Do it, there we go. You and I are good friends again. Yes. Yes. Okay, this is as far as I can get this the tractor. Big money [cash register dings] All right, Canis. Okay, got a good front bumper on this. Oh, whoa, whoa. Ow. I'm fine. Maybe I should use it a little bit There we go. [chuckles] All right, well, there goes the hood. Oh, okay. Is this going to be-- no- I was going to say this is going to be Oh, yes. Just lean it back, boom. Hey, can I not get this? Come on. Okay, this is as far Look at the height I'm expecting level 25, at the very least. Watch this, pop, ease. We're going to do There we go. Nice. Lean it back. Hydraulics are working great. Going to get past this thing, boop. I don't even need speed. Oh, all right. That one I need a little bit This is totally controllable. Yes. Keep it going, got to beat the canus Big bounce. Big bounce. [laughs] Oh, the part of my car helped me climb it. Well, you know what? That counts technically. The tires are so small whoa, all right- that even though the tires don't catch, so I just end up grinding the chassis. See? I just end up grinding the chassis and the rear wheels are skidding out. I can at least get-- I was going to say, We're at 18. 18. [sound] Look at that color scheme. It's almost like the Florida Gators, There's a little bit That orange is the same though, Level 16, can't get any further. I'm starting to get really concerned it past what-- level 25? There's at least 100 levels. Yes. The front nose on this thing is so high and the tires just generate a ton of pull. Again, this course isn't something with a bunch of cars, but, okay. Oh, we got a prime vehicle right here I haven't even really used All right, now Pop the front a little bit, here we go. Just wiggle it. Just got to wiggle it like jazz hands, Boom, right there. No big deal. Big lift, there we are. Now if I can just wriggle this past. I don't know if I got enough speed Bam. Oh yes. Is this ice? Why didn't you put snow on here? Oh, it's snow. Oh, God, oh, no. [laughs] Oh, all the little traction [laughs] Oh, Alex, this is awful. Why would you do this? The traction on the wheels is Take away the traction, [chuckles] All right, we're going to use speed. I'm just going to try and hop there. Okay, yes. Look, there's a whole thing There we go. [background voices] What? Oh, it's a big hole. There's a wall with a hole, I can't slide it in there, you know what I mean? All right, whatever. I think I could get one more level. Come on, yes. [laughs] 28 is probably where I need I'm not giving up. I want to get one more level. -[screams] [sighs] 28. I guess I should have done this Coming up on level 20, the hydraulics much yet, level 19. Ooh, the only thing is so you have to hit -[barks] All right, Alex, you said okay. This is what this was made for. [motor sound] Don't climb this thing [laughs] Yes. Level 19 with a liberator. I really thought this All right, I tried. Level 19, motorcycle. We're going to try Oh yes. [laughs] There we go. Now you can get some good pop action, but my real plan is-- Let me get some speed. My real plan is I want to hit that I fly over most of them. Watch, bam. Right there, bam. [chuckles] Did you put this here specifically Can I cheat this? There's no way for me Okay, so this is dynamic. I have an idea. We're going to take-- we're going to take this. I'm hoping this can make it I got some really bad news. This is as far as this can make it. I need to get a car to push this box. There's only one car that I trust of everything I've used so far. We're going to take this, because this can't get any farther anyway. The car I need is the waste lander. Now, last time I messed this up, to this point. Look at that, right there. Now, we're going to take this box against the wall Now I understand why he made this ice I hope I just [echo voice] Now I should be able to pop the box. Yes. Go. We're at level 29. Oh, all right, well, I fell, Pull it around and bump it. Level 29, level 30. Ooh, level 30. What is this? Vertical spacers? It's like big pieces of cheese. Notice the space over on the left. Hold on, watch this. I could totally cheat this. Line it up, pop it. Perfect. [music] Well, that almost killed me. This is impossible, isn't it? The only way for me to do this is Yes, it is. Yes. God, yes. Okay, now they're horizontal. Can I just normally pop this? Speed, nose up, ramp it. There, pop that wheely ahead of time This is this new personal best. Oh, now we have moving obstacles, okay. Now I'm going to wait for it. Hold on, not yet, and now. It should go right in the front. Perfect. Oh, now, there's two moving signs, -[?] you may start questioning [laughs]. The bike gets hopelessly stuck here. Let me show you something. The bike gets stuck on the top lip. You can't jump it. Look, right there, it gets stuck, so this is as high Okay, I've been at this for a while. You want to see something cool? [groans] Yes. Level 38 on the bike. All right, I think all I had to do get full speed, There we go, 39. Okay, these are normal, so I think Jump it, yes. 40. I'm at the point where these walls are-- yes- these walls are three times This is good though. We're going to level 50, straight up. Take flight sign, and now. Oh, yes. Oh, it's angled. He angled the take flight sign, [sound] If you do it now-- oh, never mind- there's your [?]. [laughs] [music] Just a bunch of Take Flight signs moving. I have to get lucky, realistically. [gasps] Yes. Okay, so now we have normal walls. Again, normal walls? Look at it, like nothing. Oh, almost fell off there. Little speed, pop it up. Almost at level 5-- oh, they're disappearing- we're almost at level 50. Come on, yes. Okay. Now. Yes. -[laughs] Look at how fast it did, Come on, just get lucky, just get lucky. Yes. Come on., just keep going. Yes. Okay and hop. Ooh. are they getting too high I don't think so. I'm going to keep trying, just yes. All I have to do is bring Ooh, whoa. All I have to do is bring the wheel up by that sign. It's like an NHL puck trying Oh, whoa. [chuckles] Look, they're all vibrating, I can do this, just there we go. I was going to say just [?] now there's [laughs] It's a horizontally moving wall. Come on. [sighs] Now? I might be able to land this Maximum distance. [dings] [laughs] Oh, my bike is leaking oil. I never really thought about it. I guess the bike is starting to take damage. Come on, just get a few more levels, baby. There we go. We're almost at level 60. This bike has gone 35 levels Now there's a Take Flight sign. I'm going right over. Oh, I was going to say, I'm going right Oh, this bike is breaking. Jump it. [groans] Shocks are dying, man. Engine sputtering. Aim it, pop, yes. There's a thumbnail hole. Are you kidding me? Maybe it's easier than I think. Just start it now and then go Oh my God, thumbnail hole. Yes. God. now we have This one should be easier. Thumbnail hole, I bounced backwards. Thumbnail hole. [sound] Thumbnail hole, yes, yes. Wow. The bike's got to be the vehicle All right, big lean. There we go. I'm getting there. This is happening. I am now at the windmills. Just keep going. Grey, just pull back. Go forward. Pop the-- yes- keep going. Yes. I've almost made it past them, yes. Wrong. Wrong what? I think I'm quite right, Alex. [laughs] I don't know how this bike at this point. There's almost nothing. Oh, wow. That's Come on, yes. No more extra fun or else This is getting absurd. I have been painstakingly doing these. I am at number 79. Got to pop, yes, We've got a problem, the bike-- -[laughs] I was going to say the bike finally took and now it exploded. I'm at something like 85 or 84. I'm almost out of cars, man. I'm an idiot. [laughs] Okay, Alex. All right, all right, yes, you got me. I forgot. I haven't jumped in this thing in forever. No joke, I'm at the Take Flight signs. Look at it. It's still got plenty I'm on level 70. 71, full-speed jump it. Let me have 80. Yes, wow, 81 we're going for, 81. Oh, yes. [laughs] Okay, I've been at this for a while. I cannot get past 81. It does have hydraulics, so it can get right here, All right, this thing is garbage. It can't do anything. In fact, go play in traffic. I don't know. Maybe there's something that you can-- wait, what?- hold on, did you? Okay, the camera-- yes- Did you put a car inside Hold on. Is that the secret? Is that why you said try all the cars? Are you kidding me? It's a Ruiner. Oh, my God. Oh, Alex. Hold on. I think I can pop. You are sick. This has a pop and a parachute. Finally. [laughs] I hate you. Shot some random bystander. I meant to shoot all the vehicles. Let's do this. Yes. Tumble your way there, I don't have time to spend I'm already at the ice. I am gliding over the boards. Watch, gliding over. Almost at level 50, no problem. Almost at level 60, no problem. Even these wind turbines-- watch- are giving me no issues. Level 90. I am now past where the bike blew up. I am at green now. We're done with the rookie numbers. Each level increases by five feet now. Okay, I'm at 110. Oh, my God, it goes to 170. That's the last wall, right? Pop it. Okay, now it's starting to get hard. When he said by five feet, [sighs] I can get even more speed going backward so we'll do a little bit Hold on. That and then pull it. Yes, [groans] come on. That's a good distance. My car's getting deformed. 160 final, well, as far as I can tell. There's some sort Am I supposed to jump to that? I don't know if I get that far, Alex. Okay, maximum distance. Oh, this is happening. Oh, more speed. Are you ready to yeet this? Okay, pop it. Oh, I got an updraft or something. That felt pretty good. Yes. -[laughs] Yes. Oh, my God. What's this? What is it? How much higher can I go? You made it, almost. Remember, Yes. What about it? Do I bring the car through the teleporter. The car doesn't go through the teleporter. It's just me. What boss thing did There. What is the max level At the finish, Oh, it's level 81, I remember it. 100%, it's level 81. All right, level 81. Oh, I did it, okay. Which vehicle can climb Well, that's the bike. Not the BMX bike, Oh, the Shinobi, there it is. Okay, Shinobi? Yes. What's the max level Oh, my God, I don't remember. It was like level 15, right? 16? Oh my God, there's of choices. Why are there so many options? Come on, Alex. Future Gray here, I had to do something even more incredible I chose wrong, I failed. I got shucked off the board. I tried to figure out how this thing I finally put two and two together. You go backwards. I went backwards, Finally, after all that, Then I had to get a Ruiner, to reset everything, No, you don't understand. For real, the entire board all over again, Then pick level 21 and at that point, we have a winner. [laughs] All right, well I learned things Anyway, folks, hope you enjoy Until next time, stay foxy and much love.