[oil rippling] Fire! [oil exploding] Roel Konijnendijk: So, Sorry. I mean, you can Hi, my name is Roel Konijnendijk. I'm a lecturer in ancient history at the University of Oxford. I'm an expert in ancient to you today about premodern [soldiers charging] So, this is the supposed which literally means pushing. And about 100 years who clearly had rugby on his mind decided that this should be conceived as a literal mass shoving. We have no evidence of that. Nobody ever says that that's the case, but for some reason, And so for the last 100 years, But generally speaking, I mean, people didn't want to fight like that. Spears are right in your face. So there's a lot of reasons [spears clanging] So, this moment, where they switch from fighting in formation to going after individuals that seemed very realistic Make sure you can kill as because that's when they're vulnerable. That's when they're not fighting back. So that's when you can just And that's exactly what It's only very much where they say, &quot;We don't because if you chase the enemy, then you're caught out of formation. You become vulnerable. But at this time, the so the Spartans had no rules against this, and, indeed, it's a true story. You can't really dispute that, but in sense of the it feels like a fantasy movie. Maybe three or four out of 10. [soldiers marching] If the old man's in range, They're making all these hold their arrow for a really long time. And these are really heavy bows, Plate armor is intended Bows aren't guns. They are meant as a suppressive weapon. You use it to keep their heads down. And so of course you would still use it, even against people wearing plate armor, because even the feel of arrows sort of pinging off your Obviously, attacking walls with ladders is just a really, really And usually it doesn't work. If you believe they don't or the strength to resist You just put a lot of swarm up, take the place. If you expect it to be defended, it puts you in such a approaching the walls one at a time, and that's just not going to go well. But obviously it is a very common tactic. I mean, you can go to the and see depictions of people Yeah. So, I mean, the problem when you see these kind that they always seem to make it really easy for the attacker. If they want to go right up to the wall, they can just do that. If they want to bring siege engines, if they want to bring catapults or rams or towers up to the walls, they can just do that. It's like they're trying for this place to fall. Whereas in reality, I mean, one of the most common very simply, if you have you dig a ditch, and you then you build your wall on top of that. And now what do you have? The enemy wants to approach They end up in the ditch. Suddenly the wall they're If they want to bring siege they fall into the ditch. They would have to fill before they can get to you. All that time, they're In movies, they never do this because that would slow things down. They want to keep the assault engaging. That's why a lot of the are actually too simple, and they're missing a lot of the points that would actually be used. [orcs growling] Well, firstly, that so everybody would die. But [laughs] these horses would just slide to their deaths, unfortunately. But if we take that out of the equation, I always thought it was that he uses the light of which means they lower their So the idea is that he that the horses need to see in order to push their charge. So you see them sort of just before the charge hits, which is exactly the point. That makes it conceivable I mean, it is still a fantasy, and they're doing many things wrong. On the other hand, it certainly hits a number of points where you're like, using sort of layered initiative in order to overcome the defenses. Yeah. I mean, four out This is just wrong. I mean, what are they doing here? Like, this is, where are that the Scots in this period were wearing, like, leather and war paint? Like, these are just They would be wearing chain They just deliberately Why would you make them into savages? They were sophisticated people. They had disciplined pike formations. It's so bizarre. So, fire arrows are not They did exist, but during a siege assault, for instance, like you could use them which is what they are for. So, buildings and stocks and supplies would -- straw-thatched roofs. Because it would create This idea of involving is just something that Hollywood loves. I mean, you just want to have fire because it's a nice spectacle. [soldiers yelling] Also, how would they have done this without the English noticing that there was a field of oil Like, they wouldn't have been like, &quot;Oh, that's probably there for no reason. I'm just gonna stand in front of it.&quot; [soldiers charging] They just do this, all these movies, they just sort of charge into each other, like horses' lancers. They just sort of mash into each other, like, no regard for anything. And then when people ask me, like, &quot;So, in a battle like this, how would you know which Like, how would you know Like, yeah, you wouldn't, obviously, if it went down like this, you would have no idea, As soon as your formation and so disorderly that the you know you've lost. Now, you would, infantry would often charge into battle in the sense of that it would run the last distance to meet the enemy, because Nobody wants to be there, really, because they know they're So you run and you scream to get yourself through that point and to psych yourself up and to know that there's a lot of you who are all in it together. But then you'd probably, by you'd probably slow down and then you would start in more or less even lines, because otherwise everything would just, you would just lose control. This is a joke. I mean, like... from the equipment to the tactics, like, none of this has any bearing on what actually happened except that William Wallace was defeated. That's basically it. [laughs] Two out of 10 or one out of 10. That's one of the most common forms of ancient artillery, They would shoot these big rods. These sort of metal bolts. They're very effective. They shoot further and more There's an account of somebody getting blown off his by one of these things. They are very useful in they clear the walls. You don't want to stand there. I mean, what is the point here? This forest is clearly very wet. It's not going to burn. It just looks cinematic. And they form a testudo! Of course they do. I mean, it's not ridiculous. I mean, the Romans did have a formation like that, it was called testudo, and they did use it in a few occasions when you knew you had to pass through a bunch of arrow fire and you didn't want to but it's a desperate measure. So then you're stuck waiting, essentially, for the enemy to stop shooting at you. So, in a battle situation you wouldn't want to waste your time trying to get into that formation and then waste your time when the enemy's right there. Instead, you would just try to get through that zone and Maximus: Do not be troubled. For you are in Elysium, and you're already dead! Roel: It's an endless debate actually happened, because it's hard to speak to an entire army for the people, especially without a microphone. But it is something that in descriptions of battles. So the best we can do is and that they were a very [soldiers charging] So, the cavalry here bizarrely This is a really bad idea. Your horses are going to break their legs. Like, you'd try to find open ground. I mean, it uses a lot of actual Roman tactics and equipment, so I guess six out of 10, but it's a mishmash. The whole point is just that they're just doing &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot; This is just made up because like &quot;Saving Private Ryan.&quot; Resisted landings are not because they're very kind Most of the time, they would just find a a reasonable distance and land there. And then they would These are just stakes for show. Who are they gonna stop? Like, they're not trying to People can just walk through them. Like, if you want to fortify anything, in antiquity, in the Middle ditch and a palisade. It's that simple. It's easy, all you need is a bit of wood and some shovels, and They just put some stakes up Just kind of sprinkled some stakes. This kind of shield I mean, come on. There's nothing like They're not going to be like this overlapping sort of turtle thing. In the period where this poem is set, there was no mounted cavalry. And even in later periods, you rarely have people It's hard to work out how It's difficult to use it if you don't have very many of them, and horses are just very precious. It costs an enormous amount so you don't want to waste your horse on something like this guy and his hammer. Charging all together. They have no sense of order. And, in fact, if you look just to the left of Paris, after the next shot of [laughing] The extra I mean, I love that, because why you wouldn't want Because if everybody's you're just going to trip over yourself. Like, everybody gets in each other's way. Like, they're doing a beach landing, which is obviously inspired It has nothing to do with history except that they have swords and arrows. Yeah, I mean, what do So, again, where is your ditch? Where is your ditch?! You've got to have a ditch! Otherwise they're going right up to your wall. You know this! And obviously Jerusalem at and it had a pre-wall and another ditch, so that you can't just put your siege engines [hammer clanging] Of course they start throwing fireballs. [sighs] Stop it with the fireballs! [soldiers shouting] Admittedly, it is realistic here that they are very concerned about trying to keep their siege The defenders would try and so it's very important usually by covering them with wet hides. [soldiers shouting] [oil burbling] So, boiling oil is a big trope, right? You see it in a lot of movies. It's not a thing. Didn't happen. Sorry. So, there's no evidence There's no description of people being smothered in boiling oil. Certainly not oil that's I mean, you can just throw boiling water and it does the same thing, or you can just throw rocks. But they cost you nothing, they take no preparation, and you just throw them at people. They get hurt. It's great. So boiling oil is just and you're burning fuel. You don't want to be burning In the account that we have of this siege, it says there was constant and there were also assaults on the walls. This one's better than Better than Helm's Deep. Again, they should have Literally all they do is just stand around carrying, like, spears You should be digging Once your first ditch is The female characters, other than the ones who are basically just sort of hiding in the dungeon and not doing anything. In actual sieges, especially when it was this desperate, I mean, they would just Women, children, old men, because there's always even when they don't fight. You know, go and carry arrows and stones up to the people on the walls, go put out fires, help help with clothing and the wounded. There is no way you would in a corner somewhere. These catapults are They should be on top of the wall. Like, why would you put They're going to be overrun. You can't move them out so put them on top of the wall. That's where you put your artillery. So, you can put your cavalry in front, and it totally works, if you don't expect your So, putting your cavalry very common strategy, totally works, unless you're fighting ice zombies, who are not going to break, You're just wasting your cavalry. So it's the right tactic There are probably several battles, other battles in &quot;Game of Thrones&quot; where this could have worked really well. Should you find yourself fighting an army of ice zombies, so, put your artillery on the wall, dig many ditches, just lots and lots of ditches. You can put, of course, if you want to confront them there, because that means that you will have several stages to fall back on. After that, you won't sort of But put your cavalry so that once the enemy is engaged, once your ice zombies are you can then swoop in from the side, where they are not expecting I mean, it's not going win your fight against but at least it means in a way that they don't expect. At least you will have done something with your cavalry that made sense. But otherwise, I mean, So, what should we say, five out of 10? [dramatic music] I mean, this movie had an Oxford professor advising on the movie. You can see all the little in terms of their dress, in terms of their tactics and maneuvers. Like, all of this is as good as we can get it, almost. It's really, really precise, except for the fact that, they still went with this kind of slightly racist depiction of, you know, flimsy warriors wearing It doesn't really reflect They would have been much more organized and much more heavily equipped, but this is just the way Persia in general and the East. It's just...it leaves a [soldiers charging] In fact, throughout this period, the Greeks were the ones whereas the Persians were and to advance silently into battle, which was something that the Greeks were really impressed by. Camels, always useful, It's kind of a theme They would use camels to With this movie, like, all Like, these guys, you know You know, later on, there are Like, you can pinpoint The whole pike phalanx is with all of the weaponry, the spacing between the men, and the kind of blocks and things like that. Now, this is obviously a bit silly. People wouldn't deliberately on a giant stick. It's much more likely that they would just sort of stop in front of that And you don't actually to actually kill all those people, because people don't, you They're going to run away from it. I mean, this is exactly This is our best reconstruction of how this battle happened. This is, in terms of ancient warfare, this is the most accurate depiction that you'll find anywhere, and I would give this nine out of 10. Kill them all! [soldiers charging] Roel: Stop! No! Where are your missiles? Now, this is where -- [sighs] These battles, they would be about trying to disrupt the formation, not trying to slam into I mean, you'd be throwing, you'd be shooting arrows at it and throwing javelins at it to try and see if you can And then eventually, you might sort of rush forward. And so you could use your to try and create a hole It doesn't do any, it Yeah, no, Vikings would I mean, that aspect of it is realistic, except the fact that it's seems a bit excessive. That's a Roman formation. But you do have, obviously are the way they would fight So they would try to avoid pitched battles and mostly would fight in surprise attacks, ambushes, and sieges. So this is a rare occasion where, according to this scene, apparently they actually so then they could risk it. So, this one, I would probably give, like, six or seven out of 10. And so, this movie is So, not on the historical record. It's essentially just a fantasy story. This formation, [laughs] in the historical record, there is something called which isn't described. It means a really elaborate that has these sort of which is intended to trap enemy cavalry. And so that's what you're is that they are using to trap enemy cavalry. There are a couple of in a sort of competitive maneuvering, where two armies are that they have more by competitively moving troops around. But actually there is no evidence that it was ever used in It's much too complex. The amount of control that you would need over every individual detachment, the amount of coordination everybody has to know for this to work. And none of them can, you know, even a stray arrow killing one of them would disrupt this entire formation because it would create a gap. So it's just not feasible. That seems sort of wildly optimistic as to the abilities of any infantry force. [drum beating] In real life, if you could why not just stab them? It's another one of those so how can you judge it? Like, it's cool, it's evocative, but it's not historical. It's got the equipment right, so maybe four.