Hi. Hi! Thank you, that is a warm welcome. Guys he smells really good. I must say it's nice to meet you Jimmy, Thank you! Thank you. I've had a little work done. Yeah, well you've got a good surgeon. Thank you. Um, it's great that you're here. Did you see the prom proposal that we just I did, very sweet. So cute. Did you go to your prom? I definitely feel like you would go to a lot In England we don't have proms but we would very eighties. Funky! Yeah funky. I only went to one because it was the greatest day of my life. The most popular girl in our school- Rachel had a enormous crush on, I was thirteen, so And she asked me to be her prom date or her So I was just made up, on cloud nine. And uh... we're sort of planning the rest and such. And then the day before she told me she was And she went with Sebastian ---- at school at that point, everyone knew we So I couldn't go ask someone else, so then My mom said "Do you want me to come with I said Can I just say one thing? [BLEEP] you Rachel Gould. Not cool. I bumped into her a few years ago. Did you? And I reminded her of this and she didn't She said "I'm so sorry... Yeah... too little too late Rach. If only she could see you know. Now that I'm king of England and all. Right? You were on Sons of Anarchy for a very long Yes. You rode a motorcycle. I did. Do you still ride? You rode right? You're in to motorcycles. I did. You know it's funny on Sons we did it for little outlaws. A real biker gang. We kind of got the experience of a real biker So I rode everywhere. And I went 100 miles per hour everywhere I Really? And after seven years you know you really I mean I had a- Uhhhh yeah. But you know it's so funny I had... I had only one real unfortunate incident. I was on the 101 coming in like by Universal, Now no problem and I was just... I came over to get on to the exit cause I off the freeway. And this brand giant white Lexus comes barreling Like really aggressively towards me, and I in the driver's seat. It was a self-driver? One of those self driving cars? The lady who was driving had dropped her mobile and there were two cars in front of me pinched and I thought if she hits me and I hit this That's a wrap. So I said what do you do in this situation? So I went BAM, and slammed my bike into her And my peg that my foot was on hit her front down - I mean, I felt - and I said, "oh And I looked down, and thankfully my foot And so after-- ay yi yi- after that experience, I thought after I finish the show maybe I Take a break. Yeah, well I- listen, I feel like we have I've never been in a motorcycle accident. I got my license to impress my husband who I got the license because I'm not good at But I know you like motorcycles, I like my You like cooking, I like cooking, I also love Here's my question: can we go three for I'm really obsessed with animals. Do you like animals? I do. Do you want to see a picture of my cat? OF COURSE I DO. I've got a cat who is the homie, I've Legit a picture of your- wait what? You saved his life? I did. Aw, he's very cute! Can we see that there, you got it? Yeah, hold it there he is. There's the homie. Wait how did you save his life? He was born on my roof on Valentine's- well day, 2000 - in 2000, 17 years ago. And I was going to bed one night, and I heard It was pouring rain, and in order to climb the garage, and it was about a three foot than the garage, so I'd have to run, and You got onto your roof a lot of times previously It was like a regular thing? Just, go up to the roof! So yeah, but it was 11:00 at night and pouring myself or the cat, so I set my alarm for 5am about this cat. And the alarm went off, and I thought, "why the cat. So I climbed up - no cat up there, went back Climbed up just to check once more, and he - he was lying like this, half submerged in And I picked him up and my heart broke. I literally just started crying. I thought this is the end of my life. There's no chance for happiness for me now. I've killed this cat. And he was completely solid, like rigor mortis out. I said, "he's alive!" So I brought him down and put him under my have a car or anything at that point - I was You RAN to the vet? How far away was the vet? Two miles away, two and a half miles away? With the cat underneath my arm. You're kidding! And then the vet wasn't open 'cause it You can't catch a break. No really, I know, it was a bad day. So then two hours later they opened, and he's They said he's 100% not gonna make it, and friend. You are gonna give him a shot, and put him - you're saving this cat's life." And they said alright crazy, we'll do what Four hours later they said he made a complete Rachel, you blew it - you blew it. I'm not getting drawn into this mess. There's an army of you, there's only one I haven't had a fight for years. But I'll talk. I'm happy to talk. But there is no way that I am fighting. Yeah! Now I saw this film last night and it is fantastic! It's so, so, so good. Thank you, we had a lot of fun. Yeah I bet you did. Like just visually, and the acting is great you had a very nice frame in this film. And I don't say that to objectify you. I say that because I care about the human I'm not sure about those leather pants. You know sometimes you go to a photoshoot- You've gotta break out of your comfort zone! Can I tell you something? Nobody's looking at the leather pants, they're And let me ask you this, 'cause I feel like - not that I remember what you look like with so recently and dreamt about it, what did Like seriously. I did a lot of fighting. I did some Muay Thai, some boxing, some Jiu Guy, the director, is big into Jiu Jitsu, push ups a day, minimum. 1,000? Yeah, for six months, and I'm a little bit get 1,000 then I would punish myself and have Oh honey. Yeah, you know, you gotta get after it. Eye of the tiger! Well listen, it did great things for you and "King Arthur: Legend of the Sword" is