This theorem actually has a name, it was called the Happy Ending theorem. And what happened was that a woman mathematician, Esther Klein, picked up the problem when she was abroad and brought it back and Erdos and Szekeres thought about it and it turns out that shortly thereafter Szekeres and Esther Klein got married, and they were married until- in their 90s. So if I put five points on the table here in the plane so that no three are in a straight line; so that's one way to do it, or I could do it like this, or I could do it a different way. What you're looking for, you're looking for a convex set of four points. Now what does convex mean? Convex means, around the polygon, say you're going from here to here to here so I went all the way around the edges, you're always turning left, you never turn right. This is the idea of a convex polygon. And a polygon that's not convex is something like this: so if I were to go around the outside of this polygon, here I turn right, then I turn left, then I turned left, so it in. So you're looking for a convex polygon; now here's a set of five points, could I have a convex? Yes, here's a convex one right here. How about this one? Well that's a little harder (Brady: You don't have to No, you only get four points. So the question is now, if I just gave you four points like this then there is no convex 4-gon here because you got to use all four points and so you'd be stuck. But five points you have to get a convex 4-gon and there's a very beautiful nice proof of that. If the outside only had four or five points then you could use those points and get your convex four-sided figure, but if it didn't; so if you had a triangle and two points on the inside okay? So look at these five points. Then if you just take this line and extend it through then it will hit a side over here and then these four points form a convex n-gon. So the question is, suppose you wanted not a convex 4-gon, you wanted a convex five sided figure. If you put enough points down must you get a five? Yes. And the answer is yes. If you put nine points down, no three in a straight line, you must form a convex five sided figure someplace. And nine is the best possible, with eight you can prevent it, can prevent it. And just very recently people showed that if you put 17 points down you must get a convict six-sided figure, and 16 is not enough. So it's a beautiful conjecture of Erdos and George Szekeres, who was his longtime collaborator, that if you want a convex n sided figure, an n-gon, then it's enough to put 2 to the n minus 2 plus 1 points. That should imply that you would get a convex n-gon. And that would be best possible. There is a way to put only 2 to the n minus 2 and not get one. So if n is equal to say 6, you want a convex 6-gon, then 2 to the 6 minus 2 plus 1 which is 17, and that was that recent result - 17's enough. And if you put n is equal to 4, then you want a convex 4-gon, 2 to the 2 plus 1 is 5. okay? So it's- the guess is that that's exactly the right answer, and I for $1,000, kind of in Erdos' name, to prove that that's the right answer or prove it's not the right answer. (1000 bucks? Of your money?) disproved. Well I have some, yes, I have some Erdos money left for this emergency in case people solve his problems, right? (that's not fact yet? That's just a-) this is a conjecture. There are many papers and surveys and and it's just one of these kind of innocent geometrical problems; again in the spirit of Ramsey theory which shows that in a complex situation there's a certain order within it. In the complex situation, there's a bunch of plane and the order is a n-gon that's convex. It was known to n equals 4 was right away- right away. And 5 was done 30-40 years ago. And 6 was just done, and they used a fair amount of computer calculation because you have to look at all the different configurations of putting 17 points down in the plane and there are a lot of different possibilities and you want to check that each one of them must have a convex 6-gon, and they did and that's done. But now the next case is going to be on computation so you need your brain once again. Right now computers aren't as- well, aren't up to it for replacing our brains, at least not up ...that stack is 7.6 trillion 3s high. And you start from the top and work your way down and you get an almighty number, you get a number that is absolutely off the chart.