The coronavirus crisis mercilessly Now we know how vital And the global consequences of the Many Americans don't have access At the same time, billionaires like ...founder of online shop Alibaba, But who will eventually pay Ten percent of the Dutch population An enormous concentration. peeking at the wealthy This is Jennifer. Peeking at the wealthy. Perhaps a misleading title, We're not admiring their bathrooms, If money was like water, it would Some people have too much I see some people there... ...who are enjoying themselves Their lives are comparable They are enjoying the fruits of wealth. They are enjoying the apple of wealth, And the others are in the dark. They can't have that life. Which side shall we turn you to? It's odd that the health sector is under Before the coronavirus crisis schools And when the virus struck, There was this 50-year-old lady Lung cancer had spread. She still came She needed an enema This patient told me: I can't afford it, She had three to four months to live They didn't want the patient Unbelievable that money is the problem Such a shame. American author and journalist ...wrote about the growing inequality in A search for the cause of the Forty million Americans are currently When Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg ...they announced that they would move ...to the Chan Zuckerberg foundation. They would invest in education ...help people who fell out of the system And Bill Gates recently quit Microsoft to On paper everybody has But in reality most power resides Amazon founder Jeff Bezos donated Sounds good. But his own employees ...having to work without PPE This can be dangerous as Amazon Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg ...contributing 125 million dollars Meanwhile, the American health care And over here? Philanthropy sounds attractive Foundations are being set up And more and more events are I need a hand and an arm. Can I get 1700? It's for charity. These are not the super-rich, and nights Raising money for terminally ill children. Ten paintings, ladies and gentlemen. But the surplus of wealth ...coincides with shortages It begs the question: Why is profit Jennifer speaking. The fiscal system, including benefits... ...is probably the most important part That decides who contributes ...and those who need solidarity, people If we want to support these people, You can tax earned income. We have But you can also tax It's clear that over the years we have ...and business less. Sixteen, four and five. Not seen awake. Do an echo at two. I have a catheter in his leg bag. This man is doing all right. It's common knowledge ...won't make you rich. You don't do this for the money. You need to know a lot here. Can I handle this, is this worth it? If they only see the pressure of working ...and our high expectations, ...that would deter nurses from coming More and more Dutch political parties Giridharadas was invited by the They want to know more Starbucks, Netflix, Amazon, Google. Transnational companies that are ...through Dutch letterbox companies. Shell is dodging taxes And in the Bermuda Islands accountants ...to hide money that's supposed 1250 is bid, 1250... Who bids more than 1250? Roughly half of the Dutch people And ten percent of the Dutch population An enormous concentration. It gives you power. This is one of the reasons why I think Because the democratic principle that ...to influence our collective decision You're working hard. Everybody here is. You hardly have any time for us. Not always, no. What are your thoughts on that? As if you're machines. When I was here in the past, things Time for a chat, you mean? And if you pressed the button, They'd ask you how you were doing. Yes, people have no time for you. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. I'll go get your antibiotics. People who only have income ...don't have the same level of It's a shame... ...but you can't make this analysis Like I said before... Hang on, so the super-rich Of course they do. That's obvious. Stand over there, please. The captains of industry have the I doubt that the leaders in the So if you're rich, you can go and lobby Taxation of wealth and business Countries could co-ordinate their efforts The Netherlands could take this on. But it would lack credibility, Except if the Netherlands would lead Then you could ask others Hello. Did you sleep well? Yes? There you go. If it's a busy shift, you only have ...and then duty calls or a patient calls What would you like to drink? I've been working here I made 1400 euros a month clear. Weekends, late and night shifts. Many people think they don't have And we're often blinded And we don't know how taxes work There is this kind of... I wonder if people are aware. They did research in America They asked respondents: Do you think ...and will it improve People didn't have a clue. They thought that tax reform... ...that would lower taxes for the rich That's a serious issue. We view taxes We don't want anything to do with it. But it's fundamental Jennifer here. Is room sixteen yours? Three? Yes. Let's have a look. And then she can go home? I don't have the result yet. Jennifer here. Last year at the World Economic Forum ...that the rich should pay more taxes. This year a number of super-rich echo Some super-rich want to pay more taxes Because the ever-increasing inequality Here we are in our palaces, Higher inequality weighs heavier on Under Trump, the relative amount of tax ...has dropped below Trump simply struck a very good deal And the worst thing is... ...and this is where politics He was able to do this by getting people ...and these people are convinced: He'll fix it for us. At the Media Summit in Abu Dhabi ...why he would never want to be This was the situation in the past year Of the profit of the 75 largest ...70 percent ended up ...rather than the people Whenever we try to raise this issue... ...we're told that the system What would you tell these people? The rich and super-rich They need the infrastructure And they tend to forget that their wealth ...of infrastructure, ...stability, social institutions I think something is happening We need to realise that the super-rich It's a very diverse group. Some But other super-rich are They realise they've been lucky. There's a group of millionaires They formed an alliance They call for higher taxes. Sounds good. But they have to, And unrest is bad for business. In Davos the Patriotic Millionaires Millionaires Against Pitchforks. 121 millionaires have signed the petition. In the petition they beg Perhaps fearful of the pitchforks ...who haven't benefited from The pitchfork, The French revolution maybe? Has nothing changed? Are we so set in our way of thinking? Do we still believe in a class society Is this how we believe the world works