Professor Paul Bloom: us where we are in this course, and what we have yet to do. brain, the physical basis of And then we moved to some foundational ideas in the study Freud and Skinner. cognitive stuff: language, vision, Then we took a little break and Then we dealt with the and evolution, What we learned particularly mind provided supporting We learned about cognitive face recognition as an important behavioral genetics, sex and food. Dr. about food. Next week, social thought and mysteries; that don't fit anywhere in the psychologists scratch their These topics are sleep, mental illness, what can go wrong in your happiness. You know a lot of psychology well prepared for your ultimate ultimately graduate training at How many people here are either psych majors or cognitive raise your hand to? Good. [laughter] again. and then mysteries, to--What is there? Anthropology? Give me a break. We're going to deal with three I'm going to talk about moral and then moral action with people do bad things, and discuss the Milgram study, movie on Monday. we'll start off with and we've different context. 'How could moral feelings So, moral feelings we could condemnation, that--shame, pride, righteous anger, caring for other people, being upset if an injustice is And you might think that the mystery from an evolutionary If evolution is survival of the claw, how could animals evolve But in fact, And there are two answers to One answer is kin selection. of the genes and because of that that are themselves altruistic. they act to preserve other genes. any time on this because we've but we know from previous generous to others. explanation for your generosity It could be mathematically Your caring, other creatures to the extent of share with them. all, giving your life to help cold-blooded evolutionary terms. even to the point of dying to those genes will, be preserved over the genes of And that is one force towards A second force towards kindness Even if animals are unrelated, Animals will give warning another, they will exchange and the reason for this is that our minds have evolved, cooperative situations with prisoner's dilemmas, cheating. including emotions that could be like guilt and anger, behavior in an evolutionary This is all by means of review is, &quot;Fine. evolve, but what do we know as emergence in nature of moral What's the psychology of moral And this is an issue I'm going to return to next week when we and disliking, things. couple of interesting case from a psychological point of The first one I want to deal And empathy has different view it as the feeling that your If you are hurt, painful for me. that affects my own mood. I am built, I am hard wired, This is an old observation. falsely viewed as a proponent of was quite explicit about the He notes: aimed and just ready to fall person, back our own leg or arm and when measure and are hurt by it as If you see somebody being you might yourself tense up. thumb with a hammer, Here is a good illustration of [laughter] actually. Now, we know certain things some which might be surprising. even for babies. hear other babies crying they The crying of babies is Now, some of you may be &quot;That could be explained in For one thing, other babies cry, they think they themselves are if they're crying they must be some more.&quot; ruled this out. they exposed babies to babies crying and tape recorded Babies cry more to this pain of their own pain, is to some extent a response to characters. aversive for chimpanzees and we But we know this, from a series of studies that to be done today. they put a chimpanzee in a room And when the chimpanzee slaps Trivial, smart animal, But the room has a window And in the other room another This second chimpanzee is not a and they've never seen each Now, when the first chimpanzee chimpanzee gets a painful putting the first chimpanzee in In order to feed himself, animal. themselves to death. would either but they go a long suggesting they do not want to pain. So, in another experiment they and the chimpanzee would slap rabbit scream in pain [laughter] Now, we've known for a long not logically linked to This is a point made by I could see you writhing in That could cause me pain but it nice to you. I could turn my head or I could misery. emotional--that this sort of concern and action. induce you to feel empathetic to what they're feeling, to them. to which they feel empathy. will hurt them to watch me slam If you are high empathy, person than if you're low suggesting there is some feeling and liking. like any other human capacity, Some of us have a lot of it. it. that in the population known as a population we'll return to illness, this sort of and the pain of others just I have some illustrative quotes In Damon's book, psychopathy, he talks about a specialized in mugging blind And when asked about the pain responded, &quot;What do I care? logically correct but, The fact that it's another The serial killer Gary Gilmore others gratified him and caused &quot;I was always capable of murder. feelings of others, I know I'm doing something bad word &quot;--wrong. And Ted Bundy, said he was astonished that all of his murders because he &quot;I mean, there are so many And if any of you here are sentiments, [laughter] These are particularly callous suggesting that this instinctive this aspect of moral thought, us but not in all of us. feeling is &quot;in-group&quot; and In our affections, who we like, whose pain bothers us, I care a lot more about my friends and I care more about my strangers. We also favor our group over You are a member of many groups. You are women. You're young. you're black, You're a member of these groups repeatedly when we talk about behavior, to you. is even groups that are formed, that are formed on the fly, over your moral feelings and And the best example of this is textbook. study. serves as a nice illustration of The study was, a camping program. pretty rich kids, and they were put into separate And the cabins were given names. they called themselves &quot;The as--what happened was, distinctive cultures. And when these groups were set other, the Eagles versus the intensity grew. to care a lot more about other So, there's within-group And then there were negative So, these groups developed It was a randomly cut is actually, where you get a But despite the fact that the the division is random, The Eagles prided themselves on not using cuss words and respect. dirty and tough and kind of The Rattlers viewed the Eagles It's cruel. it all evolved into The Eagles burnt a Rattlers occasionally used, the psychologist designing all &quot;Excellent,&quot; [laughter] says, different warring cultures. [laughter] friends again? to--now we've done that and problems.&quot; They wanted to have--They set representative of the Eagle and were set to meet and plan ways stop using cuss words and This failed. peace talks were ostracized by That failed. individual competitions like the people wouldn't compete as they would compete as That failed too. people--the teams took individual accomplishments as evolved into Eagles versus The They shared meals, food fights and more cuss words. more fights, They shared fun with [laughter] which nearly brought the [laughter] figure to give them sermons on [laughter] unsuccessful. Eagle--they took them to heart. They were respectful of lessons they took from them is neighbor.&quot; I should learn to love my him as a fellow, &quot;I love him. scummy Eagles.&quot; Here's what worked. Sherif told the kids--all of the camp was cut and they all What this did was it goal, that is a goal that and perhaps more important a This is where the solution, together--and you could write all the warring countries and alien attack. By the logic of the Sherif it group. there in that experiment the a very powerful way. they interacted with each The psychologist Tajfel after the question of what could make In other words, put you in a different group What do I have to do to this put you in a different group from that side? those groups to matter such if I separate you in one group I give you a hundred dollars him or to him, own group or to another group? need much. people pictures of modern art described them as Klee lovers or Now, this is all made up. assignments but the Klee lovers similar to other Klee lovers. tended to be smarter than the lovers would devote more others. &quot;minimal groups.&quot; into a group. later experiments just flipped So the lot--the experiment goes I ask everybody in this class You all flip it. you're one group. you're the other group. group, &quot;Which group do which group on average do you You'd say, &quot;Well, that the heads group is kind of smart.&quot; money. You're more likely--It's a groups so minimal but you're own group than to others and feelings are exquisitely attuned individuals but also to the Any questions at this point Yes. How you formed the groups--How Professor Paul Bloom: morality because it bears the question is, how does that relate to the And the answer is the moral feelings like empathy and For me to have a moral feeling me. I would view it as wrong. suggests that the extent to operate are partially determined to. another country, very--kind of obvious will be seen as less than if you If I'm a Klee lover and you're I don't think you quite deserve Moral judgment is an area that there's a lot of recent research By moral judgment I mean not not feelings of caring and love so they're not feelings of but notions like something is something--like something is So, there are three hallmarks So, suppose I say I don't like That's an evaluation. a moral judgment. Because I don't think it I don't think anybody's obliged ice cream. of sanctions, should be punished for eating On the other hand, killers, that actually is a So [inaudible] I don't like baby killers. I actually think we are obliged If you disagree with me, stop killing those babies. Should you fail to stop killing I think you should be punished And that's what my judgment it a moral judgment. look at this the wrong way and What a weird topic, morality. I believe in Nietzsche. I don't believe you if you were isn't--morality as we talk about regarding your position on big or big moral questions like Rather, some sort of moral often unconsciously. have to answer questions like Any moral vegetarians here? encourage people. Anybody give to charity? Good. Different from the moral Who do you socialize with? Yale and New Haven. Do you avoid their eyes? with your life? Under what context or These are moral questions. I'm walking down the street and do I avoid eye so we don't have or do I say, How are you doing?&quot; hoping that there won't be more [laughter] say, &quot;Oh, I should have made eye I'm such a jerk. There is a homeless person&quot; and--but these are day-to-day all the time and so there's a we do moral reasoning. reasoning? some universals. reasoning that show up And there is some evidence, strong at this point, up in young children and in chimpanzees, And these are things like anger sharers, the sort of things prisoner's dilemma, right and some things are wrong. But at the same time the study fascinated--fascinating issue cross-cultural psychology differences across cultures. Shweder gives a list here of People have found it spontaneously appalled, indignant, proud, by all sorts of things. &quot;masturbation, sexual abstinence, abortion, circumcision, capital punishment, Judaism, capitalism, miniskirts, long hair, blah blah, parents and children parents and children not women being allowed to work, work. got people to tick it off, there would be some Some of you think meat eating Some of you do not. different views about divorce. should be allowed to work. not morally scolding of You'll be lukewarm about Nobody would like abstinence [laughter] to people in a different entirely different things. vary. their feelings about baby I don't think people vary about for you and then you don't do I think that's gut-level, prisoner's dilemmas. and these vary a lot from theory of psychology has to arise. is quite interesting. three styles of thought, moral thought, There's an ethics of autonomy. within our culture view as of equality, But many cultures focus on an bringing together duty, and interdependence. an ethics of divinity where sanctity, pollution and sin are So for example, rights of men and women and what many people in our society will argue that they should have behavior. free creatures, whatever they want unless there it and a compelling argument infringement of the freedom of On the other hand, community you might argue that rights and different They may be born to perform they're duty bound to follow If you're from an ethics of religious injunctions against and these may differentially women. that women should not prepare it would contaminate the food. there's--there are severe have sex with one another that rights and human freedom. things should be because of Now, Western cultures, are highly invested in an debates we have in our culture ethics of autonomy. abortion in this class, &quot;Look. and as such it has a right to by its mother.&quot; A woman has full freedom over fetus is within the body it.&quot; speech, we could talk about the the freedom of speech versus the education free of harassment and Those are the ways we frame interesting discoveries in this think that they're governed by even people within our culture, within our culture, judgments that are not quite as So, this is the work of Virginia. people, they believe in our ethics of autonomy. it's okay. attitudes about sex, you come from different attitudes--but most of you would adults is okay as long as nobody as long as nobody gets hurt So, gay marriage, or gay sex would be okay with harmed and these are consenting Haidt points out that there are argument and he illustrates this stories like this: Julie and Mark are They are traveling together in college. alone in a cabin near the beach. interesting and fun if they At the very least, for each of them. control pills but Mark uses a They both enjoy making love but They keep that night a special even closer to each other. Was it okay for them to make Who says yes? I know that some people would and they look around in with them. Okay. You're not sure. [laughter] distribution even among this--If If you go home and you ask your &quot;Ew. at Yale?&quot; This is a very unusual culture it's okay. say it doesn't and then he being a good psychologist, What's wrong with it?&quot; case. interesting. as committed to an ethics of it's disgusting. describes as &quot;moral struggle to find an explanation. they'll have a kid and the and then the experimenter--it's &quot;Well, no. lot of birth control.&quot; &quot;No, not under age.&quot; &quot;Well, it's just wrong.&quot; scenarios--[laughter] expect. The family dog is playing [laughter] &quot;Oh, Fido's dead, but what's for dinner?&quot; Who says it's okay? [laughter] Okay. toilet is kind of dirty. flag.&quot; They then use the toilet to Who says that's okay? Anybody think it's not okay? getting sort of even responses On all of these, not college students in elite &quot;Oh, that's so wrong.&quot; And this one really is as bad [laughter] a frozen chicken from the has relations with it. Then he cooks it and eats it. This is a scientific paper in [laughter] Who says that's okay? And I notice there is The people who think it's okay they believe, sincerely believe it's okay, of autonomy. okay, none of these, should then scrutinize your People are very smart and they reasons why. &quot;Oh, disease,&quot; but these If you take away the stays. case studies of how our moral that we might not be conscious Our moral intuitions can The motivation for Milgram's thing we'll talk about in the motivation for Milgram's work interested in exploring why such I should note by the way--you was a Yale professor. tenure, moved to Harvard, He was--He had a reputation by He ended up at City University professor at age thirty three, did not lead a good life but Another discovery which we'll anybody heard the phrase &quot;six Milgram, and we'll talk about Milgram had a powerful Okay. There is the guy. you saw the movie ? we'll talk about that in a Shocks, &quot;slight shock&quot; to &quot;XXX.&quot; repeating what you've seen. being shocked more and more but request obedience. seen the movie, a subject. that they're teaching somebody the person who is being shocked to react in certain ways as he's And the finding is that the fatal shocks to this person who instructions of another person. bad explanations for this. really strange people. psychopaths.&quot; It's been replicated with many There's no reason to believe original study were in any way It's also a misreading to say in general, sadistic. nobody got pleasure from giving They felt acutely embarrassed, of stress. There were follow-up studies. If you take it away from Yale, away, and similarly, fatal shocks goes down. learner next to him, If you have to put the guy's to kill him. instructions by phone, If an ordinary man, but an ordinary guy, &quot;Hey, keep shocking him, likely to do it, if somebody else rebels and much more likely not to do it There are some--Oh, sorry. choose your own shock level, very few people go all the way. of factors as to the factors likely to bring it up to the And as a result we can look at what is the perfect situation like this and the perfect Some more serious critiques of why we have human-subjects This is a terribly stressful as I say now about a lot of class, People did say they were happy said that they were sorry, have been done and perhaps was These people left the lab that they'll kill another person and as psychologists I don't that to people. this--these things about We have no right to put you in you killed somebody and then just made you kill somebody. criticism. have brought in things back to interested in and argue--and extent to which obedience really genocide. among many, Goldhagen argued Germany and in the Holocaust were obediently following orders people who volunteered to do it. Still Milgram's work is reasons, in large part because the perfect situation for terrible thing and the perfect ingredients. in this case the authority of science. must go on.&quot; experimenter--The results would experimenter himself seemed unwilling to proceed, and he kept saying that he will There was distance between the Recall you get less of an guy but distance makes it easier And finally, model of how to behave. Milgram experiment is so nice to happens to you, real life, it will no longer be You'll know what sort of thing examine it in that light. summing up, drawing a lot upon and talk first about two forces talking about two forces for The first force for evil is And what this means is--one groups is because you could If I'm running through the smashing through windows, If I'm with twenty other It's part of the group and I Responsibility becomes diffuse. then is it diminishes You could diminish Another way of diminishing accept orders. I'm just an instrument of do. diminishing responsibility is Here's a question. many people go to war, their faces or they put on Why? others. my terrible stuff, but there's also a effect. it's not me and I could do the same moral responsibility. people don't always help others If there's a group, decreases and this is captured idea is we all think someone There's a diffusion. studies--some famous studies And the classic example, the textbook, where somebody was murdered in buildings surrounded while dozens of good, nothing. heard on this, If you're ever in a predicament you have a heart attack, you're being mugged and and there's--this is based on screaming &quot;Help&quot; is often not with ten people and there's I look at the other nine people. They're looking at me. We keep walking. somebody and say, call the police,&quot; is if you--if somebody's--if I somebody asks me to call the I'm a good guy. somebody's being harmed. if somebody says, well, I got things to do and so explains both when we're willing when we're willing to help Denigration of others. other people matter less. The way to do terrible things is to lose yourself so but another way to do terrible you're doing it to isn't an How do you do that? distance or physical distance. you're very far away than if I don't--I could describe you as a person and language can be Instead of people you could use murder, extermination. denigrating and demoting people. somebody you think of them as to that a little bit more when You could take away their names. things in the United Nations very interesting right. right to a name.&quot; strange right but there's a When you take away somebody's People have names. individual names that mark them somebody's name you are less And another option which I'm standpoint of my own research is disgusting. called &quot;the body and soul And we know certain things It is a human universal. characteristic facial Remember Paul Ekman's work on the universals of emotional Disgust is one of them and it certain things like this list. feces, urine, rotten flesh and most meat will Now, if that was all we had to it wouldn't affect morality people can be seen as And Charles Darwin actually, human behavior, illustrate this: finger some cold preserved meat its softness whilst I felt utter by a naked savage though his People can be disgusting and if they matter less. scholar Martha Nussbaum nicely &quot;Thus, disgust properties have associated with Jews, untouchables, All of those are imagined as body.&quot; is a typical bit of Nazi Any genocidal movement that has been shown to use the mechanism and make them easier to kill. I want to end though on a And the positive note are So, forces for bad are to lose lose yourself in a crowd, some authority using you as an because you're anonymous, people, as numbers, things, good. &quot;interdependence.&quot; be viewed as, selfish gene theory, you're interconnected with other for purely selfish reasons. a very blunt way, moving: &quot;One of the many reasons Japanese is that they built my And the idea is he has economic They're a different group. under normal circumstances but to a moral connection. &quot;Golden Arches Theory of Human two countries which each have a because McDonald's forces global This was falsified in the NATO Sarajevo but still his heart's the idea that interconnection along with other people. there's what's been called &quot;The So, interdependence is one interesting is that simple Particularly if you're of equal and you have social support There are now dozens, of studies that show that animosity towards one another, United States, brought together. psychology research as to the bring them together. about before is a nice example. together but when they had a them--that caused the contact led to moral feeling. example. States was a situation which wouldn't otherwise have any other. study showing that people in the for instance, people of different races liked the right ingredients. together for a common goal, these people together, on an equal and fair footing. a lot of debate about extent in which they promote they promote positive contact And you could think of yourself If these are the conditions for met in the university setting say blacks and whites, versus people from the American people from other countries States? campus about the extent to which Yale community. the--about the extent of that reflects--what role that should Hypothesis. thing I'll say: perspective, you'll care more This is the final force for JFK, when making the plea for didn't produce an abstract rather tried to invite his engage in perspective taking. because his skin is dark, restaurant open to the so on], content to have the color of his place? with the counsels of patience Again, Nussbaum goes on and dramas--Greek dramas invited of those who they would never contact with and argue that this expansion. circles for moral good is invited to take the perspective they do. You can ask people--and this is children when we try to get our concern of compassion. their point of view. there's indirect ways. use the power of metaphor. that you are close to and you things as falling under the So, if I wanted to cause you to I would do well to describe it If I wanted you to care about describe it as if it were human. of you and get--and establish I would not describe you as Rather, you are my brothers and And of course, tries to bring us says--uses a family metaphor. tried to get us to entertain the are sentient moral beings he did this . like that . The reading response for next I know I've been giving This is simple. short and that will be a passing very short. bit longer. had never been done and it was here. What do you think everyone else Okay.