Could you introduce yourself for us. I'm Knowing Bett- Oh, sure. I'm Knowing Better, I make videos about And occasionally religion. And what are some of your recent videos? Well, I just finished a year-long project the post office, police militarization, and That was my most popular video this year. Are you a Mormon? No. So what qualifies you to talk about them? I'm also not a postal worker, what kind If I only ever talked about things that I've wouldn't have much of a channel. Okay so, what do you believe in? [Sci-fi intro music] This video is brought to you by CuriosityStream and Nebula. There are trillions of stars and billions an incalculable number of planets with the It is a mathematical likelihood that they Imagine if any one of these alien planets or even a million-year head start on us. They would be so advanced that their technology The thing is, we don't have to imagine a those interactions between humans on our own Think about how far we've come in just the We went from the Great Depression in 1929 we're working on it- I'd really, rather not... Whenever I talk about the 70s, I black out The point is, we've had scenarios here on centuries apart, finally meet. And it's interesting to see how the less During World War 2, the American military Islands as air bases and they often gave supplies When the war ended and the planes stopped effigies calling for their return. These became known as Cargo Cults; they basically And this isn't a one-off example. Carl Sagan liked to tell a story of the Alaskan in the late 1700s and then recontacted almost To discover that the story of that first contact And that's just among humans who are a few with a difference of thousands of years. How would we interpret what we're seeing? When you see an object like this, your first flying saucer, but that's because of your What would someone from 3000 years ago call Obviously not a UFO, and I'm not entirely know what did? Clouds. Or perhaps, a flaming chariot made of light. The Book of Ezekiel in the Old Testament tells came down from Heaven. Making a tremendous noise and issuing forth The angels are the Cherubim, described as depicted as coming from different animals. But again, think of the vocabulary available If you were trying to describe an alien to beak like an eagle and a mane like a lion. After a few centuries of oral tradition, you The angels rode down on vehicles known as wheels within wheels, covered in eyeballs. You know what else looks like wheels within [X-Files Theme music] If the Book of Ezekiel accurately describes an extraterrestrial visitation, as many ancient that all of our religions are simply Alien That's the theory put forth by Erich von written in 1968. People had been talking about the possibility didn't really enter our pop culture until to fly. And then it really took off during the Space A few authors had toyed with the idea of ancient At the Mountains of Madness. But nobody had framed it as a serious academic While studying the Bible at his Christian characters and stories paralleled the mythologies What if they all refer to the same historical The Egyptians prayed to a pantheon of half-animal and chariots, and the Sumerians believed that What if these are all different interpretations The Epic of Gilgamesh from Ancient Sumeria the Gods in Heaven. Gilgamesh was a demigod, much like Hercules. While he was there, he met Utnapishtim who, a worldwide flood by building a boat. We see this same story in Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Moses grew up in the palaces of Egypt as an the Epic of Gilgamesh, when it came time to the story. Utnapishtim's flood became Noah's Flood. Since the Epic of Gilgamesh is the original, that one as the most accurate telling of events. Which means Gilgamesh and therefore Noah, We all know the boat story is a bit of a stretch, of a spaceship, meant to save a few select [Halo music] But if Noah's Flood and the Epic of Gilgamesh are different accounts of the same event, why would the gods warn us? Could the biblical flood be a preconceived a few notable, controlled exceptions? Hi, KB Morgan here, from KB Morgan's Gold, Loans! Due to a shipping error, I've recently come unregistered golden forks, and I'm letting Just head over to patreon.com/knowingbetter In addition to a shout out in the next video, golden fork... certificate by email in the If you include your address, you'll get This isn't a scam, I promise, supplies are Our solar system is about four and a half down around 500 million years ago. That's how short of a time life had to take Mars cooled down a billion years earlier, and water on its surface. So, it's entirely possible that life formed I'm not talking about bacterial microbes advanced civilization of intelligent beings. If you've ever played Doom, you've seen Okay that's the second video game you've Know your audience man, besides, you just that something isn't quite right. Unlike every moon in our solar system, they They look more like asteroids, they're completely Mainstream astronomists have agreed that the asteroids from the nearby asteroid belt. But if that's true, then captured by whom? And for what mysterious purpose? It's entirely possible that this ancient these asteroids, either for mining or to stabilize Either way, they were intentionally put there. After Mars suffered an ecological collapse, the civilization fled to the nearest planet You probably know this as the Panspermia Hypothesis. When they came here, they found the planet over a period of thousands of years, interbred Which the Greek gods did on a regular basis. These Martians would have been larger and is why we have legends of giants in just about They also lived far longer than us. As you read through all of the people who notice that people used to live for hundreds And as that blood was diluted, our lives got It's entirely possible that we might be Martians. But if extraterrestrials came to Earth to theorists believe, to what end? Human civilization seemed to spring up out Nazca, Peru. We know this because of the archaeological The famous Nazca Lines are dozens if not hundreds the plateau. You also find enormous depictions of animals Why would the ancient Nazca people make this see? To me, it's obvious. Nazca, Peru is a perfect microcosm of everything you name it. And anything that isn't located on the plateau almost as if they're advertising what is passing by. Which can then land on any number of these This is obviously an ancient alien spaceport. Extraterrestrials genetically modified or species smart enough to mine elements like Which they could then pick up at the Nazca Think about it, gold and copper are pretty weapons or tools, so historically the only We've only recently discovered their uses It's entirely possible that the only reason species who already knew how to properly use We've seen this story pop up numerous times - from Stargate, to Transformers, to Alien They taught humans how to build and were worshipped Now you're citing movies as evidence? Look, what are movies and video games if not traditions? And the physical evidence is all around us. There are cave paintings from around the world, humanoid beings wearing astronaut suits. What do you think those angelic halos really Many ancient people, including the Nazca, craniums of infants until they looked like Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Once these developed humans had served their rid of the evidence. Some of the areas in Nazca, Peru have way has this many runways. Do you know what this looks like to me? When you compare it to a picture of Hiroshima, what it would look like after a few thousand These are city streets. This ancient, lost city full of futuristic of different names in our mythology, like But it could also be Sodom and Gomorrah. Why else would the angels be in such a hurry by a specific time? And why couldn't Lot's wife turn around Because it was destroyed by a nuclear meltdown If humanity was bred to mine resources for ancient astronaut theorists believe, wouldn't of Nazca? Turns out, there is. Once their experimental humans were intelligent caused a worldwide flood to destroy all of That's what happened to the Neanderthals, This flood, coupled with the destruction of the Americas to Eurasia. Then we spread out and formed new cultures Why does every civilization have a similar Because those stories were literally true. Why do we see pyramids built all over the knew about each other? Maybe these were imitations or effigies of The Pyramids of Giza hold a lot of significance which happens to be the birthplace of stars. How could they know that without a telescope? The pyramids also perfectly divide the world and the longest line of longitude? How could they have possibly figured that How did the ancient Egyptians have a decimal What were they saving these bodies for? Maybe that was their best attempt at recreating travel. Egyptology and Ancient Alien Theory go hand-in-hand, You expect me to believe they did all that The extraterrestrials didn't leave us alone down messengers to guide humanity in whatever God and all of the biblical prophets were In the Bible, God always speaks in the plural and "Man has become like one of us." Why don't we ever take this literally? It's practically an admission. And, more importantly, they never show their or a bright light. Or speak through objects like a stone. Prophets like Moses and Jesus were specifically them to a promised land, whether that be a And this isn't unique to the Abrahamic religions. Quetzalcoatl was a demigod who took the form of Mesoamerica, creating the Incans, Aztecs, Who also built pyramids, how much more evidence When Europeans finally arrived in the Americas, a calendar that reached back tens of thousands astronomy. They even knew about Neptune and Uranus, centuries When the conquistadors and priests arrived, calling them pagan texts. They were on a mission to convert everyone According to mainstream historians, the texts But what if this act of religious zealotry What if these texts bore a true account of And the Spanish just wanted to burn the evidence. How else could these primitive brown people Europeans? I'm not saying they learned it from aliens Are you alright? I just realized how racist that sounds... You just realized that? Yeah... what do you mean just realized? Are you saying that Ancient Alien Theory is supremacist fairy tales through a science one? ... Or am I saying that... ...I think I'm going through a bit of a Setting aside the scientific racism and eugenics up, Daniken's theory was completely compatible It was just a new way of looking at things. All of the events of the Bible happened just Moses, and Abraham were real. They were just alien messengers, rather than Because of this plausible compatibility, the it would take a while before it made it over All that ch- NO! Change the light back, we're not doing that It's a dead meme. Anyway, it didn't catch on in the US until in 1970, which became the ninth highest grossing It was even nominated for an Academy Award After the book and movie came out, there was of unexplained cattle mutilations and crop Didn't two guys admit to faking those... ... Yeah, only in England though. That doesn't explain the hundreds if not the world ever since, they can't all be Keep in mind, they didn't appear after Roswell, And in the decades since, Daniken has written brought new evidence to light, which have How do you think this show has been going Does this have any overlap with other conspiracies ... No, we're not like them. QAnon is what we call a "Big Tent" conspiracy it and they don't always conflict. It's hard to broadly define what they believe. Some of them believe that the world is being drink the blood of children. Others believe that they're reptilian shape-shifters Some of them believe that the world is flat, the Moon landing was faked. We obviously don't believe that. Ancient Aliens is more of a "Shotgun" phenomena out there, any number of which could And they do sometimes get in the way of each The benefit to this sort of theory is that are disproven, there are dozens of others Not everyone believes in every facet of Ancient AltHistHub: But what if everything ancient If mainstream archaeologists and historians planet? Don't worry, I'm not gonna speak like So uhh... watch my video about that, I guess. Here at Knowing Better, we strive to bring If you've noticed an increase in that quality fine community we've grown over on Twitch. Every week, you can see and participate in writing, or editing. The community asks me a lot of questions and brought out that signature Knowing Better YouTube and Twitch aren't the only ways Over on Twitter and Instagram, we ask community sometimes tease upcoming video topics. We take your input super serial. Because here at Knowing Better, you're not And you've helped to bring these videos Paid for by those who know better. AltHistHub: If Daniken's theory is correct Abraham were extraterrestrial messengers, And if they did, who would believe them? Hello. My name is KBODY. And how did you become involved in all of Ah well, I had just graduated high school in the country at the time... What bad stuff? ... I don't really know, I was still pretty attention. Anyway, a lot of us distracted ourselves by Heinlein and L Ron Hubbard. We had just landed on the Moon; science fiction Then I saw this documentary that raised a and whether angels and prophets were actually And it just sort of made sense to me. So, when I heard that there was this mysterious followers to take them to outer space... Well, that was right up my alley. In September 1975, I attended a meeting in 34 of us joined that day. They were originally known as "The Two" since they thought the world was about to They were hardly alone in thinking that, this Plenty of religions claimed that in the past incorporated science fiction elements into We came from distant space, what your religious and we're about to return. They believed that they were just another Moses and Jesus. Who were actually alien messengers sent down to take them back to Heaven. We have this simple truth, though the most that Jesus brought to human beings 2000 years After a few dozen of us had joined their flock, Which implied that their followers were sheep. That didn't really sit well with us since counterculture and we didn't like thinking So, they changed their names to Ti and Do, In truth, Do's real name was Marshall Applewhite, in Alabama and had a homosexual affair with marriage. His father was a Presbyterian minister and All of these events caused Marshall to have ward in Texas, he met a nurse named Bonnie Who would later become known as Ti. Bonnie was really into New Age religious thinking, UFOs, and convinced Marshall that they were In 1974, they began travelling the country That message was that Heaven was a real, physical could see if you had a powerful enough telescope. And to get there, you needed to go through This was a process that would physically transform allowing you to board a spacecraft that would This process required you to leave behind They taught that you needed to let go of your connected to your humanness. And you needed to do that quickly, because The group travelled around the country, staying to gain more followers. Ti and Do would eventually call this period But we were pretty heavily maligned by the for a number of cattle mutilations which took They even called our leaders "Pied Pipers This unfair lampooning by the media caused the group, which only had a few dozen members, This is when our doctrine was really developed. That year, they printed a guidebook for our (The Door to the Physical Kingdom Level Above We never actually called ourselves "Heaven's We were known as "the Crew" or "the aside from that, there really wasn't any We didn't have priests, bishops, and cardinals Again, this was an individual process, everyone and leave behind anything that made them human. Including their thoughts and emotions. We invented an entirely new vocabulary to Your body is your Vehicle, your mind is your Everyone dressed in unisex clothing in order Next Level is genderless. Which meant you also had to repress your sexuality. Everyone was celibate, we lived a monastic Partner, who was with you at all times. To make sure you were following all of the They limited what media you were allowed to allowed to watch as a class was Star Trek. According to Do, we should aspire to be like We were also given new names, usually two became KBODY. This further disconnected us from our past Leaving the group was physically easy, nobody to be an individual process. You'd just be giving up your chance to Graduate A few of the people who left the class over had trouble reintegrating into society after You mean after they were brainwashed? ...We don't think of it like that, it's Plenty of doubters left the group over the the teachings of Ti and Do. It was kind of nice not having them weigh What's up guys Knowing Ferrets here! Did you know that I have two ferrets now? Atlas and Peabody, like from the game - you Which means you also just lost it! Ohhh! I just wanna ask you one question - do you Of course you do, what kind of question even Well, you should head over to curiositystream.com/knowingbetter. CuriosityStream is a subscription streaming and non-fiction titles which you can access I specifically recommend that you watch Meet animal documentary ever. Check it out by also signing up for Nebula, beings just trying to guide humanity along All of my content is hosted over there ad-free, get to see a few jokes which were too spicy segment. So, head on over to curiositystream.com/knowingbetter, to both CuriosityStream and Nebula for only the channel when you do. And if you want to learn even more about ferrets, years ago that you should check out. I haven't thought of an ending for this it right- vehicles which need to perfect themselves believed, what happens when that vehicle breaks In 1985, Bonnie Nettles, otherwise known as This really shocked the class, if she was could her vehicle break down like that? This was especially hard for Do. For the first time in ten years, he sent the whether he should continue the class. Ti was the real spiritual leader of the group. Do often referred to her as his "older member," all that other New Age stuff. Do was the son of a preacher and was far more So when he invited everyone back, everything no longer physically transform into an alien It was now a spiritual journey. After a few years, Do began teaching that Ti was continuing to guide him from space. Which meant, as his older member, she was Blasphemy! You say you're from the Kingdom of God. Who do you think you are, Jesus? Who do you think you are, God? While being soulmates, Ti and Do were never obviously homosexual. And very obviously ashamed of it. He tried repressing it for years, but eventually the group because his vehicle had become attracted When that wasn't enough, the castrations In order to rid themselves of their normal, of the class decided it would just be easier Remove the parts that made them male. Do and about five or six other classmates radical moves caused a lot of people to start So, in 1991, Do opened up the Second Harvest. We began a satellite TV show called Beyond early internet, especially Usenet. Do was a frequent poster on UFO forums. So, when the Hale-Bopp comet was discovered know about it. In 1996, a picture was taken which appeared This was obviously the spaceship Ti and Do years, this was a sign. It was time to plan our Exit. You have to remember, this was around the was taking out cults left and right. So, we had to keep our plan a secret. We decided to wait until the comet was a bit Easter, so we spent a few months going on The companion was eventually disproven, but On March 22, 1997, 39 Heaven's Gate members, a combination of phenobarbital, alcohol, and This was, and still is, the largest mass suicide They died in three groups, each group taking a purple shroud. Except for the last two people, for obvious They wore all-black uniforms with a patch shoes... Why aren't you dressed like that? Because it's 2021. Those who went through with it believed that spaceship to travel to the Next Level. Which again, is just what we call the Kingdom A few of us were asked to stay behind and and intellectual property. And many of us continue to believe in the In the weeks and months that followed the in the hopes of catching up to them. A few others attempted but didn't succeed. At this point, I figured it'd be best to which should happen in the year 4384. Until then, I'm looking into mummification, You know they remove your brain for that, Your brain has nothing to do with it, your is brain. What it does I'm never quite sure and I'm This is all a spiritual journey, you need because now, you know better. Pay no attention to the date this video was I'd like to give a shout out to my newest If you'd like to add your name to this list to patreon.com/knowingbetter. Or for a one-time donation, paypal.me/knowingbetter. Don't forget to abduct that subscribe button, the next level. Check out the merch at knowingbetter.tv, follow join us on the subreddit.