The essence of a bridge is not but that there's clear space underneath is already obvious to you, but bridges present a the forces are transferred directly into on the span get concentrated into the piers bridge substructures are among the strongest foundations are built in some of the least ideal soft, mucky soils that can't hold much weight. What happens when you overload soil with a weight a bearing failure, but it's as simple as stepping ground. But, what if you just keep loading Congratulations! You just invented one of the humble foundation pile. How do they work, and how this is Practical Engineering. Today we're having I did a video all about the different but I didn't go too deep into piles. A just a long pole driven or drilled into the of terrifically complex engineering. Volume 1 on the Design and Construction of Driven Pile 11 pages of symbols, 2 pages of acronyms, and page 46. And just a little further than that, that the history has been lost to time. Humans way before we knew how to write about it. The first piles were made from timber, and wood Timber piles are cheap, resilient to driving it has an upper limit on length from the size of the alternatives. Concrete piles solve a lot sizes and shapes, and again, are widely used for piles is that they have to be pretty big to into ground. Some concrete piles can be upwards to hit something that big hard enough to drive to either get out of the way or compress in place they can be a lot more slender. Pipe piles are alternative is an H-pile. Your guess is as good as H-pile. But, no matter the material, all driven Newton's third law applies to piles like ground creates an equal and opposite reaction. advantage of gravity or some other strong against and develop the pushing force required to we usually just use a hammer. By dropping we convert the potential energy of the weight required to stop the hammer as it falls gets intuitive. It's pretty hard to push a nail ... well, it's a little bit easier to hammer it &quot;Perfect!&quot; There are quite a few types of pile drivers, but most of them use a large hammer or vibratory head to create the forces required. Maybe it goes without saying, but the main goal a load, you want it to stay put. Luckily, piles loads). The first is end-bearing. The end, or of strong soil or hard rock, making it able always a firm stratum at a reasonable depth a simple idea, but in practice, geology piles have a second type of resistance: skin When you drive a pile, it compacts not only adding strength to the soil itself, but hold it in place. The deeper you go, the more I have my own pipe pile in the backyard that drop the hammer at a prescribed height, the pile this enough times, and eventually, you reach a each successive hammer blow. In technical terms, I can graph the blow count required to drive the pile to each easy to see how it got stronger against vertical it barely moved with each hit. This is a really similar way to how they'll be loaded by the final hammer on their foundations, but they do impose Contractors Association is "A Driven Pile is a you've verified that they can withstand you had to overcome that force to get seeing enough resistance, in most cases, you But piles don't just resist downward forces. too. Buildings have horizontal, or lateral, loads water, and even ice or boats contacting the piers. gravity from floods due to buoyancy or strong you know that piles can withstand loading from The soil along a bridge might look like this right it can look completely different. Engineers a bridge will scour over time, from natural the bridge itself. Then they make sure to design and stay strong over the long term. This is why Loads transfer from the superstructure down that transfers and distributes loads into the but if the engineer is expecting serious lateral also called battered piles. Inclined resistance to make the foundation As important and beneficial as they are, driven they're noisy and disruptive to install. Just to Seattle who sent me a video of the exact same who know how much you like construction. But my much impossible to ignore. In dense urban areas, the constant banging. Plus the vibrations infrastructure. Pile driving is crude; in many the forces of the structure they'll support but during installation which are much higher. They cobbles, or boulders; they can wander off path, and they can cause the ground to heave because them into the subsurface. The second major And, wouldn't you know it? There's an FHWA manual Construction Procedures and Design Methods. shaft is also exactly what it sounds like. long hole into the ground. Place reinforcing with concrete. But, bridge piers installed underwater. Pouring concrete trying to pour a smoothie at the bottom This is my garage-special bridge foundation It has transparent soil in the form of superabsorbent polymer beads... and you know we imagine how easy it might be to drill a hole itself. We need a way to keep the hole open so the &quot;Oh, it's making a huge mess.&quot; So, drilled shafts installed in soft soils or wet conditions Installing a casing usually happens while the hole that myself, but I only have two hands, and it demo, I'm advancing the casing into the soil ahead shaft. And now I'm realizing the limitations of even with the casing in place. It took a few So now I have an open hole, but it's still full water surface, and you try to pump it out, you In ideal conditions, you can get a nice seal but even then, it's pretty hard to keep water Instead of concrete, I'm using bentonite clay and it's perfect for this demo because you can if you get the proportions right. This is me pondering the life decisions that led up to me holding a gigantic syringe full of drop this stuff through the water. It mixes is true for concrete. The ratio of water to strength and performance, so you can't do The trick is a little device called a tremie. more than a pipe that runs to the bottom of the below the surface of the concrete that you're there's no chance for it to mix with the water casing with a big syringe, making sure to concrete is a lot more dense than water, it In underwater installations, the casing is you can build a floating pile cap. Instead the work area to construct a big concrete cap into or above the water surface, reducing rise" pile caps are used a lot in offshore wind In some situations, it's possible to pull saving the sometimes enormous cost of each in my demo. It's not beautiful, but it so the pressure it exerts on the walls of the And because drilled shafts can be much larger need a group of them. Lots of structures, and more, are built on mono-pile foundations. eliminating the need for a pile cap altogether. that you can ream out the bottom, creating an at the toe. This helps reduce a pile's tendency to Driven piles and drilled shafts are far from the tons of variations on the idea that have been challenges: Continuous flight auger piles do the using a hollow-stem auger to fill the hole as it's wet concrete. You can fill a hole with compacted column or tradename Geopier if you're only worried twist into the ground, instead of being hammered, are like tiny drilled shafts used when there And of course, there are sheet piles that aren't meant to create a wall or barrier. Let me know if Even though they're usually much stronger do fail. We've talked about San Francisco's That's a skyscraper on a pile foundation that tilt. It seems like they mostly have it fixed so only time will tell. In 2004, a bridge pier Florida sank 11 feet (more than 3 meters) while complicated geology. It cost 90 million dollars year. These case studies highlight the when we ask the ground to hold up heavier and goes into designing deep foundations are but hopefully, this video gives you It's a little hard to see a bridge's foundation you can often get hints about how one of my main goals with these videos things you can see for yourself out in the Bearded Grady here. It's easy to tell that this reason for that! Today's sponsor Nebula adds new to make sure I have something fresh to recommend Wendover Productions and Jet Lag have a brand new with a very hilarious twist. All the contestants got a sneak preview, and it's just so well done. week. Just in time to pick up a subscription Nebula's a streaming service built studio executives deciding what gets and no algorithm driving the content into making stuff they're excited about with as between you and us. My videos go live and right now, a subscription is 40% Plus if you already have a subscription, annual gift cards now. Give someone you love and classes from their favorite creators. Or future birthdays and holidays. You have a nebula.tv/practicalengineering for yourself a friend. Thank you for watching,