Tesla has never been good at building cars. Even before deliveries began, forums sparked panel alignment. Since then, as the cars hit the road and the S's with windows that leak when it rains with drooping window seals or mysterious rattles When the Model 3 started rolling off the lots, was exciting and mostly great, it just wasn't Condensation fogged headlights, interior paneling paint jobs weren't consistent, and some in adhesives. No matter the year, the model, or the factory a roll of the dice where the bad rolls have Of course, social media posts are inherently to deliver a consistent product goes beyond Scroll YouTube's results for "Tesla far more videos offering negative feedback Or take this poll on Tesla's subreddit, at least minor or cosmetic issues with their While Twitter, YouTube, and Reddit may all it from the man himself, Elon Musk, who admitted production ramped up. Or, for perhaps the most objective stance reliability rankings, where Tesla placed second in 2022. The company simply struggles to deliver consistent, It's been a problem since the beginning, to address time and time again, and it's over the years. But it's not a problem Tesla's tried to rather, something that comes with the territory. Tesla has lacked the consistency of legacy After all, they aren't a legacy car manufacturer--they're bent on changing the world, the company that's The side-effect's been inconsistent products, what's one minor rattle or subtle paint a brighter, bolder, greener, gasless future, But even after building the car, Tesla struggles could go sideways. If Tesla's bad at building cars, then they're them. At certain points, when favorable conditions In the case of the Model Y at the end of 2022, capacity at Tesla's Texas factory shrunk But for every November of 2022, there's By the middle of that year, long after Tesla 3, and after some 450,000 eager customers company was way behind, only having delivered By September, Musk described Tesla's predicament But, to be at the bleeding edge of what feels are generally willing to wait. In fact, as the delivery problems mounted, volunteer at delivery centers and help with What Tesla customers didn't like, however, feeling misled. Some of those who were once happy to wait Model 3 only to find that there wasn't one in shipping, or that they had been mistaken Others excitedly waited for their delivery before that there would be another delay. Some of the scorned demanded refunds, others they couldn't get through to anyone at Tesla. Many let the experience shape their opinion. Now, ultimately, Tesla pulled itself out of adopters finally got their cars. But the problems persist--buyers still check it's been bumped back a month, customers weeks" notices only for them to start piling ask what's going on over Twitter because Frustrations have also expanded beyond the Not only are Teslas more numerous than ever, As it's become common to see Teslas almost established 163 service centers spread across That means if you own a Tesla in Flagstaff, away from anyone certified to work on your If you live in Wichita, Kansas, your nearest drive away. Making things more difficult, service centers Phoenix back to Flagstaff or Kansas City to Tesla-supplied Uber vouchers. Even as the company continues to expand its team is being outpaced by the total number So, whether stationary or mobile, Tesla's What were once appointment wait times numbered are increasingly liable to cancel. Tesla's driving functions are reliable--an everything else is clearly not, so facing listening to their rattles, error tones, and fleeced by the company that demanded luxury-car cheap. So the company is burning through their to buy future Teslas--which is certainly it's tough to understand what they're It hardly seems like it's by offering them Mustang Mach-E Premium and it has slightly but a slightly higher price--as far as distinguishable It's a similar story upmarket with the Model beats it on range, and is close enough in bat an eye. And then if you go all the way to the other whose base-model Bolt EV starts for some $15,000 on many specs. So, it's clear that Tesla is not trying something else. Maybe it's by offering something different--maybe a vehicle that nobody else does, but everybody Well, while unique in their minimalistic design, is uniquely basic: mid-market sedan, mid-market it. Bafflingly, Tesla had the opportunity to differentiate massive an opportunity doing so would be, Year after year after year, it's never a vehicle sales--it's the Ford F-series. It's always the Ford F-series. In Kansas, or Texas, or Louisiana, the pickup sales. In Wyoming, it's more like one in sixteen, new cars is a Ford F-150. These pickups are just so popular, and the sales figures are close equivalents like the Americans just love their pickups, and the other vehicle types so recognizing this, a after the F-150 with an EV equivalent--a market. Six years after that, Ford announced they'd three years after that, it entered production, on the road and exactly zero Tesla pickups. Adding to the woes, the F-150 was merely joining EV and Rivian R1T, meaning there are three out the kinks, ramping up to massive scale Even the earliest possible Tesla Cybertruck at least three major, entrenched, mature competitors. Plenty have criticized far more about the consumers will shirk its audacious shape, design, that component costs will make its That could all be true--in fact, considering market research for the vehicle, it more likely of the vehicle is the fact that it doesn't First moves matter. Consumers can read a review about the Lightning, to a dealer and buy a Hummer EV today, while tab of Tesla's website, featuring absolutely the option to leave a $100 refundable deposit once it finally exists. While the devoted few will maintain that the have been far easier for Tesla to define the the opportunity that it later squandered. But maybe they're not trying to compete compete on differentiation. Maybe China is the answer. Tesla believed that enough to cozy-up with to produce cars for the Chinese market itself, They sell tens of thousands of vehicles to 40% of the company's total sales, but in is not the largest EV manufacturer. That's BYD. No company globally produces more EVs, they but that's not the most staggering part--this Their growth rate is ferocious... and here's It is famously difficult for western companies failed, Uber failed, AirBnB failed, Google, It's harder to find one that did work than China is just such an immense market that to western products that are better suited which leave western managers dumbfounded. They don't understand why they're getting understand. Chinese companies are able to fulfill the consumers better than foreigners, so in Tesla's to be worse for Chinese consumers than the where almost all their equivalents have failed, Foreign-made vehicles do sell in China, but or Germaneness or Britishness as a brand, vehicles themselves. That means that China can be a massive market They'll always be a secondary player, meaning So maybe it's not price, not differentiation, that companies gain an edge--maybe it's In 2016, after being dropped by its previous charted a new vision for full self-driving, referred to as "full self-driving" for But "full self-driving" didn't exactly adaptive cruise control, auto steer, auto and a few other driver assist features depending to manage and monitor, but not full self-driving... Musk said that would probably come in 2017, to coast, from LA to New York, without a single That didn't happen. It also didn't happen in 2018, or 2019, Musk and Tesla salespeople, following orders, upgrade, telling them to get it now before way to $15,000, despite the fact that, still There is now an open beta for something closer that vision of touchless trips from LA to a way that requires a significant degree of becoming a liability on the road. Arguably, right now, it's more trouble than less about whether its full self-driving works. It's that, for the better part of a decade failed to deliver, made new promises, failed The type of autonomous that was promised will but once again, the company has burned through owners. Tesla is facing class action lawsuits and its autonomous program, but even if those strategic ambiguity properly to legally mislead, whose word means nothing has to have an impact. Ok, so, not price, not differentiation, not Maybe his cult of personality is so strong because it's his? Maybe he's the brand? In fact, maybe he's deliberately calibrating less likely to buy an EV, strengthening that Well, if that is what's happening, it's According to a Morning Consult survey, Tesla's 20.3% between October and November 2022, when a series of controversial changes and statements. Among Republicans, the favorability actually That's not nearly enough to make the move buy EVs--only 25% of them said they would 44% of Democrats did. So, if you make the very simple assumption to its sales, Elon Musk's actions, objectively, of its shareholders pockets. While Musk might have been the visionary behind increasingly unlikable loose canon who can't There's not a whole lot left to set Tesla This isn't an existential threat. It's not like Tesla is going to suddenly It's still a tremendously large, profitable that will find ways to defend any and all hoards of people that love their vehicles. But people are learning to love other EVs Rife with quality issues, poor customer service, consumers are taking the safe route and increasingly incumbent manufacturers. Meanwhile, startups like Rivian are looking better quality, better customer support, and So, Tesla's just sitting there, praying march out the front door. Tesla's competitive advantage was built on were the only legitimate horse in the EV race. Consumers were willing to deal with bad quality the price you had to pay to get something But Tesla is no longer a startup--it's it still operates like a startup. Meanwhile, Ford, GM, Volkswagen, Rivian, and Company culture is notoriously difficult to a company becomes, so when you have something mentality, it is really hard to understand Tesla's fumble is what could have been. They had a decade head start on a burgeoning known as the auto industry. They could have been the auto manufacturer. They could have been a giant. They could have been Ford, GM, and Chrystler, They're popular, they're competitive, promises, burning bridges, and swinging wildly else is slowly and methodically chipping away. Maybe Tesla succeeds. Maybe it's able to use its dominant market but what's sure is that it's going to This day, of mature, mainstream EV market yet Tesla did little to prepare, and did lots to eat into their market share. So if, in ten years, Tesla is anything but explanation will likely be less about what what it didn't do in the years it squandered This video's sponsor is Wren, and some of is a carbon-offsetting provider. Last year, I made a video about how the carbon ineffective offsets that can actually increase of attention, even making it onto Last Week it all the way to the people behind Wren. Their whole idea is to be a carbon offsetting working. Now, I want to be careful to say that I'm think that's really down to you because, not going to solve climate change. Only top-down legislative action can do that, possible to reduce the likelihood that your is probably the best offsetter to use. Before even considering taking a sponsorship, project evaluation, and a few others from questions for more than an hour about how they pick the projects they do, what they thoughtful, detailed, upfront answers to everything. Inherently there's always going to be uncertainty but Wren has worked to reduce the risks that through a portfolio of their eight active are still there to keep the average stable. That also means they're able to fund projects to quantity. For example, their Carbon180 project funds policies that will curb carbon emissions, obviously high risk and tough to quantity producing and distributing clean cooking fuel I can't possibly explain all the methods they do, but they do a really impressive job so I'd encourage you to dig into their website So, if you want to offset your carbon footprint, Wren. The first 100 people who sign-up by clicking will have 10 extra trees planted in their