- [Narrator] These architecture animations are fun. We've done famous buildings Burj Khalifa, and Buckingham Palace. I'm thinking it's about time In this video we'll of the tower, the floor layouts, the elevator systems, stairs, and also the very top of the structure. That's all coming up. (electronic buzzing) (up beat music) To visit the Eiffel Tower to Paris, France. Construction of the Eiffel Tower began in 1887, and it took over 2 years to build. (accordion playing) The tower was to be used as a entrance to the Worlds Fair in 1889. It really didn't have a purpose other then to impress, and prove that the engineering could work. The structure was made of iron in criss crossed beams so that the wind could pass through it. Not everyone liked the tower at first, they thought it would And in fact the plan was to tear it down after only 20 years. Long story short, it's still here. And its hard to imagine paris without the Eiffel Tower. Over the last 130 years they've done their best to maintain as much of the original structure as possible. While keeping its safe for millions of visitors every year. Let's make sure we appreciate the enormous size of the Eiffel Tower. From up here the people below look like tiny ants. Before the Eiffel Tower was built the tallest structure in the world was the Washington Monument at 169 meters. The Eiffel Tower was almost twice as tall at 300 meters. It was the tallest structure for 40 years. Until the Chrysler building But once the antennae was built on top of the Eiffel Tower then it was once again taller then the Chrysler building. But by this point the was the tallest. In recent decades there's to be the tallest. Now modern sky scrapers computers which makes In the 1800s they didn't have any of that, it was all designed on paper. Now that's some serious skill. The tower has 3 floors, all of which are open to the public. The first floor has 3 red a theater, restaurant, shops and places to learn more about the Eiffel Tower. Towards the center There's a glass floor around the edges that you can walk onto. I hope you're not afraid of heights. The second floor has two there's also the Jules Verne restaurant. Which can be accessed by elevator from the ground floor. The third floor is much smaller and mostly for sight seeing. On the bottom deck you can Or come up the stairs to the open air. Gustave Eiffel actually built his private apartment up here. And the very top is the perfect spot for television and radio antennae. So how do you get to these 3 floors? The first and the second floors you can reach by elevator or stairs. The third floor is only The river Seine is along here. And this is North, East, South, and West. There are elevators in The East and West pillars The North pillar also but it's currently being renovated. The South pillar contains 2 elevators, one for the Jules Verne restaurant, and one freight elevator The elevator tracks go on the inside edge of each pillar. The main visitor elevators Which go up and down at a slant. After you buy your tickets and get on at the top or bottom cabin. Originally it was sit down during the ride. But today the elevators You can get off at the first floor, or keep going up to the second floor. What's interesting here is gets steeper from the So the passenger cabins The machinery for the the base. You can even take a tour Of course if you are looking workout, you can use the stairs. The tickets are actually The South pillar is the The one on the left is that's only for those The elevator on the right restaurant on the second level. You can get in on the ground level and ride it directly to the restaurant. To reach the third floor you In the very center of the tower you'll find more of the structure that supports 4 more elevators. They work in pairs to And they are completely vertical unlike the other elevators we've seen. When the Eiffel Tower one elevator would take you half way up, and then the passengers to go to the very top. Nowadays one elevator There are also stairs but these are usually My name is Jared and I show and explain how things work. Head over to my YouTube channel to see more animations just like this one. Thanks for watching and (accordion plays)