Hello viewers, thank you for your choice. Please support us with likes and comments. Please stay with us until the end of the video. To contact the operator via WhatsApp, call this number: 09135102863. Thank you. Jalal is looking for his daughter. God, help me find my daughter yesterday. Jalal searched the mountains with the police officer, but they failed to find him. He was not found. No, they are currently searching to see if he can be found. Jalal searched the mountains, but he was not found. Don't worry. There is a clamp inside the cave. Someone found Farida from it. She has been kidnapped, God willing, someone has stolen the girl. I have to tell the cameraman and beg her where Farida is. Come, take this pressure pill to make you feel better. God willing, she will be found. Don't worry, take the glass. Thank you. Could you search for more Jalal help? Don't worry, I want to ask the cameraman to inform Jalal of the place where Farida is so that we don't have to worry anymore. Yes, if the cameraman knows about Farida, then tell him, cameraman. I will do it. Now that you are keeping secrets, I will inform Jalal of the place where Farida is present. Thank you very much. God bless you. Jalal is very tired. Please don't worry. I will inform Jalal. Now that you are keeping secrets, I will tell Jalal very much. Thank you for bringing the tea, Farida. I'm tired. I've been looking for Farida for several days, but she hasn't been found. I'm tired. She hasn't gone up. Farida, where is Aunt Taki? I have to be here. Wait, I'll fix it. Where else can I look for her? Do you know about Faridah??? Yes, but I'm afraid that Alnaz will tell me something. Yes, Farida is here with Alnaz , and I'm telling you where Farida is because of your mother, who has diabetes. Take me to him ? Oh, which way is it? Take me to him. Let's go . What are you afraid of? Al-Naz , no, don't worry. Come and let's go together. Let's go and show me where it is . Let's go this way. Well , come quickly, so we can go. Al-Naz. He fights with me, he can't tell you anything, don't worry, come with me, I was sad for Farida, and your mother also told me to tell Farida's location . Elnaz told me not to say anything to Jalal ;;; What were you doing to Elnaz, you were telling me not to say anything to me for a while, no, don't worry, come soon, let's go, come soon, let's go , yes, they are right here, I was afraid of Elnaz, you brought Farida here, you are a good fool My daughter, Jalal, death, why did you allow this, why did you bring Farida here, the cameraman, why did you tell Jalal that because you hurt Farida, your debt was not burned for your sister's child, I was not to blame, Jalal, don't cry, my dear, don't tell me anything, Jalal, come out, you idiot , I won't come, I can tell you to come out, come out. I'm afraid, what did you do? I'll go and hand you over to the police. Farida said, Akram didn't behave well with me. He came with me. What a stupid thing you did. I'll forgive you this time, but don't do these things again. Thank you . My heart is burning, look at what happened to this child, his clothes are dirty, his hair is full of dirt, forgive me, I made a mistake, I can't go home, my mother kicked me out, your mother doesn't want to see you anymore, forgive me, I have no place, please help me, please forgive me I have nowhere to go. Look at what he did to this child. Farida's color has turned yellow. Father, forgive Elnaz. Why should I forgive you? Look at what has happened to you. He separated you from me for a few days. You say that I forgive him. Do n't cry. I forgive you, don't see me doing these stupid things anymore. Do it . The baby's color has turned yellow. Forgive me. I can't go to our own house. I said to go to Jalal until Farida is alone. Look, what day did you leave the child? Well, you're taking him to your house. At least my mother kicked me out. His clothes are full of dirt. I'm alone here. I'm afraid. If I come, your wife will fight with me. So go to your mother. My mother won't let you. Does that mean you won't go to your own house anymore? No, he kicked me out. Father, forgive Alnaz, she has no one. I'm afraid to be alone here, you won't let me be here either . I'm thinking about it, do n't leave me alone . I wonder what to do about your day, I'm afraid, take my Jalal with you, I'm afraid of God, what should I do, finally, Jalal ends his hard days and found his daughter.