Come on , Wang Laoqi, Zhang Dabao, guard the door and kill all those who run away. You two, go to the power distribution room of the hospital and turn off the power in 3 minutes. Okay, you guys. Come with me, come on , come on, come on, come on , come on, come on, come on, what are you doing? I 'm here to see a doctor. Look at her, don't let her make a sound, stand facing the wall, dare to make a sound, I'm dead, you know, tell the people behind you, light If it goes out, do it . It's this. What 's the matter? Did you hear a sound? What's the sound ? It's this. In one minute, turn on the switch. It's so late. Who can smash things? What's going on? Turn on the flashlight. Brothers, who is it ? I'm going to see if the alcohol is on fire. Quick. Put out the fire, Brother Hai. What's wrong? Falcon is shooting in the ward. Don't fight. Brothers, do n't fight . Brothers, surround the ward. If he dares to come out, kill him. Stop fighting. Don't fight. You bastards didn't see it. It's my own, my own, Aunt Yuxian, it's you, great . Push me outside. Do you understand what I just said? There's a fire . Don't mess up. Squat down quickly. Don't mess around . Get down. Brothers, retreat to the stairs. Time to go, hurry up Li Quan , why are you here? The boss asked me to send you a message telling you to evacuate immediately . I just ran up the stairs. In the darkness, someone tripped me with a stick and injured me. Someone who didn't see clearly caught his brother. Everyone, retreat , master, save me. Don't be impulsive. You will only hurt him. He must be him. Open the door quickly . Master , come out quickly . Come out quickly or I will shoot him. Don't come over and let him go. I will let you go . I have Are you so stupid? If you are a smart person, you will believe me. I never break my promise . Let him go. He is still a child. Don't come here . Don't come here . Why are you so nervous? Learn to trade with the enemy so that your life will be longer. You are a terrible person. As long as I am not careful, my life will be gone. I said, let him go. You can go . Will I believe you? You better believe it , otherwise you will see I want to see what my own brain looks like. If you dare to shoot again, I will kill him and we will all die together. Please go, remember my words. He is already a dead man. Go, master, hurry up and save me, master. Come and save me as usual? Where is usual? They captured me. Big brother caught the little bastard and let me go. I got in the car and brought in the goods . They are at my residence . Shouldn't you come to see me today with the goods? There are a lot of goods . You know that. I can't take it by myself . So what do you want me to do? Brother, please lead someone to follow me to the next place. First, inspect the goods. Second, take the goods away. Don't you think my words are ridiculous? Many people think it's ridiculous. You say that I have no sense of humor. Although you lack sense of humor, you are very imaginative . I would like to hear that. Do you want me to go to your residence to inspect the goods? Yes . Your residence is the old dock in Longjiang Village on the outskirts of Yibin. How do you know that? I also know that as soon as we arrive at your hometown, those guys will immediately catch us all. I do n't understand what you are saying. Well , then just take a look at this. Where did you get this? It's you , it's you , I didn't expect it. Don't move, don't move. It seems that you are finished . Maybe, can you tell me your real name? Yan Shuangying, the commander of the Special Forces Column of the Fourth Field Army of the Chinese People's Liberation Army, you seem very nervous. Tell the truth. Yes, I heard the footsteps of victory. Xueer, how are you? The goods have been obtained . Where are the brothers moving in now? Well done. I want to call Director Mao to ask for your credit. Move the goods in quickly . Open the box and take a look. Look, what you need is there. I think you don't need those viruses. What you need is loess. At least they can bury you when you die. Where did you hide the goods ? If I wanted to beg for help, I wouldn't yell like this. I shouted that you are losing your temper. You just asked Zhao Yaqin and Nakamura Ichiro. Can you tell you now that they are staying with that batch of goods ? Are you satisfied with this answer? This sofa is very comfortable. It was specially prepared for you. You think you can blackmail me like this ? You think this can save your life. You are so proud. Don't forget that I and Liu Tianlong have the power in Yibin to find Zhao Yaqin and the goods. It 's a piece of cake. But it's a pity that you have completely wiped out this power just now. What did you say? Those friends who were guarding the cargo for me in the dock were Liu Tianlong and his gunmen. It's a pity that Hong Xueer you sent didn't know them. Hello, Jinyu, we meet again. Don't move. Don't move. Didn't you realize that there are 4 in this warehouse? You are still a little green to fight with me. Put down the gun. Put down the gun. How did you know we were here? Of course I told him , you are the one who is surprised. It turned out to be the one who betrayed us. You're right. You're joining Liu Tianlong. Don't say it so harshly . Brother Liu and I help each other, Lao Wu, let the brothers move the goods. Brothers, everyone move the goods out. Don't knock the goods. Please be careful who shoots. Who is shooting ? Don't move. Don't move. Don't move . What's going on ? I don't know. Who are they? Put the goods on the ground. Put them down quickly. Say it again. Put the goods on the ground or I'll kill you. What should I do, big brother? Listen to her brothers, don't shoot. , slowly put the goods on the ground. At the south end of Qingshui River, opposite to Shunshui Wan, please state your name. You should go to the King of Hell to report your name. Brothers, shoot. If there are more goods to attack , you must grab the goods. It's so hard to come back . They are biting dogs and crawling out. If this doesn't work, end the fight as soon as possible. I'll take you to the warehouse and cover up. Brothers, follow me . Brothers, suppress them. The first time I stepped forward to take back the goods, I was preparing to charge . Brothers, give it to me. Beat these dogs to death. Beat me . Brothers , stop and bring a few brothers. Get the goods back to me no matter what. Do you dare to come for me ? Brothers, they stopped the elder brother Fang Muqiao and they beat him to death. What the hell? The second group owes back goods . Others are withdrawing for me . Big brother and brothers are already holding Lin Dam and withdrawing. If you don't withdraw, take back the words and beat me to death. I won't withdraw and run together. I don't know if they can't do it. Big brother, brothers, all fight. It's too late if you don't leave now. Let the enemy soldiers resist. Brother, we rushed out from the side. Go back quickly and carry the cloth out. Others, rush for me. Spare my life, my life , my life, my life. Your leader, where did you run? Where did you run ? The boss has an order not to leave anyone alive. You go to chase them immediately . You want to see people dead and corpses. Are you leaving ? Why didn't you see Zhao Yaqin and Ichiro Shucun? Yes , they don't seem to be here. You immediately lead people to search the surroundings. Come with me, Sister Tong. All the goods have been snatched out and loaded onto the truck. OK, let's go. Taijun ordered, lock up these unruly people , brothers, lock up the unruly people, come in quickly , come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, light the fire and let us out . It 's Xindian Village. Let's go to Xindian Village. We're late. Company commander, we are late . We are gathering the team. What's wrong with you ? Are you having an epilepsy attack? Company commander , the platoon leader surrounded the small temple and launched an attack after hearing gunfire . There are more than 20 puppet soldiers sleeping inside. There is a patrol post preparing grenades. What is going on? Where is the enemy? Brothers, it is the Eighth Route Army. It is on the wall. Shoot quickly . It is the Eighth Route Army. Don't be afraid to put the machine gun at the door and shoot at the lying soldiers. Shoot the machine gun backwards and shoot him on the roof. Quickly shoot the Eighth Route Army on the roof. Shoot and hand over the gun. If you don't kill , hand over the gun. If you don't kill, do it. Come on , do you Japanese only dare to kill old people, women and children? Do you Japanese have this much courage? It was you who killed me, stop, stop , what happened to Zhangdian Village. Is there anyone alive outside? Did you bring one in? Let 's go . Uncle, Uncle Eighth Route . Who is your uncle ? I am your grandfather. Yes, yes. Grandpa Eighth Route. Grandpa Eighth Route. Zhangdian Village slaughtered hundreds of people. No one was left alive . It was you who did it. Grandpa, please have mercy on me. It wasn't us who did it. It was the Japanese. It was the Japanese who did it . It was him. He ordered the people to be put into their houses and set on fire. Shoot them to death. Shoot me, Emperor of Japan. The army will not bow to you idiots. Don't worry , you will definitely die. But the method of death by shooting is not suitable for you . It is too easy. I am a soldier. You can't insult me. No, you are not a soldier. Real soldiers will not massacre unarmed people. You are a beast that is worse than a pig or a dog. I will chop you up one by one. I will let the folks in Zhangdian Village let Yingzi see with his own eyes how the person who killed them died. I will let them see the Eighth Route Army avenge them in the spirit of heaven. Is it cold? Is there anything colder ? Tie this beast to the pillar outside. Is he walking ? Please don't kill me. Don't kill me. I don't want to die . I don't want to die. Sir, spare your life. The platoon leader will tie me up. Didn't you hear? Waiting for the lightning strike . Did you see it? The following is Wei Village. Everything is going according to plan. Asano-kun and Xiaoshan-kun follow me down to eliminate the sentries in the village . During this time, we will no longer contact each other . After 3 minutes, we gathered at the entrance of the village and stopped . Who are you , comrade, your own password ? You lead two team members to eliminate the sentry on the roof. I will lead the others to surround the regiment and eliminate the guard platoon. Move quickly. There is an enemy. Something has happened . Come on, don't get rid of me. Gunfire, there are enemies. The people in the house were the leaders of the Eighth Route Army who were captured alive. They laid down their weapons and came out to surrender. This is the regimental headquarters of the Eighth Route Army. These two dead people should be the political commissar and the regiment leader. That 's great. Captain, according to the Chinese, we caught a big fish this time and moved immediately to clean up the village. The Eighth Route Army soldier in the middle is, what are you doing ? Why don't you shoot? Look, how many bullets are there? Have you counted them? There are not 8 bullets . What are you doing ? Wait here. Don't move . Go quickly. Where are you going ? Don't ask so many questions. What's wrong ? Take it. How long has it been? You still want to eat and live? Just follow me. Head, Head, Political Commissar. Why are you crying? Shut up. Head , Head Zhao . Head, Head Zhao. Head Jinbao . Stop talking. Save your energy. I will carry you out and help me . People can't do two things. Save the captain first. Let 's go. What's going on? What's going on here? The captain and the robbers were shot in the head by bullets. Yamada was killed by a samurai sword. Who killed them with a shell gun ? Cartridges. There is only one enemy in this yard . There is only one enemy captain. How can you be sure? I just checked carefully. There are only two kinds of shells in the garden. One is ours and the other is the shell of this type 28 shell gun. I wonder if you noticed it. There were only 3 shells from the shell gun in the whole yard. This means that this man killed 3 people with only 3 bullets. I don't believe this is true. The three of them are the elites of our special agent team. No one can be killed so easily. If this is true, then it means that we have encountered a terrible person. Xiaoshan , you immediately inform all team members not to act alone when searching. They must be brought back in pairs. I hope my judgment is wrong, and it is the captain of the Eighth Route Army. What 's missing? There's a body missing. Captain, could it be that the leader of the Eighth Route Army was not killed and crawled out? It seems that my judgment is correct. He is still here. I don't understand . If I make it clearer, he originally wanted to put these two bodies away. The bodies were taken away but failed. I still don't understand what this means. It means that he will come back. He is indeed here. It's not easy for Oshima to come over . Bastard , he just left to chase. Yes, call. He 's on the horse. You're back . Mount your horse. They ran in that direction. Give chase. We lost 6 men. We have never suffered such heavy losses in previous missions. It makes me shudder. Qin Yejun, I have a feeling. An ominous premonition , captain, what should we do now ? Get out of here right away. Yes. 1 He doesn't want him. He doesn't want to be so brave . Come on slowly. What do you want? What are you afraid of? Come on, come on. Come on, let's see if he wants to come up and get in the car. Get out of the car quickly. Hurry up, hurry up, withdraw quickly. What can I say ? No matter what happens, I know everything. Hey, come again . What happened to this bag? Hurry up. Hurry up. Hurry up. What's wrong with this bag ? Hurry up . Hurry up. What's there to say? By the way, the little mouse in the plastic bag , I'll take my village. All the brothers have been taken out. Now go to the city gate to take up posts so that you can follow the plan. Understand. Yeah , go ahead . Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . What kind of person are you? I am the Eighth Route Army. You are the Eighth Route Army . Do you think that you can do anything if you put on this yellow leather and lose this man Danhu ? If you won't be punished, do you think you can't die? Hey, if I scratch your head, it can't be cut through with iron . You are a fucking god. You can't be beaten to death. If you can't smash it, you can't be beaten to death. Let me see . Ahhhhhhhh let me see how capable you are and how hard-headed you are. They say you Japanese are not afraid of death and don't beg for mercy . Let me see it . Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha, don't kill me, don't kill me, don't kill me, no, I won't agree . How come there's no movement? Hey, I'm talking to you. You're deaf. Did you hear ? Hey, something's wrong. Something happened. Stop , Taijun . Taijun . Something happened. Blood, blood, blood. It's Mr. Kui, Taijun. Humph. There's an enemy. Put your hands down quickly . Quick, quick, quick. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh that he was shot on the stage, run away quickly , here comes a group of idiots on the 8th road , they are firecrackers, blast them for me, go get down, get down, stop jumping, get down, get down, angry and poisonous eyes. you about to watch me me Hey , you're a coward, your gun doesn't have long eyes, it won't kill you, your head is hard, your claws , brothers, come up to me, go up to the West Port Building, swing the searchlight over, until the East Tower, brothers, they hold it down for me. Chong , why is there no one? Hey, you were still here just now.