[Music Playing] What Leonardo DaVinci was something very basic And he has coded that Is it more likely that the man should walk on water Or is it more likely as other men are born, Of that balance of which is more likely? It was almost obnoxious to think that Jesus might coming from my background and Mary Magdalene in world history. Not for what she said but because of the reason were so afraid of her image. When Dan Brown that this great cover-up a lot of people get nervous and of &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;. But I think Dan Brown's on with some of these suggestions. His detail may be wrong or may be designed to serve But the big-picture question and subsequent Roman to serve their own purpose of is a powerful and, I think, Doubleday published six months ago, I have been asked one question And that is, &quot;Why does everyone And I'd love to say, &quot;It's about the storytelling, In all fairness and in it probably has a lot more 35 years ago, in 1969, heading off for holiday I picked up as a little bit And it was the story, of a priest of a little who had apparently found Certainly he was penniless And by the time he died in 1917, he had spent &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; of a fictional character, who is said to be, the curator and presumed to be, the current grand master whose job it apparently In addition to being very much a Leonardo Da left-handed, as Leonardo interested in all sorts as Leonardo was, Jacques Sauniere's mission according to the novel, Sophie Neveu, from those or otherwise who wish who are presumably of Jesus and Mary Magdalene. So Jacques Sauniere the female protagonist What Dan Brown doesn't tell is actually the name who had a significant history He was the parish priest in the area of Languedoc a very out-of-the-way area and in particular He was sent there as a One of the first things at Rennes-le-Chateau When he was renovating he removed the altar stone and found that there was It was a Visigoth pillar, so it And in this hollowed-out pillar, He took them out, was what appeared to be written in Latin. And some letters were raised And it's these raised letters So the general assumption was, &quot;What treasure The clues essentially were These had passages but they concealed The author of the paperback told us that there were but he didn't tell us And it was while I was staring at one of these parchments that I found myself reading It was terribly easy to find, and it didn't give away It just said, &quot;This treasure and to Sion, What a good I always wondered why the author And, as a writer for television, King Dagobert was the last of the acknowledged He was the son of Clovis I. Clovis I had made a pact that if Clovis increased of his area of France, and then the Catholic Church would as being the inheritors The Merovingian line is, a line of direct descendants Berenger Sauniere what the significance of these and we still don't to So the first thing he did was go straight The bishop had a long, hard and sent him straight up to in Paris. He returned from Paris He had a tower built on which is the mountain where He had a large house built It had five or six bedrooms, with the obvious And furthermore, from the base of the mountain, on which Rennes-le-Chateau right up to the top He was an ordinary, And yet, at some point, that made him And he spent a lot of money the Church of Mary Magdalene, A very old church. It was practically falling He bought up a lot of land Lived an excessively entertaining visitors in very high style. During the course of his life, or the last 20 years he spent something the modern equivalent That's the mystery. And there have been It started That he found a treasure But it's developed that he discovered a secret. A secret that he was either or paid to keep quiet about. There are theories that 'cause he discovered something that would undermine the Church, and the Church were The bishop was getting about this huge expenditure In addition to this, he for the whole village and And the bishop was getting jumpy because this was He had no conception of where The only conclusion was that he was guilty That is the selling of masses in order to make up for So he accused him of that After this, Berenger Sauniere and was reinstated. But shortly afterwards, at the beginning of 1917. And he died of a stroke. But what is significant, is that 10 days his housekeeper [Music Playing] Nobody's ever come up As much as can be said today, the least likely explanation is Our own research and particularly looking and the way Because there were times and suddenly another load Lynn and I believe was that he was being paid money by people who lived And there's some good including the fact that when to the local bishop, Many researchers and think he was hiding But it's actually what he said, large donations by people But he was given those donations under conditions of secrecy And he couldn't reveal When you look at his cash flow, that is the most It's half an answer because the other part is why these people gave What was it about him or whatever he knew wanting to give him hundreds And that's now the bit It's more information he had After Berenger Sauniere's death, his housekeeper until her own death. When the French from the old franc she was found in the garden, burning large amounts presumably because where the money had come from. She did actually tell the that she would tell him before she died. But unfortunately which rendered her speechless, and she was never able to say So the mystery died with her. As a writer for television, an interesting subject And I went to the BBC and they seemed to think So this was in 1970. And I went to meet the author and discussed the subject And I asked him why he hadn't And he said, &quot;Because we thought it might to find it for yourself.&quot; And that I found a very, The link between and the Priory of Sion is that the Priory of Sion They claimed to have been who were giving him money. They paid for him and to have his lifestyle. And their claim is that discovered documents about the survival The research had gotten vast. It was far too much for one man. And so I'd assembled Richard Leigh joined me for the research And it was while we were that the hypothesis which suddenly materialized. It materialized after which we were having. Somebody had said, &quot;There's something fishy A simple little sentence like The penny dropped Fish. Of course, one of the early And we suddenly wondered Richard Leigh and myself, whether what was so fishy was that they could have been That's how the hypothesis On this question of the People recount the story the priest of this village. But in fact, we know nothing the priest of Rennes-le-Chateau. It's all hearsay evidence. It wouldn't stand up What we have to do always When you are led into the areas hovering in the background, the Priory of Sion, Well, by their very nature, The secret that died seemed to be something wanted to keep very much It could have been It could have been the secret had hidden the treasure They are one of the groups because they had a stronghold It could have been the fact that is actually buried And there is a yellow marking on which indicates that somebody It could be a genealogy or the equivalent birth or marriage certificates relating to Jesus Christ We think that his wealth from the Catholic Church. They were in the unfortunate that somebody whether they could rely was in possession which could change the whole For that reason, they would have They also had enormous wealth to give themselves the When it comes things do get very complicated The known facts is that it exists. It certainly does. How large an organization And it certainly exists since the mid 1950s. What we are led to believe had the intention the Merovingian rulers and probably of the Roman Catholic Church. That's what we're led There are according to documents several grand masters who were in both the artistic And these grand masters as a result of Henry Lincoln at the Bibliotheque Nationale I understand that a great of &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; believe that it's based because there exists an assemblage of documents as the Dossier Secret, That because they're there, They're not. The documents are proof beyond the fact that they exist. When we were researching we did a lot of checking and the list of grand masters. And there did appear to be But that's all. They should not be looked because they just aren't. No document is reliable apart from the fact Anybody can concoct If you want to believe it, of your naivety or the amount There had been a number of the Priory of Sion, He was one of the latest. There was also Botticelli, Robert Doyle, Sir Isaac Newton, people of great stature All of which had some interest, in either science or art, and some of which In 1956, the Priory of Sion rose when it was registered who was a Frenchman from the Merovingian line. And he got to know Henry Lincoln of &quot;The Holy Blood And he, in fact, said were the benefactors which had been plundered in A.D. 66 And it was they who were in He has since been discredited, that he was very prominent and a close ally He has since been discredited somebody who had no connection to the Merovingian And he disappeared as grand master in the 1980s. As the person and the material that it put Pierre Plantard is obviously A lot of the material is responsible for It is a hoax. But the question is what his motive No one's ever shown that he's materially from that. And it was a hoax he maintained for over 20 years, We know nothing of them except what little And how reliable As for those figures which people become Monsieur Pierre Plantard, I liked him. He was a charming man. Probably the best poker player I can remember throwing, some very difficult questions He always had an answer. But again, those answers are So, in fact, about Berenger Sauniere, We don't know anything We don't know anything We know, and that's the word, The demonstrable and provable All the rest guesswork, and interpretation. None of the books that have been have any validity whatsoever. [Music Playing] Leonardo Da Vinci is a to just about everybody Most people can name probably the &quot;Mona Lisa,&quot; He's also known and a student of anatomy. And he was basically a man At the same time a very special type of genius, of the way that the Roman Leonardo was a heretic. He was a rationalist. He was a scientist. I think he was more a scientist As we now know, he really only in his life, and most of them, He loved painting, but he thought of himself He left thousands and thousands with mirror writing, and obviously had a predilection to keep and only known And he had a kind of to the Roman Catholic Church, which he was unable to The way he did this in some of his paintings. I think if we could figure out what the coded messages they would be fascinating. The Da Vinci code is made up of the symbolism that Leonardo left that revealed his own religious This is the idea that Dan Brown &quot;The Templar Revelation.&quot; The first chapter of which &quot;The Secret Code Now, Dan Brown's taken that idea of all this symbolism hidden which can be decoded He's taken that and used that You know, that's the thing the whole story off Lynn and I have looked at to reveal what we think What his beliefs were, both his and what he thought about it. Basically, he didn't like He was very critical of it. So, in a way, it reveals And it also reveals the religious ideas, that motivated and drove him. And although Dan Brown has used much of our decoding our interpretations he goes to the one that we took. Because he then mixes his plot with ideas taken primarily to come up with The research that Lynn to look at Leonardo's paintings which is where our interest We wrote a book back in 1994, in which we argued is actually the world's That he actually created The Shroud of Turin is a very interesting artwork, In the 1970s, I think it was, scientists were allowed for a very short period of time. And they carbon-dated it, to a period which dates to the cloth itself. So it couldn't possibly the body of Jesus Christ. Leonardo Da Vinci, I feel, is a very strong contender who actually created He is unique in never having produced He had a total of probably which were attributed to him, but none of them And that is not only unusual, What he may have been doing was putting this up as a kind And the analysis have put upon the image itself is that it is actually on the top layer of the And this could be done by using what is known which actually takes light That is one explanation. He used a very primitive to get the image on there. And even more outrageously, he actually used his own face Because that would have appealed to his sense of humour, Now, put like that, it all and certainly more outrageous Leonardo Da Vinci had a habit in a lot of his paintings. In the same way Alfred Hitchcock Leonardo Da Vinci liked to play At the beginning Dan Brown has a murder The Vitruvian Man and the sacred geometry It is used by Dan Brown the murdered man But Dan Brown has him in the form of a pent-angle, which is, as we can see, The image of the Vitruvian Man of the most recognized images similar to Che Guevara And its last outing on the one Euro coin in Italy. The other most instantly is &quot;The Last Supper,&quot; giant fresco Which, I mean, now you see on everything from sort of table And yet everybody recognizes it. And art historians They've been over it But nobody seems to have noticed certain interesting facts Which, in &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; and Dan Brown very kindly For example, Jesus is sitting at the centre But leaning away from, is this character who is supposed to be But in the New Testament, is described This is a little odd. And if you look he's effeminate to the point And you begin to look And I can't remember exactly but Jesus is wearing a red and this character like his other half. And so what with one thing And the fact that form a giant This indicated to us and not Mr. Dan Brown, that it would suggest that Mary Magdalene, the lady &quot;M,&quot; was at the last in a position of some status which is quite a big statement. I think very interesting things are going on although I would caution has been restored so many times, including as far back that we're not sure when we that we're looking at the But there is a very threatening There is a very unexplained There is a very threatening We know there is no chalice in the center of the painting. Leonardo is He understood that people only or are told to expect to see. You don't really expect to see When we wrote we said, that Leonardo's symbolism was always serious And there was never anything of sticking a red nose Since that book came out, we've made at least which shows he was willing to do But first, the serious stuff. I mean, Leonardo's symbolism This was his only crack at it, To hand a message all he had was his So go for it, There are two versions One is in the Louvre, and one The first one that was unaccepted by the monks that had commissioned it. And it was not accepted because on the figures. The actual painting depicts of Jesus Christ from Herod during And Jesus Christ and the angel Uriel Some people say by the Catholic Church of John the Baptist John the Baptist who was actually older He was a descendant which made him a Priest Messiah. Jesus Christ was a descendant of both the Aaron line which made him not only in the same way but also a King Messiah. And the fact John the Baptist As the Son of God, would prefer us to believe was doing all the baptising, and therefore who on Earth does coming along and It doesn't quite add up. If you look at the it adds up perfectly correctly. That is something would like to sideline. So the whole juxtaposition of Jesus Christ is awkward at best for the The serious stuff First of all, There's one in the Louvre, which figures largely And that's really And there's one which is another version, although there still which are a bit naughty. The serious stuff is connected with his elevation And it's in all his works, as A lot of people think He was a scientist, But he wasn't, He had very, very specific which come over quite clearly But they're absolutely nothing like the normal Christianity In the &quot;Madonna of the Rocks,&quot; the Louvre version, you have a very beautiful but with her arm around a child You have another little boy who who is sitting there basically And with his or her or its And it's the angel Uriel. Now, this scene, actually, It's actually from... It's a Church tradition. It was invented to cover up the that in later life would actually have to perform a ritual on Jesus. So they invented this idea they all got together and Jesus bestowed the to have the authority It was convoluted. That's what this commissioned But you look at it and think, You know, because &quot;obviously,&quot; the child who is kneeling has the Virgin Mary's arm And in Church iconography the archangel Uriel So why are the with the wrong guardians? Why is the kneeling, submissive But if you actually and they're you have being the one in authority and blessing the kneeling Jesus, I mean, there's lots and it's in our book And in my book There is something else which which we discovered, and this is that is much worse than sticking And all I will say with the proliferation of And it's a shape which grows, as it were, It goes right to the skyline. And basically this is Leonardo Have a look. Once you see it, you will never, in the same light again. It's pretty clear Leonardo is trying to communicate And the phallic symbols that are very much in evidence What exactly the message I don't have an answer I think it would be if we could learn the answer. Like hundreds of thousands, of people worldwide, Clive and I read and found our interests the true origins rekindled and notched up a bit. It's an exciting story. Very soberly told, not sensational And it certainly made us think and inspired us What I want to do now between the Christ of faith We're not talking about Christ, I repeat, But Jesus, the man who walked is a real historical figure. And he, we felt, It's been said that what we an assault on Christianity. And it's also been suggested have been led to turn away which they've grown up with. That grieves me because there is nothing in an assault on that figure What we are doing is looking at the man who walked If you choose to believe that and walked on water then that is a gift. Your faith is a gift. And nothing should affect But you must remember that religion is essentially It's a question of faith, And when we were looking of a blood descent, we were looking at a balance Is it more likely that a man and walk on water Or is it more likely as other men are born, Of that balance which is more likely? That's solely the hypothesis in &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail.&quot; Well, the main thesis And being raised Roman Catholic, I almost dropped the book. I didn't want a thing to do I was horrified. It was almost obnoxious to think that Jesus coming from my background and When &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; there was a shocked reaction We got ourselves onto the It was as if this But, of course, ideas like for centuries, one might say. The only thing original was a blood descent from Jesus and that his wife Had this been a story but let's say or Richard the Lionheart, any sort of discoveries in the sense that we did anything in association would have been taken on board, accepted as part of It's only because the figure is Jesus, this figure of faith. And that's At first, I didn't know And then I thought, &quot;Well, And as I got into the material, I finally told a friend of mine And she said, The Church would have told us.&quot; So I said, &quot;I'm gonna pray And my friend said, And when I did, praying about Thinking I'm 'gonna And I looked down and saw this &quot;Restore my wife And I thought that was uncanny that said that in the &quot;Maybe I should take and go see if there's any And that's when I launched for the Holy Grail. Which I believe is the sacred I was assigned some paper to in interpreting the Gospels And when I asked for and opened my scriptures, I was looking from the anointing of Jesus by the woman with the alabaster I thought, &quot;That's interesting.&quot; First, I found occurs in all four There are only four stories One is the baptism of Jesus, the multiplication the Crucifixion, Which gives you an idea how If it was collected in all the that story was so powerful I went to investigate anointing And I found that the anointing actually has sexual connotations and that the anointing in the ancient cultures, of the sacrificed There are many religious leaders And Jesus is one, Everyone in the New Testament is It was commonplace In fact, it was a rare exception of a Jewish rabbi of that time Jesus Christ was required as a member of the Davidic Not only was he was required to sire two The feast of Cana is mentioned He doesn't describe but only the feast. And what jars in this particular that is, Jesus' mother, that they should do So when they are told to go they have to oblige. The only person at a wedding would be the groom himself. Mary Magdalene is depicted on two occasions with which was by those of the Davidic line. Then it became a question, If there is a bride, It has to be the woman And in three Gospels, she's not it literally says that the and wiped his feet with her hair And she's the same Mary in &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail&quot; they talk about where it's Mary, who brings the Holy Grail, And the way they spell that, it means &quot;the blood royal.&quot; The word Sangraal in Old French. If you divide it after the &quot;N,&quot; you have a word That would be like dividing the It wouldn't mean It would be something But if you divide the same word, it means &quot;blood royal.&quot; So the legend says travelling in this boat brought the &quot;blood royal&quot; And you don't carry the It flows in the veins So I think the fossil in the What happened to her, I don't think the genealogies I really think the child is of the masculine the mythology, if you will, at the heart That the child proves that, that you could think of We don't have a birth If you ask almost anybody they'll say, who Jesus forgave, and did the first-century of making the coffee Sort of hanging around Or perhaps if they were familiar with, particularly, they'd say, &quot;Oh, she's the woman but she still spent the rest of Actually, with her clothes hanging off. You can't be remorseful But the point is that... Well, there's quite She's never described in the In fact, She's only named a few times. The big problem has been too many Marys. And there who washed Jesus' feet And there's another of some prostitute with her expensive oil and hair. And that anonymous prostitute is identified because they both though in different parts Mary being Mary, they are about whom there is the record six demons from her. And so all of those things into the medieval identification as the prostitute. There's not a shred for that false assumption. The Roman Catholic Church, finally renounced The historical evidence for She's mentioned in all four the Magdalene, but there's not It said she who supported Jesus by her means with the other women who were And then it says resurrected on Easter morning. She also stood at the cross. There are eight lists where several women On seven of them, Mary Magdalene So the scripture never says It just mentions her first I think we can't know exactly but what we can see is what What did she do? She showed up at the tomb and found him resurrected, which in the ancient mythologies It's the role and also to meet the risen And so, in her role, she lives of this sacred union. Historically speaking, but we know that the mythology The possibility that Jesus is quite plausible, by finding these tantalizing such as the reference to, Jesus perhaps the word is &quot;mouth&quot; There's a lot that this may have been If the Priory of Sion for this important that Jesus that he was that he was an important that he came that he was probably married, that he, following to go forth and be fruitful probably had children, and that some history of those well, that's I don't know of anyone, British nobility, who can actually trace their If Jesus had descendants, I think they They may have been traceable, But they I've been told that the authors didn't know exactly what it and they weren't sure existed themselves at first. But I think what happened in the mythologies in the scriptures that one day they looked and it just came to them Like, &quot;Eureka! I think what happened about the bloodline of Jesus. And then they wrote their book based on that intuition but that it was derived the legend, the myths, and you might say. All gathering momentum and finally pointing them I don't think it was made and I certainly don't think I think they but maybe they didn't even When they passed it around, that it fit all the scenarios and that they realized was this lost bride thing. But when I read their book, &quot;Oh, my gosh, this piece is something my prayer community We had been shown from the foundations We didn't know what it was, but And when I realized what everybody talked about the What's a bridegroom I went off and realizing that the key was the anointing at Bethany who then later or what we know as a child So that connection and out of my prayer community connecting to reinforce in &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; But when I discovered with what we'd been shown it wasn't blasphemy, As I say, in Matthew, Mark, Mary Magdalene barely exists. In these other Gospels, Apart from Jesus, Mary's there, Jesus defers to Mary. She even gets him to change... In one of these other Gospels, she even gets him She is feisty. She's assertive. She's certainly not... The Church has used her as a sort of brand name And she's actually the least She actually annoyed because she had such power These other Gospels One thing I want to say for I have twin pillars And none of them are But the Nag Hammadi In the Gospel of Philip, it or that Mary Magdalene was That word has sexual overtones. The &quot;koinonos&quot; has overtones It says, &quot;The intimate companion And he used to kiss her often, and the other Apostles It is said that Martin Luther, suggested that Jesus and And there's some bits which as to why the Church in the New Testament. In, I think, disciples go to Jesus, &quot;Lord, why do you love her Why are you always And you think, And there's a lot of this And it made Clive and I realize to the choosing of these going into the New Testament And also, Mary Magdalene is... I actually believe, and I know this is a most but I think she's in world history. Not for what she said but because of the reason were so afraid of her image from the forbidden Gospels. From what they really knew That she was powerful, that Jesus almost certainly whether it was merely a ritual, or it was the usual passion. But they knew They didn't want the women getting uppity So the whole of history, the way that the Church is actually because of their In Leonardo's &quot;Last Supper,&quot; this Magdalene figure, is leaning away from And Saint Peter, his hand And he's sort of staring at in this rather horrible way, which is very interesting many of which have been one of the things is that Saint Peter Peter told her to shut up. She didn't have And then another disciple, &quot;If Jesus told her something So that this back and forth is So that you can sense some over against the male hierarchy. Why would people have made up Why would someone have written Peter Why would someone have suggested that Jesus and his work to Mary? What about the world view would lead people to make that Now, I'm not saying but I do think the people believed what they wrote. And I find it interesting that we have some of these which I thoroughly emphasize are not contemporaneous but are written But it's fascinating in 300 A.D., 400 A.D. were impugning motives were talking about whether the Church were talking about what this And there's a lot of debate. In one of the Gospels, &quot;Let Mary leave us, for women And in a later text, it actually and saying, He's threatened my life, for he hates me And I think because that clash prefigures what actually with the hugely misogynist and their notorious attitude It started with its founder. I think Mary Magdalene was And that is very important, when women are not supposed because none of the 12 Well, over against that, there and this is very important. Well, let me put it simply. All of the 12 Apostles All 12 were Jews. All 12 lived in the Holy Land. There wasn't Nobody from Poland. So what? So that this is just And over against that, that Jesus gave women a There are records of women and providing food and funds and performing the rites Mary Magdalene's prominence Dan Brown, is calling our attention like Mary Magdalene in the creation She may have been to be the Apostle It may not have been in that time period to have had There's nothing that says that priests There, in fact, is this rather when you think about it, starts to sound like it was &quot;Upon this rock, I think maybe wanted to make sure was put in there, and why Because maybe that Jesus intended to leave Mary Magdalene has, in the feminist movement. The feminists have been eager from any taint and to emphasize the in his ministry. Dan Brown does of presenting the notion that perhaps these Jewish, charismatic leaders, Jesus, Mary, and the other had a very different world view basically pagan sun worshippers, who became the editors who became the decision should be practised very much divorced from to whom Jesus spoke. So Dan Brown sets us all up and I think that a very interesting debate The other Gospels in the 4th century who was trying standardize These other Gospels were hidden, 'cause it makes them purer that have been subjected endless In 1958, a letter was discovered which had been written in which he requested Theodore, to omit two parts which were inconvenient The first part was the part crying out from the tomb, when, according to our present If he was dead, What actually happened was that he had been The rules that if you were not delivered then your soul was banished On the third day, Jesus Christ and was going to release Lazarus and therefore restore him The way this story is that Jesus Christ restored life to Lazarus, whereas, in fact, But Bishop Clement of Alexandria out of kilter with the rest The other part which Bishop Clement was when Jesus and his disciples visit the house Mary is depicted as being What, in fact, happened was, according to the original was that Mary actually when Jesus Christ arrived. The disciples told her because women were only when their husbands So this was another indication that Mary Magdalene So I think that although Jesus was a person and we should not modernize still he was more open to the than were his disciples that gradually emerged When I went back to investigate I found that in the ancient cult and that the anointing in the ancient cults of And in those cults, The woman actually chooses They celebrate their union and their whole realm rejoices because the joy into the crops and herds. And so the whole with rituals which is the life-force It's not about male/female. It's about the life-force the resurrection and then It's a whole vegetation cult, but it's celebrated Celebrated, I guess, also, Tammuz and Ishtar, Dumuzi and Inanna, They had many, which manifested of the recycling of life. So, when I realized that, then I looked In this cult, the bridegroom his bride, his sister bride. And then later he's sacrificed, laid in a tomb. Usually after a pause his bride goes to the tomb to and finds him resurrected. And when I read about I thought, &quot;My goodness. This is the exact same story And everybody because the Roman Empire in various domains And so they were all cognizant this liturgy, really, The nuptials, the anointing, and then later the death I was terribly shocked that Jesus was only one that proliferated and had done thousands of years in the general area There was Dionysius, There was, of course, who most resembles Jesus or it's the other way around, And Osiris was the consort of the beautiful who was also the goddess And the priestesses They would become, they would become the goddess. And some chap off the street and have sex with them. The idea was the men would simply by having sex who temporarily had become or became the goddess. The interesting thing wouldn't have to do this according to the Isis religion, were not only but spiritually enlightened just Totally the opposite Now, you have Jesus, who, according who doesn't have a consort, who doesn't have a magical, But if you look at the forbidden And also, very interestingly, more or less bumping into and she doesn't recognize and he says, And she says, and I don't know And that is actually Every year the worshippers enacted their mystery play, where the god by the wicked god Set. And bits of his body Isis goes weeping throughout and magically reassemble them. And the priest says, &quot;Woman, what ails thee? She says, and I know not It's Egypt, Egypt, Egypt, And a lot of people have... Several scholars and that there's so much paganism in the New Testament that basically Jesus that he was just created But there was absolutely We think there is that actually Jesus and or an offshoot of that religion, with a very, very ancient which was goddess worshipping. The whole point to me is that that really works on And so, What we have in Christianity and a virgin mother No wonder we have It's incredible would not produce and that's because... It's as above, so below. Well, my impression is a fascinating character and one who is not really A general student of the If you've taken one has the impression that who converts to Christianity, who discovers the importance and brings Christianity It's unclear that Constantine and if he did so, probably His greatest interest apparently was aroused when he, found that some of his who were carrying a cross didn't die in battle and he became interested had actually protected them He set about expanding Roman and I believe he and his and monotheism, really, a very with which to unite And he saw great potential in bringing together and being able to control stretching from Ireland with a single belief system that found resonance And so, finally, He had an army, the majority of whose And they didn't want to fight They didn't want to fight They were pacifists. And so he had this convenient saying, &quot;This is the sign And he announced that most of whom were Christians, And so Constantine had and won the battle. So that, in a certain sense, there are rather cynical, this whole process. When Constantine was faced of Christianity he jumped on the bandwagon. In fact, his father had jumped as a supporter of Christianity. And one of the reasons of the time, which had similarities to Christianity so that all three could blend which he could lead at the same Constantine saw the opportunity to blend all At the same time, what had been the holidays to the holidays which existed Previous to Constantine, the date which celebrated was January the 6th. But in order to pacify, or in order to blend he brought about on the 25th of December, which was the old Mithraist of the rebirth of the sun. He introduced a version which also played on many For example, his thought of the sun god Mithras, in that tradition's has a birthday around the time i.e., around December 25th. There's nothing about December Then the next holiday And, in fact, under Mithraism which was called &quot;Estre.&quot; So he basically hijacked and brought about it celebrating the death The actual dating, though, of they tried to sort out They weren't able to come which is why we now have after the first full moon The Roman interpretation merges these ideas and so we end up sometime in the post-Constantine deciding that December 25th is, in effect, when there's no suggestion in biblical literature. When Dan Brown that this great cover-up that these true early Christian with all these pagan ideas and pagan symbols a lot of people get nervous and become instinctively But I think Dan Brown's on with some of these suggestions, His detail may be wrong or may be designed to serve But the big-picture question and subsequent Roman emperors to serve their own purpose of is a powerful and, I think, So he ordered that all documents before the 4th century, be destroyed, whether they were written And the Gospels were then The four accepted Gospels that everyone agrees are part All of the archaeologists, serious, independent linguists, et etcetera, believe were written, at their earliest, 30 or 40 years and at their latest, perhaps 100 or 120 years So the landmark, for whether something is true We have to remember when interesting as they are, powerful as the story that they were all written If we think and we think what it would be to describe, for example, When we think how much about the impeachment a few years after the fact. Imagine if that story as contemporaneous history, 70 years from now. So the Gospels are interesting because they clearly that appears to be fact. They're at odds with each And they were clearly, chosen from among And someone, most likely from that time to the time of someone or &quot;someones&quot; went and said, &quot;These are in. These are blasphemous. We don't want to hear and in most cases the heretical It was basically rewrote American history that he was the saviour Constantine came to the that the purpose of Jesus Christ was to liberate from the Roman occupation, And Constantine's rationale was that he had actually who were the descendants and it was he and not Jesus Christ himself. So he basically remodelled The Knights Templar were a Every Medieval historian They did play a important role They did occupy the Jerusalem for a period of years. We don't know if they found the while they were occupying We do know that they We do know that they became the The early Ambassadors They early Gorilla The special forces, the elite, Delta squads, And we do know they became so powerful that they to Emperors of France. And Popes and eventually The Knights Templar were the Everybody wanted to they had a fantastic reputation. They basically had a lot of They were able to hey weren't able to They fought to the last. They were undefeatable And they were who were supposed to guard So Pilgrims who were protected by the Knights Templar In fact their agenda, we are led was somewhat different. What they did when Jerusalem was basically takeover the site of the And their main remit was to find the treasure what they suspected That was their main intention. They were fabulously Philip The Fair of France was and their wealth. In addition to being indebted to So on Friday the 13th he arranged for all throughout France at exactly the same time. The plot against the was probably planned in advance. Of course we know, by the King of And Pope Clement V. They were both in and as the Templars were a The Pope had a lot of say the King it is now And their is a bit of a As the historical record King Philip IV clearly It is widely believed now by and of course So therefore that Among others, the threat of the by that time which King Philip had a convincing other Kings about the guilt of the Templars. Because again they as being very pious, even fanatical Christian martyrs in the Holy Land, and no one the solicited charges were It was a shock. It's as though we the front page of the goes on about every rounded up for an international without any prior warning We've often heard Friday the 13th - This saying is said the original arrest of In 1307. And in fact, on Friday the 13th at dawn there was a very sudden raid In all of Europe. Especially in France. And this was a shock to And by large it was unbelievable that the could be guilty In the 19th century, the Knights Templar worshipped who became the icon of the Whether or not this was What we do know is the Knights Templar who was burnt to death he made two statements as he First, that all the Knights lying under torture. And secondly, that Philip the time, who had extermination of the he would see them in And in fact both of them died [Music Playing]