Ah, Miami. A haven for the finer things in life. Sun, surf, Putting your toes in the sand. You know, there are worse places The nursing home attendant who seduced I'll find you, Francisco. But I wasn't just here for pleasure. In recent years, a migration and California have turned Miami Some have embraced the change, including for Miami as the Wall Street of the South But others have seen it as the latest residents in favor of the ultra wealthy, culture and heightens inequality. It was high time and that someone was going to be me on a thick coat of SPF to 50 and called up because Dan Toomey was Bienvenido a miami. Yes. Fresh off of the tarmac, my tummy started rumbling Of course, anything spicier than Hellmann's But if I wanted to find out what was really going on here, so I started off my sleuthing with a trip where I met with culture reporter Carlos Frias Needless to say, I was fitting right in. me more brutal. You'll see that. Well, then, I'm. You as our first interview? We're here, so why pick this restaurant? Well, I mean, look at it. this is actually the cultural it's 100 and 125, 150 years old, It was pretty much a cowtown, where you would get which back in the day was like Tampa was. Yeah, what a shit time. That must be Since the turn of the 20th by waves of immigrants it was black bohemians By the 1950s and sixties, Cubans fleeing and over the next few decades, immigrants and Latin America settled here, often in search of an alternative You can observe the impact of the city's looking at a map of the place. Little Havana, Little Haiti, in the Al Patton neighborhood are all So that's kind of at the base of this. Miami is always getting remade that are affecting And so that means it's And today, there's a new group of harbors, tossing their own spice But instead of Havana, Equinox Gym, Spa, Hotel. Ladies and gentlemen. Tech and Finance have entered the chat. Miami is having its tech moment. The goal of turning Miami into the new Mayor Francis Suarez, Ken Griffin is moving both Citadel fuck. Yeah. We are so back. If there has been any group to define this it's been the browsing hose of tech from some of the richest people to founders hoping to fund their startup all of this really took flight a time where more Americans and this was encouraged by Florida's while other states closed their borders welcome transplants with open And with them came the moolah. I mean, we have we had so much money and from New York. And a lot of Danny Rivero is a reporter for Miami's And people are moving around the country But the mayor said, come here here. And boy did they come. During the heat of the pandemic, members flocked to South Florida We know this it was an entire burgeoning subgenre science fiction revisionism about Miami. People who are coming down here, were like guys, like, that's guys comma or like ellipses, great hospitality, outstanding government. I'm like, what the what? What are they describing? So all of us who've lived here how people who have been here for two days I'm like, Man, bro splain to us what Miami I was the only one and commentator After hearing him talk about the city on something I decided he was ready for a big time A decision I immediately regretted. hear the whitest You're the same color is your shirt. I When I first met you, about this wonderful book. I just like. Is all right? Yeah. I'm sorry. Is that it? Yeah, it's me. I'm roasting you, It's unbelievable, right? But you got any other say? No. No. You sure? I do. want to invite anybody else Yes, Clearly, Billy was confusing me but nevertheless, the city's finance and tech I wrote them. Mango literally means mango and rice. But what it means in in kind of Cuban And so I referred when when the tech bro started moving to Miami I refer to them as the Rose Command rose. jokes are funnier when I explain them. perhaps the most courageous of these man was none other than Francis Suarez, who became the figurehead for the movement It was on December 4th, 2020, when venture moving Silicon Valley to Miami and Suarez Then came media appearances, more tweets, dragooned tech employees and bad posture down to South Beach. Step. as a mayor of Miami, The power is at the county. He's a lot of people get that confused. And that makes the mayor of Miami seem But he has done Right. Like that is almost the extent for that promotion was the habit In 2021, Miami launched a fully fledged assault The Miami Heat renamed their stadium Mayor Suarez announced that he would take Miami also minted its own cryptocurrency a crypto bull downtown to compete the crypto built College, right over the bridge From here in fact a crypto steer It doesn't have any balls, no. So it's not a ball. They didn't put the whole point Needless to say, I had to confirm No ball sac in sight. Side Quest completed Side Quest completed No balls. and even though a lot of this crypto Miami's great corporate offensive was actually pretty successful since 2020. Blackstone, Goldman Sachs, Icahn Fund and hedge fund manager offices to Miami between 2021 and 2022. An estimated $6 billion in annual Now rich people moving to Florida For generations, the wealthy have flocked search of good weather people have always bought their fourth, Well, Rich people whether it's as a tax, shelter or haven elsewhere, or it's just the weather, suddenly found themselves particularly in New York City, Deborah Acosta reports on Florida And so you're talking about Like the titans of industry, Carl Icahn, were already making their way down here Florida's tax laws are famously quite nice There's no state income tax, you can cash out on stock tax free tax free. Plus, the corporate tax rate Meanwhile, the Biden administration are doing their darndest to combat inequality by trying to tax More. so the sunny shores of Florida are looking nicer than ever if you're one of them Jeff Bezos switching coasts, the founder of Amazon.com, Earlier this year, none other than Jeff his transformation into pit bull However, it doesn't take an investigative on this one and conclude that sentimental Jeff, is gaining here. And thank God, by the way, because I'm actually too curious. Little aliens whose ship crashed on Earth and took extremely interested in the dysfunction And we look forward to probing Mr. Wonderful back in 2022. Washington State implemented a 7% tax on That was the same year which he had been doing annually after he touched down in a305, Bezos 50 million shares, worth Saving him at least $600 which, for what it's worth, covers Jeff now has multiple properties This dollop of land, is home to people like Carl Ikon, and Jared Kushner and is only accessible Soon after this moment, I was sniped This island is ground zero for the extreme Today, the five wealthiest property now controlled a combined fortune the people on Indian Creek. This tax deal in Florida is mucho primo, it's not mucho and even less primo. we find that Florida is actually the worst that increases inequality, a tax system and the more you earn, the less you of the Institute on Taxation a nonprofit that researches bottom fifth of taxpayers in Florida, a year, pay five times in state and local taxes than the top People earning an average of $3.3 million income either. pay a higher tax rate in Florida in the rest of the country on average, Like let that soak in Sorry, I can't hear Marg. Amy. Fun numbers, though. the outsized tax burden on the lower making it increasingly difficult for everyday Miamians South Florida has the second worst inflation the state as a whole has car insurance prices that are 55% and to take a step back. Miami already had one of the worst Even before half of Goldman's equity here. These historical trends, wave of professionals moving real estate market to explode, housing system, developers were already And as things started it suddenly became middle income or lower income housing just like all the tremendous that has made its way down here. You know, it's like, insane, really. A big swath of the new luxury by hedge fund employees One Sotheby's agent recently said that 2023 were to hedge fund buyers, about so it creates a problem, obviously, and lower classes despite the fact that there's so many so many jobs like we actually have in the entire country right but we don't have houses But Not to mention who is able to buy a home, So it's become pretty intense. so many insurers have exited for a lot of people who actually like what people do is that they just drop their insurance altogether they're living without insurance. A lot of them Now it would be easy to pin this housing middle managers who just want to live wealthy people wanting to live in And it certainly isn't unique to Miami. What is unique to Miami is that unlike the cities, it's often or policy in place to maintain a baseline Wall Street exists in New York City, They have rent control. They have, I mean, a lot of people would argue but they have like actual structure Singapore, government is very involved that people have a place to live, making it so that you're not left And you're saying, Miami, we haven't like, We do not have that. That's not in the DNA of what we do here. you know, not to say there's county government especially has been pumping But it's all on the private market, it's nothing compared to any of these Which is how we arrive at Miami's It is a city with an unquenchable thirst the policy or the infrastructure growth is our number one industry That means we have finite amount of space and we are already way overextended. Our roads cannot handle the numbers the numbers that we now have Our sewage system is older then, the incorporation of some of these cities There's can be and you're going to be in water And that's just how it's going to be. whether it's sea level rise, whether it's cost of living in inflation, of our leadership. we never get any answers or policies it's triage at this point. We're just sort of trying in the inevitable, I suppose you could have all oligarchs It feels like we will all be alive live in Little Havana. No bohemians No Dominicans The people who built here, as the locals who have made Miami to be pushed out of town. It's easy to wonder what's being lost. How have you seen this manifest? Have you seen more? I mean, we talk about new buildings or doing a lot more explainers. was in this moment that I realized here is as good an economic indicator as any, that the people who built Because when the fake explainer journalist to make content about your city, that's If only there was an appropriate way to the wonderful muchachos Maybe I'll move here. But of course, no investigation was complete South Florida real estate correspondent Maya is a real estate agent and former She used to split her time between L.A. and Miami, but recently to spend more time with her family up So you see that like I'm just pointing Yep, is there any any employees that tend to want to move here because the schools are so great, private equity hedge funds How do you see the city evolving I think is that if you drive on the city, like they're going to do the Four Seasons down. They're going to start at 3000 I mean, if you tell someone 3000 or say, now those are the prices And, you know, I don't get any some people cannot afford Miami anymore As always, Maya, I have to ask, was it ever hard Never. Gosh, no. I can always tell them if some nights thinking of that, by