French author Guy de Maupassant regularly even though he hated the sight of the thing. When asked why he said it was not for the in Paris where he couldn't see the Eiffel Tower! Some were also put off by the look of the grown to become a beloved symbol and about as French as a croissant. It's no accident this French biscuit tin In development for 13 years, and in production produced two offspring, Why did it take 13 years to develop, and why with almost no changes? This is the Citroen 2CV Story. (music) Citroen began life in 1919, but by 1934 the founder, Andre Citroen was dead. The company was bought by tyre-maker Michelin to try to find new markets both for more Citroen A market study found there was a large untapped but had a need for one. This wasn't an astonishing conclusion - Germany after they'd seen what Fiat was making with after they'd seen what Ford was doing By the mid-1930s Citroen had started work This was basic transportation, It needed to transport four people and 50kg across muddy, unpaved roads. It should be simple to drive and maintain, and it would use no more than that's around 95 miles per imperial gallon. As I'm sure you've heard before, one goal field without breaking any. For such an inexpensive vehicle these but Citroen's engineers rose to the challenge. Torsion bar suspension provided a good ride. The team experimented using lights inspired and to save money and weight The roof was essentially a tarpaulin. The body used corrugated sheet metal for rigidity, operated - all in the goal of creating a People laud the Mini for its front engine, but Citroen were doing exactly the same thing The result was dubbed the TPV or "toute and by 1937 20 prototypes had been built in Each part was weighed to produce a car as tiny three-cylinder engine. No ideas were off-limits in making this radical By 1939 the TPV was ready for production. By the start of September 250 pre-production and preparations were made to present it at But a dark cloud descended over Europe, and destroyed or hid all pre-production cars bar One of these remaining cars eventually made the person responsible for the Volkswagen He dismissed Citroens work, describing it Despite this, the Germans wanted the plans boss refused to divulge them. Citroen's factories were given over to the French workers and management did as much I mention in the DS video how Citroen's crafted a sneaky plan to sabotage many of After the Nazi's looted his factory for he worked with the French Resistance to relabel The tools ended up all over Europe, causing One small advantage of the war was to give how they could improve their innovative car, start mass production. That day came with the liberation of France One of the major changes to the car was the The torsion bar setup was good, but didn't provide the smooth ride An early version of Citroen's hydro-pneumatic The final design was ingenious. The front and rear suspension were connected When the front suspension hit a bump it compressed and pulling the rear suspension to keep the Without an anti-roll bar there was considerable system that, along with mass dampeners created Aluminium and magnesium parts were dropped Oddly enough, over in Britain cars were using easier to get due to wartime aircraft production. The water cooled 375cc engine had problems be air cooled, and produced a little more The three-speed gearbox got an additional The car would be known as the deux chevaux seem confusing when the engine had 9hp, but tax formula that depended on factors such bore and rpm. "Deux chevaux" would give the car its With the end of the war there was hope the French Government, mindful of limited resources, Avant, while newly nationalised Renault got their new 4CV. This rule was to end in 1949, so Citroen's It was considerably more refined than the Ferdinand Porsche hadn't been far off when - the 1939 car had been very unrefined. The final 2CV design wasn't exactly the a real car than something knocked up in a achieved the success it got without the additional What hadn't changed were the Michelin radial with the introduction of the 2CV. Existing tyres used crossply construction. Michelin's radial tyres lasted longer, got Almost every automotive tyre produced today is radial, and it all started with Citroen's pioneering 2CV. The press were not impressed with Citroen's It became the butt of many a joke with its France was used to austerity during and after quite this basic! But with only 100,000 of the 2M pre-war cars needing basic transport, the 2CV was just flooded with orders! But with production taking a long time to grew to 5 years. A few small changes appeared on the production pull cord was a welcome addition, and if that But without a fuel gauge, customers had to Leaving a lot of fuel in the car might not with a lock for the ignition or the doors! And colours were limited to just one - grey. By 1951 production had at least reached five - a panel van called the Fourgonette. It was little more than a 2CV with the rear the back, but for businesses up and down the wheels to get the French economy moving. A "Weekend" version even supplied the rear Citroen was quick to sell their new hit car first to Chile in 1953. The Chileans found the shape about as strange a few modifications, producing this saloon Like in France, this inexpensive car took robust 2CV. The Fourgonette van was originally to get felt customers would transplant the engine It became clear quickly that 375cc was far even for a light van. Both the 2CV and the van got the updated engine Citroen's management needn't worry that The deux chevaux was slow but adequate during There were no indicators, so hand signals wouldn't help, and the speedometer didn't have a light. Both of these issues were corrected with the The transmission featured a new centrifugal the engine was idling, making driving in traffic much easier, but didn't allow for gear braking down steep hills. The 1954 update marked a shift to mass production, result of moving from welding the car together The 1950s continued with small incremental and sales blossomed with more 2CVs being sold In the late 1990s Mercedes decided to put a mad racer promoted by their F1 drivers. 40 years earlier Citroen did the same France's answer to the Land Rover. A single transmission drove both front and engine into neutral, allowing 2WD operation. Designed for French colonies in North Africa, Chileans had found the 2CV looks strange, Citroen's factory in Slough in the UK felt producing the fibreglass Citroen Bijou in 1959. But with the Bijou costing 36% more than the The 2CV's long gestation period showed a The chassis was simple yet highly effective. It was logical that it would be used for Citroen's initially as a saloon then in 1964 as an estate. It had more conventional styling and a larger The Ami had headlights shaped like lozenges, the first being the Ford Taunus a few months earlier. It went toe to toe with the new Renault 4, response to the 2CV. The deux chevaux also got a few minor improvements. The bonnet was updated, something between the regular 2CV and the van. Citroen continued its export drive, licensing and Uruguay and Citroen manufactured both As mentioned earlier, 2CVs were produced in to allow Citroen to avoid tariffs exporting both Australia and Africa. The stripped-down practical Baby-Brousse 2CV in the Ivory Coast, but also produced in 2CV Citroen could do a major update the 2CV, It was selling better than ever, bringing So, along with an innovative marketing campaign, car for the 1960s. The engine's power had been slowly increasing It got a real fuel gauge instead of the improvised Seats were improved, although sitting in the affair due to the metal bracing. The windscreen wipers had been driven off increased, and when the car was stationary on the dashboard. The new 2CV got wipers powered by an electric The front suicide doors now opened the conventional But despite these improvements, the 2CV was The dashboard, if you can call it that(!), 1966, but these small changes weren't able was eating into sales, and the Ami was too So, three years after the 2CV update Citroen The Renault 4 sold on its practical tailgate, 2CV even though Citroen's management were design utilitarian. To minimise cost it would use the exiting body meant it would be cheaper to produce. Citroens designers were busy on updating another car company that Citroen had recently The car would be called the Citroen Dyane. It received the 2CVs 425cc engine, but a year Inside it was still spartan, but it remained The Dyane went on sale in 1967 alongside the the venerable car. After all, the 2CV had been launched in post-war wanted a little bit more refinement. The 2CV's simple yet effective suspension It had spawned the Fourgonette truck, the and in 1968 the new Mehari appeared. It was designed to replace the off-roading version of the Baby-Brousse using newer Dyane It didn't have the Sahara's complex four-wheel chassis and larger 600cc engine combined with it a capable off-roader. Despite the Mehari supposedly replacing the around the world in limited numbers, and would FAF might be English colloquial for something meaning was quite the opposite. FAF stood for "Facile a Fabriquer, Facile It was designed so at least half of the parts and provide employment. To this end the plastic bodywork was replaced then hand painted. The Ami saloon got a new shape in 1968, and The still experimental wankel rotary engine loyal Citroen customers, what we'd now And it seemed tests were successful as the the Citroen GS four years later. A larger 1.0L engine borrowed from the Citroen although engines this large in small cars a popular choice. The Dyane was supposed to be the second generation Maybe 2CV customers liked the classic 2CV Whatever the reason, the Ami, Dyane and 2CV generation actually outsold the second generation! That wasn't supposed to happen! Regardless, Citroen knew a good thing when 2CV update. The larger 600cc engine from the Ami and Dyane existing engine sold as the 2CV 4. The larger engine officially made it three The rear lights from the Ami, turned 90deg The van was still on sale and took advantages With the introduction of the Renault 5 in was looking decidedly dated. Their finances, sapped by failing sales of Panhard, Berliet and Maserati, and the failed money for the rest of their range. Instead of a new model, Citroen turned the Small changes were all they could do, although in 1974 thanks to the fuel crisis that led In fact, there was once again a waiting list But record sales from a range that had received Citroen in business, they declared bankruptcy in 1975. Despite this, a small update, or should that year, the 2CV Special. By now the 2CV had received rectangular headlights, headlights and the older dashboard from the 1960s. The Special was stripped back to make it when it launched. And it still had the original car's basic the windscreen to let air in, with a grille up in the cabin! The doors were so thin they couldn't accommodate flap-up design. The French Government persuaded Peugeot to Clearly the company needed a new small car, to market in 1977, using many parts from the production the following year. But Peugeot, like Citroen also saw value was nostalgia for it, or a desire to buy a The 2CV van was updated with the Dyane's This allowed Citroen more time to produce Citroen used letters like AZ to denote 2CV so Acadiane was a play on words of "AK" and "Dyane". I suppose you had to be there to get the joke! A 4WD version of the Mehari showed there which was little changed since its introduction. Rather than the odd 2 engine setup of the with a transfer box and a differential lock. It might not be able to climb the 45deg slopes off-roader. During the 1980s Citroen understandably ignored models such as the AX and BX. That was where their future lay after all. The 2CV got an outing in the Bond film "For as the Charleston and the Dolly with traditional By tuning the 600cc engine Citroen got 29hp Dyane production ended in 1983, meaning the It even outlived the Citroen Visa, introduced But the 2CV was trading on its quirky style Even Brits, who'd been turned off the 2CVs after seeing thousands of them roaming French buying their own when they got home. It also became a car for the counterculture, the standard three box design. And in the late 1980s more 2CVs were being took the car to their hearts. But as superminis took over, demand dwindled. It wasn't even that cheap - without a relied on manual labour to build each car. The last 2CV rolled off the production line The 2CV's nemesis, the Renault 4 ended production Citroen had plans to sell the tooling to walk than drive a 2CV and passed on the opportunity. Production of the venerable 2CV may have ended, Two of the 1930s prototypes were known to but before the war some addition cars had After the war none had been discovered, but in In 2007 Andy Saunders celebrated both the creation, and a year later, for the 2CV's Hermes refitted a 2CV in leather to celebrate Chrysler designers were inspired to create and Nissan created the wittily titled S-Cargo, and the French word for that thing that might look It was, of course, inspired by the Fourgonette van. But at 8,000 sold, it sold less than a tenth But since the 2CV ended production there hasn't The Ami name returned in 2020 as a tiny EV, The closest thing to a 2CV you can buy today Underneath it's a Citroen Berlingo, crafted It looks sort of like a 2CV van, if you squint It's a testament to the 2CV's robustness it's not uncommon to come across one on car that still brings a smile to your face. It wasn't the fastest car. It didn't have the most features - Jasper locking, but you could reach all four doors But with sales of almost 9M variants, it's who spent the war designing a car that kickstarted and got millions of families on the road for the first time. The SM might have helped Citroen into bankruptcy, car with many firsts. If you want to know more there's a video on the right. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in