Probably the first time like, It's like hitting you pretty hard, &quot;This is where I did it, It's bad because you know you can't undo It's like, &quot;Man, I really screwed (ominous intro music plays, title card This guy is named A few months back, I got a fascinating from Harrison. With the subject &quot;Inquiry: He wrote, &quot;When I was a kid, I was a &quot;Leaf Green&quot; until the buttons were worn Pokemon was my Blastoise. In 2007, I made a grave mistake. I abused file. I didn't know what I was doing as I combination of cheats, I raised my supposed to be. (At most, level 100). Upon rebooting my game, she was gone. I tried everything: I hatched the egg, I wrote her off as good as dead for over wonder if resurrecting my beloved partner I don't know if you can help, but after McDonald's games and Domino's apps -- the job. Let me know if you can help! Best, This idea really intrigued me especially because as it so happens very similar to Harrison's. (melancholical music starts playing) So, one day when I was I found myself standing around outside, my brother's soccer game to wrap up. Pokemon fan, I had just gotten a copy and I was playing it every single day. But on this particular day and I was messing around with a bunch And I keep adding more and more until eventually something (Pokemon Blue intro theme starts playing) At one point I'm walking through (Wild battle theme starts playing) (Sound of Pikachu's in-game cry) And a wild Lieutenant Surge appears. Like, in the tall grass as though And clearly something but the idea of fighting this feral adult man was hilarious (Sound of Dugtrio's in-game cry) And the battle had barely even started (Wild battle theme freezes) And instantly the game freezes and And I think &quot;Oh well, I guess I turn it off and turn it on again. And for the first time since I got (Pokemon Blue intro music starts playing, the title screen says &quot;New Game&quot;. (melancholical music starts playing) I start panicking and I start trying the Game Shark and putting the cartridge I try blowing into the cartridge, I turn hundreds of times, over and over it just says &quot;New Game&quot;. And quickly it dawns on me that all my badges, my team of Pokemon, all at once in the blink of an eye every I was devastated. So, it probably goes without saying childhood Pokemon memory, I bring his long lost Blastoise back But I didn't want to get Harrison's before I knew whether or not this So, I put out some feelers I eventually found somebody of the GBA Pokemon games. An anonymous Pokemon expert According to Gary, not only was he but there is basically no one on earth better than him. So, I explained Harrison's situation to &quot;Could we possibly help bring Harrison's Gary's answer: A resounding &quot;Maybe&quot;. Gary explained that, in layman's terms, data is corrupted. The good news was that the Pokemon could and the data could still be in there The bad news is that because Harrison said with the &quot;BAD EGG&quot; in his party and that could have messed with things In short: Gary's answer was inconclusive. He told me that this Blastoise be damaged beyond repair and the to check the data on the cartridge getting our hands on it So I passed all of this information that there was no guarantee but if he was willing to try And Harrison agreed. So, with this plan now fully in motion hardware we would need and he pointed me towards this: An obscure little device known as card dumper and flasher created by I ordered this thing, site unseen, would even work and And meanwhile Harrison booked a ticket in search of closure. Cool. Alrighty, so we're meeting up with this North Carolina to meet up and I've got this device here, from Australia, will help us do this. I haven't even I'm a little worried, but I think it's in here. Except for Harrison, so let's go. (Robert) And you know everything you to pull it off? Hi, nice to meet you. (Nick) By the way, do you prefer Either works. Just getting this out. This is the Game Boy game (Nick) Do you mind, may I? (Nick) Could we look at the EGG now? (Nick) Yeah, let's take a little look (Harry) You always- (Nick) Was this your first Pokemon game? like, really young when it got made, maybe before parents would just give you the You know, the Game Boy was the literally the first cartridge that I had. hooked on this stuff, it was like a drug And I did something really stupid. one of the cheat codes, old, this was like the summer of 2007, really strong. I gave it too many levels, and I've come (Nick) Hm hm. Serious, serious data saving issues. to disappear and turn into this &quot;BAD EGG&quot;. (Nick) Do you remember, like, realized what had happened? I remember that vividly. - I was like, 7 or 8. Man, it was like one of those summer-time And it was like a pit in your heart, And it's, yeah, it's bad because (Nick) Right. - It's like, I think you said (Nick) (laughs) Yeah. - It's just a little bit too high. And (phone vibrates) (Nick) Whaddup, dawg? (Nick) Bill, have you known Harrison (Nick) Who was the person whose Action (Harry) Yup. (Nick) Interesting. (Nick) Wow. So you probably have some to assuage by fixing this. (Nick) This rift in your friendship can (All laugh) (Nick) After all these years... (Harry) Yeah, looks like an egg... and through. There's nothing you can do with (Nick) You said you tried everything, you (Harry) I tried hatching it but -Right. inverted and it's like really weird and And I've felt miserable about having was five years old. (Robert) I think it's especially intense when you're a child. (Robert) Right? Because when you're kind of, I think, when you're a kid. (Robert) And then you also don't have the loss and things being disappointing. (Robert) So, I think whenever that kind of life-changing experience. when I lost my Blue version save. It was never really the same for me. I FireRed and LeafGreen and Diamond and And it's probably especially heartbreaking you could have, theoretically, brought through the modern Pokemon games. cartridge the whole time. So, hopefully, at the end of this Bank or whatever. to get this thing into the cloud. I want somewhere in some server Nintendo is (Nick, laughing) That's right. I hope we can save- I should probably have how you help brace somebody for &quot;What (Harry) To have tried is sorta like it is never going to be. (Nick) I'll do my best. This is all but we'll see... (Nick's Voiceover) Step 1 was dumping the taking the contents of Harrison's years my computer hard drive, so we could take a Luckily, I had brought exactly (Nick) So, do you know what's in this box? tell you that. know. This came from Australia and exists that can help us with this. The guy &quot;You reached out to one of the only people help you&quot;. And he's gonna be on-call for He lives in, like, Sweden. (Harry) Wow, this is an international (Nick) They always end up being and I don't know why. (Nick) I know! I wonder how many of us How many people that had like a tragedy because they flew a little to close (Harry) Far too many. (Nick) This thing just looks like a... (Harry) Wow. Wild. (Harry) So, this definitely goes in there. (Nick) I'd suspect so, yeah. (Dramatic music) I feel like a surgeon, y'know? Like, I'm- It feels like we're doing to save this Blastoise, here. So here's this thing, it's called (Nick) Um, it is a Pokemon and I have it on good authority So, we're gonna try... Cool. (Harry) It's like an operating table. I was- Like, a hospital set, or something, Just to really...make it feel like (Nick) Can I tell you something? (Nick) Um, it just mounted. Like, I feel like once we can breathe a little bit of (Harry) Yeah. It's nerve-wracking, too, the realm of things you're supposed to do, (Robert) And that kind of stuff is it to get broken in the first place. (Nick) It's true, it's true. We could end chimera situation where Blastoise is back (Nick) but it's just like begging (Harry) Going from &quot;BAD EGG&quot; (Laughter) (Music) Harrison's copy of the game What PKHeX should do is let us manipulate and hopefully save his Blastoise. Or, at least, that was the plan. (Nick) So, there's an &quot;Open&quot; option. (Harry) Okay, there we go. (Windows error sound) (Nick) Maybe I'm opening the wrong file. (Nick) Hmm. a different generation Pokemon file or your file is corrupt. (Harry) That's fine. (Nick) Let me- Let me see if (Discord outgoing call sound) (Gary) Ayy, whaddup? (Gary) I can, indeed! Which of these files are- (Gary) Ah, FLASH.SAV. (Windows alert sound) compatible with save file. with save file, what? happened is that the BAD EGGs are so bad &quot;Augh, I don't know what to do with (Harry) Whoa. start by doing, is, is- in an emulator, on here. (Gary) Um, mGBA. (Gary) So, change the name of, uh, (Nick) So that they have Cool. (Windows error sound) Whoa! Hmm. (Nick) Hmm. (Nick) It could be a bad dump. nervous, but according to Gary, It was still possible that we had just that remounting it and dumping So, we tried it: And once again, it didn't work. the data, so he could take a closer (Gary) I'm going to to see how big a difference (Nick) So the goal here is to see (Gary) Yeah, exactly. or maybe this is just nonsense. So yeah, we just got a bunch of zeros. (Nick) Wow. So the red entries here are the totally clean basic normal (Gary, affirmative) Mmhmm. (Nick's Voiceover) This was frustrating. This whole part of the process, dumping and looking at the contents, and it was going disastrously. (Nick) Wow. So, what does that (Gary) This tells you that something (Nick's voiceover) No matter how many game the dumps kept coming out bad. operation was over before it had even But it turns out our remote suggestion. And it was something so to me and Harrison (Gary) Do you have any isopropanol Isopropyl alcohol on hand? in this hotel we could go to. (Laughter) (Nick) Hmm. toilet paper, put some just and like, stick it in and try to as you can. And then stick in a dry piece the water and then try again. (Nick) Alright. Sure. Sure thing. Alright, I got some water, We'll yank it out and then just Phew. This feels wrong. I know but, like, water in a GBA (Nick laughs) (Gary) The thing is what I've learnt doing it contains minerals that are conductive which means that if you pour it you'll cause a short and that'll But if you pour water on something through that, so it's actually fine. (Nick) Alright, so we have wetted it (Harry) We're now drying. I'm trying to make this nice and, like (Nick) Nice. (Harry) Not really. (Gary) Alright. (Harry) Hmm... It wouldn't take much. (Nick) Alright, cool. (Gary, affirmative) Hmmh. (Dramatic music) (Nick) Let's see... Alright. It's I'll just unplug- I think 'cause So, I'll just- Oh yeah, there we go. Yeah, it's now showing these. [inaudible] (Gary cheers) (Nick) This is good news? It means that it's actually recognised the you, my friend, have a (Nick) What the hell, okay, good. Dude... (Nick) This is exciting. I'm trying not to But this seems very... promising. (Gary) No, like this is... This means (Relieved laughter) (Emotional music) (Voiceover) With Harrison's childhood safely on my laptop we were feeling good. this was a crucial part of the process we allowed ourselves to revel (Nick) Dude, that's... huge. That's huge news. (Harry) I was like, calm before this and (Nick) Dude... This feels like a victory. Wow, the water trick worked. (Nick) What would we do without you, dog? &quot;Let me see if he's available to chat.&quot; (Robert) Woah! (emotional music) (Voiceover) Now with Harrison's save file in an emulator and see if (Nick) Alright, so should we pull it in an (Gary) Yeah. (Gary) Ay! (Shooting star) (Jingle) (Pokemon Leaf Green Intro Plays) (Nick) Wow! Alright, this is good news. (Harrison) Oh, that's great news! (Harrison) Also, if you guys can't tell (Laughter) (Nick) That's why you're &quot;Harriso.&quot; (Nick) You hadn't discovered being (Harrison) This is taking me on a (Nick) This is indeed an emotional (Beeping noises) (Nick) &quot;HEKEe!?/&quot; abilities. (Harrison) Pre-literacy. &quot;ABCDEFGHI4.&quot; (Gary) I love how these names look like (Nick) I know. (Nick) I really like &quot;MR. SLUGMA&quot; here. (Robert) This is like, (Robert) an invasion of privacy. (Harrison) No, this is like an in-game- (Robert) This needs to remain private (Nick) This is very personal. (Voiceover) After we were done making fun Pokemon, we decided to continue our thought where we could find the bad egg (Nick) Alright so, would it be in your (Robert) It would be in the PC. this happened as a kid, you were just like in the PC.&quot; Is this where it is? gray ball. That was like, the biggest deal (Nick) You caught a Mewtwo in a gray ball? for, at seven years old. It was like, &quot;Holy moly.&quot; (Nick) Do you know which one is which? (Nick) Interesting. (Gary) Alright, yep. That's what you'd They're in Box 4, now we know. (Nick) Oh, yeah? (Laughter) (Nick) Half-dozen bad eggs here.. (Gary) Your game is so messed up, man.