Hello and welcome to Naples! A city of blue sea, sunny weather, young people, narrow streets birth place of pizza, many fried foods and very fast fried foods and even faster cars, great meatballs great Ice Cream, crazy lemonade and even crazier street celebrations! Once again, welcome to Naples! We just arrived in city of Naples and we are completely starved so the first thing we're going to eat is going to be pizza for sure! We are passing through the ancient and narrow streets of Spanish Quarters and towards our first destination. We are in front of Pizzeria Pavia and we're going to try some true Neapolitan pizzas here here. Very small and compact Pizzeria but extremely busy. We can see some nice bubbles on the pizza dough and this is a typical Neapolitan style of opening a pizza stretching the dough with a thumb and then slapping it over the wrist of the other hand. In just several quick motions the pizza dough is ready for the toppings these quick slapping motions are also used to dust off all the flour from the pizza base. First pizza has a pesto sauce base the second one is classic Margherita the third one is made of cherry tomatoes and mozzarella cheese and the last one is pizza calzone made with local vegetables friarielli and mozzarella cheese. Carefully closing the edges and making a hole in the middle. This pizza is getting some more toppings and these are salami and stracciatella cheese before going to the oven a finishing touch for these pizzas is some olive oil on top. Just one final stretch... The heat near that oven is just tremendous pizzas are getting baked in probably 60 to 70 seconds. Just by standing near this oven you feel this intense heat. They smell amazing and they have very nice color on the crust another two steaming hot Margherita pizzas are coming out Ironically our dessert came before our pizzas these are deep fried bits of pizza dough topped with Nutella Our pizzas are ready as well! Pizza Concettina with mozzarella cheese, prosciutto crudo, red and yellow cherry tomatoes and stracciatella cheese and pizza pistachio with mozzarella cheese Mortadella and pistachio crumbles pizzas are on our table and they smell and look incredible! Pizza is thin in the middle and then just full of these delicious looking toppings, the crust is soft and there isn't really much air in the crust but all these ingredients are really mouthwatering! Cheers! Pizza is very tasty, juicy and rich with flavors and these colorings on the base can tell us that it was perfectly baked as well! Time to try Pizza pistachio with Mortadella and again it's a perfectly baked pizza. Let's go! This pizza has a much stronger taste thanks to the Mortadella and pistachios and it's also quite delicious. Very, very tasty experience. Total price, we were overcharged 6EUR by mistake then refunded as well. I don't know if this was honest mistake or not but if you read Google reviews for many restaurants here this is something that happens a lot so just be careful when eating in Naples always check how much you are being charged Naples famous street drink &quot;limonata a cosce aperte&quot; or open your legs lemonade fortunately enough there were some people here eager to try it. Magic ingredient: sodium bicarbonate The evening came quite quickly and we were checking our options for dinner Very narrow streets but nonetheless accommodating cars, people, tables and motorbikes. Very interesting dining options in the street behind me where cars and scooters pass just inches away from the tables. We tried our luck in this restaurant but then it became just too noisy for us and we had to run away if you expect to have a quiet dinner in Naples you are in for a big surprise! We went straight for the Via Toledo where there is all the buzz and decided to try the typical street food &quot;Il Cuoppo&quot; many of Neapolitan fried Street Foods displayed up front and being made non-stop in the kitchen behind. Like in most places there's a queue and it looks like that this is one of the favorite foods for the young people of Naples. Looks like dinner time in Napoli is quite tricky everyone is afraid they will stay hungry so anywhere you go restaurants the street shops everything is full of people and you have to wait some time definitely to get your food. Greasy and delicious our food is here! They're quite big and quite hot! Let's go with the first bite this is a deep fried spaghetti cube. Pure fried goodness, perfect! Crocche di patate. Next thing to try. Deep fried ball made out of potato mesh here we have a rice bowl with tomato sauce and a deep fried pizza dough hot and delicious comfort food almost finished our cuoppos and I think we need to get something to drink now so see you at the next place. Good evening ladies and gentlemen I stumbled upon this secret Elf hideout where they make all these incredible sweets and in the heart of Naples! I'm joking but all these machinery and everything it really looks like the elves made. It they have a special machine here that creates different types of sweets, chocolate, cookies you name it they'll make it from scratch. &quot;Who is the secret ingredient inside?&quot; Don't tell me about the secret ingredient. &quot;Love, love... amore!&quot; Amore, bravo, bravo, bravo!!! &quot;A la fine you look there.&quot; Wow! The machine, the paste go under. This incredible candy laboratory continues upstairs with even bigger choice of candies This candy Shop's name is Fabbrica Delle Meraviglie which means Factory of Wonders and definitely it is it's incredible they have everything and it's all made of chocolate, biscuits and different types of candy materials. Crowded streets, lively chatter, Naples is alive and kicking even at night but the new day brings some new adventures. Ferrari, Audi and then another two Ferraris and then this annoying electric car called Tesla. Vocally disliked by the audience! Some legendary Classics like Fiat Cinquecento and then this untamed beast called Lamborghini. And finally it was time for our lunch. For our lunch we decided to go to Signora Bettola, during the lunch time this restaurant is extremely busy so we had to wait some 15 minutes for our table which actually wasn't that bad. Kitchen works like an oiled steam engine some all that healthy looking green pasta and then some delicious looking ravioli ricotta. And possibly some fried and anchovies. Let's see what's on the lunch menu I'm pretty sure that this order is ours. Very generous plate of fresh mussels, Campania native mozzarella di bufala, polpette al ragu, iconic Neapolitan meatballs, beautiful looking ravioli Ricotta and some pasta pomodoro for our kids. It's not a gift from a Santa Claus it's some homemade bread in a bag Steaming hot Neapolitan meatballs in tomato sauce with some friarielli on the side. Very soft, tasty and so juicy meatball, cheers! Friarielli is a local vegetable with somewhat bitter taste, a staple food of Naples friarielli a little bit bitter on its own, nice texture, very healthy vegetable but let's try together with polpette. Now together polpette and friarielli creates a completely different taste because ragu sauce is a bit sweet and that helps with overall taste. This restaurant tries to honor some Neapolitan traditions. Pride of Campania region mozzarella di bufala DOP. Just a perfect bite of mozzarella cheese. Great taste and texture very juicy and goes great with all these sweet cherry tomatoes Perfect combination! Time to try the muscles. Quite big juicy looking mussels. Let's go! Nice and soft easy to chew easy to eat very tasty not too salty just perfect muscles and the moment I've been waiting for ravioli ricotta in tomato sauce with some Parmigiano cheese on top the texture of ricotta cheese inside is just perfect. Huge and well stuffed ravioli with ricotta cheese Amazing! The pastry just melts in your mouth extremely tasty, warm and comforting ravioli. Just perfect ravioli! Great food, great ambient and a fast service, we really enjoyed our lunch here. Total price for everything 62.80. But we're not going to stop here so let's go to the next place. We decided to return to Spanish quarters where is always more interesting. Then we continued to Via Toledo as the fun there never stops. Behind me is a famous pizza Sorbillo this is one of the oldest pizzerias in Naples and This shop here specializes in fried pizza - pizza fritta and they're always very busy they sell probably thousands of these pizzas every day. Very rich in cholesterol but delicious and inexpensive Very busy pizzaiolo shouting the numbers of customers tickets and frying these pizzas around the clock. Very hot boiling oil and these pizzas need to be constantly shoved and pushed in order to fry properly. Classic stuffing for these pizzas are Provolone cheese, ricotta and ham but there are other variations as well. Standard price is around EUR4.50 per pizza and these pizzas are handed out like on conveyor belt the queue is never stopping as well as these pizzaiolos here. We already had a good lunch and too much cholesterol from the previous day so we skipped Pizza frittas, maybe next time... You cannot come to Naples and not try the ice cream &quot;Gelato&quot; is Neapolitan invention! Cakes look fantastic as well We decided to try our ice cream at Casa Infante as they had very nice sitting area outside Busy, crazy and delicious like many other places around Naples! I just spotted some new variant of room Baba that I never tried before! I quickly ordered and paid for everything and went to queue up for our ice cream. Sometimes you just need to be patient in life... for all the good things. Since ice cream was invented in Naples I think we should eat as much as we can while we are here. it looks amazing the place is crazy-busy and we also ordered all types of Rum Baba had, new rum baba, classic rum baba and mini babas, but I'll start with the ice cream. Cheers! By far the creamiest ice cream I have ever seen. Definitely the best ice cream I ever tried it's so creamy it's unbelievable look just at this. While we were amazed by the ice cream there was also another surprise we need to pay EUR6 for taking the table EUR1.50 for each person. It's unthinkable in other European countries but here obviously when taking a table you need to pay some money so just be wary of this, but other than that the atmosphere the ice cream they're just amazing. New rum baba in a cup with vanilla cream and pistachios was something special and really delicious on the other hand classic Baba was a bit dry and falling apart. Mini Babas we decided to get for takeaway. After a very busy night the garbage was overwhelming the streets. Oh but I almost forgot to tell you, we actually visited the ZOO and this was the only place in the city with the real vegan food options. After the zoo we went to a local place for a lunch. It's a place serving local Neapolitan food. We are outside the Naples City Center some 5 km we went to see the local zoo we decided to to go for a lunch just nearby with &quot;Da Mario&quot;. An express restaurant with readymade dishes but they also make fresh pasta on the spot, they feed the local working people and also send a lot of takeaways for the locals as well. This place is as local as it can be no tourists here only local people these are some hardworking people making some nice local food. I can't wait to try it. We ordered some gnocchi in tomato sauce for our kids then eggplant parmigiana - parmigiana melanzane then we got some chicken with the mushrooms on the side juicy looking chicken with plenty of mushrooms and then we got some stuffed calamari with roast peppers and olives on the side As all the food is here so I will start trying one by one and let's go with Parmigiana first. Looks a bit oily, juicy as well, let's go! Layer upon layer of eggplant is so juicy it's so tasty tomato sauce is a bit sweet very nice taste such a nice surprise. I'm going to continue with chicken now. Chicken has a very interesting color, let's go! Nicely prepared tasty not dry, nice chicken and these mushrooms just improve everything Okay let's try the calamari ripieni, the stuffed calamari. These calamari are a bit dodgy. These calamari are stuffed with rice, ricotta, olives and some spices. Nice taste, they are a bit chewy though but they are huge as well and let's try these juicy looking peppers. Perfect taste, this is what I really like a little bit acidic that roast pepper taste these were probably fermented peppers and then fried or sauteed, great taste nothing beats these peppers as a side dish. Very simple dish gnocchi, tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese nice and tasty you can't go wrong with gnocchi. Out of all the dishes that we ordered and I tried for me this is number one parmigiana melanzane - parmigiana with eggplant and as well roast Total price for everything was $24. This is such a pleasant lunch in a very local area far from the Naples City Center we really enjoyed it all the food was good and inexpensive only EUR24 for the family lunch that's a bargain I think. We returned to the bustling city center and went browsing around local shops. Very busy and classy looking Cafe which sticks out from anything else around here. Never ending queue of people waiting for their drink of choice but the other room offers something even more interesting if you ask me! An incredible looking cake display constantly being topped up with the trays of fresh ones. Some delicious looking cream puffs then some rum babas then some strawberry decorated babas then some more babas, biscuits and cakes and There was much more food down the street and more of the delicious stuff but it was our time to leave this crazy and busy city of Naples, rightfully so named the Italy's southern Street Food Capital. There you have it guys &quot;the food of Naples&quot;, I hope you enjoyed this video and if you did please like and subscribe and I will see you next time. All the best!