Thanks for coming. Yes. And clearly your town remembers you. Yes. Yes. I'm still of this town. I still am a homeowner and I love it. Yes. I don't think actually, before because I don't think I've ever gotten So congratulations. Yeah. So. Hello and welcome to today's My name's Reid Hoffman, partner Greylock It's my pleasure to introduce Legend for calling me a legend. Tech journalism, but you know, a friend, and the author of a great new book, The Burn Burn Book, A Tech Love Story. And you know, Karen, I have known each yeah, probably. look, I was about to say, One of us is a journalist. And the and she's known for asking tough questions I was delighted to to be here Good. I'm so excited. Finally. Finally. And so, I also think that people should understand and a truth teller, Right. Yeah. You know, because you've been innovating and the tech media ecosystem And I think that's been So welcome back to all of club. Thank you. I'm glad to be back. So let's kick it off the way you do in your book. As it turned out, Yes. Yes, that was Mike. You don't have to read So a great line about you. You know, possibly cynical. So, you know, you know, the positive. I actually think of you So why did you open your book What what caused you to think that way? Because, by the way, Because please don't in any way, shape or form. But yes, I am a tech up. Not an optimist. No, I'm a pest. I'm an optimistic pessimist. I assume the worst and I'm thrilled But which I started off so it turns out and as you recall, we met that I actually believe the wanted to do Everyone else hopefully is still present. It is present tense. But one of the. Well, It's like. But I'm keeping attention. I am paying attention. I really wanted to say there was this whole idea and you remember There was an ethos here. There was a feeling of newness, It was a new industry being born. And so there was the excitement And of course, you're always very positive And one of the things at the time, and some of them were this idea that we're here It was that Star Trek And I talk about that, that there's a Star when in fact it really is more Star Wars, things are a little more difficult that the heroes are very flawed. And also they don't win a lot. If you really take apart Star Wars, It's a dark tale. Star Trek isn't. And so there was a sort of Star Trek and everyone gets along And look, it's there's struggles, but really and a good one. And so I was sort of bothered and articles. I was down with this. I wrote a story about the ten things aren't true, including there's no titles here You know, I'm chief Yahoo! And I'm like and yet, And the only person honestly was Mark Zuckerberg, which I was like, Thank you. That's correct. You are. Although he later would lapse into this, He'd be like, It's I'm like, Well, And he's like, But it's the community. And I'm like, And yet you can't be fired. So it's not about that. And you make all the decisions. And so, so we so I really wanted to say, just like Wall Street insurance Like you're not like coming up to you and saying, They never they'd say, and I like my house in Connecticut And so I wanted to say, look, And and that's okay Yeah. Although, I mean, part of the reason I love both your role as the kind of, you know, watch person of the industry I think is really important and a whole bunch of people you know, I am doing this thing. I'm doing this, you know, electric cigarets thing to change the world, right? Right. The dating service, the digital dry You know, it's exhausting after. A while and, you know, well characterized Yes. And but but also part of the challenges is to get I don't know of a way to get tech to scale Right. Right. And so and there are places can have a really good positive impact Sure. And so it's not necessarily It's the it's the you know, it's crazy. It's the idea that you're at the center of the universe, that this is, you know, Dan Mazur has written a book, He wrote the first Facebook book He said, you know, he's talking But, you know, a lot of these characters and they're ready. Player one And I wanted to say like, out of the kindness of their heart, And one of the reasons pretending in cosplaying that we're going to you We're building that highway the way And so I just would what they're doing is building companies, But a lot of it was this touchy And it's not because it was California, They really did see themselves fiction, they were steeped in game playing They saw themselves as like even Apple I was like, You're not pirates. Give me a break. Like you're a giant mega corporation. We're pirates. I was like, Stop it. Like, or or more to the more. Which was around, which is why I like you was, There was a lot of toys. There was a lot of primary colors. It was a lot like you're in a nursery And so, you know, we have a pogo stick. Kara, I'm like, for you, I had one or, or there's a scene in the book first of all, they had a garage, like whatever and they thought I'd be impressed I declined to or and then they had a slide I remember that. The slide, Yes. Now, like go down the slide. I was like, Slide giving. Me like I'm 30, whatever. I didn't like it when I was five. I definitely don't like it or, you know, even Jeff I remember the door. It right. What he would do is he said and he wanted it and all the stories It was it was all PR essentially So everybody works on a door. And I was like, you know, a key, sorry, like a door or a door, like, aren't I was like, I don't understand it. And so the performative nature of it, that, I'm sleeping on the factory floor, Stop it. Stop this. And then I begin to realize It's like I'm playing a character Well, one of the things I think I think point out the the, the incongruities It is also, though, part of that the companies sure are do need some kind of yeah some kind of story about what And obviously I think one can do it certain forms of silliness. Yes. But the but, you know, part of the reason a lot of these huge tech companies. And they're all built with stories Right. Right. Everybody has one. And often the DNA of a company is, that whatever that origin stories and about their humanness and they relentlessness I was just watching a video of Marc Andreessen talking about, It's really hard. It's so hard. So I'm like, you know how hard it is Like, Do you have a bus driver? And I had to get up this morning and I have to feed my kids And it's really hard, and to hear it from Elite people is I'm Everyone's job is hard. And so I get that. And I don't I think most would I When I covered AOL, their narrative was They had a big dinosaur. And Microsoft And so they had licenses, built where the little guys beaten and they would have people sign it And the I, I get it. It's a team thing, did that or any company point to has to and you have to have, you know, a story And I get it. I get it. It's just that Other people just have a job, right? It has to be the great the great struggle. And I get I do get that idea And but I think you're inspired by making That would be my inspiration, for example. 100%. And actually, one of the things you know, industry you know, like she's beating up on us and it's like, Where you on that, right. Yeah, She was beating up on us. Yes. Is in some ways one another friend. I'm not I know I'm friendly how friendly I am and I know I really am. I'm like, why should I know? You know, they're not my friends. And when they're beating up on us, By doing normal criticism, I did not. One of the things I went out of my way although I can say snarky things, but And for some reason it hurt them And there was a really good scene I know the good guys really well. My ex-wife worked there, I covered them for a long time By the way, and she was a planet out and they they were trying to buy Yahoo! Or get control of Yahoo! And at the time, that would have given which I'm like, I'm sorry, that's called And so I was very tough articles like, let me tell you, And this is worse because search was so And I was like, And their attitude was like, We're good for everyone, even though we control And I'm like, There's And you know, we have, We're not going to hurt you. And I'm like, To serve man, that Twilight Zone thing. It's a cookbook. It's a cookbook. It's like you're not here to help us, I get it. Like the kind of thing. And so. And I kept saying them as a cookbook. Yes. And so we called me I wrote a piece about this I was quite vehement And they were very hurt. I were very hurt. And because the line I had knew they were thugs And is that hard? They were thugs. They're a thuggish in their And they called me and they're like, And I was like, come on, grow the fat, And and I was like, And they're like, Well, you know, us, That was this is the conversation. You're no, we're nice. And we're not thugs and, Don't be. And you know, we're not evil. And I said, you know, I said, there's a poem by Yeats, some rough beast is slouching towards And they're like, What a beast. And I was like, They could Google. I'm going to work. Yes. I was like, I'm not going explain You should look it up, should Google it. And I was like, There is a an element of evil coming And I'm not although you've seen so many of these people transform I'm worried about the evil people coming, because if if this is this powerful, evil they're going to use these tools and they're going to use it Authoritarians are going to love it. I'm not worried about you. I'm worried about someone else who, wealth and power. I'm not worried about you. And they just were like, I'm like, It's like like every single technology It does. And if not first. And the key quote in this book which is, when you invent the ship, And my only question for all these people I would like a lighthouse, if you don't Like, what's wrong with a lighthouse? Well, a lighthouse It was like, what? Shipwreck, shipwreck, shipwreck, like. And I like the ships, Yeah, I mean, that's the whole point, is We want to be able to use them, But they don't care about the shipwrecks That is what I started to feel about is that they had a careless sense and have consequences Children don't care about consequences. Adults do, and adults So in part, I think that's a good lesson. Good Part two. Another question you know, it's in part you know, kind of the industry and that kind of thing. It's also, in part, a memoir. Yeah. Why did you decide on the memoir side? I didn't want to do that, actually. I want to just to say, here's See you later. But my editor was my original one. I'm one of the editors. I had to add one main editor, Simon and Schuster, in fact, It got bought up by it, in publishing actually, He was my original idol in the AOL books which I think were groundbreaking. Like that was the first time people And and that's what brought me here And and he was very adamant He wanted me to write, write the Yahoo story, And I was like, No, And he wanted originally for me And I, by I helped them come up with all It's. A light bulb goes. On, right? Yeah. Like, yeah, Conjoined Triangles of success So that was actually Dacascos. Yeah. So because he was also an adviser to them and when I'm losing my train of thought, So, So he wanted me to get a fiction. He wanted to hire fiction writer about it and really lay the dirt, Like, I don't really go into people's but I know everything So far too much. As I was going to say. And the therapy bill is no. Yeah, they do. Some people started telling me I was like, I don't want to know about, And and and I thought, and I could kill someone finally, I was like, that could be a murder mystery and I could kill off the people And they'd know who they were, So and then I was like, I don't know. And it doesn't that's not interesting that And he said, It's got to be about you. And I said, Who cares about me? And he was like, You're like Nick in The Great Gatsby. And when he said that, that quote they were careless people, Tom and Daisy, That's exactly who I am. I've seen it And then when Walt Mossberg which he had a deal to do, I said, Someone has to say, right, from history sense. And we did it a lot D conferences You've been on stage a lot of people. We have an astonishing history of and so that was one way of doing it. But then it was like, This is what I thought. I thought the have done an amazing set of interviews. Obviously, the canonical one was the Yeah, that was that was spectacular. That was, wasn't it. Right. I mean, I think being in the audience was. Like, I. Know, mesmerizing. It was it was because they didn't they reconciled a little bit Yes. That's for sure. But yeah, they had a real But we've Walt and I felt that Even though they didn't weren't They the iconic figures of text people Gates for his business acumen. Steve for his inspirational design of product, right A real product thing, even an inspirational set of meet and so We felt they had to talk and they had And we knew they were compelled They were like planets Essentially And Steve I always thought you know, that that Steve Steve Jobs, the greatest visionary in technology died GATES It would have been the world's And he hated that. And so we always knew And Steve was interested in it, too, very well. He was very you know, very thoughtful And so we wanted to bring them together and talk about the high ideas Unfortunately, Steve, as usual, tried to he was always pants And it was it was indulgent on his. But we did an interview. We each gave them slots, And Gates sent Ballmer and Steve Ballmer. And Jobs always did it And so he gets on stage with Walt. And Walt asked him Why do you think iTunes of on Windows, one of the most popular And he said in this was and we had spent and and it was very they were never going But we released a press release the minute they said yes, so they couldn't Have all kinds of tricks and jobs looked at at Walt. And he goes, Walt, if you lived in hell and someone gave you And we were like, And this was hours before the interview Fucking with. It. And I was. And he He was like, you know, his little if you go look at it, And, you know, he was the cool kid And so Gates shows up in the green room. He hears about it, of course, Like, we were all like, jeez. I was like, for fuck's sake. I really couldn't just keep it to yourself You're cooler One more day. Now, he couldn't. So gates arise He arrives in the green room, very much monosyllabic. And, you know, he's already not the most And he's hard time And and I hadn't seen him rock in years And you're like, God, Jesus, You know, he was doing this. He did it anyway, so. And he was. And you're like, Hi. And you're like, fuck, this is going to be And he sat there and just seething. He was seething because once again, he'd been pantsed Like who is cooler? He's cooler And I'm like, this is going be a terrible because they did have one is ever just shitted in grin like, I shoved him in this locker. Once again, I have one again. I am the prom king. And and he walks Your. Buddy. And he sits like we're going to do this. We don't want to be our prophets. We won't talk about big ideas. And Gates's rocking and not speaking and Steve is just smirking and we're like, You're exactly the characters And and so at one point, Gates And we asked him a question. We asked a question of them. And Gates goes, How would I know? I run hell like and Steve, I've never I can't believe this happened, Steve had a thing of ice that was covered with condensation, And he hands it to gates instead. So it was so great. And then it was fine. And I still We had Kodak. There was one of their advanced And I finally was like, Look at me. 100 years from now, this will be You're going to be dead in 100 years. He did. He did. He listened to me and so we had this And then but then when we get on stage, and I said, What's something And I saw Jobs's go off, and he goes, You know, and we're And and I was like, no, the gay joke. And Gates doesn't know what to do Three jobs and he's like, What do I say? What do I say? I don't want to be anti-gay Like. Going like this, like, on and on. And he's like, what do I do what do I do? Because I can't see it, to think I'm gay or whatever. And we're not gay, by the way. We're not we've never had sex, you know. And it was. So funny and all he does is go like that. It's a great go watch it. And jobs once again smirks. But he like Aquaman what a great It was a great interview. I actually thought Gates should have really? Yeah. I'd give him a yes. That is what I would have Yes, that would have been No way. He wouldn't admit. No, no, no. But but even just taking the hand He doesn't have that ability. He's not that. Fast. But but but in terms of like becoming more mature, not, you know, hypocritical, fiction's You know, I think Gates's life is a great. 100% right? Yes, 100%. I think he has shifted Melinda was on stage and has done I had met her when she was a product and she worked for Microsoft. Bob, For people who don't know. That. Particular I don't think she was Clippy, I'd look up Clippy. And if you know what that is, And we were backstage And he and I had a very testy Not recently, but but he I looked I don't know why. As I say, things come out of my mouth And I said, she's amazing. What she's saying is amazing. I she was doing an interview with Walt 10% better right now And he goes, Well, And he goes, Well, I like you 10% more And I was like, okay, that makes sense. But He is improved because he's focused. Gates proposed, and I'm leaving very bad judgment there. But at that, he he is focused on climate change vaccines. I think philanthropy, Right. And has seen the bigger responsibility I must say, villainous but a figure of great aggression and non And so he progressed going to be seen in that way and by the way, he's endured endless you know, I can't, You know, And I was like, no, he's not. Yeah. He literally got approached You're putting chips Yeah. Yeah. He doesn't know. He was like, and but the climate stuff he's doing, Yeah, he's leading the way on some stuff I think I do. I think But the studies on vaccines It is. And I you know, I suppose, you know, in It's the addition and subtraction. And he certainly, you know, was the personification of aggression Yeah, but that was one of the reasons We got to it in a different path. One of the reasons I want to ask this is the kind of young And to bad behavior. Yes. Yes. It is one part of the memoir. Yeah. But there's also some times who their later phase is like, And that's part of the. World, They don't have to like do They don't have to do that, Like, Always a nice guy, But, you know, but he learned and he progressed and it's and again, although now we're not quite as incensed But there were issues and things like that, and you at least saw and an acknowledgment of the damage Evan SPIEGEL is another person. Who really was he a tech bro? Like, you know, And we had lunch once when as a college student, and I never wrote about it Like he, you know. Everybody the college students, I was like, well, but it's maybe it's on him. Maybe he's going to change. which I think people would be surprised. I didn't jump on it at all. That story, And he he started yelling at me over the press Like, there's no press, there's me And I don't know, with this shit about you wrote bad emails I'm sorry. You're famous now. well, you're also really rich. Too bad. And he was like, Well, that's not fair. I shouldn't write about it. He goes, That was different, me. And I said, Evan, that was two years ago. I'm going to tell you it at 40. You can say this right now. You can't. It was and by the way, he has progressed and has been aware of had they had issues Like he you know, And so, you know, in a lot of ways I'm like, But there's a lot of people who you have It's a little like the political scene you know, someone like George Conway, in Washington and people like, And I'm like, you know what? At some point we have to let them back. Like, we have to like, and developed and be well, they were I don't know what to tell you, this is that the heart of our country, And so some people get mad at me, if I want like if they're going to show And it's not like, you know, Bill Gates, the example, that Microsoft did, and some is like, And I was like, you know what? At this, Liz Cheney Yeah. It's like. Okay, I'll take it. I'll take it. She's behaving heroically. Yes, that's that's correct. But at the same time, by the way, I but I brought it up with her or Terrible. Terrible. Yes, The lady loves the war. So. So. But so does Hillary Clinton So like, you know, it's just it's to be is the enemy of the good, right? At some point in this country, Like and what's happened is this. Speaking of Yeats, the noisy, self-interested people. And there are a lot. That's why I spent a lot of time I don't agree with quite a few. Mike Gallagher, who I think Ken Buck All these people, it's it's that I'm just going to engage with to a common solutions sake are going dominate and destroy And a lot of them come from tech, of which rich people who are victims. I don't know if you know, but it's very hard to be a billionaire Well, that's the cry me a river, I was like, look, look, you do not have it They don't. Right now. One of the things I thought is you actually use some of their tweets, The criticism, For Kara Swisher. Yes, exactly. Do you, do you think that the that these folks, you know, in that hope of coming back For some of them were bad to begin with? Several people No, no, I don't. I think either through egomaniacal no, some of them are lost causes, I would put Ellen among them and and they just they literally That's what I feel like. They just they want to and have means and money to And that's what they're doing. But some of them. Sure. Sure. The reason I did that is I hate blurbs they had asking people for favors I thought, I'm going to use At like one genius. Genius? Why not? If they want to, I'm going to use it for marketing. You know, I mean, Ellen, I'm like, First of all, what bad writing? Yeah. Why not? Yes. Good. I want the haters to buy I don't. Care. $25 is 25. Yes, it's. Well, and you know, they should before. These are, by the way, So I recommend people because some of the ones are ones Okay. What would you want to take away from reading your book? I think one of the one of the themes of the book There is no there are no guardrails. That guardrails That's the trope you get. Like if you if you fence us in, we shall never be able to create this I was like, Yes, you will. Every industry in the world I agree. There's all kinds of messes, but honestly, Are you kidding me? You have no constrict anywhere. Secondly, you're welcome for the Internet. You people. It's paid for by the American taxpayer. You're welcome for the data. Why do you get all the advantages from it? And then tell us how great you are? You're people you know you're not no You're no better than the people And stop pretending And you have a responsibility With this great power comes great responsibility, I'm like, No, it's actually goes back, Or, you know, you you tweeted me. Yes. I said, Spider-Man. Besides Voltaire, I know Spider-Man. That was the point. I think you probably did know it. Yes, I did. Yes, of. Course. Because you are well-educated and soundly But one of the things you do have great And I think it's exemplified by that. The one interview. I think that was most with Mark, not the sweating one, but the one later about antisemitism, and where he did not understand anti-Semitic toxic waste to flow over And then he stopped it years later, right? He didn't understand And I think one of the things right now, I was hoping for a better outcome, and they Josh, was it Josh Hawley or Tom They're both terrible people. And I pushed them up into one and two smart people, by the way, which. Is very smart and. Even worse, evil. They're not like, they're dumb. It's not like it's She is profoundly dumb, But she's a feral sense. She's like. You know. That kind of thing. So she is she's like, you can see it. It's like, you know, But they he made which I thought was performative bullshit. Like, honestly, if you want something Guess what your Congress like. Are you kidding me? You're yelling at this He didn't do it before. You. You have the power to do it, so you can put it on Twitter or whatever Like you're So so he gets up which was that was a real moment. It wasn't these parents whose kids And it's not the full story, but you could you should be able to sue Mark Zuckerberg Right. You can't. You can't. And so It's just And I had been struck one of the Sandy Hook parents and and Mark and forth about Alex Jones And he did nothing about it. And and the reason the father about it wasn't appealing It was because of copyright infringement, that a person who lost their kids And so these parents had these pictures And I know I know you believe this, but Mark is actually he's a he's a he's He's a good at that. From what I can tell. He's not a loathsome character. He really is not a villain. He's just not. And that makes it harder for me. And so they put up these pictures. I could see the person and him And I. I saw him go, my God. Like, my God, what did I do? Like, I did I saw it there for a second, He just couldn't get there. And what he said was, I'm I'm sorry for what I did for anything I am. I this is devastating to me. And I know it's devastating to you. And I let let's talk together. He couldn't do it. He had to say I'm And that is not an apology. That's like saying I'm sorry. It's raining Like I had nothing to do with the rain. And that drove me nuts. And I thought for a minute Right. Like, but he didn't. Although I can influence him, I'm sure. Although after he also. You've been hauled through the public It's his party. But he gets the money. He gets the money. He shouldn't. He created that. It happened to Jerry Yang And this is, you know, this is And he he he if he doesn't want it, he should be able to be fired then If he doesn't want to do the harder, Congress is a ridiculous thing, And this is, you know, even Yeah. Yeah, we're talking about Congress. Yeah. Yeah. So before we go to. By the way, That was nice of you. Yeah, well, that's. Yeah, well, money well spent. Yes, paid for lots, but but again, by the way, Yes, Why can't everybody, like, Look, I'm. I think this election is about upholding I think it's extremely important. I think Biden as a candidate is pro and Trump is the one who is opposed. And yes, so do it. The before we go to these questions and, you know, some others pending so, you know, current current news, is Elon Musk suing open air, everybody? Yes. Well, everybody. Right. Childhood traumas It has a moment where he doesn't like Yeah, Yes. That's but I think it's a ridiculous nonsense lawsuit borne of the fact And he was there and he made a power play. It's all about power. He doesn't listen. Let me tell you, you know, I was the first with me and about the risks. By the way, he was the first person. I think you're the second. Like both of you were very early to this. And I think he he overplayed his hand, at what he did at Twitter And he's mad. And so he's using legal means And if you're a contract lawyer, I want to make sure this is nonsense. There is no contract. There's no nothing. He made a powerplay. He lost. He stock, a jackass and walked out of there. He loves to do that bullshit And he lost and he can't stand it. He can't stand. And they Scott Galloway said, They he was part of a team which is very clear. And he left. He stopped out because he was real mad. And then and then they went on And he's like, That was me. Like, Yes, And guess who you know? And then he's like, And guess who stepped in this guy, right? Like, who wouldn't pay their rent? This asshole does that, right? What a petty asshole. And so, you know, He's not cool. Now. And so he's deeply, profoundly Okay, sure. Good luck. He's he's on a level playing field at all. And the particular thing I thought those emails reflected I don't think this will succeed I think it should be a company and now you're not doing the nonprofit It's nonsense. It doesn't Elon Musk doesn't I'm sorry. He's a most self-absorbed IT person He's not going to get it and he doesn't have I mean, it's a miracle Did did you did you write a review of all this book? Well, it's not well, it's book. ISAACSON I had a very big to do with if you want to listen to a podcast, it's Listen to it. Yes, I thought it was a tongue bath and And I think, you know, even though it might seem prurient, I told him about it. I everyone knew about it. And I thought the journal did And it doesn't mean it's everything, And the more important story in I like to give it to myself. I'm like, Do what you want, but don't pretend that this board And when the Journal showed the money these people were, it wasn't that astonishing to you, that money It was capitalism after all. Right? He gets to do what he wants because he's And so, you know, it's one of the elements And so I thought that book was just But I like Walter. He's a friend of mine. But I brought I brought up with him you know, this whole demons thing Cara, I'm like, I don't care. I have demons inside a shitty stepfather. Guess what? I had a screw up. Am I going around and being anti-Semitic And by the way, as a trans kid, Like, are you? You know, I don't do that. And I'm sorry. Every day is one more. The immigration thing How dare he do that and make up shit You know like God who has evolved Just boy, was he a bro. Remember him with the bro days, And now I know that Because we don't. Often he and I argue about the wealth tax but he like he laid out the deal he got on twitter and started laying out DTI was important to his companies. He talked about his experience. Here's You don't have to. This was our experience. It was not virtue signaling in any way. It was a very good primer And and I thought it was great. And when he was doing it, I texted him, They're going to come after you. And and instead of having a discussion you know, the opposite homogeneity Secondly, Let's exclude people. That's a nice way to conduct a country. And then equity. no unfairness. Don't you believe in unfairness? You know, the whole thing The opposite of woke is asleep. Yes. Stop it. Just start. Which is the reason why they keep saying It's like, well, I sleep. Sleep here. Is. Stupid. Anyway, I just. And the response from Ellen on this thing But a thoughtful thing was you're a moron. Ooh, boobs. Like what? Like. and you're not a serious. If you want to be a serious person, And if you want to, you want to real it. But he can't because and he needs it to survive like so he does And the same thing with now, and, you know, like Bill Ackman, He's a rich guy Now he's an expert on deal. I don't think so. And I was joking backstage. I'm going to do a 90 part series on hedge Because I. Can't. Why not? I. Kara Swisher I feel I should be able Like whatever. So I was like, you have a really nice enjoy your children. Like, stop. It. Nair is spectacular, right? Yes, absolutely. The So now back to serious questions. Yes. And I'll ask the specific And then also brought in a little bit in journalism between news but also whither journalism whether. Yes. The whither question. Yes, I think we changed. I've already gone down this road. One of the reasons I was a beat reporter is you really couldn't he invested in LinkedIn We did a million of those and that's just that's just news That's what you did when I left with what It wasn't advocacy. It's here's we did the reporting And I thought that was more valuable It's not advocacy. I don't think Walt I tested everything or I don't like this or it's going to work And so what we did at all things at the Wall Street Journal whenever And by the time I looked at it, this is a disaster because I can do math Not to say the idea wasn't good, And so I would write a story and say, And my editors would be like, And I was like, But I'm saying it. I'm saying it from my reporting. And so one of the things I'm telling you, I looked into it but I did the reporting And I think a really good example of this. Tell me if this is advocacy. I wrote a column in The New York Times and this was about his use of Twitter because I thought it was called they said, if he loses the election, what he's going to do and on about that it was stolen, it was stealing, this fake that I said it's going to go up And then he going to try to stop it in that it's And he's going to ask his followers, to do something about it. I wrote that in 2000, 19 October, right. I write at the time I wrote it, and I said in Facebook, Twitter This is what's going to happen. And they called me. They're like, how could you advocate How could you do that? I said, I'm just guessing what's happening and the power of this online. I'm not advocating I'm telling you because I did the reporting my best guess as to what's going to happen And, you know, it was I was right. And so I don't think it's advocacy. And as to journalism, I think what we did pioneering in terms of doing that, We had the longest disclosure statements, My wife worked for Google, by the way. I never got any stock in it. We had separate money and stuff like that This is what I did. This is where I came from, what we had long disclosures We think they are smart enough to decide That's one. The other is radical candor. With them. It's like you don't have to agree with us, it's going to go. You either either right or wrong, But we felt that you added great reporting or live journalism And we we had a just a different thing. We respected our audience The second thing is media like they saw it coming. And I even back in the nineties, Like over here, Craigslist, the same thing with display advertising, They saw it coming and they never got And then they trusted the tech. The tech companies and tech companies They wanted to get into advertising. And they just let it go. And I don't because I've created every business I've And so I have great businesses, So when someone comes to me, So I don't really no one comes to me. But when they did and they're like, and I'm like, Go away. I did you get the million dollars Get the hell away from me. So they couldn't argue with me. So you have to match your costs and the stuff you're making It has to be a product that's fat. And I hate to use the word product, It's called the news business. It's show business. This isn't a romantic thing. If you want to stay in business, And if you don't, you're screwed. You really, truly are. You are. So I'm going to ask you this it's has an entertaining, since personally my co-founding Inflection with Mustafa I series A That's this car, So I will read the question verbatim reflective moment. The tech industry's and space exploration the Earth burns. What, if anything, could focus our best and resources to solving You know, I think there's a lot of investment I've seen and by the way, speaking of diverse, set of entrepreneurs and real and really Look, I don't care if they become true. I wrote a column where I said, The world's first trillionaire is going to be I just made it up, but I did it this is where you really This could possibly make money, which is I'm only doing it because, Money is over here. And it's also we're going to not we're going to die So it's existential. I believe climate change is our absolute And I think tech is not going to solve everything, our greatest minds on this problem. It is it is the most important issue. You know, Oppenheimer's about to win it. That was the big thing We need to bring our greatest minds, including government. private sector, I know it seems like a bunch of penis They look like penises. I get it. There's no question. But we do have to think about We cannot pretend Even if it wasn't a climate crisis They just do. That seems to be the thing. So we if we want to continue where maybe Like, okay, that's the end of that. But that's a terrible idea. I'm sorry to tell you, It is. It just is. That's definitely far enough in the future Maybe be about. No, but but but here's the physics. But yes, I think multi-planetary species. I think is important. I don't love that it's now so privatized. I think there's dangers in that, Bezos essentially are doing it So I do think that our government and that's because of pressure, We should be investing in that. We have an and and thinking about Who owns it? We don't want to get to Total recall Right. Which is where we're headed our way It's a great movie. To be Schwarzenegger. Version. And John Lithgow is the owner of Mars. Right? I think that's I think that's important. I was there when it is. I'm sorry, and so are autonomous. I know San Francisco's all. But let me tell you who's the problem People driving should not be driving. It's inefficient. It's energy drunk. They get everything. It doesn't matter. One of the things from the fire departments of about EV, and I called them I'm like, Your trucks are like And I go, How many? The cars? And they said, Three. They said, 4000. And I was like, okay, So I agree with you. It's There's too much beta testing And I get the pushback. But people should not be driving cars. There should be autonomous vehicles, and electric vehicles It's among many a fast You'd be surprised Methane is another thing that fails. I know it sounds dumb, being invested in how to make cows Like that's really important. Some of the health care That's happening. I just right now there's a podcast with me his son. He's doing a thing called Yosemite, with Jennifer Doudna, of making cancer nonlethal going forward. I mean there's there is a lot of stuff It's just that what's happened like we're staring at Trump as far as I'm concerned Not I'm not they're not clowns by any But but we're not looking at the things look at them And we can't get out of our rage And we should have rage. But it's And so there is all this really cool stuff The other thing I would add a bunch of tech I mean, this hearkens back to the, the second chapter on the Gates story, a bunch of Nikola Fusion Yeah, There's all kinds. And what it is, again, the Paula of earlier thing is Not for just the billionaires, right? Let's do that you literally I'm There's going to be problems. Look, but we have to mitigate and and focus on safety The fact that we know the national privacy bill is And and all kinds of bills She's like, once again, they took away that she passed. That's her And they've taken the money from the Justice Department like If we don't invest in that kind of stuff and where we get the American people we're going to degenerate into a decision get to make our decisions. And some of them it's not a world I want to live in. So I'm going to paraphrase this question about which pioneers, pioneers did. Did you decide not to write about What was the paraphrase? Who did that leave out? And like, what was the decision Sometimes now, and I know I went through I'm like, Like, I was like, Did I write that? That was good, And I would. So I just I think I just interesting love was Nell Scovell, who helped write her I just was like, what struck me, and what resonated with me. I wrote tons about Yahoo! And so there's not it's not in here. I didn't think it was important anymore, It was a thing of the past. I've written books about AOL, I obviously think it's important, but I wanted to stick with the people and that not that I covered the most other things. I, I just forgot them. I just forgot them I did not put a personal stuff I just didn't it wasn't my business. It's not my business You're trying to improve The business I'm trying to think what I left out. Nothing was cutting room sports. What I. I spent a lot of time talking to Nell, figuring out what I remembered, And the themes are about everything The lack of safety, and where we need to go and sort of And I'm not saying to a centrist So this next question is in a vector. So one more thing. I'm sorry, the deleterious effect that was something that, you know, You're the same person, but people are often the same people It's just their worst characteristics Roger McNamee wrote that. I actually disagree with that book. And what did you think. Roger, is that Roger has a point of view. I appreciate his point of view. I think he was sort of all in on the tech not not just a cheerleader. He just really believed that's a guy in the in the positive effects of tech, And he's very enthusiastic. So we had an interview where they created the pre remember the pre This was the worst moment for him which was one of the early phones on the back for the ladies and I said, did you just say that? Kara Swisher Yeah. I said, I thought you were smart I was like, Ah, yes, Not the lady. And and this is a woman So you know, I see why he did it. I think he and realize the damage, but he's turned out rather including self-esteem of girls So I think directionally he's He I think he was he had to make he's And so you often like, And so I don't I think directionally he's the dangers he was talking about really So in that way, but I do think he intense of all people So the thing in the discourse that I think is underappreciated about you important is to actually be somewhat You know, the like, for example, in the whole convert point, Right. Right. So a little bit of the look, I'm I was the one who did this, And it's like, well, actually, in fact, I Get it. But that's like inside So he wasn't as important Well, but it's a little bit of like I'm look how bad and evil it is. Yeah. Like, look, it's. Hagin tech people, narcissism. It's everybody's narcissistic. Everybody. No, actually, I'm an egomaniac. That's different. But he is. Everybody feels like they were the ones. But, you know, as a reporter, and everyone was responsible. Even the stuff Walt and I created. There's a joke in the book where at Dow Let me just be clear. And they also spent zero money I think they gave us the deposit and we paid them back a day So no money was spent by Dow Jones, I am the father of DHI or whatever, You're the fucking distant cousin But that happens all the time. I was there. I was like, You had nothing to do with it. But, you know, I'm like, Sure, You weren't, you know? Well, success has. Yes, many, That's right, Orphan. That's correct. That's why I try not to fail. Yeah. So just. And we only have 2 minutes left. But you know, the the days your topic of I am tech industry. Yeah. Kara, I think you have to again, nuance, right? This is really where it is. And I think you have these techno you know, this market will read them Well, I think that's the blind. That's the blind techno optimist. But it's like you're the Wizards are again I'm like so far I, I never believe so the techno optimist. School is really exhausting. And because it's the techno deceleration is can be I had one person call me saying stop Sam Altman, And I was like, No and no. But I was I was like, That's the plot of Terminator. And I'm not Linda Evans So you're also not Arnold I was like, he's not, you know, It's just not true. And so I think the reason I think I was much later because right now we are at a cusp. And so I'm trying to get people a good way like the Star Trek version It can go a good way. If we put things in place, But there is so much promise here, health care and all kinds of things You can just see them at the same time. I can see the problems It's all there And so I prefer people like you. I prefer people like Safe Valley, screaming at me from either side here. And it's just not true over here you techno optimist needs to be quiet you let's let's have some other people tech people are remarkable lots of stuff Hollywood. Whatever name your industry, And by the way, the real amazing people are the scientists That's the real come on, stop it. Like they're not magicians. They're regular people And that's what I was trying to put. These are do not worship these people. They're false idols They're also some of them are trying. Some of them they're just bad people. Some of them are good people and have a little more presence of mind, And so that's what I was trying to do, So let's give a hand to the amazing Thank you to me. And let me just say let me let. Me just say this about read. There's a chapter of in the book which is a small chapter, and Reed is one of them. And I have to say he's He's been willing to debate. I remember that first meeting. We were like, No, you're wrong. Yes. LinkedIn was LinkedIn. Yes. He's willing to debate, disagree. Listen, I had a lot of problems with him, And but he was he stuck to his guns, has always tried to do the right thing And that is extraordinarily rare. It really is. And so this is the kind of people you need please. This this is an inspirational figure. It's someone who's done He's contributed more than he's taken. And You know, if you want to, like, love you know, like the worship villain or This is the anti version of that. And while he is a tech bro. I don't know. Tech I don't know about bro. Okay. You're not a brother. I would say you're a less Okay. So Les, bro, I might actually. Come and get you a t shirt. Anyway, you should appreciate people Don't stroke his ego. You know. Too late to. Late. He does have a responsibility. He's been made very wealthy He owes it back to the world that he that And so. Our response. Yes, absolutely. So, anyway, he's terrific. Thank you so. I want to read