-I don't buy toilet paper. I use town. Pick up one sheet. You don't it up. You use it and then you put It's not very often on this channel that maybe don't eat while you watch it&quot; but which is probably the grossest show I do cover. but Extreme Cheapskates just -Now, to save money, I multitask with washing And today, we're specifically taking Hillbilly Cheapskate and it's uh - well as usual, it's a hardwash. So, let's not waste any There's nothing more a show can do to nowhere than to have a rooster fuckin' make noise. -If I can get something for free, I'd rather My family and I are so cheap that we don't have cooties. We're never that dirty. If I had a nickel for every time we saw an episode -We are very conservative it's such a precious commodity. I have nickels which isn't a lot. It's just be wondering what is that olive oil and baking -I'm Melody Rose and I'm a Hillbilly Cheapskate. Maybe I'm thinking too hard about don't you think the people on these cheapskate? Like they would think what you're - you're being too lavish. I'm Melody Rose and I'm a Hillbilly Cheapskate. But not only are they cheapskates, they which checks out. Remember the -Sometimes I actually do want to Can't really do much because And of course, the kids on these shows rather not live in this housecape -Think about how much water a bathtub What the hell is this show's fixation on showing they just hold on to a shot of Think about how much water a bathtub 25 gallons? Four of us, that's 100 gallons a Okay, I guess yeah, when you put it like day? Does everyone in your family have take a shower? I know for sure - okay, a very very heavy educated guess that -I ration our shampoo and body wash. I just pour You know, at first, I was like &quot;Oh okay, I guess - I guess they're all going to make Have you ever gone grocery shopping, spent about to throw together dinner just to find the old me would have just I reached my phone and I used to Now, while many of you have probably they can help you out with so much more whether or some last-minute items from fresh produce, they've got it all in a deliver to you I really have been using them a lot for this forget things, it helps me out so much. The app if needed, or even schedule deliveries ahead. so you know exactly when it'll arrive and I "Leave it at my door" option because well, if you So guys, next time if you find yourself forgetting just open the DoorDash app, order what if you use my code Chris50 at the link in my you spend $15 or more at convenience So guys go check them out. I hope it may be I want to thank DoorDash for -By rationing her family's Melody manages to keep You know, I bring this up for a lot of shows show would be the worst to lay be on and then one is up there especially when it's just like dirty, dirty, filthy, awful bath. &quot;Did taking - taking a fuckin' bath and -I don't buy toilet paper. I use Pick up one sheet. You don't need You use it and then you put it Hey, what's black and white and red all over? That fuckin' newspaper when they're -And when this bag's full I don't know what's worse. The fact that they're paper or the fact that until they fill up that newspaper just sitting there in their home outside to burn it. And you know that they're thing when you kind of push your trash down to when they set that thing a blaze in the backyard, -Now, sometimes I've come in here - I got boys in I've insulated this window with newspapers, keeps I can't really pinpoint why but -We try to keep our electric bill as low as possible by making sure the -Enough water? -I hope so. I can wash a laundry basket full of dirty clothes as fast as -We just want the smells and the dirt out. So essentially, this family is living like ways than just this. You will see later. I mean, being honest, I'm pretty sure Charlie's mom had a -It gets us out doing something together. There was no reason to waste our Like what that ginormous Blu-ray collection you're still forcing your family to -By doing her laundry outside, Melody saved Besides zooming on people's feet, there's nothing most expensive of something and use that price dollars for a washing machine? Yeah, you can just spend way less on one. Just like that lot of shit for this by the way, but when they Yeah, it could be 600 bucks a year or -We had a small chest freezer that went we just, well, we come up with the idea of burying it in the ground. We got some eggs. Okay, if there is anyone missing in the general -Oh, I definitely see why some people see our behaviors as over the top but I I mean, if you did care, you wouldn't -I think my parents are a little Was he reading that line because and was like &quot;Yeah, my mom can be a cheapskate.&quot; -After a while, it just became a challenge save this week&quot; and we just kind of made it What a shitty game that is. -Most extreme thing I ever did to save on medical own teeth. If I have a cavity, I just take and chip it and chip it and chip it until I can it and whack it really hard and get knocked Look, I don't know what you expect, alright? The this has to be the most bullshit made-up saying that she fuckin' chisels her teeth out -Thanks to all of her cost-saving measures, Melody and her family get by on just a are about to double with a visit from her So now, the best part about any when people who aren't in the family her daughter and family are coming to I think this would have to be like a -We have a 72-foot trailer and I would say bedroom. We only utilize this one. The on heating and cooling. There's a four of Remember when I said that in more ways than one, This is the other reason. They totally like -I do have two other bedrooms but I am not I'm I'm not going to do that. We're going her to sleep that's not going to cost us any found a rental house or - or something like that &quot;Oh my gosh, you lived in a tent for three pay to stay at a resort. I mean, why don't you It honestly feels ridiculous to try and the people on any of these shows but I'm going be a life or death situation and you can't maybe because I could look at this and say, &quot;Oh, we you might as well give me a dollar My daughter's lifestyle is very moved away, she moved off to a Our daughter's lifestyle is very different from -But my daughter has to have hot water, so, we're not going to let us turn on the hot water heater. -Okay. -Brandy is not going to take a bath in after four of us [?]. You know how she is. Yeah, she doesn't want to get guys have been cooking up all week. -Probably line this with plastic. -Let's take it around front. -Okay. Honestly, not that bad of a setup. Uh, -Look who's coming. -Yeah, buddy. -Look over on your left. See the tent? That's my new home. If you 'Oh, mom, you are - you really, you you shouldn't have done any of this.' -We got you a nice, hot bath outside for we're trying to accommodate -Yeah, don't you like it? -Put his feet in there. He can take a nice bath. Yeah, it's safe. Go ahead. Go ahead. Dip baby in there like a like a - like a bag -Always that extreme. They used to like just of got extreme. it's just kind of like almost Now, what they've been saying so far is that it progressively gotten to this point which direction where it's going to be in like towards interventional orders. Honestly, -She - she knew what she was getting in But now it's time for dinner and as you would they're just eating whatever the -Squirrel dumplings? Boys shot a couple frog legs too. They got some And after that, we get to hear from been crying. I'm not even joking. I think -I highly doubt my parents will ever they've adapted to it. I don't think there's a Well, guys that was Extreme Cheapskates once Probably like four. I don't fuckin' know No way never will but anyways, I hope you don't forget to like down below and you enjoyed and don't forget to check out Thank you once again to DoorDash for watching and I will see you next time, goodbye.