(indistinct group chatter) He had become a celebrity. One of the richest people on the planet and certainly one of the youngest He was on the cover of Fortune this year, being compared to Warren Buffet. 30-year-old billionaire Sam Bankman-Fried, better known as SBF, saw a meteoric rise as The more time I spent with Sam, the smarter I felt that he was. My goal is to be able to that I make. A seemingly altruistic billionaire looking to have a big impact. I don't give a (beep) a about my legacy, like I care about the impact that I have. He struck me as somebody that was really trying to Which is why the crypto shocked the world. News overnight. Sam Bankman-Fried is now His $32 billion cryptocurrency exchange. FTX goes bankrupt in a matter of days. $8.9 billion in customer I thought he was the Mark Is he now the Bernie Madoff of crypto? Top Minds on Wall Street, Silicon Valley venture capitalists, A-list celebrities and flocked to FTX trusting I lost over $2 million on the FTX platform when it went down. Now FTX customers who lost millions are sharing their stories. It's really, really sad. Really sad not only how it's affected me, but how it's affected Investors who gave FTX are speaking out. So you feel betrayed. Oh, 1,000%. I'm betrayed and disappointed. And the former president of FTX US who resigned less than two months before its collapse tells all. What Sam did was So far all anyone has from I'm deeply sorry about what happened. And customers want answers. I had never lost that much money that amount of time before. This was probably one of the most scariest times like ever. I am definitely pissed at who could have done really great things. How did it all go so spectacularly wrong? I'm not gonna revise history. How could so many have been fooled? With an entity like FTX, there were clearly glaring red flags beyond any that I'd ever seen before. And will his customers I'm in a quite a big hole right now. I am probably gonna have (bright music) A stones throw from the turquoise water and pristine beaches in the Bahamas, Sam Bankman-Fried sets up What was the actual headquarters like? I think they had three or four, what effectively looked buildings that they were conjoining. It looked like a very large trading floor not too dissimilar to what In less than two years, this little office park in the Bahamas becomes home to one of the in the world built by traders for traders. The platform worked. It was probably the in terms of user experience. More than 5 million users flocked to the exchange according to FTX and they were trading big money. You know, we have 10, $15 billion of daily trading volume on the platform. From Wall Street to Silicon Valley, Some of the smartest to get in on the action. And he was a industry leader and a first mover in Had a big vision for the future and he was minting money. Investments in FTX pour in I think their impression was Sam was the ideal tech founder who had landed on a goldmine. He had this way of making everyone really want him to succeed. He was this person who He was ambitious. He was well pedigreed. He had gone to MIT, his parents were Stanford He had worked at Jane Street, an organization that everybody And so that combination of things is a pretty interesting thing. For retail trader Sunil Kavuri, who's worked in traditional and JP Morgan hearing gave FTX major street cred. They raised yes, about $900 million from Sequoia, Paradigm. I thought, okay, this is a backed exchange. Kavuri moves millions to the Evan Luthra does the same. A 100%, I was aware about all the VCs that invested in FTX and that is also building out of trust. Seemingly out of nowhere, Bankman-Fried and FTX start in crypto. This is a tale as old Some young charismatic with the floppy hair, got in the world. The young billionaire crypto featured in magazines and on TV. Thanks for having me. In the otherwise secretive world of crypto where the owners of exchanges stands out welcoming the publicity. I would say definitely that we knew who was actually behind FTX. I think what what really was the exponential profits he and the the billions of dollars he was throwing around The co-founder of FTX is spending millions promoting the exchange with high profile to bring in more and more customers. It became an obsession. More sports teams, more different kinds of properties NFL Superstar Tom Brady and is featured in FTX commercials. FTX is the safest and easiest Comedian Larry David that cost millions. FTX, it's a safe and easy Eh? I don't think so. The marketing works. For FTX, the first time I heard about it was on the Super Bowl ads. I was like, oh my goodness, there's all these big All the A-list names associated with FTX gives customers the impression there's been ample due Did the celebrities make about using FTX? Personally, it did. But in reality everyone involved is gambling on the success of FTX and placing their trust in its founder. Remember when you're talking you're talking about a you're going to go one for 10, you're gonna go one for 15 and in that one you may find the Google or the Facebook and so Sam was one of those But customers placing have much more to lose. The money was meant to be I don't have that anymore. I own this condo. I've I don't want to just have to part with it. And in November of 2022, the entire operation (dramatic music) The implosion of FTX begins Nick Baker, the a crypto news website, is working from home reaches out with a story. Ian Allison, our reporter, This trading firm owned may not be on the most Ian heard this from a source. As a journalist you hear but the challenge is, well They confirmed the tip with a leaked copy of Alameda's balance sheet. What the document showed was that there was a very strong between these two companies. Their article goes live on November 2nd, exposing for the first of the $14.6 billion in of Bankman-Fried's were listed as FTT tokens, digital currency Bankman-Fried created for FTX customers back in 2019. That's a red flag potentially because it tells you that is supported on a foundation of money that comes from a sibling company. To better understand why that revelation leads to the collapse of FTX, you need some background on FTT. The FTT token is basically the The benefits you get from the FTT token is you get reduction in trading fees. I invested about $200,000 SBF would regularly show FTT token so I held it. When FTT first hits the a token costs around two bucks. By 2021, it skyrocketed to nearly $80. And in November of 2022, The idea was to give people almost like an equity-like stake in ftx.com. If you were someone outside the US. But Harrison and FTX customers say they didn't know the FTT token was not widely distributed, which is key to having the A substantial portion of all were sitting on the According to the criminal complaint, SBF engineered the price to buy large amounts of the and that creates a huge problem. Alameda could not have sold of FTT tokens without crashing its price. Their presence there, there's so such a substantial was a suggestion that perhaps To make matters worse, Alameda began using it as of dollars in loans from leaving Alameda exposed to according to the complaint. And by the summer of major lenders go bankrupt. After a $2 trillion crash It was probably an &quot;Wow, I just got smoked and Celsius and Three Arrows. I'm shutting down Alameda and I'm going to focus I think if he had done that, I don't think we'd be in this situation. Instead, at the direction Alameda greatly increased its to meet its external debt obligations. According to the CFTC. FTX customers are completely in the dark about what's happening with their money. Their first indication there happens on November 6th, four days after the CoinDesk article worth of FTT tokens on One of FTX's biggest The CEO of Binance, the world's largest who goes by his initials CZ, makes an announcement in a tweet to his 7 million followers saying, we have decided to on our books. And recently with the news carried by CoinDesk first we just said, &quot;Well, we wanna sell those tokens.&quot; That's all we did. The single tweet from CZ is enough to make some customers panic. A lot of market participants and were withdrawing the money. We're seeing a run on the bank start. And that was leading to $4 billion a day of client withdrawals. At that point, we started sources of financing But publicly Bankman-Fried a different story. On November 7th, he tweets a competitor is trying to go after FTX is fine, assets are fine. SBF came on Twitter and then he said, &quot;A competitor is attacking us. We do not take client deposits and we don't invest them in So I think that put my this is just fear on the Sunil Kavuri, Jake Thacker and Evan Luthra keep their crypto on FTX. I did not think this was actually a cause of concern 'cause and trust in the system and But the very next day, According to the SEC, the price of FTT drops more than 75% and it's now apparent that and investors like Anthony I went to The Bahamas I flew down there. Sam seemed sort of in &quot;Private Ryan&quot; where you and somebody loses his arm and they're actually holding their own arm in their hands. He was having a hard time processing that all of this was happening to him as quickly as it was happening. I left the Bahamas saying, &quot;Okay, there's a huge problem here.&quot; In a last ditch effort Bankman-Fried makes a of Binance with an offer to sell them FTX. But the deal never gets off the ground. Patrick Hillman, Binance's chief strategy got a firsthand look at FTX's finances as part of its due diligence team. It was like a bomb went off in that place. We're getting on calls, we were within the first like 12 hours of this crisis for them. So it was complete pandemonium over there. What did Binance end up finding in the due diligence process? We weren't able to do due You asked for specific The most basic like figure is how much cash do you have on reserves and what are your liabilities, right? How much do you owe versus And we couldn't make heads or tails of it. The potential deal with Binance falls apart in less than 48 hours. I'm thinking to myself, this is something very serious. When CZ and Binance basically said, &quot;We're not doing the deal.&quot; That's when I was like, uhoh, now I gotta do whatever I can This was probably one of the And for many customers, it's too late to withdraw their funds. I requested all withdrawals but none of them completed. None of the withdrawals ever came through. You're just helpless. Like, what do I do? I was just in so much shock I had a huge amount of money obviously on the exchange and I thought, okay, there's something wrong. Why would he stop withdrawals? 'Cause the exchange is if all that's what should be I thought this seriously It's clear FTX and Alameda cannot survive. And on the morning of at an all hands meeting, Caroline Ellison, the CEO of Alameda tells in response to an accounting Bankman-Fried and other customer funds for Alameda. According to the CFTC's complaint, FTX and Alameda file for It's basically bloody November. (upbeat music) Bankman-Fried spends the inside the $30 million where he lived with other It's one of more than by the FTX group according Many people actually just sort of worked from this place where Sam lived and spent only sort of It was sort of like a dorm, it was like a college campus that they had created for themselves. I traveled to The Bahamas to ask Bankman-Fried how this happened. My first stop, FTX headquarters. Do you know if anyone No one is here. No one's there? Just three months before I interviewed Bankman-Fried At the time, he was a Sam, it's great to have you back. The founder and CEO of FTX. Being featured on the cover of magazines and making headlines for bailing out other struggling crypto companies. When I asked about the of his businesses during his answer seemed plausible. How did you and your survive that crash? I mean, I think like, just like our corporate treasury in cash. I mean, our business office incredibly like related to the crypto markets, but we kept cash on hand something that has direct market exposure. I also asked Bankman-Fried between his two companies. What about the relationship I think there's some questions on kind of where those lines are. Are there any potential in running as many companies Yeah, I've put a lot of into trying to eliminate And one big piece of this is just like, I don't run Alameda anymore. None of FTX does separate SaaS and the way that we piece of market infrastructure. During the two hour interview, he talked about giving My goal is to, put myself in a position where I'll be able to donate And appeared to be an If you spend $300 million buying a yacht, like that's thousands of lives that you probably could have Like most reporters at that time, I took Bankman-Fried at his word. FTX and Alameda were private companies that didn't have to in the same way a publicly But that interview didn't age well. And a few months later, I found myself back at FTX headquarters this time covering the who made billions over five years lost it all in a matter of days. I'm here to give Sam a chance FTX's headquarters here in Nassau Bahamas is looking a lot different than when we were here There was a massive FTX The parking lot is And Sam Bankman-Fried, who has become pretty camera shy. I pushed for an interview and forth, okay, well Bankman-Fried invites me to meet with him behind these walls and but declines to go on camera. I shared part of our conversation on CNBC despite being ousted from FTX he says he's still spending most of his time still A few weeks later in an Andrew Ross Sorkin for the Bankman-Fried admits he would've I've made a lot of mistakes or things I would give anything I didn't ever try to But FTX customers who I have no respect for like zero and anything is invalidated in my opinion. I think that's just and media narrative like he's trying to to benefit him. So that part really pisses me off. I could see literally I He thought he could spin this story. Less than two weeks later. As the sun sets in NASA on December 12th, the Royal Bahamas police arrive at Albany. Police pull the former billionaire from the comfort of his penthouse and lock him up in this Bahamian prison. It's a hellish week for who follows a strict vegan diet. He reportedly survived on peanut butter and stale wonder bread. But for those impacted the still doesn't feel like justice. SBF going to prison doesn't help me. I'm not getting up and in the morning and have over SBF getting arrested I still feel battered and bruised and completely demoralized. Billions of dollars are still not back in FTX customer's hands and I think he should spend the Literally, 100% is relative to the suffering he has caused a lot of other victims. Extradited to New York in handcuffs. Bankman-Fried is now facing in Manhattan court related to the collapse of FTX and Alameda. From 2019 until earlier this year, Bankman-Fried and his co-conspirators stole billions of dollars In some ways it's very, very straightforward what's being alleged, which is that Sam Bankman-Fried or other forms of assets from FTX, moved them over to Alameda where he could have more control over them and use that money as his John Ray, the former chief for the Enron scandal is at the helm of a massive team tasked with following the money. This is really old This is just taking money from customers and using it for your own purpose. What Ray discovered after his first look at There's no record keeping whatsoever. It's in the absence of record keeping. Employees would communicate, on Slack. They use QuickBooks, multi-billion dollar There's no independent board, right? We had one person really controlling this. How did so many people miss? What on the surface appears to What did due diligence look You went through a standard questionnaire, background financial analysis, audited accounting. He had everything. I mean, you don't dupe 25 of the world's most sophisticated venture capitalists if you're not going So he had all the paperwork experienced investor would really look to. Yes, he did. There was no smoke in any Brett Harrison was from Chicago. What was your sense of the when you left? I had no reason to suspect other than extremely Sam was embarking on fundraising. Again, he had said both on some internal, all hands and externally that ftx.com had 2 billion in excess capital for as a result of its raises and FTX US has six or $700 million and You think FTX is gonna, eat the world because it's so profitable. So some of the top really didn't have a sense of of the company. I can only speak for the We had absolutely no clue. How is that possible? Well, look, imagine like you are in a high ranking position, but you're not the CEO, Sam has made all this about the financial of the company. I should really get all I should get access to all of those and I should rummage through them and see if I agree with the accounting. Sam testified in front of Congress, he's getting public accolades Should I also distrust in those two forums? I think anyone in our position would be hard pressed to think, okay, this is the time where I'm supposed to at the company. Whether or not you can understand how some of the red flags go unnoticed, it is clear that many feel duped. Their explanation for how could have pulled this off. Good financial services organizations have lots of checks and balances around because there will always that will protect the organization from a group of fraudsters. And so he had a very that he was working with. I would have to think that of the people in the Bahamas, that at least to other (dramatic music) On the evening of December 21st, a convoy of SUVs transporting arrives at a private jet hanger in Nassau. And as soon as the flying Bankman-Fried to New the Department of Justice holds an unexpected press conference. The Southern District of New York has filed charges the former CEO of Alameda Research, and Gary Wang, a co-founder of FTX. Both Ms. Ellison and Mr. Wang have pled guilty to those charges and they're both cooperating. Gary Wang, the 29-year-old mysterious co-founder of FTX In court testimony, Wang and agreed to make certain I executed those changes, which I knew would give Alameda Research special privileges on the FTX platform. The coding guru testifies, he knew what he was doing was illegal. Gary was someone who was very difficult to get to talk at FTX when I would go and occasionally try to Gary was someone who He would show up at 5:00 27-year-old Nishad Singh, also pleads guilty to fraud charges. Brett Harrison says he raised in a letter to Bankman-Fried Gary Wang, the CTO of and Nishad Singh, the director of engineering had written 90 plus for the exchanges. And they did very little, I thought to really such that if either one of them suddenly, ended up in the hospital and I think the exchange would've been done. It would've been over was in those two guys' heads. Caroline Ellison, the 28-year-old also shares what she I understood that FTX would to finance its loans to Alameda did not expect that FTX would lend out their digital asset holdings We don't really do any technical analysis. In this bizarre interview less than six months Ellison makes some surprising admissions about running the crypto hedge fund. We use very little math, use a lot of like elementary school math. We tend not to have Later Ryan Salame, the former pled guilty to two criminal counts related to the FTX case. Guilty pleas from SBFs top lieutenants gives investigators valuable information for their case against him. And one expert says all that could also help the bankruptcy team track down customers and If there's a fraud and there are a number in doing investigations, then you're gonna spend a lot and have your attorneys in getting close to those investigations. Greg Rayburn is the chief who presided over the WorldCom scandal, the largest bankruptcy When we stepped into WorldCom, we didn't know how deep the fraud was, but we knew what we had in We understood what the business was. We didn't have to go and With FTX, you don't know what you have. And figuring out where the I think FTX is gonna be probably one of the longer cases just because of the sheer that's gonna be required. So far, John Ray and his team have recovered $7.3 billion in assets. The recovery process benefiting from a rise in crypto prices. The recoveries, the bankruptcy court is gonna provide priorities out of whatever the recoveries are. When it comes to chapter 11 bankruptcy, especially when it comes to the chances of you getting even some or most of your money back is very low. For now, only FTX customers in Japan have been able to withdraw due to strict crypto The company says its Japanese customers have been able to which is nearly $50 million. For other customers it to get any of their money back. I knew in one second that was finalized and declared that I'm not getting for the next few years. I've resigned to the fact that I will not get all of it back. It will be a miracle, I think if all of the money is found wherever it may be hidden or not hidden. And while the bankruptcy the value of those assets could go up or down. I'm generally an optimist, so I hopefully we can see some money back. But Sunil Kavuri is hedging his bets, joining a lawsuit with suing FTX's celebrity endorsers in an effort to recover Adam Moskowitz is his attorney. Sam knew who to go after. He was gonna go after the would respect. So he went Steph Curry, Shaquille O'Neal. We're seeing each of the and millions of dollars to voice this opinion that it was quote, a safe investment and they Attorneys for the celebrities named in the lawsuit declined While the bankruptcy process attempting to recover wind their way through the courts. Some customers who need cash now are turning to other options. Multiple companies or individuals can actually go ahead and put in a bid for your bankruptcy claim. (dramatic music) The biggest question on the minds of more than a million who lost billions on FTX, will they ever get any of their money back and how much of it. On FTX I had almost 60% of my portfolio of crypto portfolio based on and everything that happened I was really, really worried and then how long I would have to wait. I started looking at and they took almost before the people even So Bhagamshi Kannegundla goes online to see if he has any options to recover at least some of his money more quickly. I started looking into for these bankruptcy claims. He found a company that his bankruptcy claim of its value for cash. Here's how it worked. The bankruptcy claim was for $174,000. The buyer was after all the it went down to like 11% of the 174,000, and I think that came out to So I got a certain percentage back. I guess the best way to say it is it's 11 cents for the dollar. Years later. If the bankruptcy process on the dollar for that claim, then the buyer of Kannegundla's claim pockets the difference and turns a profit. Let's say in like the gets recovered in 10 years, right? I will have zero regrets. Zero regrets because Kannegundla I wanted to get the cash primarily to invest in crypto again, I felt like as if there was a good chance for me to make money in So mine is always a long-term perspective. For other FTX customers, And as time goes on, the highly specialized investigators working around the clock are billing by the hour. What's interesting about this bankruptcy is you do have an incredible as to every penny that from the $1,300 an hour to the average $1,800 an hour is filing is charging. Seven months into the FTX bankruptcy case. The retained professionals more than $200 million in fees according to a court appointed That's nearly $1.5 million a day, the report says the fees are remarkable, but so is the professional's performance. The firm's named in the examiner's report declined our request for comment. What's really concerning is that, all the lawyers have to before we get paid out. Because the number of and the hours they work changes over time, it's impossible to calculate will ultimately cost FTX customers. The real winners in all of who worked on the bankruptcy. They're not just the real winners. They're gonna be the only winners. So far, none of the customers we spoke to have received any and you may be surprised to hear that this whole experience has not shaken their faith in crypto. I think cryptocurrencies I think that, and it hasn't shaken my faith in the underlying asset itself. I do want everybody to understand that the mistake here was not Bitcoin. The mistake here was not crypto. The mistake was one bad actor, SBF who's really the one who's and the fundamental why we use Bitcoin has not changed. I would encourage people Would I encourage them No, I probably would give at this point and say, &quot;Hey, you know, here's what I learned. Don't make the state mistakes I did.&quot; Sam Bankman-Fried has he's made some mistakes as well. I've made a lot of mistakes or are things I would give anything to be able to do over again. I didn't ever try to Though Bankman-Fried's is difficult for FTX customers to believe. Were you truthful with us today? I was as truthful as I as you know, I'm knowledgeable to I wish I knew more about, but yes, I was. Truthful or not the question broke the law is now up Bankman-Fried's pled not I don't see how all of the evidence that's now been sort of against him could be than him having committed We asked those impacted the If they have a message for Bankman-Fried. I don't have anything to I'm disappointed in the betrayal of trust. I'm disappointed in the for the need for integrity. I don't know if it would but I believe the worst thing he has done is the suffering he has caused to millions of victims worldwide. I would tell Sam, I mean, you're saying in the media all the customers are alright, I guess do the right thing then. I mean, serve your time, and do the best you can for your users. My biggest advice to him is to help all those people who I don't know how you're gonna get it done. If I had a chance to I would just honestly what he was actually trying to do? Like, were you trying to do good or were you just really bad person and promoted yourself really well in order to swindle a bunch of people, like just gimme an honest answer. (dramatic music)