Joe: Best gumbo in New Orleans. We're going to be visiting three places throughout this episode. We're going to get a tasting I'm telling you, man, we're and we're starting here at the legendary, the institution known as Dooky Chase. Have you had gumbo before? What is your gumbo experience? I have never had gumbo before. My first time in New Orleans, I've heard a lot about it. But yeah, never tried it before. I cannot wait. What actually is gumbo? Obviously, I've heard a lot about it. Joe: It is sort of a stew, not really, but its flavors are all because it draws from French Canadian, it draws from the Caribbean, it draws from Native American. So what's interesting about a gumbo is although it could be technically the only place where is right here in this part of the world in this part of the country. Wow. So it sounds like gumbo Joe: Yes, correct. pot of stuff going into it, and it's also a cultural melting pot because it's really drawn from everywhere. That is an excellent way of putting it. I wish I said that. Of the many influences of this cuisine, there's a high French influence. You live much closer to France. What are your thoughts on French food? Yeah, I mean, you have Obviously, you have a roux, which I think is used to thicken things, which I think looks very different in France as it would over here. In France, you also base a lot of stews with what they call a mirepoix, which is that carrot-onion-celery mixture, which I think is tweaked a little bit for the kind of Creole, Glad you mentioned that. which I believe is celery, OK, so you're swapping out the carrot for the bell pepper. Yeah, and I prefer that, right? That's the beauty of a stew or a stew-like dish as well, like a gumbo, because you can really take that base and then just put and it'll come out So, I mean, you've you could find chicken in here, there might be seafood in here, You're just kind of taking getting it in there. Joe: Making something delicious. Harry: Making something delicious. Joe: I'm starving. Harry: I'm really ready to eat. Thank you so much. Server: Yes, sir. Wow. Joe: I mean. Harry: Yeah. Joe: Going to take a bite absolutely incredible. Harry: I know there's more but I need to eat. Dude, this looks crazy. Perfect. Harry: Trying to get a bit of everything is going to be a challenge. Joe: Perfect. sausage. Oh, man. Joe: I want to get a Flavors, the spices, Harry: Mm-hmm. All the protein, from the sausage, cooked perfectly. The broth. Harry: Yeah, brothy is definitely While it's quite a light broth in terms of it's not too thick, Wow. What? Harry: The concentrated flavor. Joe: Yes. Chef Leah Chase, who was here for decades, and the menu here is she was named the queen of Creole cooking, even honored by the James Blessed by the pope. Harry: Sure. A self-taught chef. All the recipes that she perfected here was what she ate growing No formal training. Literally just, she ate it growing up, and we're still eating it today. It's really, really cool. Server: This is the shrimp Clemenceau. Harry: Mm. Oh, yes, yes, thank you. Server: You hear about. It's shrimp, peas, mushrooms, Brabant potatoes, sauteed in a garlic butter sauce. Joe: Fantastic. Thank you so much, sir. Harry: Thank you. I read about this online. This because Chef Leah was like, &quot;We gotta have something on the &quot;Not everybody wants fried food.&quot; Harry: Right. I saw Obama on the wall. I saw George W. Bush on the wall. I think Beyonce's eaten here. Joe: Yup. They've covered a lot. Stevie Wonder, Ray Charles. Ray Charles mentions it in a song. There you go. Can't get much more historic or important to New Orleans than that, can you? I do love how a recurring is that we go to places or Guy Fieri has been to. That's right, one or the other. Two biggest culinary icons Yeah, I don't think like this gumbo, which is a compliment, because we've eaten a and I've eaten a lot of food in my life. Yeah, and you're from Europe, sort of, where there's a lot of Harry: Mm-hmm. But nothing over there is even close to what's happening here. I don't think so, not at least when this specific dish is concerned. I want to try this. I'm so glad I got -- I wasn't sure I was going Harry: I think one given the different proteins in here and the number of proteins, to make sure that everything still has its perfect texture Joe: Yeah. Chicken isn't mushy. I want to point out, I know but look at me, you need Harry: So, what do we got here? Peas, there's some mushrooms, shrimp. Joe: This is incredible. Sauteed in butter and garlic. Harry: Mm. Those shrimp are incredible. I know. Oh, my goodness. The amount of garlic in there as well. As an Italian, I can say I with the right amount of garlic. Harry: Mm-hmm. They figured it out. They got it right here. The number of proteins in Generally speaking, I that combine this many proteins. You're getting a kind of There's a lot going on, but it's all really working. It's not like they're Joe: Yeah. You can tell has been worked on all day, slow simmer, concentrated flavor. I mean, we're eating a which, I'm sure other and be like, &quot;Yeah, yeah, Like, no, you don't got it. Harry: No. I could not think of any other gumbo that could be this this well put together that Funny story that I heard, about to dip into her gumbo, I don't know if he did but apparently, he went to put hot sauce in the gumbo in front of her, and she was like, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; I don't know if the sauce or they intervened before then. You really have to back yourself to correct the president of to be like, &quot;Oi, oi, no, no, no, no, no.&quot; &quot;I don't care what you're running. The food is fine. Eat it.&quot; Secret Service diving in like, &quot;No!&quot; Joe: Oh, that's really funny. Harry: They've also and I do really want to try that. Joe: This looks amazing. It could have been in our Harry: Mm-hmm. Yeah, to be clear, we kind of wanted to include this in the fried-chicken episode, but we didn't want to But we're getting the OK, let's go. Harry: Oh, man. Joe: Mm. I'm cleaning this bone. Dude. Joe: Seasoned perfectly. The skin is so perfectly crisp, right? Mm-hmm. Yet inside, the chicken is incredibly juicy. And you can tell the flavor is Without trying to if this had been in the it's a contender for sure. Joe: Absolutely a contender, mm-hmm. Harry: I'm sort of telling because it's kind of like a soup. There's enough rich things in here -- Joe: The way I look at it, like, if it was made with love and you're enjoying the meal that's got to be good for you, right? I think so. It's good Yes, there you go. All right, well, I would love to stay here and finish this entire meal. They've set the bar very high. They certainly have, but I think we have more We have two more spots Harry: All right, man, let's go. I have to apologize, Joe. Go. Once again, I've brought Yeah, this is ridiculous. We came to LA and it rained which is unheard of in LA. I think it rains a lot in this I feel less bad for this part, at least. You know what would really What's that? Another bowl of gumbo. Some more gumbo. We're heading to Gabrielle, also in the same area, the Treme area. Spot No. 2. Please put your phone away. Harry: Yes. There's plenty of Pokemon For once, I wasn't on Joe: All right, spot two, Gabrielle. Right down the street from We do have a production van, so we had to get in, find new Be quicker to walk, but it's not just us, so. But yeah, I mean, it really is from the first place we were just at. Here, they have a 24/7 perpetual stock. So the stock they use to is going 24/7. They're So it's just absorbing all of the flavor of all the delicious food of the kitchen since probably It's all, mm, in there. They even add scraps from other meats, drippings from the duck. They're adding leftover wine. Not from glasses, from the bottles. So what we're having today, in the city or, dare I say, the world. That sounds absolutely When you get a perpetual like a constantly simmering pot, again, you're getting the flavor of what you're putting into it right now, but also the flavor of all a week ago, which I personally love. I feel like also it means it'll just be a little bit different every time. You could probably come back and have a slightly Well, NOLA.com had a best with tens of thousands of votes. This was voted best gumbo in New Orleans. OK, the people's champ. People's champ right here. People's champ gumbo. So I am really excited. I noticed they got three Seafood, hen, a gluten-free one. Yeah, no, thanks. Harry: Barbecue shrimp pie? I mean, come on. Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme. Anything else on the menu catch your eye? Yeah, the alcohol. It's time to start drinking. We're here in New Orleans. And every morning, we &quot;Oh, can't be doing that again.&quot; And then every day, I'm on the last one, and it's like, &quot;All right, so we drinking or what?&quot; This is the seafood gumbo. Thank you. This is The Faux Pas, the gluten-free steak and tomato. Joe: OK. Server: The guinea hen gumbo. Whoa. Tina's going to have some Joe: Thanks. I think I got the good one. I have been informed that although they keep using the same stock, it actually isn't simmering They do put it away and But it's still the same stock. Yeah, it's the same That's fine. This looks incredible. All right, so we've got I have the seafood one, and we also got the gluten-free one. Joe: And I know I was kind of joking about the gluten-free one, but it's got steak, short rib, Three different meats, huh? Three different beeves. The alpha male, protein-rich -- this is the one you eat So sounds pretty good, actually. Well, I was going to do some so that works perfectly, actually. Cool. I mean, this looks amazing. compared to the other ones we've had. It's that perpetual stock, you know? Joe: But it definitely has a thicker roux consistency to it, right? Harry: Yes, glossy. So, I've got the seafood one. It's got shrimp, crawfish, Joe: Nice. Harry: Triple seafood. Joe: My guy's got the hen, and it's a duck roux. Harry: Oh, yeah. Harry: Oh, man. All right, I'm excited. Just packed with flavor, right? Oh, yeah. Again, no Do not need them. I couldn't, I mean, you'd be mad to add anything to this. What I love about it, it's soaked up all that flavor. So you're getting everything delicious with the roux in here, but also, it's a little heartier Harry: Rice really is the perfect delivery vessel for this, isn't it? Joe: Yeah, yeah. I think just a visual thing to point out, if you kind of take a spoonful of this, the way it kind of gloops a little bit, it's so glutinous, thick. Joe: It has some gloopage, yeah. I love this. Do you want to Harry: That's so good. And we're bringing this over. Oh! Server: Here's the barbecue shrimp. Yes, thank you, thank you, Mm. Joe: Mm, very impressive. I actually might prefer this one. I think I prefer this one. Harry: We can swap. I'm glad that we swapped. Harry: Oh, man. You know, when you get all this seafood into one thing, it doesn't clash at all. They actually work together, But usually, when you have I'm a bit kind of like, &quot;Eh, But they're all working I gotta say, yeah, the roux, the flavor is packed in there, man. Yeah. Harry: So, like, savory, Yeah, look at this. OK. OK. Harry: Uh-huh. Fantastic. I love it. Harry: That's glorious. Again, it's just not quite a dish that I've really had Joe: Sure. Particularly in the UK. Joe: Yeah. These flavors, I think, are so it's difficult to Joe: Mm-hmm. But suffice to say, it's delicious. Joe: Isn't it delicious? The amount of flavor packed into here. I mean, these clearly came but even between the two of Such distinct flavors that you're getting just by virtue of those I think it's just fantastic. I'm really impressed I really love the way adds a real smokiness to it. Joe: Yeah. Which, again, when you already it's just like, savory on savory. That's beautiful. Joe: I'm curious about I already can see that it's than the other one. Didn't thicken it up. Is there a thickening agent, So, that one, I think, which is a gluten-free flour. I think almond flour is I think it might be. Joe: All right. And what a lovely wine, may I add? Joe: Oh, wow. Uh-oh. Mm-hmm, yeah? Try this. Hit me. I need some beef. This might be my favorite one. Wow. Joe: This is really good. dunking on it, man. Hey, this is what the show's all about, learning things together. I flip and I flop, all right? We're big enough people That's the important thing. Mm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that beef is good. It's really good. The short rib? Ooh! So tender. Joe: Yes. But still so meaty. Oh, man, that's really good. Maybe gumbo doesn't need gluten. Yeah. I don't get too much of a textural difference Joe: I felt a little bit. I felt the roux was a little smoother Maybe slightly. Yeah, these I'm impressed by all of these. Joe: Fantastic, isn't it? If I may make a recommendation? What's that? Harry: Get yourself a bread Joe: Recommendation will be taken -- under advisement, my man. That Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: Yeah, that's the move. That's the move. Man, bread is just awesome, right? Bread rules. Come on with bread. Can you believe they invented this, like, thousands of years ago? Can't believe it. It's, like, a complicated process. Yeah, exactly. That's the one thing. I've tried making it, and I'm like, I couldn't even have So many steps, you're just like, &quot;I'm adding what to what now?&quot; Yeah, bread rules. Harry: So, what do we got here? Joe: OK, it's the barbecue shrimp pie. This is a homemade pie shell filled with smashed sweet potato, yo, yo, yo, yo! And it's topped with New I'm going to try a shrimpy boy first. See? Savory pie. Usually a thing that the but you guys are getting OK. Yeah? Joe: Shrimps alone are very good. Oh, it's, like, purple inside because of the sweet Mm. This is very good. This is very good. Here. Just put that over there. Pick a gumbo, any gumbo. I'll just pick this one but I think I also want to try -- The sauce on here, is this I think it's different, but you tell me. Harry: Let's have a go. Mm, bread! Harry: Oh, man. The amount of wine in that sauce. Joe: Mm-hmm, the flavor just hits you. Harry: Uh-huh. To me, it's like, you'd never The second I get the sniffles, clears everything out. I love it. I'm not a guy with a but these have all been Not to say it has no spice, but I wouldn't say spice is the focus. And I'm glad of that, because I thought everything just for the fact of it. I'm sure you can get a but I feel, and I say when spice comes up, it's like, look, it could be but I'm here to eat something Harry: Yeah, right? I mean, if they wanted to but will that compromise the flavor? It doesn't need to be spicier. Harry: No, there's so much going on here. I think adding spice from all of the other You've taken literally to make this beautiful Why would you just chuck and kind of ruin it all? Joe: Don't do that. This isn't &quot;Hot Ones.&quot; Harry: Mm-hmm. OK, this is absolutely fantastic. Really good. Joe: I get it now. Harry: Which was your that we've tried here? It's hard, right? The gluten-free one. Really? Look, there's no shame in admitting that you were wrong sometimes. Joe: Yeah. How about you? I think maybe the hen one, actually, might have done it for me. It was something about the how well that worked with One of the most intensely savory mouthfuls I've ever had, and it was so good. But all really good. Beef one was also great, gluten-free. Seafood, also great. Shrimp here, phenomenal. This place is so great. Harry: It's really cool. Harry: I like it a lot. Feels like a nice neighborhood spot, too. Just pop in here whenever, And a lovely glass of wine. And a lovely glass of wine. How's your wine? It's nice. Harry: Yeah? Harry: It's a wine? All right, I got one more Unfortunately, we can't do it today, but we're going to go tomorrow, and it's going to be great. Harry: All right. So rest up for one more gumbo. We can sleep this one I'm excited. Oh, I got a gumbo hangover, ooh! All right, Harry, it's a new day. Time for some gumbo. It's about 11 a.m., and we're heading over to Li'l Dizzy's. Yes, sir. I washed and You did not get the memo? I did not get the memo. Li'l Dizzy's opens at 11. We're getting there pretty And from what I've heard, That means a line outside the door. This place is very popular, so OK, fingers crossed. Joe: It opened, no joke, 13 minutes ago, and there's not an open table in the spot. That's how popular this place is. So naturally, we had to come here. I took you here because when this place, on everybody's list, right? So I had to take you here. Li'l Dizzy, assuming it was he's in the logo there. Harry: Sure. For someone who doesn't know jazz, you seem to know who Dizzy Gillespie is, so that's a good sign. Yeah. Know a little, little tiny bit. I know a little bit about it. I know my man Dizzy Diz. And yeah, we're here to try their gumbo. Want to say they have all types but we're doing gumbo today. Harry: Of course. Yeah, I have been in the chicken episode. That was another thing that came up when we were searching them beforehand. But it sounds like a great spot. Like you say, super-busy, Local neighborhood joint. We're back in the Treme Joe: I believe so, yes. Gabrielle's, where we went the other day, was voted the best gumbo in the bracket, but this came in No. 2. OK. But to be honest, I mean, so maybe this should've Lot of celebrities have come through here. George W. Bush visited here I think I saw Obama on the wall, too. From what I can gather, the kind of like New Orleans Joe: Yes, absolutely, absolutely. Family's in the restaurant Unfortunately, they closed a but the outcry from the they wanted Li'l Dizzy's back, that they have since reopened, and they're here at Nice. So it's very much a family business passed down through the generations. Joe: Absolutely, absolutely. What I like about it, you go Kind of learning, New Orleans, they really emphasize It's really, they want their that everyone in the area have a delicious meal, I like that. Yeah, even to kind of break when we're speaking to the owners and we're saying, &quot;Oh, to this place or that place,&quot; It's very much like, Yeah, I love what they do there. You should go check them out.&quot; It's really nice. Like, communal vibe, everyone's kind of supporting each other rather than trying to fight for supremacy. Absolutely. I'm going to go get us and maybe some sides. Harry: Sounds fantastic. I love New Orleans. I got married here. Harry: Did you? Harry: Oh, cool. Congrats. Not recently. Several years ago, yeah? But yeah, my wife and I, we love it here. This is the first time Yeah, this place is great. So, after the ceremony, we did a lap around the block and we had a band playing It was a lot of fun, yeah. I don't recall it being that expensive, and I think anyone can do it. You can just, got a you can walk down the The band's following you around. I don't know for how long, but yeah. Oh, you really missed out. We were out last night, and I think they got some footage of it. There was a second-line just playing some jazz, Harry: Yeah. People dancing. It was a lot of fun. I was told you guys were just and I was feeling very But then you're in karaoke bars until, like, 1 a.m., so. going out for a couple What are you surprised by? What do we got here? Gumbos? Harry: Gumbo Joe: Awesome. Joe: That's chicken? Fantastic. Thank you, sir. I mean, are you kidding me Harry: Right? Joe: Now, I don't know about yours, Harry. Mine has a quarter of a crab in it. Now, I'm not quite sure if Obviously, I could, but I think this is just This thing is almost 50% meat by weight. This is crazy. I didn't I feel like it's when you used to get a prize in your cereal box. No, no, it's when you and there's an onion ring in there, too. You're thinking, &quot;Ha-ha!&quot; Yeah, yeah. I'm going in for a bite. I can't wait any longer. Get some rice. Wow, it is -- Harry: That sausage is fantastic. It completely eludes me how something, how you can make something this flavorful. Harry: Mm-hmm. Harry: Yeah, that sausage Joe: Yeah. Harry: Little bit smoky, salty. It's everything I want and it's also in this incredible broth. Joe: It makes perfect sense People lined up for this, God, that's fantastic. I completely understand now why when this place closed that the neighborhood People, like, revolted. Could you imagine having this regularly, and then it being taken away from you? Harry: Mm-hmm. Yeah, you've had a taste of the good life. You can't give this up. Joe: Everything is amazing. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Of all the places this is one of the best. Harry: Yeah. Joe: This is my favorite thing about this type of cuisine, soul food. Like, yeah, you got greens, baby. They're sauteed, but you Yes, yes! Yeah, I feel like in the UK, you're like, &quot;Oh, the healthy option.&quot; It's like, no. Mm, so garlicky. That is the perfect amount of garlic. I don't think I can go No vampires within a five-block radius of Li'l Dizzy's. Harry: I know we have the gumbo, but they do also have some very Yes, yes, yes, yes. Famous fried chicken. We did not include them in That's another thing about soul food. Every place does gumbo. Every I heard that crunch. I You can just see, the skin on here has kind of formed crackling. Joe: Oh, my God. Harry: Get in there, man. Joe: OK. You see where Popeyes to be so seasoned versus everywhere else? Harry: Mm-hmm. I've always been a big And when you come here to the source, this is 10,000 times better than Popeyes. But you're getting that where it's just flavored Yeah. No seasoning has Joe: Uh-uh. Oh, boy. We have had three amazing gumbos. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Started off at Dooky Chase's. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: Historic, if not for and for its involvement over the past, what, 80 years? Harry: Yeah. A long time, yeah. Five generations? About that, yeah. Of the Chases. Been Joe: Uh-huh. The cultural significance We've had presidents dining there. We've had other world We've had civil-rights You really do feel like, you are kind of stepping into history, and the food is also just incredible. Joe: After that, we went to Gabrielle's. Harry: Gabrielle. Joe: What'd you think of Gabrielle's? Harry: I love Gabrielle. vibe in there, that French bistro style. Felt very European. Slightly more modern, but still well within that Joe: Absolutely. Gumbo there was fantastic. Probably the darkest gumbo In terms of the roux, dense, rich, gloopy. Flavor was just packed in there. And then No. 3, here we are. Here we are, Li'l Dizzy's. Joe: Li'l Dizzy's. Unbelievably flavorful. Just packed with sausage, packed with seafood. Just incredible, incredible flavor. So impressed by everything, but the gumbo, as you just heard, we've for the past five minutes, just completely wowed Harry: Yeah. Super-popular spot. You can tell how important this spot is to the Treme neighborhood. Getting that food to go, sit around with your friends. I do love the neighborhood Absolutely. Well, we have to pick one. We're contractually obligated to do so. Which was your favorite gumbo? So hard. This is probably the hardest decision and also one of the hardest full stop, that I've ever had to make. Yeah. If it was based purely on the gumbo, it might have been that bowl Joe: Wow, OK. But I do think I'm going to have to factor more things into the decision. And I think for that, it's kind of hard to Joe: Yeah, Dooky Chase's was my favorite. Harry: The food was incredible. Not far off of the other ones we've tried. Like, hair's breadth in it. Joe: Yeah, yeah. Harry: But again, I cultural significance, the the tradition going on at If you're coming to New you kind of have to go there. I 100% agree. Although has been absolutely incredible. The whole thing was, when that communal, historic And also, the food was just unbelievable. Yeah, it was absolutely All the other ones, I really enjoyed, but Dooky Chase, just a little bit better. Harry: I think I agree. So, you had never had gumbo before, huh? No, first time trying it on this trip. I feel like I've now had a I've been dunked in the Gumbo River and come out a new man. It's fantastic. Such a delicious food. And also one that I really New Orleans, Creole, Whenever you taste gumbo, or any of the gumbos that you do feel the love that's gone into it. And yeah, for a second, you're like, this is kind of the only what's sat in front of me. Joe: Well said. So now you're going to go back to the UK and have all that bland, flavorless food. Harry: Mm-hmm. Joe: It's like you've seen color. You can't go back to black and white. Yeah, uh-huh. It's going to be sad. I'll just have to come back again. Yeah. Yeah, that's true, yeah. Fieri's been here? I don't think so. Well, He must've been here. Maybe. It doesn't strike me as the place that would display like some of the barbecue spots did. Imagine him watching Chef Leah make this incredible food and he's like, &quot;Donkey Sauce.&quot; She's like, &quot;What? Get out of here.&quot; &quot;I will need some Trash