- Hi, I'm Gareth Green, and at one corner in this video, of a piano sonata by Mozart. Now, this is K.284, &quot;K&quot; standing that all of Mozart's music is catalogued. So, you may or may not know this sonata, doesn't really matter for the purposes of what we're doing here. But just to give you a flavour of it, this is the opening of K.284. And so it goes on. So, you might recognise doesn't really matter. It's in sonata form, what we've just heard is the first subject. Then, as we might expect in we have a little break we have a second subject And so, it goes on. Okay, well eventually, this with the end of the exposition in the classical sonata a repeat sign that takes you back through the whole exposition. First subject in the tonic key, second subject in the dominant key. And we come to a big So we kind of really at the end of the exposition. So, the next thing that happens in which a composer develops Before we come to the return which we call the recapitulation, there things might be but essentially we're going to in the tonic key, and the normally also transposed to the tonic key. So, this last bar of this page is where the recapitulation begins because as you might see, it's the same as the opening bar that we started with. We're back into that. So, what we have between and this point, is the Now, one thing that might well, that's quite a short It's only twenty bars, So, you might think, oh, well made a wise decision not a lot you can do in I mean you know, you could develop this idea, have a little of; And then, do it in another key; You know, something like that, and fill up twenty bars and carry on. Well, we'll credit Mozart But what this does demonstrate, is even in the classical period, an economy of ideas, and an economy of modulation and harmonic movement, actually how much Mozart manages to pack into these twenty bars. And one thing that's interesting, is the whole kind of key scheme of this. So, we're in D major, the that's the key in which we ended at the end of the exposition. So, what does Mozart do at the beginning of this development section? Well he's taking this semiquaver thing, and if you explore the exposition, you'll see where that material comes from. And he's also got this So in the right hand we got; in the left hand; We've got this, little So, you know, he's kind You see what's happening next, the quavers then budge in the top part rather, play it, of course, is another matter, but into the top part, the then we flick over again, in the lower part, the semiquavers, the sixteenth notes in the upper part. And you can see all the way through, he's kind of alternating this thing between the two hands, so you think well, is that all there is to it then? Let's have a look at what's because this is quite interesting. Bearing in mind, in the we tend not to venture A minor is where he starts. So he's gone to A major, straight into the parallel minor. So, all this is A minor. Okay, well that makes sense, but then what's the next thing that happens? Well, now we've ended up This is a dominant chord in E minor, but all of this is taking us into E minor. Okay, well if we started in A okay, well E minor is the so, maybe that's not Well let's see what happens next. So he's arrived on the Okay, we seem to be hanging around at E minor for a bit, so that's all right. So, lets see what happens next. Something a bit mysterious there, but not really, because All right, so we've started in A minor, we've gone to E minor. Right, what happens next? Well, let's look at this next little bit. So you can hear how this interchange between these quavers These eighth notes and sixteenth notes. We're still in E minor aren't we? So, actually, its feeling quite stable, we're thinking okay, now he's gone to E minor, maybe he's just going to hang around in E And, E minor's the dominant of A minor, but E minor is the super tonic key of the original key of D major, so that's not too bad, is it? Okay, well lets see if he because the next thing is he does this. Oh, A-sharp has crept in. So what are we doing now? We've arrived at the Hmm, that's interesting, isn't it, because B minor is the dominant of E minor where we've just been. So, now we've arrived in B minor. Hmm, okay, what happens next you think? Oh, E-sharp, and now we're really whistling off somewhere else. Well, are we whistling or something, or is it just a chromatic lower auxiliary note or a Yeah I think possibly, and it's sort of feeling as if it's a chromatic decoration. Especially when we go on, E-natural. And then we get to a So, you begin to see what he's doing, He's actually working Having gone from that from the end of the exposition, if you go to the next minor key on the right of the circle of fifths, you know, A minor is on in the key signature, no sharps, no flats. E minor is the next key B minor is the next minor Ah, okay so we're beginning is hopping to the dominant of All right, so we're getting the idea. So now we're thinking yeah, well, okay if he's gone A well he's going to go it's obvious, isn't it really? This is the genius of Mozart, of course, because as soon as you can guarantee Mozart is Well, he arrives on the so we've had all this kind let's use the dominant chord, now he's kind of really with this tonic chord, so this, we're thinking yeah tonic chord. Bit of a shock next, oh, That's a strange thing to do, isn't it? Draw attention to a weak Because there's a little We get the B minor chord What's that then? Well Well, let's think about this for a moment. If we're in the key of that's a chord VI, isn't it? So maybe we're just using and then he's going to have a perfect cadence But the G major, slight surprise, But where does it go? Does From the G major chord, oh, hat's going on now? Oh, E-sharp, oh we had and it was just a little Maybe it's a chromatic decoration again, but I don't think so, because it going E-sharp, G-sharp E-sharp, its leaping, it's not going by step this is something to do with the harmony. So, if we've got B and well what's all that about? It's beginning to feel at some kind of dominant seventh maybe, in the key of F-sharp, and then what is going on in the rest of that bar; and then, ahh, we've arrived on the tonic chord of Now, remember what we this is kind of what we A minor, hop on a key to E now we're hopping on a But because that was predictable possibility, the scent by slamming in this a bit of an accent onto thus kind of disturbing things. But why did he use that G major chord? I mean we said at the in B minor, so why shouldn't he? It's also a Neapolitan because the Neapolitan built on the flattened second degree. So if I'm in F-sharp minor, sorry G-sharp, so if I flatten and then build a major So you see what this is? it's also a Neapolitan in F-sharp minor. So the clever thing is, around the circle of fifths but sort of makes it sound like oh, that's not quite what cause we thought we were just going to get more of all this stuff that G major chord kind Especially throwing the of that bar, of that measure. But it turns out to be that we were expecting to go to. So you're thinking, aha nice little touch! But by the time we get to So in fact, you know, haven't we, for a classical composer. One, two, three, four, five, bars, A minor, E minor, Four keys in ten bars, that's In a later period, that but, hmm, quite a surprise Now, we've got to F-sharp F-sharp minor's got three so what's the next thing We're going to go into C-sharp because that's the next key round. The first thing Mozart does that's the last thing we're we're on our way to C-sharp minor, and that's kind of Mozart We've got a chord I in Second beat of the bar again, shock with the expectation of the metre. So we get F-sharp minor, and then we're thinking, This chord here, you know, of V7 in the key of G? Or is it something else? Well, surprise surprise, Because this could also be a II in first inversion in E minor. So he throws the C-natural and then he comes down to this chord, when we get to the last the last bar there. It's the dominant seven then, isn't it? So, we've gone from E minor, to a dominant seventh So, then we've got, there's a hint of a diminished seventh there and then he's gone to E minor. Oh, no, so we're sort of you know, we're not going We got as far as F-sharp and now we've kind of that's only got one sharp, Remember, I just said a moment the end of this measure, there's just a hint of diminished seventh, so D-sharp, F-sharp, A, C, is a diminished seventh We haven't got the A, but of the diminished seventh without disturbing the sense of the chord. Then it goes onto the tonic of E minor. Okay, well then he hits us with so having kind of just slipped without us particularly taking a V7 and then to make it a bit of a diminished seventh. He then has another But, which key are we in We're on the sharp side and suddenly we have So, what is this looking like? Well, that's a diminished chord, isn't it? It's E, G, B-flat. Well, could it be a II in first inversion, in the key of D minor, hmm? What are we doing in D minor? That's hopped the other the key with one flat. Well, its a diminished seventh, all right, and he's doing a trick he's used before, and then suddenly, this in its last inversion, in the key of D. Could be D major, could be D minor, but it's going to be a reminder of that diminished So, starting with a dominant seventh, adding that minor ninth, is that a dominant ninth? But actually, we've sort of kind of, bottom of the chord, and now we're feeling And then, he goes on to So, then you're thinking, well Because we've had this journey round the right hand side of and now we're suddenly in this key on the left hand side One key to the left of Well, what's he doing now? Notice, he's kind of changed We've had this idea, haven't we, of semiquavers, or sixteenth and these quavers or eighth flicking over all the time. He's kind of started to when he did this displacement we kind of lost the in favour of crotchet, quarter so there's a bit of development And what happens when Well suddenly we're in D minor, so, you know, what's he doing there? Well it's I in first this is really at sort back to I, the dominant chord of D minor, and then we have a B-flat major chord. So you think oh, is this of those Neapolitans or something? Actually, its B-flat it's chord VI in D minor, it goes back to the Ah, but we've got a bit of Ah, then there's a bit of a surprise, because what's all this about? Well, when we get this chord, we're thinking, F-sharp and C-natural? Doesn't feel like D minor anymore. It's feeling more like a sort of hint of a dominant seventh, or, yeah a VII in first It turns out, in the next to go to a chord of G minor, D minor has got one flat, So you know we started that journey round the right hand side of It looks like we're the left hand side now. Oh, so there's G minor, we but not for long because oh, F-natural, are we coming into say, No we're kind of coming down the melodic minor scale of G minor. For now we're thinking oh could that be a Neapolitan Or are we just using an And then he does this nice little turn, because you're thinking, heck, we're nearly at the end of and the first subject when it comes back needs to be in the key of D. We're now messing about in G minor and now we're using an chord VI in G minor, how on earth are we going to get back to D? Oh wow, well what Mozart does is this rather clever little You've got this E-flat major chord, and then he allows the bass to come up chromatically, so E-flat comes up chromatically to this and you're thinking, oh, that's an interesting It's a diminished chord on G-sharp. Oh, what's that, it's possibly a chord VII in the key of A major. Either a chord VII or a sort of implied V7 in A major. And then he goes on to this, so you'll suddenly find yourself with an A major chord. Well, we were in D minor, so is A major the dominate chord of D minor? Well it certainly is, that's true. So, is that what's going on, We've had this E-flat major, but we're not really sure, are we? And then, he kind of breaks ranks with the previous and he has this continuous just this monophonic right hand, which is really our link from the end of the development, And he's just kind of running up and down the scales to take us back. Now, how does this work? Well, this A major chord, was in fact the dominant chord of the D minor we've kind of been messing about with, although we've been to D minor, Effectively, he's shunted us into A major by using this chord and the G-sharp in it, so we feel as if we've kind of moved into A major. But in fact, we've not we've moved to the chord of A major. This G-sharp, B-natural, has made us feel key A major, but in fact shoved us into the same major chord, in order that Mozart can as a chord V, in D major. So when he comes back that V, then resolves to chord I. And we have this, which you can't really say is a cadenza, it's not really kind of, free enough to be a cadenza; but it's sort of a bit You come to this moment, and then have all this But its a link, that's taking us back to, so, when we get there, we suddenly hear this major chord, and its D major. And hey! We're back in the recapitulation, all the more so because we've really, kind of dealing And then when you hear that D major chord, everything kind of lights up because we're back in a major tonality. But, isn't it clever, the way the Mozart gone through all off those and the clever touches of and then kind of keeping us guessing as to what might be How he's just kind of kept like these alternating the sixteenth notes and the eighth notes. But then, we've had all which miraculously leads us to this point, where we can come back to D major. I just think it's rather clever, isn't it? That you can have a compact twenty bars, explore musical ideas in a way that we might expect, but not over-exploring ideas. There are so many ideas in the exposition that so he's just sort of taking approach to which ideas he's exploring. But he's made the modulation scheme really interesting, really compact, and therefore, made a really exciting journey, before coming back and saying, don't worry about it folks, And because we're then going with the first subject in that key and he second subject does but basically it comes Well, you know, we're going to have a fairly stable run of D major, actually in the recapitulation. But, the modulations are really volatile in the development section by it's nature is going to be more stable and more fixed in D major, interesting balance to the piece. But it's a kind of lesson in how to write a really successful short, that's entirely engaging with the modulation, the key movement. Well, I hope you've enjoyed that video, and if you have, please to the Music Matters website, www.mmcourses.co.uk. If this kind of analysis engages you, and you really want to be able about the music that you're playing, or to think about this can enhance what you're doing as a composer, or you just have to maybe study analysis for a music exam of some kind, go to courses on the website, just click on the bit that And when you explore all the you will find some There's a complete the Beethoven Pathetique sonata, all the movements, looking at it from every musical angle. There's another one on from the 48 Preludes and Fugues, so if you really want to understand what's going on in that prelude, really understand what's well it's all there, alongside all the other Other things on the website Including Maestros, doing this kind of study of music, so that may be something Anyway, lots of things there, have a look, www.mmcourses.co.uk