- There are some books that they change how you see In this video, I'm gonna that completely changed and made me a better person for it. And hopefully, they'll (upbeat piano music) This may be the strangest but it's still completely &quot;The Mosquito&quot; by Timothy that you normally never and shows how it influences you think about. Did you know that for roughly 30 to 40% of by mosquito-borne illnesses? Mosquitoes, that is dominated social concerns, and the outcomes of some of in human history. From the fall of the Roman Empire to the American Revolution, mosquitoes and the constant was at the center of it all. We take it for granted today, but so much of human history was dictated by the reality of disease. And nothing carried disease It's one of the most fascinating It's mind blowing and a ton of fun. (upbeat music) This book is so important because most laypeople don't realize that there is a massive on in the social sciences. To the point that in some psychology, sociology, and others, more than 70% of the research when tested by other scientists. This is a huge problem. Ritchie does a great job of explaining not only how so much research gets fudged, but also the incentives within the peer review system behind it. It's a hugely important to take scientific inquiry seriously. It changed how I approach and has made me far more (elegant music) There are not many books my political views, but this If you're a democracy-loving you kind of have this That the more power and the better off we will all be. If that's what you believe, then this book will ruin They show an abundance of that in many cases, greater in worse outcomes for populations. Why? Because most people are either, A, dumb as a fucking tree stump, or B, too busy to educate themselves on the plethora of issues This isn't to say that As Churchill said, it's clearly better than all the other forms of government. The problem is that you with a layer of highly-educated experts and elites who can actually get shit done. It turns out that much in the same way that there needs to be checks and balances between different branches of government, there's also a necessary check and balance between educated elites Check it out. (melancholy music) This is one of my favorite books ever. I believe I've read it three times. - [Disembodied Voice] Nerd. - Becker was an obscure who found out that he had terminal cancer, and on his death bed wrote this His argument is simple. Death terrifies us. It terrifies us so much that that we can metaphorically live forever. Let's call these our immortality projects. Now, immortality projects are why people are driven to run for government, to write books, to have children and build statues. It's why they become so political conflicts, and creating It's the ego's way of creating that will outlast itself. Now, these immortality projects are what give our lives a sense They are necessary for remaining psychologically healthy and stable. And when our immortality projects clash with other people's immortality projects, war and violence ensues because we are literally willing to die so that our immortality It's a real mind bender. Check it out. (bright music) This book was monumentally seventies, and eighties as television rose to cultural prominence. I think today, in the social media age, it deserves another round of publicity, as its insights are McLuhan's big insight is &quot;The medium is the message.&quot; McLuhan argued that the content of media is mostly inconsequential. Whether you're watching cooking or soap operas, it likely has than the media in which you consume it. This is because every medium interfaces with our brains in how to consume information Back in the sixties and was that television and radio You turned on the TV and sat there waiting for what it showed you. Whereas with reading, you what to consume. TV encouraged your critical while reading required it to in front of you. McLuhan argued that that organizes society of the people within it. I would give anything to hear what McLuhan would say about social media today, but rereading this book, I can't help but feel that to each of us individually, enveloping us in our own perfectly suited to our tastes and fears, it must be driving a and narcissism that we And speaking of being this video is brought to you by Grammarly, the AI assistant designed and look smarter than you actually are. My team and I used Grammarly misusage of words, and find subtle ways to improve our writing and marketing. But recently, Grammarly and rolled out a full to help you craft memos, important emails, or write up notes in the most efficient and professional way possible. Grammarly uses a simple the parameters of its recommendations, and then you simply start writing and it will make suggestions It's like having an English teacher looking over your shoulder as you write. 96% of users report that their writing gets better as a result. So stop embarrassing yourself with typos, grammatical errors, and Use Grammarly to improve your I don't even know what if he saw it, but I'm pretty Try it for free by using and sign up for Premium to the next level. Now, back to the books. (bright music) Will Durant spent his entire of books called &quot;The It took him almost 40 years to finish it, and clocking in over 13,000 pages, it starts in ancient Mesopotamia and works its way all the But upon completing the set, Durant wanted to write in 100 pages everything he learned about humanity and civilization. The result was this book, &quot;The Lessons of History&quot; lays out 12 seemingly straightforward It's the sort of stuff once you read it, but at the same time, you never thought about it that way. Stuff like the importance on the fates of entire empires, the way technology dictates geopolitics, the ubiquity of prejudice and competition both within and between societies. It is a lifetime worth into just a hundred pages of wisdom. It's rare that such a thing happens and you are missing out (frenzied music) Scientific knowledge doesn't progress the way you think it does. This classic was written and it immediately made waves. It's about the messy ways in and how scientific advancements don't happen the way we assume they do. - Whew! - Kuhn points out that while in our knowledge come within large breakthroughs in from total outsiders who have no stakes in the current institutions. As a result, these huge leaps of progress are typically ridiculed only to slowly win out over the long run. I love this book because to human organizations in People who are rewarded will unconsciously try to preserve it and prevent large advancements their current power structures. Meanwhile, outcasts and at drastically remaking mainly because they have nothing to lose. The majority of these long shots will fail and they will look like total crackpots, but occasionally, just occasionally, you get an Isaac Newton or an Einstein or a Churchill or Lincoln. (upbeat music) &quot;The WEIRDest People in the WEIRD, in this case stands, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic. And as Henrich notes weird quite different from We have different personalities, different cognitive behaviors, even some neurological differences. Now, Henrich spends 600 pages Why Europe? In the Middle Ages, Europe to the Middle East and China. Why did industrialization in and not anywhere else? Why did Europe become so rich Now, the answer will It has to do with marriage See, the early popes did not to consolidate into new empires, so they passed strict marriage laws. You couldn't marry within your family. You couldn't take more than one wife, and you couldn't get divorced. This hamstrung the preventing them from consolidating powers like monarchs and emperors The result was a geopolitically industrious region with and economic mobility than ever before. It's an absolutely stunning read, both in its scope and its argument. I don't know if it's completely true, but in terms of books that and see things in a new way, (bright music) Like most people in my generation, I grew up with an apocalyptic assumption about climate change. - Our atmosphere seems - The warming will continue. - The hottest month on record. - [[Narrator] Global Warming. - Global warming. - If anything, it always seemed than what most people believed, and I never came across an intelligent and informed argument &quot;Apocalypse Never&quot; by Shellenberger is a former climate activist who has traveled all and helping environmental causes. And this book is essentially to chill out, no pun intended. It's not as bad as we think. There is hope and the alarmism is likely counterproductive. Again, another book that is 100% true, but it's the to a viewpoint about climate well-researched, and optimistic. And that is certainly All right, that's it. Links to all of these books And let me know what books the world in the comments. Let's all blow our minds together. Okay, that sounded kind of sexual, but you get what I mean. (bright music)