- All right, and welcome guys. I'll let you guys filter into the room and we'll see how many of you there are, and we'll ask a few So welcome on in. If you're looking for a energy credits, 179D, all sorts of 45L, all sorts of cool stuff if you're rehabbing, if you are building, if you are a investor in real estate, you're in the right place, because that's what we're Before we get started, as I first off, my name's Toby Mathis. I'm one of the founding partners of Anderson Business Advisors, and I'm joined by Erik Oliver, who is a vice president So first off, welcome Erik. - Thank you, thank you I'm glad to be here. - Yeah, and we've done but never really have we seen this much activity in this space. There's new laws that have if you are engaged in any of either as an investor, rehabber, developer, you know, if let's say you're buying an old hotel and you're making it into there's all sorts of And it's very complicated right now because we have laws that haven't passed the Senate yet, right? So we have changes that on a continuous basis. And it's just important which one of these incentives what the benefits could be, and so we can make sure that You guys can absolutely If you have like a long question put it in the Q&amp;A. If you have a comment, put it into chat. Like there's already a will this be recorded and Yes, we are going to record this. I'll probably place it If you've not been to my YouTube channel, just Google Toby Mathis and YouTube and just go ahead and because I put these types of videos out and make sure everybody gets a copy of it. So please do that. Just because you're registered today, you'll also receive a Now there's two sides to this. There's going to be the presentation, and then there's going to be some Q&amp;A. So somebody just asked I'm in the Q&amp;A, I have to answer this. Is this for folks who have Erik, what do you think on that one? Like it's probably going to be a no. Like you got to have real estate or you got to be developing If you're building real then it applies to you. Certain things you'd you'd have to have the actual property. - Yeah, definitely. - Yeah, so we'll go But for your questions For all other comments, like There's a big old, I Throw that over in the Q&amp;A so we can make sure we A lot of the, a lot of your questions will probably be answered If I see a bunch of I might interrupt Erik hey, here's a question that and just get clarity,.otherwise, Real quick just because Where are you guys sitting And that way we get to So Northborough, Massachusetts, Mapleton, Utah, Blue Ridge, I love Savannah, Melbourne. Oh my God, now they're going too fast. There's, oh poo, they're flying. There's a bunch of you guys on. Wow, you guys have good showing today. Annapolis, Seattle, San Miami, Florida, home I think it's like that. It's like you guys are just getting gas, but I love, that it's where I met my wife. Florida, Atlanta, Melbourne, Florida, Napa, California, Oceanside, California, living by the beach, little Riverside, 'cause I'm in Las just had the Super Bowl, Canon City, Redlands, Alberta, Canada, nice, Mexico Broomfield, Las Vegas, Actually grew up just outside of Philly. Let's see, Loudon, San Francisco. I'm always looking for there's Los Angeles, Thousand West Palm Beach, Omaha, Falls Church. We got people from all over Oh, there we go, there we go, Molokai. So we got Hawaii in the house. All right, so we're There's another, yeah, so Honolulu even, okay, now they're all showing up. Okay, so we have people Erik, here's a question. Does - Yes it does. Anybody who has revenue is eligible for cost segregation no matter what state you're in. So actually even doesn't as long as you're paying US tax on it, you may be eligible as well. So if you've got. - That is a great point. So it's if you file a US tax return. And we have San Juan, Puerto beautiful, but you guys don't really pay that much in tax anyway. You guys got your crazy (chuckles) Everybody wants I have clients that go move there just 'cause they don't Anyway, so we can all hate But yeah, anywhere. So like if I have properties in France and I want to do a cost - Yes, as long as you're paying - Yep, all right, so guys, and let him do his thing. I may interrupt if I otherwise I am going to and if I'm not answering your question, chances are I'm tabling it so that Erik and I can And so Erik, I'm going Sorry about that, you. - Come on. (laughs) - And give Erik a big old a and let him know that you guys He's going to come in 'cause this is what his firm does. This is all they do. They are We send all of our people, I'm going to send you the link We send all of our people and because you're in Anderson, because you're with Anderson, you use the link I just and they will not charge You'll know whether it makes sense to you and you won't have to pay a dime. That is a huge benefit just to have somebody do a and tell you based off of your situation whether or not it's from a tax standpoint. So it's really important. So I put that in there, You could use it anytime you want. It's not a time sensitive anything. It's just we have a great relationship with Cost SEG authority. They've done over 20,000 studies. I think last time I or was it your CEO, I think actually, I think he had just right out of 20,000 reports. I want you guys to understand that, this is not a risky strategy. If you do it right, you don't get audited. And the fact of the matter is when you use an engineering on any of the strategies we're teaching, you are going to be fine So we'll make sure that we get that shared out link to you guys, and So thanks for being here, my friend, and I will see you when I may interrupt you, but I'll try not to. - No, feel free to, Toby, Glad to be here guys. As Toby mentioned, we're three different, I don't want Three different parts two of them are extremely underutilized. So we'll talk a little bit about 179D. That's a deduction for the construction of energy efficient Then we'll touch on 45L, which is a similar program for the construction of energy So that's actually a credit. The 45L is a credit, not a deduction where the 179D is a deduction, but those are probably two credits and deductions that And so we'll just touch on those briefly, and then we'll dive into cost segregation. I imagine a lot of you have probably heard of cost segregation, maybe are familiar with the term. We'll dive a little bit deeper, talk about some of the additional benefits other than the accelerated depreciation, but we'll go into that when we get there. So just a little bit about we've completed over 20,000 studies, actually about 28,000 studies, Do studies in all 50 states, even some foreign countries depending on where your properties are. So if you've got properties we love to do those, to go do those site visits myself. So definitely reach out. Our reports are engineering-based reports, so there's different types We'll talk a little bit about that when we get to the audit But we do engineering-based studies. Our reports were designed So it's very easy. We partner with your tax preparers to get these inputted into your returns. And so with that being said, As far as the 179D, as you got to remember that the to incentivize behaviors that And so one of the initiatives the government is trying is green energy. And so they've put out a that allows you to take a deduction if you're building energy So they don't have to be from ground up. You may be doing tenant improvements. The 179D is only for commercial. If you're doing residential, we'll get to that here But the 179D could be for it could be for tenant improvements. And basically what we're looking at is we're looking at three The building envelope, which the insulation of the windows, we're looking at the heating And then we're also Those are the three big factors. There's a lot of other But basically you have look at the building to the IRS's standards. Now if it does meet or you may be eligible for a deduction based on the square So we'll get to the But to be eligible for that deduction, you have to have basis in the property at the time of construction. So a lot of times when I bought a brand new building, And the answer usually is no. That's because the developer who had the construction they would be the ones who are eligible, not so much the end user, the person who bought it Now that would be different and you pay a contractor, you go take out a construction and say, hey, I want to Here's my specs, here's my blueprints. In that case, because you're then you would be eligible So I always like to think of it as who is the person who what type of insulation And that's typically the and they are the ones who are Now if you are a builder, you may be eligible for buildings that you have put work So if you're building you may be able to be eligible And so there's some specifics we can touch on those offline, but keep that in mind as well. If you're helping build non-taxable, excuse me, nonprofit buildings or buildings that are owned you may be eligible for So the nice thing about 179D is you can actually go So if you've built any buildings or made significant improvements to any commercial buildings since 2005, you may be able to go back, take advantage of these deductions, and drop all of those deductions without having to amend any prior years. So that's one of the is the ability to go back. Now you'll see this chart here the deduction has varied from year to year depending on inflation, depending on the tax code at the time. But anywhere from $1.80 all the way up to $5.65 per square foot. So again, just remember this Now for those of you who don't know, deductions come off of So let's say I make $200,000 a year and I've got a $50,000 deduction, I get to take that off and now I'm only taxed on So very powerful stuff. Again, extremely underutilized a lot of the reason I is tax preparers don't always know if these programs are on or off. The IRS used to allow these to expire, and they wouldn't reinstate or maybe even the following year. And so it's just something Like I kind of think of as kind of a general practitioner. They know a little bit about, you know, a wide array of tax subjects. There's thousands and they have to know a little bit about each of those different subjects, where we just dive deep into depreciation and energy credits. And so that's why we partner with your tax preparer on this stuff. It's not that they're incompetent, it's just that they don't and can't be on top of all the changes that are constantly happening. So very powerful stuff on the 179D side. Some things to think you don't have to amend your returns. If you've got properties all the way back to 2005, you may be able to take advantage of this without having to amend on your current tax return. What types of buildings would qualify? Just remember it has to be commercial, and typically depending on I would say over about 20,000 square feet in order for it to make financial sense. Anything under that may not make sense, because you do have to pay obviously to get the certification done. And so we just want to make is going to outweigh to get that certification completed. What years can you take the 179D? Remember you can go back as far as 2005 all the way to current, with the, oh, now I'm drawing a blank. The most recent tax bill, it was the tax bill that, the CARES Act. With the CARES Act they Now what that means in IRS terms is until we get a new administration or until they decide to change their mind. But the nice thing is, is And so that allows your tax to be able to plan for using Is it an all or nothing deduction? It depends on the year your You may be able to qualify depending on the year your So keep that in mind. Maybe you went in and in a commercial building but didn't do anything to the insulation. If the building went into service within a certain time range, you may be able to qualify and take advantage of that. And what documents are We'll always do a free analysis before we ever engage a So we just need a copy of your blueprints. If you've got a copy of that usually gives us all to be able to determine whether or not we think it's going to qualify for some or all of that deduction. So that's the 179D. Again, mainly for those or improving commercial real estate. All right, so let's change gears now. Let's talk about the 45L tax credit. So again, remember that. - Real quick. Sorry to interrupt you Erik. - You're good. - Just 'cause there's a couple and I know that if we wait till the end, it'll get confusing. - Sure. - There's a couple of them. Does ground up include - If they're being treated then yes. - And what does it mean that. Yeah, the problem with short-term rentals is usually the square to pay for a 179D certification unless it's a very - Is commercial dependent - No, it's based on how If it's being reported as a 39-year asset, then it's eligible for the 179D. - And just so you guys know, short-term rentals are So the answer would be if it which is seven days or less, it's going to be treated it's going to be treated as commercial. Somebody says, is it five units or more considered commercial? I think it is. What is it, - It is, for the 179D, it's a little bit of a If the multifamily is greater than, it's four stories or greater, than it is eligible for the 179D. If it's three stories or less, it's only eligible for the 45L. So there's a little bit, - Oh, okay. So it's not the number of units, Okay. - Yep, yep. - Fair enough. And guys, you can always and ask these questions Cool. I'll get out of here. - Okay, sounds good. All right, so let's talk, remember the government uses the tax code to incentivize us to do And with green energy, they're looking for green energy homes, therefore they've got the 45L tax credit. Now this is a credit, not a deduction. This comes right off the It could be anywhere from $500 all the way up to $5,000 per unit. So similar program, we're looking at the same types of things. We're looking at the insulation the windows, heating the 45L value can't go back as far as 2005 because you would have to amend. So you can only go back as which is typically three years. So you could go back three years. So if you've built any residential units in the last three years, you may be eligible for this credit. Now a residential unit has to have four things. You have to have a place a place to prepare food, and And so student housing, senior multi-family are all eligible Again, as I mentioned, the credit can be anywhere It depends on the level You do have to have a third party come in and perform that certification. There's certain qualifications They have to have a resident certified, a resident certification in order to create the certificates. They're going to put into some modeling software and then it's going to spit out and say whether or not the energy efficient by their standards. Along with the 179D, the 45L you do have to at the time of construction. So if you are buying, let's say they're building some turnkey fourplexes and you go buy a fourplex, you're probably not It would be the builder or who carried the construction loan. Now that would be different and I go have a contractor say, hey, I want you to build me a fourplex. I'm going to go get the loan, I'm going to pick out what type of insulation then I would be eligible for this credit. Remember that credit is per dwelling unit. So it could be, you know, on a fourplex, it could be a $20,000 credit if it's built to certain standards. And I will say it's kind of hard not to qualify for these 45L credits. With the building codes and the materials that are being used, most oftentimes these buildings do qualify for some or all of these credits depending on whether it's 179D or 45L. So just keep that in mind. It is kind of hard, like I said, not to qualify for at least depending on which Oh, I mentioned this already. You've got to have basis in the building at the time of construction, Sometimes we get calls I just bought a brand new home. Well, if you didn't build that home, if somebody else built that home and took out the construction loan, it's not so much who built it, it's who carried the construction loan at the time of construction. So just keep that in mind. These were 50 qualified units. You can see the dramatic It nearly more than doubled if they qualify for the highest level. So in this case, there was 50 homes that qualified for a $5,000 credit. That's a $250,000 tax credit. Now it is a non-refundable credit, but it does carry forward indefinitely. So if you don't need a two, if you don't have a maybe you only have 150, you and carry forward the $100,000 credit. Those same units, if they just one year earlier, would've qualified for a $2,000 credit per home, so $100,000. So you can see with the the credits have more than depending on the level of Can a remodeling project qualify? Just some things to consider. Yes, it can. Toby and I were talking It is sometimes difficult though on a remodeling project on 45L. 'Cause you have to go in and basically take the But if you go into a building, put in new insulation, new new lighting, then it But if you're just going in before you put it up for rent, you know, you're maybe replacing some Even if you put in energy that's not going to be to be able to qualify for this credit. So typically it's only on projects that are taken down to the studs. Can I apply for this credit The answer is yes, but remember you can only go back I can't tell you how many times we've presented this across who are unaware of the 45L. They build hundreds of homes a year and never heard about this. Again, very underutilized. It's kind of a use it or lose it program. And so if you don't use it it will go away and you can't get it back. And there is no maximum number of units that you can claim the So one last case study. This is kind of what Toby a moment ago. This is a case study where the building happened And so we were able to get for the 88,000 square feet. So that created a deduction of 473,000. And then just the credit was another $775,000 credit. So remember, we're taking and then reducing our income by 473. So this client is not for the next couple So in this case, you can see where we've coupled both these programs and we're able to create and a massive credit. And on top of this, we didn't even do the cost SEG study yet. That's something we're because they don't need any because of the credit and So with that, we'll go ahead and transition into cost segregation. Toby, are there any questions on that? - Yeah, there's some. There's so many questions and guys, we're not talking I've got a whole bunch what if I buy a house Stop it. Not talking about that. And I'll answer your But for multi unit dwellings, is the credit available for each unit or is it just the - The credit is available for each unit. So it's per-door credit. So again, that could be - Yep. And what about an - ADUs do qualify as long as - Are modular homes out of the question, if you have green energy - They're not completely - So it's possible, and by the way, again, I gave you guys a link. Anderson Advisors, they'll if you have these types of questions, you want to apply them to reach out to them. They don't charge you for it, right? So like not to, 'cause I want to dump a and have you answering questions But because it's always What if it's a one bed, two bath condo that I own and rent out, could it qualify? - If you built that condo, yes. Remember this is for new construction or heavily remodeled construction, so. - Yeah, so you have to have revamped it. - Correct. - Do new windows fall - New windows do, but it's looking at the So new windows will help but if you just put in new windows and you've got the original insulation and the original lighting in the building, then it won't qualify. So this is a credit, we're looking at the That whole unit, that whole residential, or what the IRS calls a dwelling unit has to meet certain qualifications. So yes, if you put in but windows alone would - Okay, what if it was, it new construction, went Can I still take advantage of this? - Yes, if you carried, to build that townhouse. If you bought that who built a bunch of them, then the developer is for the credit, not you. - Unless you completely - Yep. Correct. - Right, so if you took let's just put it that way, and redid it, then you could get it. Otherwise it's, you had to have built it. And then what about a product like Boxabl? And it sounds like an ADU. - Yeah, it depends. Sometimes the folks who manufacture those are the ones who are So it depends. Those are, if that's what what I'm, if that's what they're referring - Does how it's titled matter? We have two in our personal - No, the way it's titled doesn't matter. - Doesn't matter. - Yep. - Okay. If you're the investor and a contractor does all this for you, do they get the credit? - No, not if you took out So that's the most important piece. That's where a lot of confusion comes in. You've got to have basis in the property at time of construction. So if you took out a loan and said, hey, I just took out I want you to build me a fourplex. It doesn't matter who does the work, because you took out the loan and you're deciding what what type of insulation, you're the one eligible for the credit. The difference there and I build a bunch of fourplexes, then I sell them off to investors, because I took out the construction loan, I would be eligible for those - All right, and then I'll stop here in a second. But does the ADU have to be three stories? I think they're mixing - Yeah, no, it doesn't. So 45L there's no story limit or anything. It could be a rambler. It just has to be, it just of a dwelling unit, those four criteria. - And remember, 45L is a tax credit. It's worth cash to you. It's just offsets your income. So like the 45L is worth four times what that deduction is worth. Somebody says, what if I Somebody else also asked if - You don't have to have receipts. But like I said, you would So if you went in, sometimes put in some energy efficient appliances, maybe changed the windows you're going to have to You don't have to have receipts. If you go in, let's say I buy a I spend 100,000, I gut it. I put in new insulation, new windows, new lighting, new HVAC. You don't have to have receipts, we just need to know model And then we can run the But no, you don't have to have receipts. - All right, I'm going For everybody that's asking 'cause there's three of them right now. So if you do it, if you build the ADU and you didn't use financing, If you used it with cash, You don't need the receipts. At the end of the day, reach your scenario at andersonadvisors.com/csa. Cost SEG Authority is because they will answer for you on your specific deal. 'Cause some of these with three or four questions. All right, now I'm out of This is the fun one. Cost SEG's like rocking it - Yeah, no cost segregation So what is cost segregation? That's a question we get asked often. And cost segregation really is on your real estate assets. So one of the benefits is we get to take a depreciation expense or a deduction off of So typically for residential units, that deduction is spread For commercial units, it's So just to make the math easy, let's say you buy a property for 275,000, you're going to divide you're going to get a Now I've oversimplified that a little for presentation purposes because you don't get So you always have to But your purchase price equals what we call And let's say your and it's a residential unit, you would divide that by 27 1/2. You're going to get a as a deduction. Basically the IRS is saying there's wear and tear on And so it's not worth as much, even though the value has gone up, it's deteriorating, it's depreciating. And so you get to take that That's why a lot of us I'll take a $10,000 deduction every year. However, I'm not going to own certainly not 39 years I want my deductions there's time value of money. There's a number of reasons or take as much of that And the way we can do this is through an engineering-based study where we go into the property and say, okay, you bought this home for 275,000, but you also, when you bought you bought some countertops, you bought some window a sprinkler system, some appliances. All those things I've mentioned, the IRS says should be Carpet doesn't last 27 1/2 years. According to the IRS carpet The problem is, is when you you give that closing statement They have no idea that there's let alone what the carpet is valued at. And so just as the name we're taking the costs of this building, segregating it into different buckets, which allows your CPA or your tax preparer to depreciate those assets which is typically much faster So how is that done? So when we go into a building, there's really three The first one is if the without damage to the So again, I can take the carpet off, I'm in an office building here, I can take the carpet and it's not going to damage I can remove the window and it's not going to damage So typically those are considered what we call personal property, and they get depreciated over five years. The second is, if the and equipment or machinery is so close, they would be retired at the same time. So you guys can't see here, but there's a TV up on the wall that TV is a five-year asset. But not only is that TV a five-year asset, there's a plug mounted that is specific for that TV. There's conduit that goes through that TV or to that TV that is So not only is the TV a five-year asset, everything associated with that TV is also a five-year asset. So if you think about how much of the electrical is specific for short-term assets. Things like garbage disposals, Sometimes it can be as much as 50% of the overall electrical is specific for short-term assets. We get to put a value or a all the way back to the circuit breaker. And we get to associate that with the short-term which allows us to depreciate And then the third is if the and the nature of the business are unique. I'll give you an example, is we did a cost segregation study on a meadery down in Arizona. A meadery is a place that produces mead, and mead is a fermented honey. So they take honey, they ferment it, and it creates kind of a And we went down to Arizona, it was like 120 degrees. We go into this warehouse, and they've got all these and they've got these that's keeping this honey Now normally HVAC equipment the HVAC in this building, It's not short-term assets. Because this HVAC was used specifically to keep their honey cool, because you know, honey, can be very runny and because this HVAC equipment was specific to keeping the honey cool, we were able to reclassify and depreciate it over a So those are kind of the three criteria that the IRS has put forth what is considered short-term assets. Now here's a list of some commonly segregated items. Over on the right hand side you have your five and seven year buckets, your five and seven year assets. Those are things like carpet, parts of the lighting, window treatments, wall Those are all considered Are your personal property assets. Outside we have what we Those are all of our 15 year assets. Things like parking lots, storm drains, irrigation trees, bushes, and shrubs is We'll actually go out and and shrubs around your property. The IRS says that those last 15 years, and they should be not 39 or 27 1/2 years. So we'll put a value to those. Everything that's left over, So just keep that in mind. When we're doing a cost segregation study, we're going to take, usually, around 30%, move it into The other 70% stays in that long term real property category. Things like the steel the doors, the windows, et cetera. So remember, about 30% is You know, multifamily, maybe if it's just an empty warehouse, we might get closer to 25%. It just depends on the asset class, but usually right around 30%. So that's kind of cost remember we're just taking these buildings and breaking them up into different parts, putting values to those different parts. That allows our tax preparers to depreciate them at a faster rate. With cost segregation, there One is bonus depreciation. Toby mentioned earlier going through Congress right now that will impact that We'll talk about what bonus and what the changes are Catch up depreciation, that's the ability to do that have already been placed in service without having to amend, which is great. Reduction or recapture on sale. This is one that oftentimes but when you do cost segregation, you can actually create when you sell the building. And we'll just have a And then if we have time, we'll talk about partial and 179 expensing. So here's a case study. This was built, or excuse That doesn't include the land. Remember land is non-depreciable. So just the building put in service in 2023. The current tax year is 2023. We went in, we identified the flooring, the cabinets, countertops, the electrical, retaining And here's what we came up with. So I know these numbers are small, hopefully everyone can see them okay. I'm going to see if I can pull But over here on the left hand side, this would be your depreciation So you take the 1.3 million, and essentially you're going every year for the next 39 years. Now the first year you'll see That's because there was just So you don't get the full amount. But essentially you're or excuse me, $33,000 write off every year for the next 39 years. In this section here, you can see this is where we've done So we've taken that $1.3 million, we've split it up into and we've started depreciating them over five, seven, and 15 years. So in this case, I don't have but I believe we segregated And so we take the five year assets divided up over five years. Seven year assets get 15 year assets get split up over 15 years. And here's our new depreciation So now we're getting a versus an $18,000 deduction. In year two, which is our we're now getting a $97,000 deduction versus a $33,000 deduction. Now what you can't see here I believe in year 2039, you're actually going to versus a $33,000 deduction. But I'm okay with that, because I've had all this tax savings in the first 15 or so years to be able to pay down to go buy a new property, et cetera. So again, all we're doing is front loading our and getting less deductions At the end of the day, if you were to hold this in either scenario, you're still getting $1.3 It's just by doing cost segregation, we're frontloading it or Again, number of reasons Inflation, time value of money, et cetera. So in this example, by in the first five years by 194,000, that created a $68,000 tax savings. Now that was, I believe, calculated at a 30% combined So pretty powerful stuff. Now that's not even that's just straightforward just accelerating those Let's talk now about bonus depreciation. So bonus depreciation has been The IRS uses bonus depreciation So if the economy's not doing well, they'll increase the bonus percentage. If the economy is doing well, they'll lower the bonus percentage. But essentially bonus depreciation encourages people to go out and buy stuff. So if we go back to 2017, the end of 2017, bonus depreciation at the time was at 50%, and it only applied to So you had to go buy You couldn't buy a used bulldozer, you had to buy a brand new bulldozer. And if you did, you were eligible to take 50% of those So let's say you buy a you would get a $500,000 The other 500,000 that was left would get spread out over the So that's great. Fast Like I said, Donald Donald Trump owns real estate, and Donald Trump revised the tax code. So with the Tax Cuts and Jobs One is bonus went from 50% Any assets bought between are eligible for 100% bonus. Oh, give me one second here. Sorry, my computer just told So let me plug that in. There. So as you can see, 100% bonus. Now 100% bonus. Toby, can you see that okay? Did that? - I can, yeah. What are you looking at? - Oh no, I just wanted to make sure, I plugged my computer in and so I just want to make - Oh, I can see you okay. I see a little too. Everybody's giving you a thumbs up too. - Okay, perfect. - These guys are making my fingers burn. - Perfect. I got two cameras. And so I just don't want when I'm looking at this screen. So as long as you guys can - It's on your computer camera by the way, like it's not the one that's above. - Gotcha, okay, perfect. All right, so back to bonus depreciation. So bonus depreciation, as with the Tax Cuts and Jobs So any assets placed into and 12.31 of 2022 were Now, anything put into service Next year it's on scheduled, excuse me, or this year it's on then 40, then 20, then zero. In saying that, there as Toby mentioned earlier, that's just sitting in that is going to extend the So this phase out period and we'll just have a 100% which would be great. So we'll keep an eye on that. They were actually supposed to make that, they were supposed to have because that was the That didn't happen. And so they're kind of 'cause people can technically and we still don't know 80% or 100% percent. I do anticipate that the The reason for that is it's It was kind of attached So the Democrats wanted the Republicans wanted these business for this bonus depreciation, and they kind of married And so it's got bipartisan We just need them to get back together, and get it passed as soon as possible. So what does bonus depreciation mean? What that means is when any of those five, So bonus only applies to assets that have a useful life So if you don't do cost segregation, your asset is either a 27 which means it's not eligible for bonus. With cost segregation, that 30% of that five, that we typically find, all of a sudden is eligible for a bonus. So let's see what that does but now we're going to So remember we have our 1.3 million, we divided it by 39 years. We're going to get a $33,000 If we do cost SEG, we're going to take 80% all in year one. So you can see that's why there's such a big because we're getting 80% of and spreading the remaining Our seven year assets, we get 80%, our 15 year assets, we get 80%, and now we're getting a versus an $18,000 deduction. Now, if this building had you would actually get all of all of this deduction in year because you'd be eligible for 100% bonus. So this is the way the If this bill does get passed, And as I mentioned, but even at 80%, look at It's a $350,000 deduction which is an increase That's about $132,000 of tax savings. Now, if you can't utilize this deduction, let's say I make 150,000 in, I make 150,000 this year, I I can do one of two things. I can take the full the remaining, what is that, 180,000 or so would just carry forward to the next year. That's one option. Or I can actually opt in or by these class lifes, by So we'll have some investors say, I don't want to apply bonus I do want to apply bonus at the 15 year. And what that does is it spreads out these instead of taking such a huge So sometimes folks will do because it doesn't always make sense just to wipe out all of your income, because then you're against income that's being So sometimes it makes sense, you want to use these deductions to manage your tax brackets. And so just some different options there. Now on that note, I that these deductions, is typically considered and can be used to offset passive income. So you've got passive These deductions typically and can be used to offset Now a lot of you have probably heard about real estate professional status. If you have real estate meaning you spend the doing real estate, and at then you may be able to offset active or W2 income But you would need to be as a real estate professional status. There's some other ways to utilize these against active income. There's something called that maybe you guys have heard. I know that's a very When you buy a short-term rental, if the average stay is if you materially participate in the management of that property, oftentimes that will be As Toby mentioned, it's than it is a residential rental. And in that case, those deductions can be because you're actively participating in the management of that hotel business. So there's some different but definitely want to before doing a cost hey, these guys can generate Can I in fact utilize or excuse me, offset income. So, all right, so let's talk I mentioned this earlier a little bit, but catch-up benefit is the on assets that have already So let's say you're hearing for the first time today, you you're going to have a big but you've owned some let's say 2015. So you've got some properties that are already on your tax return. You can actually go in, do cost take all that missed depreciation, bring it forward into the current year without amending your tax returns. So again, that's called a But the IRS allows you to do that. It does require an extra form. It's called a 3115 or a 3115. On that form, all we're here's how much depreciation once I did the cost SEG study, And here's the difference And that's the 481A adjustment. So it's kind of interesting we actually provide that form as part of the services that we offer. But when we fill out that form, we're checking a box that says we're going from an impermissible to a permissible method. Basically telling the I was depreciating my carpet It should have been over five years. And here's the difference And so there's a lot of numbers on here. It's a little bit blurry, I apologize. But this is a page from This is that same retail as if it was placed in service in 2015. So we've got our $1.3 million deduction, from '15 to 2021, we took We were eligible to take I got those numbers backwards. We were eligible to take 437,000, We took 218,000, which for a change of an additional So here's the depreciation Here's what we took through 2021, and here's that difference And we get to take this whole 218,000, drop it on the current tax return, again without having to amend. All right, so let's talk now This is probably the we'll cover today. I'm going to try and keep it But the idea here is you pay two types of tax. You pay capital gains tax and you pay depreciation recapture. And depreciation recapture is based on how much So oftentimes tax preparers' Erik, why am I taking all Doesn't that just mean when I go sell the asset? And the answer is no. You do have to pay some of it back, but you're paying it back at a and saving the spread. And so again, the idea is against your ordinary income. So let's say I'm in a 35% federal bracket and a 5% state bracket. So I'm going to take my I'm going to pay it back, some of it back, not all of it back. I'm going to pay some of it back at a lower capital gains rate of 20%, or at most a recapture rate And so here's an example. Here's an example of what Now, I know there's a lot of numbers here. It took me three weeks so I don't expect you to figure it out in the next 30 seconds. But the idea here is, is this is that same retail building, our $1.3 million building. We sold it five years, excuse me, seven years later for 2 million. So it went up in value. If I don't do a cost segregation study, my total tax bill on that Now, I don't show all the math here, but that's your capital gains tax. That's your recapture tax, 198,000. When you do a cost segregation study, remember I owned the I had $145,000 worth of five year assets. What is the book value after owning the building for seven years? They have zero book value. My seven year assets have zero book value. They've been fully depreciated. Now, my 15 year assets, Obviously my 39 year assets When these numbers flush out, when I take my capital gains my total tax bill now is 164,593. So I just created a permanent by doing cost segregation on a building that I So I know there's a lot of number there. So I'm going to give you one more analogy that I think is a little Let's say you buy, let's say I'm in today for a million. Five years later, I sell it for 2 million. So everything is doubled in value. So when I settle up with hey, I bought all this I'm selling all this stuff for 2 million, and they're going to charge me tax on that million dollars of gain. Well, my land has gone up in value, my walls have gone up in value, but certainly my dirty nasty is not worth double what I paid for it. The problem is, when you you don't know the value because everything is just And so we don't have So again, in that example, what is carpet worth after it's worth nothing, it's So why are you telling the and paying tax on that? And so that's the whole idea. Take your deduction at a high rate, pay back a portion of it at a and save the spread. And that's really what with cost segregation. So here's a summary of the four different case studies we did. In each case, we save anywhere all the way up to $112,000 in tax savings when we applied bonus. So 66,000 on the original cost SEG study, when we applied bonus, it went to 112,000. And then in that lookup we created a $93,000 tax savings. So it's not a matter of if you typically it's a matter of when. And that's a conversation you want to have with both us and your tax preparer to say, hey, I've got these through my real estate holdings. When is the best time or activate those deductions to maximize the amount of tax I'll save? And so that's a conversation that we typically will have with you, to strategize All right, so let's talk quickly about partial asset disposition. I know we're just about to Partial asset disposition. That's one of the added is when you dispose of or replace part of your building, you get to take the remaining dispose of it, expense without having to pay any recapture tax. So I'll give you an example. Oftentimes we'll see a client So they buy an apartment they put a new $100,000 Well, the old roof on that building still has some book value. And so you should pull that expense it, and put the new roof on, and start depreciating the new roof with a new in-service date. And what we see happen all too often is we get depreciation schedules that say, hey, I've got a building, and then three years And you're depreciating, in that scenario, you're depreciating two You've got the old roof that's stuck in that you've got the new roof, and now we're depreciating When you do that, you unintentionally artificially inflate the because you're taking You're depreciating two roofs. You should only be depreciating one roof, but you don't know the that's stuck in that building And so that's one of the added benefits that as you're replacing different components of your building, if you know what the old component costs, you can pull that out, expense of it, and pay no recapture tax. So just one of the added benefits. Now you can do this without It's just very complicated for your tax preparer to figure out. But when you have a cost segregation study and you have everything line itemed, as you go replace the cabinets, you just pull the old cabinets As you go replace the roof, you pull the old roof off, dispose of it. And so that's just again, one of the added tax saving strategies when utilizing cost segregation. All right, so some things to think about regarding cost segregation. What types of properties Really, it's any So any type of investment property with a basis of about $200,000 or greater. So the reason the basis needs to be at least $200,000 or greater. If it's less than that, unless you're in a the tax savings may not to get these studies done. So as I mention fees, we should The fees on these can be anywhere depending on the size So we want to see at least a So if we're charging you we want to say, see around $30,000 in taxes. And that can often be met by utilizing some of these strategies such as bonus depreciation, et cetera. So that's kind of a range. Our average study is Again, just depends on the type of asset. You know, single family large office buildings are closer to 10. And so we kind of average But when does it make sense Anytime you own real estate you should at least have some numbers run. So we'll always, as Toby mentioned, I think with the link that we'll always do that analysis, so that we can determine if So we'll come back and say, hey, on this building you're going to save, you know, 80,000 in taxes, it's going to cost you In that case it absolutely makes What items do we need to We just need a copy of or we may need a depreciation schedule if that building has already So if you know, if you and you've never done cost SEG, a copy of your depreciation If you bought the building we would just need a copy But again, feel free to reach out to us, we're happy to kind of walk you through what we need on that to run the analysis. I'm just going to touch on this quickly 'cause it's, again, it's just but I just want to make note here. Toby mentioned this in the but the IRS does have an audit guide on how these cost segregation studies should be audited by their agents. The audit guide hadn't been It was recently updated with some significant changes to it. The reason for that, I has kind of been the wild wild There's a number of on how to do cost segregation. There's different strategies, different interpretations of the law, and at the IRS with bonus depreciation cost segregation's becoming And I think the IRS wants and put some guidelines around what these studies need to look like. So as Toby mentioned, we've We've been involved in and not a single audit have And that's because we follow So it tells you the 13 We make sure that our in that same order. And that way, if and when the IRS agent looks and says, oh, this was done by a reputable company. It's got all the information we needed, all the backup documentation. And so, you know, they So our reports are anywhere It's got a bunch of case law, a bunch of backup documentation, and then it's got obviously for your tax preparer. So that's the audit guide. Interesting here, the audit guide, these are the preferred method. There's different methods There's online methods, those are kind of like the So they're usually cost less. However, the benefits are Just last week I had a who used an online service, got the cost segregation study completed. The study was about $1,500 less However, they only segregated 21%. This was a $700,000 asset. So if you recall to the previous slide, I mentioned that we typically when we're doing an That difference of 10% that's $70,000 of additional deductions, take that 70,000 times a 30% tax bracket. That's a $21,000 tax savings difference by doing an online study versus doing an engineering-based study. So in that case, the client because he was unhappy and the difference between was $18,000 of additional tax savings. So again, there's different methodologies, you just want to make sure, I always recommend having the numbers run. It's really just a math equation. We're going to be a if you do an engineering-based study. But if the overall tax savings then it just makes sense. And so just keep that in mind as you guys are considering I would always recommend getting an engineering method done first. The reason for that here it says rule of thumb approach or what we call a modeling approach. An examiner should view since it lacks sufficient documentation to support the allocation So not only are you getting less benefit, if and when it ever gets audited, it's going to be much harder to defend because those online methods They're not actually going in and looking at how much They're not going in and and countertops are in your building. They're just taking some averages. So just keep that in mind. I'm not going to go over I think that's everything, Toby. I know Toby put this link in the chat. If you guys have any questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. As Toby mentioned, we we also don't do tax returns here. So please don't ask me questions about earned business income I'm just going to refer you back to Toby. But if you have any questions about real estate tax depreciation, we're happy to help, contact Thank you guys. And I know Toby's probably - We got a ton of them. I've answered 151, and there's So I have a whole bunch - Yeah. - Now some of these I could answer. I won't make you answer come on guys, I answered But some of these were asked an hour ago. Does it make sense to go through on a mobile fix and flip? My guess is no, but wanted to ask. If you want to answer that, you can. Otherwise, I'm just going to say you don't get depreciation on a flip. So there's no such thing - Correct. - Anything else you want to add on that? - No, just that the building So typically on a fix and you're fixing it up and It's never going into service. So one thing that people will is you can buy a building, for six months to a year what they're comfortable with. And then you can take But if you're just going you flip it, you sell it, then you don't get to take depreciation, which means cost segregation would not work in that scenario. - And you do have to be with the intent to sell it, and the only thing you do is you put it into service The IRS could attack that and you get no depreciation and put it and say add it to basis. And all you're doing is Now if you do the short term rental issue, which is if you're renting a house out for seven days or less on average, so you're doing Airbnb or VRBO, that's not passive activity anymore. That could be a active loss, if you materially I know I just threw some But what it is, is you could You buy a house, you do a cost SEG on it. And in that first year, even even if it's for a month, right? You make it into a short-term rental, and you handle all the you do the cleaning, you That's an active ordinary loss. Then that cost SEG will We do this with doctors all the time, that either their spouse or themselves, they actually spend the time doing it because it's going to give Then you make it into a long-term Anyway, I don't want If you are house hacking, say redo the bathrooms, can - Typically not. So bathrooms specifically Bathrooms are part of the building. They're a long-term asset. But even if you were to go in and fix up a kitchen, for example, usually what happens is and you should just be as an expense in most cases. So that di minimus Correct me if I'm wrong, Toby, but oftentimes if you've got an invoice for less than $2,500, I would suggest just writing it off. - Writing it off, yeah. Yeah, you're in the real property regs where you have a safe harbor. If you have your records it's actually 5,000. - Okay. - So it can be, yeah. And then it doesn't matter So if you're fixing up that bathroom, we might be able to write Hey, does this apply to syndicators? - It does, absolutely. So we work with a number of syndicators. We do the cost segregation and then typically through the K-1s, each investor will get their - Irene's asking me, do we do training for our tax preparers? Yes, in fact, Erik's team comes in and trains our tax preparers. We just did one. What? - Yeah, it was a week ago, - Yeah, so we actually We're trying guys, like, There's like, you're just Like you're just taking a sip of water. These things get deep, and so we're always looking but we need everybody so we can do it. Somebody was talking about oh, he doesn't like cost SEG. You know, he doesn't What he's saying is, I don't really know, and I don't want to go or I've looked at three of them and they didn't help my therefore we don't do them. And I'll just be straight with you guys. Three rules, anything that's tax related, calculate, calculate, calculate, just run the calculations, use that link, andersonadvisors.com/csa and you do not have to pay We will work with them. Somebody asked, do you in order to do the analysis? - Not typically, no. We need one page out of that tax return, which is the depreciation schedule. Sometimes people will just 'cause it's easier than them trying to dig through it and find it. But typically we just need that's on assets that have If it's something you recently bought, then we don't need the return, we just need the closing statement. - Right, somebody says, what's It's not a topic for today, but there's no question it's still there. Yeah, yeah. Real property survived. Everything else was under the Tax Cut and Jobs Act. So yes, it's surviving. Can a mobile home with a title and used as a short-term rental? Or do we have to retire the title and attach it to the - That's a good question. So it sounds like the mobile and then they're going and use it as a short - I know what they're doing. Is it being attached to a In either circumstance, you can do the cost SEG on it, right? - Yeah. - You're going to write up, you're going to write it if it's not attached. - Right, so in that case you 'cause you're just going with bonus depreciation. - Yeah. This is what's crazy. In some cases you're writing off 90% of a purchase on a mobile home. Just to trip you guys out. Like if it has an axle you're writing the whole dang thing off as personal property. - Same thing Toby, with car A lot of wealthy people buy, you guys have probably seen I don't know about your But when you buy a car You're buying land improvements which are 15 year assets And you're buying equipment which is also eligible for bonus. So a million dollar car wash, you may get a $900,000 which is just crazy. - And same thing with mobile home parks. If you're buying the pads, You guys did one, we gave you a client that was a $1.1 million purchase, and $900,000 was the first year deduction. Is cost segregation under in an opportunity zone? No idea what that means. - I don't know what an So we do opportunity zone Cost segregation and opportunity zones work very well hand in hand. I'm not sure what is meant - I don't either. I was hoping you would. - (laughs) No, I haven't heard that term. - Let's see, what about if investing in the US? I know that if you're US you can do a, you can do a cost SEG on but if you're a foreign and get a benefit on your US tax return? I don't think it would affect - Yeah, the foreign return, no, the US tax return absolutely. So you'd be able to take the depreciation on the US tax return. - If I acquired a rental last year, so 20. - 23. - Yeah, I guess, can I for my 2023 taxes? - Oh, that's a great question, I should have brought that up. So yes, the timing on the cost segregation study So we're doing, now is 'cause everyone's getting And so we actually have now if you extend, we really have all the way through October for the 2023 year. And if you don't extend, if you're planning on we still have time as well But yes, you can absolutely still do it. - Hey, you know what? I screwed up. Irene wasn't asking They're asking do we for tax preparers? - Yes. - And yes, and you would go right to Erik and his team does continuing How many of you guys are accountants? How many of you guys are tax preparers? Just gimme a thumbs up, gimme How many of you guys are and you're learning this and you'd like to integrate it So yeah, so what you Just reach out and let them know that you are a tax professional, and yeah, Erik's, they do I'm sure that you would be willing to do it for them too, right? - Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, we're NASBA certified so we can offer the continuing education and we'd be happy to to set something up. - Yeah. Sorry Irene, I I thought you were and I was like, yeah, we'll train them. But yeah, join the team. We need to, I mean I hate this stuff. Somebody says forget it. I'm not going to, I'm Just get it out of my hair. I purchased my condo in 2010, Can I still use these, - On the cost segregation side, yes. Not on your primary residence. So if your house is where you live, that's your primary residence. You can't do cost segregation But if your condo, if you moved into your and you're now renting out We would want to run the if you bought it in So we just want to make that we can bring forward But yeah, definitely get some numbers run. - What if you're house hacking, what if you're renting out half your house or two thirds of your house? - We have done that in the past. Just keep in mind you over about 200,000. So if you bought your house for 200,000, and you're only renting out a third, we've got to take that 200,000 that's probably not going to make sense. But if you bought a, and you're renting out half of it, that would put your then yes, absolutely it would make sense. - Yeah, somebody said, I And would it make sense and yeah. - Yes, yep, even if you're living in half, that would definitely make sense. - Yep, what is the best before or after a rehab? - Ooh, that's a good question. So before, if the property's in service, so let's say I buy a building, I do the cost SEG, then then I do my rehab and Potentially. That's Now you have to have So if you buy a vacant building you need to do the cost SEG The reason for that is the in-service is very important, Toby. So in the first scenario I said, well, you buy a building and those tenants are using that flooring, they're using those cabinets, they're using those countertops. - It's in service. - They're in service. Therefore When you go replace the flooring, now you get to take depreciation That's the best case scenario. And the other example where no one's using that and so therefore you You're going to have to pull and now you just get depreciation on the new ones when they go into service. So in service, I think is available for its Different tax preparers on what that means. But that's the IRS's it's got to be available for - I want to ask you a couple So I have a client who bought and they're going to demo it now. Like they've tried to run it three years, beat a head against a They want to just tear the Would you retire that entire asset? Would you ever cost SEG that thing before or would you wait till after? And then they're going - That's a home run. So you When they demo it, it all goes to land, and there's no recapture tax. And so you demo, you do the then they demo it, build the new asset, and then you do a cost SEG - And I'd probably sell it, like I'd sell it to a if they're going to develop it and then sell those things off as condos. - Yeah. - You know, just the, just yeah, I think they intended to buy and then it didn't work out. So they're going to do the Is audit defense included - I can only speak for our company, but yes, it absolutely is. I know there's a lot of companies, a lot of low cost providers for audit defense as an extra service. We provide it as our fee, And so yes, we provide Like I said, fortunately we but we have been involved in some, and usually what they're Toby, a lot of these agents don't understand cost segregation. In the last audit I was they don't even bring in a unless the asset is over $10 million. So you've got new agents on this who you're trying to explain to them what you're doing and why you're doing it. We've even had to direct people to the audit guide before, unfortunately. And so typically there's. - Hand it to you, here's your - The audit guide, here's Here's the methodology we used And so yes, we provide 100% audit support. - Somebody says we did a, and by the way, you could do a 45L, a and bonus depreciation - Yes, absolutely. - Yeah, these are not exclusive, these are not mutually exclusive. Okay, somehow I keep and I keep thinking that but you might be here till midnight. - Okay. - If we did a full house besides being able to break into smaller depreciable assets and linking some of the as more immediate depreciable items, does the cost SEG also that were removed, like the In short, are you able of the existing assets that you replaced? - The answer is yes, as long as you haven't So if you did the rehab and you would have to have pictures. 'Cause we would have to prior to the rehab. So, now if that rehab then you wouldn't be able to retire those. In order to take advantage of those items need to be You can't go back and recapture those. - So here's a fun one guys, and Erik, you probably know this, but go get a replacement value study done, like by the contractor And the reason you're doing that is 'cause you don't know Nobody does. Right? But if you get a replacement let's say that you bought it for 300,000, and the replacement value is 500, and you paid $50,000 for So now you know that the value - Right? - So that when you go so you take whatever hey, I took a few years of You're going to get a There's stuff you can do. Sorry to go down that rabbit hole, but. - No, that's exactly right. - We completed the phase one of the residential investment property and converting an oversized garage into a four bedroom house. Is it better to do the cost SEG after phase two of the So they rehabbed something and they're about to do a - Potentially, if it was in then yes, if not, we just do everything. If it was your primary residence and you're doing all this work we would do the cost SEG - Okay, how do I become a cost segregation specialist in Michigan? Somebody wants to know, I guess how, like, do you train these people? Do you work with? - That's a great question. No, so interestingly enough, to be a cost SEG. There's no IRS qualifying or excuse me, a cost SEG professional. So the audit guide does state you need to have tax knowledge, which a lot of tax preparers, CPAs, they've got the tax knowledge. The part that they struggle So you've got to be able to and understand construction. So that's the hard part. I don't know how you would train it's a great question, so. - Engineers, I would you need structural engineers. - Yeah, yeah. So that's exactly right. So in our company we've got CPAs and structural engineers on staff. Obviously the CPAs structural engineers understand and they bring that knowledge together and that's how we're able to do these. Very few people have both and the constructional knowledge, but there is no governing body. So really anybody can do cost segregation. - Okay, I am working with Jill Marcon from Cost SEG Authority. So it sounds like somebody in your office. I was told to provide a closing Would that be in my signing I love when they ask questions in these. She also said it would not be necessary for my free assessment. - So yeah, so we prefer We don't have to have it. If you know what you paid for the property and the approximate date that it closed, that's enough information. The closing document just has all that information precisely. It knows the actual address. You don't know how many times, Toby, people have said that their and I look it up and it's really and I'm looking at the wrong building. So the closing statement just gives us precise how much you paid for it, If you know that information, we don't have to have a closing statement in order for you to - Can I use cost SEG bonus depreciation for long-term rental properties from cashing out any stocks I own? If so, how would I document I don't think you need to. Would you have cost SEG, unless you're a real estate professional or you're an active or were using the short it's going to be considered passive and it won't offset typical capital gains. Now if you have capital gains from the sale of passive property like you were in a syndication, because it's considered But no, typically, if being created from a on your rental properties, it's not going to offset Two different things. I think this might be back to the original when we're talking 45L and 179D. So just shift your brain a little bit. Would midsize multifamily, 15 units or so, qualify as commercial? And what about an office building that was converted to multifamily? Would those work 45L and 179? - Definitely 100% on the So those would definitely qualify for 45L. In order for them to qualify for the 179D, they would have to be over three stories. So it would have to be - Yeah, 15 units though, it seems like, unless it's like I have a 16 Facts and circumstances, ask, like go ahead and reach out to these guys. Your whole team is knowledgeable and so they could take and see if it applies. Somebody says what is the I think that's relating - Yeah, so on the 179D, that's So the bigger the building, obviously there's more work for us. So those range anywhere from for very large properties. The 45L, those are about $300 per door. So that's just the flat fee. So you just take $300 but you're a $5,000 credit, so usually it always makes sense. So yeah, that's like a 20 time return. And somebody says those not new construction, correct? Maybe both, right. - No, it's for new construction as well. The credits absolutely are. For new construction, I would are for new construction. 20% would be for remodeled projects. - Somebody says can a commercial equestrian property qualify? - Qualify for cost 45L, no, 179D possibly, building structure there at the facility. - And then for 45L, let's say you did an does each bedroom suite qualify - No, each bedroom. Well if you did oh, Okay, no, it would just be the one house because there's probably in each of those suites. So going back to the has to have a place to and use the restroom. And so my guess is those suites probably don't have - Somebody says if we live then move out, and they did can you do the 179? - If you moved out and made Again, it would probably need You would probably have replace the insulation, the windows, the heating and air, the lighting. But yes, it could qualify. - Are the credits or deductions for the, and I'm going to say 179D and 45L, are they subject to recapture - No. - But cost SEG, potential And a bunch of people Like is it up to you as on the carpet that you sell on your. - Well, there is a form, and you're better at tax forms where you allocate the And that's the form that hey, the sales price, I I sold it for 2 million. But that gain was not because I'm selling it's because the land and And so that's how you're able from getting recaptured to just being treated as capital gains. - Somebody's trying to call that you have listed there, They've called three times. - It might be busy. Sorry. We do get an influx when we So typically we respond within 24 hours. I'll be honest with you, it's probably going to to get to all of these, but just keep trying to call that number. I should give, let me see, I'm going to give you another number here in case anybody's having any problems. It's just our 800 number. It's 1-800-940-3115. So the number that's there on the screen that comes directly into our team, but our 800 number will So if you're having a it's 800-940-3115. - And I'm just going to put There we go. Oh, and then Jennifer just Yeah, we're probably There's a lot of you on here, and I'm sure a lot of people are calling. The best thing you could do honestly, is because I like to know how many people and who comes from us, so that we can make sure that we know that you're doing these things. Especially if you're a tax That working with Cost SEG Authority. 'Cause the last thing we want and you think that we know, you know I'm doing a We're like, how am I supposed Right, like we need to know. So we can get a list Can I use cost SEG on a floating condo, a houseboat used as a short term rental? (coughs) It's interesting. - A question I haven't got before. I don't know the depreciable I'd have to. - I think it would be, As long as it has a sleeping quarter ahead and a kitchen, I think you - Yeah, that's what I'm thinking. - Yeah, it's kind of weird. I actually lived on one for two years. - On a houseboat? - Yeah, I thought I was a Went through a pirate phase. Lived on Lake Union, if you've ever seen &quot;Sleepless - Oh, yeah. Okay. - Yeah, it says you can't You can never write off land, Armand. You can never write off land. I always have to say that like, 'cause you're on water, you Like you could buy a It is kind of weird. I guess maybe you own a little piece underneath it or something, When do you recommend before or after improvements. Okay, you already but it depends on whether - Yep, back to your facts. Depends on if somebody's in there. We'll always consult to but it's not always possible depending on whether it - All right guys, we have five Please don't ask any more questions 'cause then I'll delete it. I'm just kidding. Have you ever conducted a - Yes. - Here's somebody who you did He says, hey, you did a study for me. We calculated in 2023 at 80%. Will your firm redo to reflect the 100% change. Or will there be a change charge for us? Actually it wouldn't We just would apply the - Yeah, so we typically, but the bonus depreciation from your tax preparer. So there's a button that in your tax software that says And that's where the bonus gets applied. It doesn't need to state it in the report. They're taking our numbers. They need to know how much in your building, and that's the numbers But then it's actually on their end whether they're applying bonus or not. Not on the end of the report. - Yeah, I've heard that bonus depreciation is sometimes not available when the transaction was family members or related Can you expand on this? - Yeah, so typically if it may not be eligible for You have to have bought the property. So if your father bought your father unfortunately passes away and you inherit the property, you cannot apply bonus depreciation to that stepped up basis. - What if it was an investment property? So same situation, but it but it was an investment property. - You still can't apply bonus on step up. - So for an inherited property, you get to depreciate it you don't get to do the - The IRS wants, again, they use bonus to stimulate people to And you didn't buy that You just happened to inherit it. Therefore, they're not going to give you the benefits of the bonus. - Chris, says you mentioned, Can I do that myself or I think you went over that - Yeah, no, you definitely cost SEG yourself. You don't have to have I have seen some tax A guy called me who Oh, he called it a casual cost SEG study. So he had inherited a client and this prior CPA had done So I'm like, John, what the He's like, well, let me send I think you know what I mean. So I get this schedule, and it says building a million dollars, underneath that there all perfectly whole numbers, appliances, 15,000. And all the CPA had done was break out those three components so that they could take advantage of some bonus depreciation. Well, couple things. One is they grossly The parking lot when we was way more than 80,000. So they missed out on that opportunity. And secondly, if it ever gets audited, the agent is going to say, okay, or four-inch asphalt? And you better have some definition on or some definition around why and how you calculated whether that was four-inch So the answer is, technical answer is yes, Don't ever do these yourself though. You're leaving money on the table and you're never going to be - You're just going to ask for trouble. At the end of the day, I always say this, you can go to somebody, like I always say, like when they go to a chain preparer, they did a study once with 100% of business returns when they ghosted and did a sampling of the chain preparers. And so we always say hey, you might save yourself 500 bucks, but it costs you 5,000. Don't do that. Just yeah, there's a And you use the gold standard. You don't do the whatever somebody some, hey, I'm just going to guess. Don't do that because you to penalties galore. And frankly they should like what methodology, at least get somebody to come out there and do an estimate on the dang thing. - Agreed. - It's crazy. So there's that. And then you don't need their tax return to do the analysis, do you? - No, typically not. It is helpful if it's easily - And if you bought properties previously, yes, you could do the catch up. And the year that you put it into service is the years to whether So 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, you put a property into reach out and see whether you in any particular year. You do not lose that loss. Like, so let's say that and you're like, oh, I wiped but I can't use it against anything else. It carries forward until then it gets released, and it offsets that gain off that property and can even offset Or you're offsetting so you're not going to be paying any tax on your rents for any time. So like these things are and it gives us another tool when we're trying to and get you to keep So please use Erik and his team. We've been working together We don't plan on doing So use the link that Keep it in your back pocket. If you want to, you know, if you want to use the fact as for somebody else's benefit, share that link with somebody We're a community, so if you have friends, they're our friends. But just go in with your eyes don't try to cut corners on these things. Work with people that this is their niche. And please go in with your eyes open. Know what that benefit's looking at. And these things can be huge. And sometimes people are it could be a large amount of money that comes back in your pocket and people feel weird about it. Like, oh, this is going to Very seldom. Very seldom. And we've never lost an audit when it comes to a cost And I think the same is with you, with what, over 20,000 studies, right? - Yeah, yeah. No, we've never Like I said, they're just looking to make sure it's done correctly. And so as long as you're you should be fine. - All right guys, we'll We will send you guys the replay, share it with anybody If you're an accountant, please reach out to Erik and his team. They'll get you professional You could probably ask to get the study credit on it because it's already been On even on this, on this one. You could just share it with them. And then go forth and spread the word that there's always other out of the investments you guys are doing. And we need more housing. We need housing really So use every incentive you can. So that you can get as and in use for people for housing. 'Cause God knows we and so it helps little groups like us to go out there and get more. Thank you Erik, for spending - No problem. Thank And I'll just end with what Please use it as a resource. We want to make sure we answer Toby, you guys have been great. Thank you again for the opportunity. You guys are always a wealth - All right guys, give them a reaction, give them a thumbs up, give them a heart, and just say thanks. Really appreciate you and go out and have a great day, and everybody else out there go out and have a great day too. Thanks for joining us, and - Thanks.