Yeah. Aunt May. I uh I got the stuff for the pie. Yeah um pecans, eggs, butter, whipped cream, Harry...um. yeah I'll say hi to him for you. All right bye Aunt May. That is if he ever decides to show [Music] up right here my here now [Music] [laughter] Thank you thank you / I don't Spider-Man just saved me from a human time whatever that means / Yeah that was [Music] well I got to go man but / yeah /thanks for saving me. Holy shoot you just talked to M to her out? Only other time you've talked shoot as soon as you take off this mask she likes guys who can do her taxes. Come on do you uh want to go to the cafe with I assume you're doing, are you gonna take off that Ogh! clearly Spider-Man and his hormone filled brain did not think this through. As the air hit his face he felt instant regret. but also relief. Uh, I was supposed to keep my identity Your secret's safe with me and / appreciate that appreciate that/ you said cafe? / and yes yeah I'd love to. I'm MJ short for Mary-Jane. I'm Pete short for Peter. so what's the plan? the first, zero. I can enact it now. / No, patience bug. the plants, watch them grow, and then what's up goodlookin'? I'll tell you. I'm up. Some jabs, jabs. There you go, there you go. Aight let's take a break. Dude! Why so many jabs? I'm all jabbed out. You think you're ready for the big leagues, huh? / Yeah you so passionate about all this huh? Them Geeks over at Brooklyn Vision Academy ain' t teasing you are they? / I want to be...I want Quantum particles interact with one another/ I don't know nothing about that / the universal wave function splits into multiple sections with different universes results. I want to be the best version of your pops right now cuz that determination, Alright lemme show you something. Alright this is one of your pop's favorite moves. It's Pay attention to the feet yeah yeah I got you let's do it Get up there Now that, you got from me. Alright so what's going on with that fancy School of um have chemistry with Riley / Oh okay Riley okay all but it's just she gives a lot of work / Listen results right? Yeah yeah I know I know you know me neph! / yeah you know I put the date on top of the gosh oh my God school could be so simple, but she I'm trying to respect the hustle but it's kind of no no no no no no I'm talking about my teacher teacher? Yes nephew! / No I have no intimate okay all right my bad I think your wanted to hope for you know what I mean? / I just want to tell you you know, you know we you know learning about the responsibility a lot of woman / oh my God / it's the truth it's hey nephew...nephew? wha- what are you the black Spider-Man? / what?! wait! wait! Peter Parker / Miles Morales? How do you/I know that? / who are you? / I see what's happening here, you're name how do you know that? / I don't know, man. How do you know my name guy? / These web shooters are really realistic...huh. / dude what do you I'm not a Okay Spider-Man uh how'd you get your powers? / Genetically engineered spider / Aha! I was bitten by a radioactive spider. What is this place? / Brooklyn attending a total of 5 minutes ago cuz that's exactly how long it's been here. Now that I think about it that building with the scaffolding wasn't there neither... Hey what if-what if we're both Spider-Man? Actually no never mind Spider-Man can you climb walls? / Can negatively charged particles that Yes I can climb walls. Move aside move as So you are like me/ What? What's going on? / Give me your no what's happening? Que esta pasando? / Uhhh. / Que es eso? / Here you go ma'am / Quien dijo eso? Que esta pasando!? What? still think I'm a fan, buddy? / Well it's technically camouflage, but yeah. Anyway uh Peter you know quantum physics? Pshhh, yeah I dabble you know. / You dabble? / What? I dabble. I know I know quantum physics / Listen I know Just what are you going to say bro? / That you're white I dabble! / All right shut up anyways I was in Brooklyn then everything started to shake and now I'm Queens. Everything started to shake. / Okay look I might sound insane / I know what your about to say I know what you about to say / Hypothetically if multiple universes existed in / one capacious Omniverse / it would prove the Multiverse Theory! oh my God / what are you doing? / I just me you bro. / But my question is why and how are we in the same place at now? okay you know what I have this really smart too cuz we're the same person/ You what I actually I do yeah and and he's probably smarter so- Oh, okay / How about that? /Okay very funny / My friend is smarter than yours. /okay okay okay all right you go to your friend okay / I'll go to mine, and we'll see if we What's up man what you been so busy with? / You know, just work. / What kind of work? / You know my dad's stuff. A whole lot of boring stuff about you know filling in the chair blah blah blah. / Oh that sounds sounds like a lot of responsibility a lot of stress. / It is but you know I got it. I mean anyways what did you want to talk to me about? / Oh yeah okay all right I met Spider-Man. What you me yourself? Like-like those things you were telling me about about how you look into the mirror and you say those new affirmations like &quot;I'm a new man now&quot; / Wait don't don't talk about that too loud / okay /I met a dude with the same Powers as me / and he calls himself Spider-Man too and he didn't even know I exist. Isn't that wild? / Wait wait but everyone knows about you / Oh yeah. /You mean to tell me this guy had web shooters, could stick to walls, and had spidey sense? / exactly /and out of every spider related name he could have picked for himself he chose Spider-Man? I mean it it like he's trying to replace you. / But nah man but there's this thing right we / knew each other's names. / Well the only explanation to that would be that / the Multiverse is real Ganke! yeah but that wouldn't make any sense. / I know how it sounds man trust me I know how it sounds but you got to listen look okay all Multiverse did exist how do you think this would happen? / Well okay so hypothetically speaking of course. / Of course. /pass me a pawn just give me a pawn. / all right man here / hypothetically speaking let's say there is a Multiverse Hopper. Who jumps into this universe and he spends way too long in this universe you know causing an incursion / An incursion, alright. / which would attract everything from his Universe people, place, things . Everything. Into a new-found Earth infinite. So Peter hypothetically, all the stuff in our universe and all the stuff in this other spider guys universe would have combined into one. / What?? / And maybe your spidey senses just communicated that names... look maybe this guy is actually together and be the greatest duo this careful and don't go all in just man. Oh, checkmate. Oscorp stuff I got to go / Oh all right. Great to hang out man. That means uncle Aaron is still here. uncle I introduced you like three times okay yeah all right I got to go man I I'm just so sad bug. For as you told me the plan was supposed to be in stage three by now. You keep me waiting and I might have Endeavors. Yes of course. But as you need do you want me to execute you from all forms of your existence? But you're too cute. Yes I did say patience. us what we need before it's too late. tell! Go!!! Here we go again You're opening a can of spider punch! Wow! Yo, you wanna go rob this place? / That's what we're doing man. Just turn around you're the watcher! Do you weirdos ever do anything productive with your lives? / Look man I can explain. / You can explain? / We'll if you help I'm talking racks on the barber you should see what's under I had that spider fan! What you- oh c-erghmmmm I bet I can be my guy faster than you /. you're on Hey why you guys using sticks huh? down really hard on gun regulations so records to obtain firearms. Now we're and boxing. / Okay huh yeah that makes my job a lot safer and easier, thanks government! Your late to the party! I'm Coming For You Spidey. It's been dude dude I got to jump over you all get some momentum all right? He's coming. / I am not a human launching pad! Yo didn't you have a mask on? / Ahh! Uh, yeah? (incoherent cartoon babble) Spiderman's here (babble continues) You know I can't-I can't fight. I can only flip! (babble continues) Ok I'll try. Uhh...boss told me to fight you. Boss told you to fight me? Okay, I'll let you get a shot in, go ahead. Oh come on you again? Though she be but little she is fierce Let's squish this spider. Wow, the tension is insaneeee let me help you out with that! Did we go to the same karate school together? Ohhh- you really don't want to talk Hyah! I guess Sensei didn't teach you that one Time to get serious Ow! Well that hurt! More for you, more for you, and mmm! Thank you! Ready for take off! This is kind of like that Just give me glasses, and call me Keanu Reeves. Duck! Duck! / Goose! / Duck! / Ahhh! /Ahhhhhhhhhh! What am I doing here? I'm not a watcher. I'm not a fighter. I know who I am. I'm a flipper! who did you see that? you saw that? we did that! we did that! oh wow okay okay listen to me! don't quote me on this don't move stop, all right? There's some really weird flipping guy behind you and it looks like he's about to attack you So let's do this all right? Duck down! Be a table! There you go! Turn around arm there we go come on! Oh I got you! I know what we're doing! One! Two! Ugh! Again again again! Woo! Your friendly neighborhood table! I've never had two Spider-Man it's kind of a recent development / Ow! Dude he can see our faces! Don't worry about it! I fight this guy all the time he always forgets what I look like. What are we going to do? I have a plan all right? You run behind him, you be a table. It's what I'm good at! / Yep! I'll blind him you blast him! Stop crawling on me insect! Actually it would be arachnid! I bet you feel real silly (GYATT!) I gotcha spidey! Miles... Woah! Dude, you saved my life. What was that? Bio-electricity. It comes handy. why don't you just use that the whole time? It takes a lot out of me. Oh Hey man you got a bug on your chest! Hey man just web me up! I'm done with my life of crime! I love you man! Ha! I beat my guys first!..Nerd. Come on, you didn't even beat your last guy! You just tricked him! And? Plus this one is Invincible! Just die already just die!..Okay. Ohhh come on man you made me lose! All right whatever all right just go ahead lay down on the ground for me you know I could let you rob that store just to prove to my co-Spider-Man that he did not in fact beat his guys But I can't! I got a responsibility with all this power so Just uh sit tight I'll web you up and wait for the cops. I mean it's not like you have a choice Hey, hey you hear that? What is that? No! (Screams) Spider-Man!!! Here. I wanna give you this spider sticker Thank you You're welcome Everybody makes mistakes sometimes It's okay. They hurt but they're not sad. they'll be okay. you'll be okay. thank you Can I give you a hug? yeah thank you so much. You're welcome. Have a great day! You too! I'll put it right here. Yo, yo Miles what is you doing here bro you know you butt. Just clearing my mind and getting some shots up Hey bro you good bro? Cuz you know I'm a senior and everything bro you know I'm about to get up out of here bro. No I got this really big secret and like It's been weighin' on me you know what I mean? Well, how-how big is your secret? As big as Miss Riley's forehead All right bro but tell me more what's up with this secret bro? Well if I told you then it wouldn't be a secret anymore why you say that? cuz you got a big mouth. hey bro, you got me there on that one but you know I just started thinking right you actually remind me of something bro. Yo, you remind me of a spider. Yeah that's what it is, a spider. Real mysterious and secretive. And you're also black, yeah. That's what it is. You're really black All right bro, all right yeah yeah. I don't know it's just... How do I tell the people that I love that I made a really big mistake? Maybe you should start by telling them the secret. Why would I do that? Look bro you can't hide secrets from the ones that you love cuz if you hiding secrets from the ones that you love, how do you expect to gain any of their trust? you know what I'm saying? Look at it this way let me see. Lying is like a basketball. The more that you use it, the more worn out it's gonna be. you're going to regret it bro. Trust me. I trust you. All right so what's up with the secret? I appreciate that though bro, all right? You my mans. Yo bro where you going? Yo where you going? I'm revealing my secret hey bro hey yo you still trash bruh! Take that sorry basketball bruh I don't care about it that much anyway. look and I- I know you don't like him that much but I'm Spider-Man. Hey hey hey hey you alright? you alright? hey what's going on what's? Hey you got to talk to me unc. You got to talk to me all right? you got to talk to me what what happened? what happened? hey hey hey hey hey what's up what's up man what's up what happened? what hey no no no no no no no no no you got to talk to me you got to talk to me Unc, aight? what's going on what's going- no no no no no no no no no C'mon, c'mon, c'mon. Unc, you gotta wake up. What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? Hey. Hey. Hey. Hey. No- What? no-no. Miles can we talk where we first met? I-some stuff happened I don't like- I don't like the way we ended things Bye oh my God Yeah um. I'm Peter Parker I'm at Maggie Lane. there's some girl just like lying on the floor. my God oh my God MJ! It's okay it's okay. MJ? What happened? Peter! MJ MJ! An ambulance is coming, okay? Don't worry. MJ...MJ What happened? I-I don't know he-he was behind me. Who was behind you? I heard-I-I heard this voice he said something it sounded like a teenager. What did he say? What did he say MJ? Something about his uncle...Aaron. What? Peter! Feel like a memory like are you my friend or my enemy? (It doesn't sound like a coincidence it sounds like he's trynna replace you!) They all just ahead of me. You switched up and now you are dead to me Yeah all ya'll is dead to me (I don't want you to get hurt man.) Miles why'd you do this? We can talk about this okay? Calm down. we don't need to talk. [Music] h [Music] [Music] [Music] welcome back [Music] [Music] [ __ ] [Music] [Music] I know how you feel my no you don't make you feel worse hack [Music] [Music] s [Music] [Music] miles with great power comes a whole lot of women [Music] e God miles how do you still have this in I'm done it's not done it's not [Music] on [Music] you chose this why' you kill my uncle I lying why'd you kill MJ you're so sure that you can't even start a conversation I was like this one smes don't let it why'd you kill him why'd you do it [Music] you finally did it when those arachnids will survive and then we can pick up his him to our collection what if they both leave why because rage is all consuming it until the other is dead and then Grace come out this is a sound that I've been ticking Time Bomb ready to blow up at any moment well of course but you got to tell me how you did killed off their respective best friends after do my character work yes I do you wonderful psycho didn't even have to lie to them they were so Hopper causing both of the world to combine into what was happening they had no idea it was me of my father's goons to go distract them while I isn't it first I went to miles's Uncle's house and blood anywhere then I used a web solution I picked brilant but what about Peter good question after this is for Uncle Aaron so she couldn't see love honey believe me I'll have your heart on business and the family won't like this The Bu JY counts [Music] ooh can we get this show on the road is pretty Mr Json your coffee's ready could rolling an explosion today killed three people just Spider-Man he had a little friend with a hero how come two of them couldn't stop a crook he's a scoundrel that Spider-Man that Spider-Man is behind a web proof cell you know what America I won't rest until that them Peter could you pick up some more of you needan oh and why were you talking on phone I wanted to feel vintage okay bye a lot since my friendly neighborhood swinging and all at once I miss Mrs Johnson and getting her simpler times simpler times my world's a lot Infinity of Worlds and that's God that's this uncertainty I know who I am and I know I'm afraid but I'm choosing to go forward anyway lost and for people I don't even know because [Music] w [Music] la [Music] [Music] done are you miles Mor whoa whoa no no my house how did you no no who do how do you get in my house get out get here got a lot to explain gr visual oh sorry [Music] watch out the clock may your life's over choosing worry you will get white as you get older to learn the mind is like an all oh and R thees when will piles up and it feels like the end of space wish what shall the classmate take again your life's shoulder don't worry you will get wise as you get tonight swimming down a pool of s out will you TR make a mistakes the watch just piles up and one what should I [Music] [Applause] do reality you're to reality you're not as see is into reality you're might e into reality you're seem not as alone as you might tell Ricky to be ready with the well hurry up then before that damn spider sees us no yeah totally wouldn't want that guy to ruin your honeymoon guys but the reviews definitely break it to a better place than doing again you got some sort of Spider Sense or [Music] whoa CH we little to respect [Music] I don't know where I am but right [Applause] guys hi guys wait a minute to another Universe Barbie there's so many my fate? / Oh boy! First chillin in Hogwarts with Dumbledore and now here?! here so we've been then some choose to see somay we'll find it the Rainbow Connection the [Music]