Well, I guess it's finally time to say goodbye through so much together! Trying to figure even what level your Pikachu is. It's weird it can't be over! I know you finally achieved Hey, I'm sure we'll still be if anyone's going to be able to figure out a You really mean that? *sniff* Wait, how I can keep theorizing about you! aye Pikachu? Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory, the Masters are the ones that catch the subscribe I not ready to catch all the feels when Pokemon 52 badges, 83 Pokemon (so long as you count 30 Ash Ketchum is finally retiring as the Ash finally achieved his dream and became the Ultimate Journeys, which meant that realistically, a character. He is literally the best like no just end. That machine needs to keep on printing new faces, new heroes to learn the same And in the latest trailer, we got series set in the Paldea region from and Violet Games. But instead of Ash, we Immediately after the release of this singular these characters. "They're going to be mentored final episode of Ashes Season." "Ash is going one theory seemed to rise above the rest: is going to be revealed as Ash's daughter. And keep Ash a part of the series. The evidence they Riko has black hair, at least partially, But more importantly, she's wearing a hair to the L symbol from Ashes Original cap careful eyed fans notice the necklace that the Thunder Stone that Pikachu refused to Could it be that her pops, Ash Ketchum, gave struggles and not taking the easy way out? some to be a nod to Rika Matsumoto, the And the theories didn't stop there either. Once the Internet did what it loves to do, good who then is the mother? Each corner ideas to prove that their favorite But looking around, it seemed pretty clear that rather than the cold, hard facts of science. So break out the old paternity test. Ready your eye debate today. If Ash is truly the father of Riko, complete list of potential matches, shall we? If sense that her mother would be a character that it could just wind up being some random girl to before, but that'd be pretty lame. So instead many female companions over the course of the a comprehensive list of maybe-mommies to find candidates in total. Obviously we have Misty Generation, Dawn from Diamond and Pearl, Lillie Mallow and Lana from Sun and Moon and But to be extra thorough here, I also tossed characters who showed some passing romantic This list includes Melody from Pokemon: The Movie Sinnoh, one-off characters that developed crushes We also have Lyra from Diamond rival characters who outright tell that if they don't make a move on Ash, Finally, we of course have Latias. Yep, this particular nugget of lore at the end of The Pokemon Latias in the form of a girl named whole gang as well as everyone in the audience. were considered canon. So with our complete list to use our greatest companion science, to narrow Let's start with eye color, shall we? times on this show. So to quickly two copies of each of their genes. One These genes come in different flavors or for the traits that are stronger and cover it comes to eye color, there are actually If you inherit a blue allele from your well, congratulations. You got yourself blue and two green give you green. Super simple. But Well, in the case of eye color, Brown is going green is just somewhere in the middle. it's going to butt in in like Jessie's Wobbuffet. It means you're likely going to have one green Allele and one blue, they're is dominant over blue. The only way to get Knowing that, let's then apply it to Riko. Since two recessive blue alleles. Except, that already just like his mom. Sure, Ash may have brown eyes children, but it makes the odds of him having a true that Riko's mother could also have herself Ash is the father, that the mom has to have blue As such, we're going to eliminate all the eliminates Iris, Lillie, Mallow, Chloe, Angie, knocked Latias out right away because the idea of each other would definitely be... uncomfortable. Okay. The heart wants what the who am I to deny this man his happiness? and Misty on the bubble because their Sometimes it's blue, sometimes it's is actually labeled as Viridian, which is to keep them both in the running for now. it's time to look at our second favorite genetic determined by the presence or absence of two brown pigment. And pheomelanin; a yellowish two as dials that can be turned up and down to If your hair contains high levels of eumelanin is going to be a dark color such as black or and high levels of pheomelanin, then your hair is And in between those is just a whole other that we've seen for Rico, it's kind of hard to lighting. However, looking at this brief scene clearer that her hair is black with blue under that are hidden underneath the top layer of hair. in our world, but this is an anime, weird colored So we're going to have to make some non-natural colors. Since more hair that most likely means that there just must be Therefore, there are more dials that we can play a dial for green hair, purple hair, and most is both black and blue, that means that the genes If Ash is the father, that then explains the mom that has blue hair to contribute that half Serena and Misty shippers out there, because have both blue eyes and blue hair. Dawn from So now that we've narrowed it down to two, between our two female finalists. How Well, normally I'd go to earlobes it isn't nearly that complicated. All we at their eyes. If you look at Dawn's eyes the whites of her eyes known as the sclera, Now take a look at Lana. Notice anything even weirder is the fact that her pupils And this isn't just part of the weird redesign Every other lead character has themselves trait here because the only other same quirky look are Lana's parents and It is a trait that is passed between she's lacking that crucial family be the mother. And so we come to the end of true shipping partner is, in fact, She's got blue eyes to pass on the blue underlights and actual pupils that her it. Ash and Dawn together forever. Unless I did a lot of research for this episode, that the initial premise this entire online earthquake. This whole time we've been working But no, it just doesn't make sense. Let's the design is undeniably a reference to Ash's test. Riko is just as likely to have gotten that You know what else that hair clip looks like? the real father is. No accounting for taste, I thunder stone necklace that supposedly While it would make for a great that Thunder Stone all these years and a symbol of how Pikachu and Ash It would be a complete retcon of what we see to that Thunder Stone. It was originally and after Pikachu rejects it, the fate of the it does finally show up again in Pearl Arc. In this episode, Ash reveals In the episode the pair has to face off Ash and Pikachu must once again contemplate love that it's not just enough to recycle the the same Pokemon. Like why not a dragon Nope. Those darn Raichu just always causing you as you can probably guess, they decide time there's a twist. Team Rocket and at the end of the episode In short, the thunder stone is long gone And before you say it, no. Riko is not I checked. Even the genetics are against Ash. Sure, Ash could have a recessive blue allele hair thing. Characters with black hair a dozen. Just take Goh from Journeys or For completeness I also ran an analysis the likelihood of it being Ash was minimal. If Burnham is secretly Dream's father. You'll know So I found the best shots of all did some pixel measurements, put them and the results were surprising. Most of the women Basically, all of them were categorized as a heart so it doesn't really help me narrow the daughters are supposed to get a balanced shapes. And while Ash's measurements other proportions are too big to match his cheeks are wider and his forehead is on that one. All of this means that Ash's any of the companions on the show in order to The science just doesn't add up. going to end up having some significant am more than happy with that. While yeah, legendary Ash Ketchum go on her own journey I also think it would kind of defeat the purpose place. Pokemon is a story about how anyone determination. Ash started off as a derpy screw He had good intentions and a great he still doesn't have a lot of everything does not a strategy make. But He's gone through more than his he's achieved his childhood dream. To just falling into the trap that so many other that you have to be one of the It undermines that core idea that this trainer things to change, but it's also okay. I also as a surprise battle for Riko towards the end of while yes, I am loath to see Ash go. I'm he really should have gotten with Serena or Misty MY GAME GAMER OPINION! Thanks for listening. And hey, if you're still not ready to say episode where we figured out how old he really we've been talking about in this episode. take a look at the video on the right to see calculated Pikachu's actual level. For both of up with accurate conclusions, so if you could make it worth all the hard work. Now, if