Pokemon come in lots of different shapes and popular, both casually and competitively speaking, Legendaries, Starters, Paradox, not that last one. Pokemon belonging to these but they don't always function as well as let's take a look at some Pokemon with I feel like we almost always go in generational with one of Game Freak's newest gimmicks that's PARADOX POKEMON. The majority of these I mean, uh, revisions to popular Pokemon to make could have imagined that the silly little gimmicky strongest Pokemon in only about a billion years huh? But if one Pokemon from the future didn't have to be Iron Thorns. For starters, Iron Thorns base stat total than the Pokemon it was based on. discounting the ones based on the Beast Trio, who are just built different, Iron Thorns actually who has 600. But even when not comparing it Iron Thorns is still not great in a vacuum. defensive typings in the game, as it leaves Iron Quark Drive is also an ability that just doesn't other Paradox Pokemon. For starters, with the Future Paradoxes are inherently disadvantaged to they have to rely on Electric Terrain to activate Electric Terrain setter in the game outside of But most Paradox Pokemon get the most out of their Iron Bundle, Flutter Mane, Roaring Moon, etcetera. will even spec into their speed stat, because the the boost it grants to other stats. Unfortunately the same effect, as most of the time its highest attack boost means nothing if its gets KO'd before Bolt, Slither Wing and Iron Hands all at least of an offensive boost, but Iron Thorns doesn't and you have a Tyranitar with worse typing, worse and an item slot it has to sacrifice aside from its dope looking Shiny, none of the But fortunately, he's not alone in this category. underwhelming compared to its original version. a pseudo legendary: It's a mushroom. Yup, we're pretty much been the laughing stock of Paradox more than 100 points in its base stat total by the original in every way. Part of the Photosynthesis, the past Paradoxes version of Paradox Pokemon, and is a massive downgrade from is also a terrible type combination for a Pokemon Meowscarada, it would be a great typing change. it has to endure a massive 7 weaknesses, including carrying U-Turn in competitive formats, this every match. Also, the biggest nerf of all: It's giggle like a 12 year old whenever I hear it. where almost every Paradox Pokemon is considered that these two were such colossal flops. It's and Amoonguss so good to begin with. almost all of them have been at the pinnacle of Kommo-o would like to thank Ultra Sun and Ultra terrorizing VGC with its incredibly broken Z-Move. top was Goodra. Unlike most pseudo legendaries opponents, Goodra tops out at 110 special but not so much in 2024. Instead, much of Goodra's Defense, where it has a commendable 150. The so Play Rough kinda tears through this thing. It's typing, which means, no second STAB option. do big damage, which usually only works once. And Goodra is meant to be a wall, and not an attacker, often than not forced to run nothing but attacking access to decent support-oriented moves, it correct this problem at all with Hisuian Goodra. with a good secondary typing, patches up that speed that doesn't really make a difference, that is very offensively focused. While Goodra is just doesn't have the stuff to make it a fantastic about. Is this a bad time to mention that Why can't I just like things that are good? of my viewers aren't subscribed, so if you wanna Moving along, what about Mega Evolutions? There Audino, but even with the additional 100 points to base stat totals, so I'll leave 'em alone for now. total of 580 is Mega Glalie. But despite being most Ultra Beasts, and even a lot of Legendaries, And understandably so, they had to take a Pokemon somehow fashion a niche for it. And what is that but it's true. While Refrigerate is an extremely only move that takes advantage of it. Mega Glalie does. It's a Pokemon with offensive stats and an built for support. It has extremely limited The only other Mega Evolution I want to bring to Mewtwo X. With its record-tying base stat total can't get, yeah, I know somebody was typing that me. Mega Mewtwo X certainly deserves its spot in first and foremost, Mega Mewtwo Y is just...better. is already good at: being a devastating special still has 130 speed, that number is definitely else you want me to say about that, they're both the way that Mewtwo plays, making it turn Mewtwo's physical movepool is just kinda Like you have to run Zen Headbutt with only 90% use the more reliable Psychic. And while Mewtwo think is an advantage, its only reliable physical neither of which are influential enough to really to the table. Furthermore, whenever Mega Mewtwo that titans like Xerneas, Mega Rayquaza, Primal and in general those were just much more X, who already gets outclassed by Mega Mewtwo other powerful Legendaries that just offer more both singles and doubles, Mega Mewtwo X was almost Another classification of Pokemon that was from high base stats were the Ultra Beasts. For like the cases of Pheromosa and Kartana, one Ultra Beast whose stats didn't do it you would think it's not that bad. It just kinda with enough attack to actually let it do damage. discussed, the moves don't match the Pokemon. the ONLY thing it should be doing. With 223 base but it just doesn't. On top of that, Guzzlord's Dark / Dragon typing was an absolute curse in Gen types to the top of the tier list. There could not Pokemon with a double weakness to them. No wonder in terror. (insert clip of anime screams) in as an Ultra Beast, because it can't get similar to Quark Drive and Protosynthesis in a to be better for fast, sweeper Pokemon, than it get a boost to its defensive stats, but with there's no hope of that happening. So that it's much more unlikely to take advantage of. because all of these Pokemon are well known abilities. Slaking, Regigigas and Archeops all incredible stats. Stats that were honestly just stat total means nothing when its attack and speed some usage now because of Weezing's Neutralizing Slaking, despite being an average Pokemon with Beast, matches that same base stat total...but loses its incredible attack the moment it hits they'd probably have no drawbacks at all, or at were just all created before Game Freak stopped Unfortunately, we do have to talk about starter are pretty much designed to be the aces a respectable base stat total of 530. This means Meganium. Ignoring the fact that the Johto region types a living hell, Meganium is simply not built mono-Grass type which right off the bat, is not isn't great offensively or defensively, it's it gets passed on both in competitive contexts think that Meganium just gets hate for being most people just feel bad for Meganium, I know fair share of the time, it's just a Pokemon that And for the newest additions to the high base stat we have two of the Loyal Three Legendaries: presence in singles gets it excluded. We'll start it's a glass cannon Poison/Psychic type that likes physical defense stat means that basically any that's a lot of them, will threaten this thing pulling off a sweep. It also just doesn't have base 130 special attack, Poison and Psychic are and the fact that this dude has to run Focus go ahead and stand in the unemployment line for many common Pokemon. Also, because Munkidori as it is for the other two members of its trio, literally useless in VGC because open team sheets As for Fezandipiti, if I looked at just its stats Gen 2 Pokemon, not a Gen 9 Legendary. This Pokemon released, with a fantastic ability in Toxic Chain, Sludge Wave, Icy Wind to increase the poison emerge as a great Pokemon in VGC. But the as all this Pokemon really does is spread poison is nice for VGC, but there are just far better other Legendaries like Tornadus are allowed. Steel type Pokemon who dominate the metagame and lacks any good moves to do substantial damage but with base 70 special attack, you won't be and can succeed in stalling situations in lot of faults that hold back its true potential. just aren't that you can think of? Let me know a like if you enjoyed, subscribe for more videos