[This talk contains graphic language So, this is the first and the last slide each of my 6,400 students I do not believe you can build unless you are clear on which instinct Our species has a need for a superbeing. Our competitive advantage Our brain is robust enough to ask but, unfortunately, it doesn't have which creates a need for a superbeing that we can pray to What is prayer? Sending a query into the universe, and hopefully there's some sort we don't need to understand from an all-knowing, all-seeing superbeing that gives us authority &quot;Will my kid be all right?&quot; You have your planet of stuff, you have your planet of work, you have your planet of friends. If you have kids, you know that once something everything melts, in your universe &quot;Will my kid be all right?&quot; &quot;Symptoms and treatment of croup&quot; One in six queries presented to Google in the history of mankind. What priest, teacher, rabbi, scholar, that one in six questions have never been asked before? Google is our modern man's God. Imagine your face and your name and you're going to realize in your history. (Laughter) Let's move further down the torso. (Laughter) One of the other wonderful things is we not only need to be loved, Children with poor nutrition have better outcomes than children However, the best signal to be part of the number-one fastest centenarians, people there are three signals. In reverse order: your genetics -- so you can continue to treat and think, &quot;Oh, Uncle Joe lived to 95, the die have been cast.&quot; It's less important than you think. Number two is lifestyle. Don't smoke, don't be obese, get rid of about two-thirds and cardiovascular disease. The number one indicator or signal How many people do you love? Caretaking is the security camera -- we call the low-resolution deciding whether or not Facebook taps into our instinctive need but to love others, mostly through pictures catalyze and reinforce our relationships. Let's continue our journey down the torso. Amazon is our consumptive gut. The instinct of more is hardwired into us. The penalty for too little Open your cupboards, open your closets, you have 10 to 100x times what you need. Why? Because the penalty than the penalty for too much. So &quot;more for less&quot; is a business strategy It's the strategy of China, it's a the strategy of Walmart, and now it's the strategy of the most Amazon. You get more for less into your gut; digest, send it to your muscular Moving further, once we know we will survive, we move to the second and that is to spread and select to the four corners of the earth, or pick the best seed. This is not a timepiece. I haven't wound it in five years. It's my vain attempt to say to people, &quot;If you mate with me, than if you mate with someone (Laughter) The key to business is tapping into &quot;Irrational&quot; is Harvard Business School's for fat profit margins &quot;High-caloric paste for your children.&quot; No? You love your choosy mom. Why choosy moms choose Jif: The greatest algorithm for shareholder to the advent of Google was taking an average product You're a better a mom, if you buy this average soap Now, the number one algorithm Look at the Forbes 400. Take out inherited wealth, The number one source of wealth creation: appealing to your reproductive organs. The Lauders; the number Numbers two and three: H&amp;M and Inditex. You want to target the most As a result, these four companies -- have disarticulated who we are. God, love, consumption, sex. The proportion in your approach and they have reassembled who we are At the end of the Great Recession, the market capitalization to the GDP of Niger. Now it is equivalent to the GDP of India, having blown past There are only five nations that have a GDP greater of these four firms. Something is happening, though. The conversation just a year ago Who was running for president? Now the worm has turned. Everything they're doing is bothering us. We're worried they're tax avoiders. Walmart, since the Great Recession, in corporate income tax; Amazon has paid 1.4. How do we pay our firefighters, if the most successful companies Pretty easy. That means the less successful more than their fair share. Alexa, is this a good thing? This is despite that fact -- (Laughter) This is despite the fact that Amazon has added the entire to its market cap in the last 19 months. Whose fault is it? It's our fault. We're electing regulators to actually go after these companies. Facebook lies to EU regulators and says, &quot;It would be impossible between our core platform Approve the merger.&quot; They approve the merger and then -- And the EU says, &quot;I feel lied to. We're fining you 120 [million] dollars,&quot; about .6 percent of the acquisition price If Mark Zuckerberg could take out that the acquisition would wouldn't he do it? Anticompetitive behavior. A two-and-a-half-billion-dollar fine, three billion of the cash flow, three percent of the cash We are telling these companies, the shareholder-driven thing to do, is to lie and to cheat.&quot; We are issuing 25-cent parking tickets on a meter that costs 100 dollars an hour. The smart thing to do is lie. Job destruction! Amazon only needs one person If they grow their business 20 billion we will lose 53,000 cashiers and clerks. This is nothing unusual; this has happened all through our economy, we've just never seen That's one Yankee Stadium of workers. It's even worse in media. If Facebook and Google 22 billion dollars this year, we're going to lose approximately planners and copywriters. Or we can fill up two-and-a-half and say, &quot;You are out of work, We now get the majority of our news and the majority of our news fake news. (Laughter) I am not allowed to be political or talk about religion in class, so I can definitely not say, &quot;Zuckerberg has become Putin's bitch.&quot; I definitely cannot say that. (Laughter) Their defense: &quot;Facebook is not a media company; You create original content, you pay sports leagues you run advertising against it -- Just in the last few days, Sheryl Sandberg has repeated this lie, Facebook has openly embraced and the influence of a media company yet seems to be allergic of a media company. Imagine McDonald's. We find 80 percent of their beef is fake, and it's giving us encephalitis, and we're making terrible decisions. And we say, &quot;McDonald's, And they say, &quot;Wait, wait -- we're not a fast-food restaurant, we're a fast-food platform.&quot; (Laughter) These companies and CEOs wrap themselves in a neon-blue pink rainbow to create an illusionist trick which is more indicative Why? Because we as progressives If Sheryl Sandberg had written or on the pro-life movement, would they be flying Sheryl to Cannes? No. And I'm not doubting but it foots to shareholder value, because we as progressives They're so nice -- remember Microsoft? They didn't seem as nice, and regulators stepped in much earlier who would never step in I'm about to get on a plane tonight, and I'm going to have a guy If I am suspected of a DUI I can have blood taken from my person. But wait! Don't tap into the iPhone -- it's sacred. This is our new cross. It shouldn't be the iPhone X, it should be called the &quot;iPhone Cross.&quot; We have our religion; it's Apple. Our Jesus Christ is Steve Jobs, and we've decided this is holier or our computer. We have become totally out of control with the gross idolatry We no longer worship of kindness, but of innovation and people Amazon has become so powerful it can conduct Jedi mind tricks. It can begin damaging other industries Nike announces they're distributing every other footwear stock goes down. When Amazon stock goes up, because they assume what's good They cut the cost on salmon 33 percent In between the time they announced and when it closed, Kroger, the largest shed a third of its value, because Amazon purchased a grocer I got very lucky. I predicted the acquisition the week before it happened. This is me boasting; I said This was the largest they'd never made and people asked, &quot;How did you know this?&quot; So I'm letting this very impressive How did I know this? I'm going to tell you how I knew. I bark at Alexa all day long and try to figure out what's going on. (Scott Galloway) Alexa, buy whole milk. (Alexa) I couldn't find so I've added whole milk SG: Then I asked, (SG) Alexa, buy organic foods. (Alexa) The top search result is Plum Organics baby food, 12-pack of four ounces each. It's 15 dollars total. Would you like to buy it? SG: And then, as often happens at my age, I got confused. (SG) Alexa, buy whole foods. (Alexa) I have purchased the outstanding at 42 dollars per share. I have charged 13.7 billion (Laughter) SG: I thought that'd be funnier. (Laughter) We've personified these companies, and just as when you're really angry in your life and relationships, you've got to ask yourself, &quot;What's going on here? I believe it's because the ratio of shareholder value and 99 percent the betterment of humanity that technology used to play has been flipped, and now we're totally focused One hundred thousand people came together and literally saved the world. Technology saved the world. My mother was a four-year-old Jew If we had not won the footrace would she have survived? It's unlikely. Twenty-five years later, the most impressive accomplishment, put a man on the moon. Four hundred thirty thousand Canadians, again, with very basic technology, and put a man on the moon. Now we have the 700,000 and these are the best and brightest They are literally playing with lasers relative to the squirt gun. They have the GDP of India to work at. And after studying I know what their mission is. Is it to organize the world's information? Is it to connect us? Is it to create greater comity of man? It isn't. I know why we have brought together -- I know that the greatest collection that their sole mission is: to sell another fucking Nissan. My name is Scott Galloway, I teach at NYU, (Applause) Chris Anderson: Not planned, but you prompted (Laughter) That was a spectacular rant. SG: Is this like Letterman? When you do well, CA: No, no, you're going to the heart Everyone's aware that after years suddenly the worm has turned and in such a big way. To some people here, it will just feel you're kicking the kids who've already Don't you feel any empathy SG: None whatsoever. Look, this is the issue: it's not their fault, it's our fault. They're for-profit companies. They're not concerned They're not going to take care of us We have set up a society that values and they're doing what But we need to elect people, and we need to force to be subject to the same scrutiny that the rest of business CA: There's another narrative that is arguably equally which is that there actually is good I won't say everyone, necessarily -- many of the employees. We all know people who work and they still are pretty convincing so, the alternative narrative unintended consequences here, that the technologies the algorithms, that we're attempting have A, resulted in weird effects that we weren't expecting; and B, made themselves vulnerable oh, I don't know, Russian and doing things that we didn't expect. Isn't the unintended consequence SG: I don't think -- I'm pretty sure, statistically, they're no less or better people that has 100,000 or more people. I don't think they're bad people. As a matter of fact, I would argue that there's a lot of very But this is the issue: when you control 90 percent that is now bigger than the entire and you're primarily compensated for you and the families to increase that market share, you can't help but leverage And that is the basis for regulation, and it's the basis for the truism that power corrupts. They're not bad people; we've just let them get out of control. CA: So maybe the case I know at least a bit -- Larry Page, for example, Jeff Bezos -- I don't actually believe &quot;I've got to sell a fucking Nissan.&quot; I don't think they think that. I think they are trying to build in moments of reflection, as horrified that some of the things So is there a different way to say that when your model that there are dangers there SG: I think it's very difficult to pursue shareholder value They're not non-profits. The reason people go to work there for them and their families, mostly first and foremost. And when you get to a point where you use all the weapons at your disposal. I don't think they're bad people, but I think the role of government and people who elect our officials is to ensure that there And we have given because we find them just so fascinating. CA: Scott, eloquently put, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, you're welcome to come and make Scott, thank you so much. SG: Thanks very much. (Applause)