NARRATOR: The animal kingdom... a remarkable collection of living, Enthralling... impressive... tenacious... and nurturing. Innovative... tough... surprising... always genuine. Discover their past, Just breathtaking. Just intriguing. Just tremendous. Just animals. (SOFT MUSIC) Insects... the multitude Earth is It's been estimated there are 1.4 billion of them. Of all known animal species, insects make up at least 80 percent (SOFT GENTLE MUSIC) These delicate appendages to the extraordinary success They are the only invertebrates The power of flight to broaden their horizons, taking them farther afield or to help make a swift escape. Survival is something Members of this class for hundreds of millions of years... some pre-dating and outliving Though small, The only environments are those near active volcanoes... and the frozen extremes. At times, they may be annoying, Pollination... decomposition... environmentally friendly food... and ethereal beauty. A small sample of the gifts (SOFT INDUSTRIOUS MUSIC) The diversity of insects yet they all have a body made of three parts. What they do not have is a backbone, The fact that they lack a spine More than 90 percent of the planet's Corals, jellyfish and clams are all types of invertebrates, as are arthropods. There are four types crustaceans... myriapods... arachnids... and insects. A tough external skeleton is one distinguishing feature Members of this class and at least three pairs (CLASSICAL MUSIC) While some of their close relatives insects only ever have three pairs. (SOFT MUSIC) Three seems to be a special number their bodies comprised of a head, The head is tasked with feeding Insects have one pair and up to three simple eyes light sensitive organs. An insect's head is adorned located between or above the eyes. Typically, an insect's mouth has that move from side to side... and claw-like lower jaws that manipulate food. The mid-section of an insect's body Transport is its main task. A thorax is made up of each with its own pair of legs. The last two segments on an insect's a pair of wings, known as forewings Finally the abdomen, the largest, Within it are the organs reproduction and perhaps Insects don't have lungs, instead they breathe in air connected to a series of pores located along both sides The science world has classified Which insect is the largest? There are a few contenders, One of the biggest Found in the Amazon rainforest, they Similar in size is the Another impressive example with wings wider At the other end of the insect such as fruit flies, which Approximately three to six times for the tiniest known insects - the fairy wasps. Be they titans or simply tiny, insects are truly fascinating. (SOFT TRANQUIL MUSIC) 5.5 million - a recent estimate of the number that fly, hop and crawl Of the known insects, the largest better known as beetles. Coleoptera means 'sheath wings', in reference to the hard that encase a beetle's hind wings. (SOFT TRANQUIL MUSIC) These miniature warriors named for their distinctive 'horns'. Only the males have horns, to compete for mating rights Rainbow stag beetles from New Guinea (BIRDS CHIRP) (SOFT MUSIC) Weevils are also classed as beetles this unusual example The long necks of the males are used This next type of beetle may be While many ladybirds are bright red, they can come in yellow and orange Another large, diverse order or Dipterans, Mosquitos are an infamous Slender bodies, long antennae Their fly cousins sturdy bodies and short antennae. (UPBEAT MUSIC) A group of insects often seen are butterflies and moths. Again, their wings are responsible Lepidoptera which means To differentiate between there are various clues to look for. Butterflies tend to be vibrant and rest with their finely-scaled In comparison, moths have furry, When settled, The next group of insects are named the Hymenoptera. Bees... wasps... and ants are some common examples. Bees tend to have furry, In contrast, wasps have bare tubular In the ant world, only reproductive and then only during (SOFT GUITAR MUSIC) Insects are often generally called but there is only one group the critters that They all share one common feature - a sucking mouthpart. Another order of sucking insects better known as fleas. These small, flightless parasites Dragonflies and their aviation the design of helicopters. They, along with damselflies, One type of insect that can evoke a type of Blattodean, a Latin Termites also belong to this order, Apart from looks, do share something - It's true that some insects but others can spark intrigue, such as the phasmids, (QUIRKY BASS MUSIC) This is a baby or nymph pretending to be a fearsome ant. Keeping a lower profile is a native of the Western Pacific, While camouflage is a speciality Orthopterans are especially talented This agile group includes With such incredible diversity, the 29 orders of the insect world to captivate any that take time (SOFT UPBEAT MUSIC) To survive and thrive insects rely on an assortment One way insects ensure their kind is to produce a large number While not all of them make it, This survival strategy is more about rather than the individual. Another survival tactic some insects Ants and termites, plus some bees organised colonies, working This is known as eusocial behaviour. Members of a colony have With honey bees, Male drones breed with the queen, and the female workers such as caring for larvae, Acting 'as one' has its benefits, No matter their size, their own natural 'suit of armour' - their tough exoskeleton. An insect's exterior can also Some simply choose to blend in... while others take things Stick insects are masters of their bodies taking on the This huntsman spider is crawling Should their camouflage fail them, peppermint stick insects the ability to douse an attacker Equally unappetising of an orchard swallowtail butterfly The mottled skin of these make them look like bird droppings. (UPBEAT MUSIC) When it comes to survival, an Aerial transport boosts their suitable environments... and to quickly escape threats. Wings can also help Some butterflies have 'eyespots' that are thought or draw their attention away Bright colours and striking patterns Animals that use this tactic Using their bodies like a billboard they are unappetising Bad tastes and smells insects defend themselves. If threatened bees, wasps and ants can strike back with venom-laced (FAST PACED MUSIC) Another means of escape is jumping. A centipede is on the prowl It's found a target. (RAPID TEMPO) This predator is fast... but the hind legs of the cricket (SOFT PIPE MUSIC) Catering skills are a must and desert-dwelling honeypot ants to ensure their masses Hanging from the ceiling are living 'storage vessels' - During the rainy season the repletes are fed, drop by drop, plus body fluids from prey. Then, when the seasons change the repletes are ready to serve up (SOFT STRING MUSIC) The leafcutter ant is another innovative provider. As their name suggests, these The cuttings are then marched To help keep them on track, Leafcutter ants don't actually Instead, this plant material that produces an edible fungus for Like other animals, to help them interpret Compound eyes and ocelli sensory organs that detect light. Mechanoreceptors sense movement, Hairs are the simplest Clumps of these sensitive hairs on legs, or close to joints. Some insects 'hear' drum-like membranes, the abdomen or on the front leg. For smells in the air insects have chemoreceptors. The mouth has many taste receptors, but they also exist on their Thanks to their senses, well-honed adaptations these comparatively small creatures are an immense success (SOFT TRANQUIL MUSIC) There's no doubt that dinosaurs left on Earth's history... but insects have as well. Some of these ancient critters over those reptilian giants. While the earliest dinosaurs the ancestors of insects for at least twice that time. When terrestrial plants began to so did insects. Dragonflies are the closest to the first winged insects. Approximately 300 million years ago, prehistoric insects dragonfly-like creatures had It's thought these early insects were able to reach because oxygen levels 100 million years later, fossil evidence shows grasshoppers In another 30 million years, Flies, ants, bees, and wasps After the fall of the dinosaurs, it was time for praying mantises As for their arthropod cousins, researchers believe that insects went their separate ways between Myriapods are just as ancient... and the first spiders beat dinosaurs So, in the grand scheme of life being small is no disadvantage. (CURIOUS UPBEAT MUSIC) One of the qualities is their wide range Some are instinctive, such as the act of grooming... or knowing when and how Another is how insects move to a source of light - known as This innate habit of keeping the sun helps an insect in flight In addition, Worker honeybees show off every time they leave the hive. In order to make it back they must memorise landmarks. One behaviour insects are famous for (CICADAS DRONE) Their use of sound to communicate Male cicadas make their calls by vibrating membranes Another way 'signals' can be Many insects produce pheromones, chemicals that prompt changes of the same species. A trail can be laced with pheromones to help guide ants Pheromones have other uses. When insects are ready to breed, many species advertise the fact In addition, these chemicals A guard weaver ant In response it's releasing a silent, but effective (SOFT MUSIC) Migration is another behaviour Monarch butterflies are well known In the Americas, migrate south from Canada The journey can cover Eventually, the masses settle where they enjoy a milder winter. At the end of the day, the butterflies start to perch known as roosts. This behaviour is thought to be A cold butterfly cannot take off. Being in a warm crowd should predators attack. In early spring, these masses Using an internal compass, in combination with directional these delicate insects are Being part of a colony means the members enjoy improved foraging Above ground, a group of Australian These fresh supplies will keep During this early phase, (CURIOUS MUSIC) On the same continent, make light work Gradually, the group coordinates to shift this 'feast' then up and into their nest. Weaver ants are named for their Teamwork is second nature First, worker ants will locate then grip onto the edge Next, others form 'ant-chains', Then, as a coordinated group, they pull and bend the leaves To glue this marvellous the youngest members of the colony Adults squeeze the larvae, encouraging them to secrete silk When completed, these oval-shaped a feat that's often accomplished This type of group mentality, is one of the clever strategies to ensure their ongoing survival. (SLOW GUITAR MUSIC) Change is a big part of life, To start a new generation, they can use a variety of methods Visual signals, can alert any patrolling male (CICADA AND CRICKET CALLS) Some insects communicate Cicadas 'sing' and crickets 'chirp' in the hope their songs Others release pheromones. Those emitted by are so potent, they can attract While many creatures insects develop in a more They, along with amphibians, a multi-stage process quickly go through extreme physical With insects, there are two types complete, which takes four stages, and incomplete, About 90 percent of insects develop which begins with an egg. (SOFT MUSIC) These are monarch butterfly eggs, They hatch about four days The larvaes' first meal then, they start on the milkweed As they mature, bright stripes a hint of what is to come. After feasting for two weeks, the caterpillars look for somewhere Pupation is a time Adult structures form, Finally, the adult stage emerges. Now free of its chrysalis, this butterfly will spend and pumping haemolymph, around its body. In five to seven days and start off a new generation. In summer, the average monarch Those that migrate in the autumn Insects that go through incomplete but the youngsters that emerge These immature creatures In this type of metamorphosis, Instead, the growing nymphs between four to eight times. Gradually they form and finally wings, which are present Scientists believe the reason why is because it reduces competition Larvae generally consume to their adult counterparts. Less competition for food means of reaching the breeding stage - (UPBEAT MUSIC) Food is an essential part of life and insects refuel their bodies There are a number of different One is the chewing mouthpart. Insects with this type of mouthpart Some insects do not chew, instead they have sponging Nectar is a popular food source like straws to help insects, such Another way insects access is via a sucking mouthpart. Often they are sword-like. Mosquitoes have a cluster of six Roughly 50 percent of insects meaning they eat plant material. Peppermint stick insects do not They take shelter spiky pandanus leaves. (SOFT MUSIC) Locusts are generally solitary but when food supplies are abundant, Swarms can be made up of Their voracious appetites And, when the greenery runs out, locusts are known to become (TENSE MUSIC) As a kind of 'payback', some plants are able to even Carnivorous plants, have trigger hairs when set off by wandering visitors. A close call. Not all are that lucky. (TENSE MUSIC BUILDS) While carnivorous diets many insects thrive on meat, such as this antlion larva. This tiny predator is cunning, ready to ambush any prey The larva's trap has worked. From a peaceful stance comes Once these stealthy predators they cannot stop this reflex action. I it is that quick. Many insects are predators, but no matter their diet, While they're both arthropods, this centipede shows its katydid a meal is a meal. (SOFT MUSIC) Without insects in the mix, Apart from being a food source, insects play other important Pollination is one. The majority of crops would fail if these industrious foragers Down on ground level, the actions The tunnels they dig allow water, oxygen and nutrients Many species help to recycle feeding on rotting materials and speeding up The eating habits of insects are beneficial in that they keep In addition, many 'good bugs' as natural pest controls, Apart from the bounty insects these small creatures bring fascinating beauty. With their long history it's no surprise that insects on humanity for millennia. Ancient Egyptian artworks often star the scarab beetle - symbols of renewal and resurrection. They are often associated the God of Creation, Rebirth It was believed was responsible for moving the sun in the same way the beetles In Ancient Greece, was often depicted These delicate threads, are the reason behind one of The Chinese art of silk production was closely guarded Finally, in about 130 BC, the Han Dynasty officially started via the Silk Road, that not only saw the exchange but also ideas, A remarkable legacy Bees have been cherished In Ancient Greece, had a strong association with bees. They symbolised Artemis, The city built a temple It eventually became known as one of Its ruins stand in It's extraordinary how influential this vast group of relatively small and continues to be. (CLASSICAL MUSIC) The effect insects have and its wellbeing is undeniable. They may not have a backbone, yet these invertebrates support Yes, there are billions of them, but their numbers Researchers working internationally and diversity for decades. An insect's small size They face the same threats as other larger members Habitat loss... pollution... overuse of agricultural chemicals... extreme weather conditions... climate change. (SOFT EMOTIVE MUSIC) Humans tend to see themselves As such, it falls on us the planet's unsung 'heroes'. By raising awareness about the scientists hope our habits Knowing that insects pollinate that produce over a third should be incentive enough. On the plus side, insects are, Their astounding resilience has Many around the globe are working through breeding programs and the use of organic fertilisers. Simple actions, and placing out feeding stations can make a difference Setting up an 'insect hotel' By providing a large selection these structures can accommodate Enough small changes not only for insects, Captioned by Ai-Media