Hey there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're going to be learning all about Micro Plate heat These are the most advanced and they enable heat to be than any previous model of heat exchanger. So we're going to be where they are used, why they are used, and the benefits of using these. Before we jump in, though, for sponsoring this video. They have some excellent solutions that fit a wide including their new Z-design series. Not only is a Z-design compatible with numerous refrigerants, it also enables a 40% and decreases energy consumption. If you are interested in learning more about what the Z-design can do for your cooling system, be sure to check out their website using the link in the Let's just recap on the and how they work. The purpose of heat is to allow thermal energy to transfer between two fluids without the fluids coming into direct The fluids can be anything, oil, water, refrigerant, milk, steam, etcetera. Although, for this video, on Micro Plate heat exchangers within heating and cooling which use water and refrigerants. These are plate heat for the evaporator and the condenser, for example, within When used for an evaporator, the vapor liquid mixture enters the bottom of the heat exchanger where the thermal energy is transferred into the refrigerant, which causes it to boil and evaporate. This then leaves through the with some degree of superheat. When used as a condenser, enters the top of the heat exchanger where it begins to out of the refrigerant and which cools the refrigerant into a partly sub-cooled liquid state. Traditionally, shell and tube and they still are for But then along came the invention of the plate heat exchanger which was a much more compact These can come in either gasket Plate heat exchangers known as plates, to separate the fluids and create separate channels and exchange their thermal energy. For this thermal transfer to take place, two fluids are used, a which both enter and exit The fluids must be at The greater the temperature difference, then the higher the heat The two fluids will never meet or mix. They are always separated and the thermal energy flows between them, passing through the plate's material. As I mentioned, there are two types of plate heat exchangers, Gasket plate heat exchangers to separate the plates and form a seal which directs the fluids as well as preventing the fluids from entering other channels. This prevents the fluids from coming into direct contact with each other. This type of heat exchanger and additional plates can to increase or decrease the Brazed plate heat exchangers to create the channels for However, they do not use gaskets. They are instead braze welded, During the brazing process, all the surfaces which will form a weld along So by orientating the plates, which direct the flow of the fluids and prevent them from Brazed plate heat be dismantled for cleaning, and no plates can be added or removed. However, brazed plates can And because they do not use gaskets, they are very unlikely to leak, whereas, with gasket these are going to have Although, with good maintenance, Traditionally, plate heat exchangers would use grooved plates which have these V or chevron shape patterns pressed into them of different variations. Then along came the Micro which is the next evolution and the latest in heat and they have been designed with energy efficiency and Rather than using the traditional method, or grooved or chevron plates, Micro Plate heat exchangers There are a number of reasons firstly, because the across the surface of the heat This maximizes the heat which means that there is more time for the heat transfer over The dimples also cause the fluids to move much more turbulently because their dimples cause the fluids to change direction much more compared to a typical chevron pattern. The reason turbulence is is because when fluids flow smoothly, which is known as a laminar flow, the fluids actually flow in layers, and the outermost layer moves the slowest, and the centermost Heat is then transferred only The fluid in the center and will carry little to no heat away. This means you pay to pump a fluid through the heat exchanger, but the fluid wasn't able So you therefore need to to try and capture all Turbulent flow causes these layers to mix, and that forces the heat so it can be carried away, allowing for more heat to transfer over. So the efficiency of the heat The size, spacing, and plays a critical part in the efficiency, so these are specifically designed for the application required as well as the heat transfer For example, there are specifically for the evaporator and the condenser of heat pumps and chillers. There's also more like waste heat recovery, to a district heating system. So depending on the application, you can get them in anything up to and over 400 kilowatts. And depending again on the application, they can be either brazed plate or gasket. The heat exchangers also And this means that the in the opposite direction to each other, and this increases the heat transfer rate and the log mean temperature which results in less heat meaning that the heat Like any plate heat exchanger, the purpose of Micro Plate heat exchangers is to transfer heat from not to the ambient air A lot of people forget this and do not insulate their heat exchangers which just wastes energy. For example, if you're using these for a cooling application, then it costs money to And if you don't insulate then it's just going to pick up waste heat before it's even reached its destination to provide air conditioning. Therefore, if you see that is exposed, or its then get it insulated. Check with the manufacturer. They should be able to with the exact measurements for and these can quickly should you need to perform maintenance. This will also increase the efficiency of the heat exchanger. Some of the benefits of using are that it has reduced The heat exchanges are smaller, so your system needs less refrigerant. Improved flow means that the pressure loss is kept to a minimum, so the to pump water around the system. The heat exchanger has a It provides a stable evaporation process, has a longer system life span. It's quick and easy to install. It's smaller, lightweight, and has less of an environmental impact. It also has a higher heat transfer rate, up to 40% compared to All right, thanks for watching, guys. Before we wrap up, I just want to give one more quick shout out to Danfoss for sponsoring this video. Don't forget to check out the new Z-design Micro by following the link in Okay, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope this has helped If so, then please don't forget to like, subscribe, and share, and check us out on and of course TheEngineeringMindset.com. Once again, thanks for watching.