- Hi, I have been shopping on AliExpress. And today we're gonna Have I done a good job? Have I found maybe some hidden gems? Let's find out. (costume rustling) Oops. I need some hair product. So let me explain how we chose the things that are on the bench in front of me, because if you've been on AliExpress to look for coffee stuff you which is completely overwhelmed. Now, in choosing stuff, I chose things that I genuinely Some of them are a little bit ridiculous, I'm not gonna lie to you. Some them are kind of entertaining, and we're gonna break it We're gonna do brewing first, like filter coffee brewing, sort of. Then we're gonna do latte art for reasons that will make sense, because after that is espresso. Then after that, just briefly, it's a little coffee roasting. We actually didn't pick any grinders because I do feel like is perhaps its own video in the future. So this is just not grinders. Straight away, I feel because the first brew is a kind of Turkish coffee brewer. Lots of different names but what I was most interested in wasn't the brewing pot, it wasn't the free it was this thing here. Now, this is a sand heater which is a very traditional way of heating or brewing Turkish coffee. Brewing with sand, using means that you sort of cover all around, just jacket the brewer. Rather than having a this will be kind of all I don't know, different. This is the other thing This is very exciting to me. I've long complained about scoops. I've said, &quot;Scoops are bad, use scales.&quot; But this says, &quot;Why not both?&quot; It's a scoop scale. (chuckling) (plastic cover rustles and clatters) (James chuckling) It's kind of more bulbous than You can use this to weigh as you scoop. So you've got an on off button, a mode button, and a hold button. I'm gonna tare mine, and now we're gonna get I'm gonna use the stuff that came with this Turkish coffee maker because, I don't know, why not? Oh, 7.5, a little bit less. 8.7. Okay, how about you? 6.8, I'm gonna go with it. I gotta say from a I thought this would be Anyway, in you go. Now, I haven't covered on the channel before, and so, I'm just gonna go for it where we're gonna So seven grams of coffee, 70 grams of water in 60 degrees Celsius. And aiming for a brew time of Now, I don't really know what temperature I should set my sand. Didn't think I'd say that today. Let's go with a hundred. Let's have a little look This sand is 150 degrees It's getting hot real quick. Is something smoking? This is emanating a very terrible smell, like burnt old fish. Get in that sand. Sand's at like deep-frying temperatures. So 150, 170, somewhere around there. It's pretty hot. It's pretty hot. I didn't think it would I also didn't think of it occasionally. So at PS130, a questionably a small bag of sand, I'm not sold that this is a good idea or good value, but you've and okay, we have foam, and then we're gonna for those grounds to sink to the bottom, and then we'll have a taste. Now, I'm not sold on the actual coffee that we started with, but we'll see. (slurps) I'm not sure I can blame the brewer. That's not my favorite tasting coffee. I'd love to learn how to use one properly, understand the sort of tips and maybe I'll go and maybe and make a video about it. But, for now, from a let alone smell or anything So this is the brewed coffee I'll just run through it really quickly. We have a collapsible travel kettle. Very exciting. I bought a refractometer. There's this kind of of people ask me about, like a lot of you. There's this self-stirring mug. This, what I think is like and then this carafe just had a great box. The refractometer, I'm actually not gonna test and review, because when I bought it and it arrived, I was kind of terrified. Because to review this properly, needed lots of science, lots and so thank you Lance Hedrick for doing all of that in a recent video. This turns out to be not very good. Probably don't buy this. Check Lance's video if you wanna know why. So yeah, no. Buy a better refractometer. To sort of test as many of we're gonna brew coffee with this thing. It's battery powered in here. Takes a couple of double A batteries. So in here, there's a little metal filter. It's gonna hold your coffee. This sits on top, and then where you put your boiling water in to a max-fill line, and it to do a kind of automatic, and brew it maybe into, well this. I'm excited for this (James grunts) (James chuckling) There's like a little If this is a temperature-controlled that would be kind of amazing. I'm just gonna, I think tell it to boil. I guess, that's boil. Ooh! (lid tapping) Angry, snappy lid. Now I do have some bad news. Having checked the price, delivery, everything else, this was PS100. Which is maybe too much money. Let me get some coffee. I will continue to use I just feel like I have I was so excited for it and (beans rustling) What do you say? You say 11.2. (coffee beans pouring) 8.5, never mind. On the lid of the brewer, it does say 10 grams to 150 grams. So that's what I'm doing. A little bit finer than I'd You've just woken up, welcome. Classic metal filter, plastic mesh. Just quickly, the It's got a little sort of pill, and it's spun by a sort of So if you drop it in, (magnet clanks) it sticks just there, (magnet rattling) it went in the coffee. I presume it is more controlled but we're gonna find out. And just so you can see, when I push the button, (button clicks) The top will spin. Gonna say, a bit of a You sort of want a cuz now the cord is very short. That's the whole cord. I'm gonna have to unplug the cord, pour my water in (water pouring) and go. Now, it feels like the at the start when there's more water in. I wonder if pulsing water in might sort of help slow the flow. Ground, relatively fine, but it's brewing pretty quickly. Nice, even a flat bed below. We've made coffee. I feel like I'm not sure if I should leave the lid off for this for So, I'm gonna put the lid on to spin it. It's a big mug. Our 150 mls left lots of space inside. Here we go. (button clicks) (mug buzzing and rattling) Oh! Okay, that's messy but That's definitely a lid on Better than I thought, good water, good grinder. I feel like this brewer Probably works better with dark and more developed roasts as filter coffee. I would say that's not the but it is kind of fun, and I'm kind of into Not the best, not the worst, not the best. Now to talk about this mug, So I'll put this coffee (strainer rasps and clanks) Little strainer inside is a bonus. Some silica gel, always a delicious treat. Don't eat it. You currently say 24 C, that's a lie. How do I make you on? It's doing the ambient which I guess will equalize eventually, but it's not telling me the temperature of the liquid in the base. I don't think that's very useful. This is powered by triple A batteries that live under this Like this doesn't seal meaningfully. There's just two batteries there. This is a mug. You might wanna wash it now and again, I don't think that's a good idea to just have a battery door that's just a flimsy piece of silicon that just sort of vaguely I kind of always wanted even though I don't take But the idea of a spinny But this one, maybe I because it just feels the minute you wash it. I'm still cross with this. I'm trying, if I turn it upside down, it thinks it's 37, so this doesn't work. This just doesn't work. Okay, let's put this into because that actually is pretty great. I'm actually pretty into this It was PS11.20 delivered, It's cheap, and I feel It also has a hilarious box. I think it does up to 400 mls, PS11.20. I like it. So, to recap: the kettle - way too expensive, wildly inconvenient, but collapsible and kind of fun. Refractometer. Lance says avoid it. I listened to Lance. This thing for more developed roasts, fun, kind of enjoyable. This thing did not work, This: very nice. I like it. And then, the stirring Let's talk about latte art because that's where I'm I'm not gonna lie, this is the main event. This is it. This enormous thing here is, by far, the most expensive thing we bought. It was PS1500 delivered. But it's the most exciting, It's a latte art printer. It prints art on lattes. It doesn't just draw with milk pitchers. This is a full color latte art printer. This is the Evebot. This, when you install it the first time and you put it together, and you are gonna talk to You can, through a QR code, upload any image you like to this thing. Then, at the push of a button, it will print said image Now, this one is full color - full color! They do say on the website there's little certificates and stuff, this is food safe. You pull out the little cartridge, it looks like a printer ink cartridge. Apparently, you should not But apparently this is okay. So I need an image, a little selfie. Let's go with a horrified me. All I have to do now is scan a QR code, and I upload from my photo library. Let's choose disgusted me. I think I can just go full, full face. That's what I'm proposing to print. I have arrived on screen, I get to choose how I print my face. Let's find a cup to print into, and I actually have one just here. This, I bought believing and that, it turns out, was a lie. (ceramic saucer is placed down) Not, not an espresso cup. This handle, like as an espresso It's just super weird this big. Okay, we're looking at a print diameter of about 78mm. So I'm gonna take you up to 78mm three inches, three inches across. This brings us to this, which I am also very excited about. This is a steaming unit, It's just for making steam. We have to put it on the heat. It will boil water inside it, trap it. It'll show as a pressure gauge. We've got a steam arm, little cool touch side here and a valve, and it came with no instructions. I've checked, it's not induction friendly so we're gonna stick it on a gas stove, put some water in it, and A lot of you wanted to see We tried to buy that several times, and it ultimately just didn't work out, which is very frustrating if it's good too. I'll be steaming milk in I liked this little temperature Let you know how hot or cold your milk is as you're steaming. Very useful. We're gonna be aiming for maybe 55, 60 degrees Celsius, which is the upper end which is interesting. (water pouring) (Threading tightening) (stove clicks) So when it gets to 120, I'm gonna leave it on the heat and I'm gonna have to We'll try and show you both the gauge, and the temperature gauge See how those are. Let's see how you are to purge. (steam wand whooshing) Whoa. (James guffaws) Ready. Here we go. (steam wand spurting) Now trying to find a vortex position. It's not bad pressure. (gauge whirring) So I have to say, texture from this, great, flawless, perfect. It seems really nicely. I really quite like using it. It brings me no pleasure to tell you that it costs nearly which is a bit too expensive. And at this point, you're not far away from one of the sort of (espresso machines) that and do as good a job, Anyway, no coffee 'cause I a blank canvas to work with. Pour, pour. All right. Now we make... art? Go (coffee printer buzzing) (James chuckling) Oh no. Missing a little color. I feel like the cartridge to its fullest potential. It's skewing a little with a little bit of magenta not quite coming out right. It leaves me no choice (James chuckling) Sorry face. They have no flavor. Okay, that feels reassuring. Let me just get a bit more I feel like it should have it doesn't have a flavor. That's amazing. How do you not want one of these? Obviously, it's PS1,500 for something you might use three times, and it would probably a literal printed picture from a printer on their coffee. Think of the potential, I In summary, not super into this. I felt it was very laggy, not the best. This, I really liked that thing. I really like steaming with it. It's just way, way too much money. And this is way, way, It's a printer, it needs it needs inks. Those are expensive. It But aren't you glad that it exists? Now, there's one more item here. It's billed, on the And it's this strange-looking It's like a little bird. It's got a button in it, and you put chocolate powder inside it, and then you can draw with which is not latte art. I felt like that's a lie, and I'm cross about it from the start. But let's see how it works. Loading this feels like I've gotta get the I guess, there's probably like a little vibrating motor in here. Let's see what happens. (pen buzzing) (James chortles) Come on now. (pen buzzing) That doesn't work. That doesn't work. That doesn't work. It's three PS3.30, more fool me. I just thought that might Maybe it needs a coarser grade of oh, oh. No, no it's rubbish. I thought that would let of chocolate powder or, Either way, I can't do anything with this. It's useless. Let's go through the espresso A couple of espresso machines, But to use them, we're gonna use some of the accessories that I bought, and there's One of them, I can't really This weird-looking creature and it's for filling your when the tank is tucked back and you just put this on top, pour the water in, and it periscopes it to the back. That's not the right word, but it'll do. I bought three things because that store looks like for coffee on AliExpress, and that's MHW-3Bomber. I bought this box, this sort of like tamping I brought this espresso which I presume isn't I just wanted to know. Dual wall glassware's I think Bodum were really And so, I thought I would try their little cute dual When the Niche came out, everyone loved the idea that fit a 58mm portafilter, but Niche didn't sell their So people have started So I got one just to see how it is. This is not like the forced tamper, this just sort of has a depth meter. We'll see how it is. Now, these are big, chunky manual, 58mm lever machines. On paper, these looked kind of cheap, but by the time that they were shipped and kind of went through delivery and customs clearance, they were both much more expensive. Close in price to the Flair Pro, and the Flair Pro is different to them because it has an active heating unit and these don't, which is gonna be a lot Let's make some coffee (James grunting) A quick look through, you get a tamper, got a gauge on the front Nice portafilter, wood handle, very nice. Weird locking mechanism. Feels kind of, I don't know, you gotta get like a weird way round, and then you're sort of pushing further. Feels kinda strange. But my biggest concern is which is very heavy, and also right now about 20 degrees Celsius, which is a long way from of this metal, which is something around brew temperature, because when I put 60, 70, 80 that water very quickly will go down towards 20 degrees Celsius, and this will not come up 'cos the mass is so much I guess to try and get I'll do a couple of rounds of preheating, but that already is kind of a pain and a waste and annoying. Yeah, that's like, ooh, 50 max Celsius. (coffee grinder grinding) I'm not sure how I can review a tin. Does it fit? Oh, a little bit smaller. So maybe, actually, not bad if you were using, and wanted something But yeah, as a starting Yeah, I have nothing bad This tamping station is very good. I like it. It's well made. It feels solid. In we go. Fresh, boiling water. Go for a little pre-infusion. A little gentle pressure And let's pull the Let's go for like, six. Now, if you're looking at that coffee, it does not look quite right, Very pale, wispy crema. Funny looking color. I would say, with a very that this probably got nowhere as a brew temperature. That's not gonna taste good. Mm. So, in your dual wall glass, which tends to retain a lot of heat, that's very sippably warm, wildly acidic, sour, sour, sour, sour, sour. And that's just not hot enough. I just don't know practically how you would use something like that and get really good results unless you wanted weirdly This one's a little different but also kind of the same. Let's have a look. Of course, time to check Does this feel like a satisfying thunk? Does it feel loud and rattly? (knock box thuds) Nice. Of course, have to test the brush. (brush scraping) That looks pretty clean. Just have a taste. If you run your finger on stuff still came off. Taste it. Not very good. Not something I would want to contribute to my next cup of coffee. That's why I prefer something like a sort of microfiber cloth that you can that's inside there and leave you a kind of So this one has a slightly more Did come with a dosing ring. That's always appreciated and if you like that kind of a thing. This lever, if you lift it all the way up - that's really hard to do. (James grunting) It's quite a tight fit in the chamber. (lever clicks) Whew! That was... physical. So this piece actually just comes out. Portafilter, that's nice. And so, you can sort of see, there's a pretty typical shower You've got a gauge, which when the whole thing's put together. This is still a This weighs about 1.2 kilos. Preheating this adequately would require a decent I don't really know why it If you slide it all away, it's actually now off So it needs to come back a little bit to then be sort of centered. I've got some coffee. This has been preheated three times, and before we start, we When the lever's all the way down, which is the typical position where you'd want to well, this is in the way. So you've gotta sort of lift a little bit to get the portafilter out. I don't like how sort of loose this feels. This is gonna be full of and I don't like it. When we fill this with water, and when we partially lift this, that would allow water to drain through the sort of piston mechanism and then you'd lift All right, in we go. All right, let's begin Oh, so awkward to lift this. Okay, now the gauge goes all the way to 25 bars, which um... is a little out of spec. Now weirdly, the end of this lever starts hitting things like, whoa! (a loud pop!) I guess there was pressure still in there, and I let go of this enough that the mechanism that allowed some pressure out. I'm always torn in that situation whether to be like that was my fault for being an idiot or that's bad design, but I feel like you've knowing that idiots like So, I'm gonna put that on design. That smells bad and looks bad and ... mm, tastes bad. Not as bad as the previous shot. So tastes hotter, slightly that's a win. As an experience, I wouldn't if it stood between me and my first cup of coffee of the day. Overall, kind of fun, solid, They don't feel like they're They just feel both a little bit kind of Like, there's not enough in the design of these. To round us out, just a Now, I know this is &quot;When am I doing a roasting Good question. I don't know. Would I like to? I think I would. These kind of roasters you can buy online quite easily in different places. The pricing will go from, it up to like PS200. This one landed, delivered Not cheap. Not cheap. And the way it works is pretty simple. There is a fan inside this, and there is a heating element. And the controls of this primarily How hot is the element, how aggressive is the fan, and the quantity of air Typically, in commercial roasting, you would reduce the So you'd have your sort of maximum heat at the start broadly, and then We're not gonna have any real insight into what's happening in other than looking at the beans. It has some sort of auto mode. We'll see how auto that is. A hundred gram capacity, That's what we're going with. So we'll open it up, put some coffee in. (green coffee pouring in) (lid clunking shut) Now, there are instructions with this, which I have read, that are in English but a little bit confusing. (roaster whooshing loudly) (roaster beeping) That was um, noisy. Well, roast: bit of a mess. So I pulled this relatively light. Looking at it, it's not a very even roast. Now, to make it more difficult, this is a red honey So the way that the beans will look on the outside is a little bit different to say, a washed coffee, and there will be a little But the roast was definitely too fast. Now, that's the automatic program but the fact that that's of that level of aggression, this was gonna end up at or as some call it, combustion. Well, probably not but very I'm gonna roast this again I definitely pulled it too early. I'm not saying it should have run the full 10 minutes 'cos have run the full 10 minutes. Maybe get something (roaster whooshing) (roaster beeping) The beeps say we're done. This is actually my third roast, because my second roast was just bad also. That's the kind of truth You're gonna make a bunch especially with a brand new roaster, and, you know, you should let So you're gonna wait a few days to work out how you messed it up, and the whole thing takes a long time. It's gonna be maybe 20, 30 roasts before you kinda know this roaster, and its real flaws or limitations. If that doesn't appeal to you, then I should warn you, generally, away from home roasting. This is too fresh to taste good, but I know what you want. You want me to brew it Let's have a little smell. No. (slurping) It's not my best roast. Ooh, that's smokey, harsh, also underdeveloped. It's good raw coffee that I've made taste a bit like commercial coffee. Not my best, not my best efforts. Honestly, if I was gonna get I would look for an existing model that has a community around it already that's gonna give you a lot If you're going with something like this, you just don't know compared to other roasters. In terms of little complaints, the fan button's the wrong way around. I go more heat that way, but I go more fan this It should be more fan, less fan, and it's the other way around. The mixing isn't great. Those little holes maybe aren't doing a good enough job of I found a couple of beans that really hadn't moved very much and weren't properly developed. So that's a bit of a concern. Should you buy coffee Having, you know, bought a bunch of stuff that I thought I wanted to try and test, I have come to a conclusion. And the answer is maybe, sometimes, maybe. If you're looking for a cheap product, then in many cases, what is not what you're ultimately gonna pay, and by the time it's shipped and customs are cleared it may not be the bargain you hoped for. I think it's a good place to buy stuff if you have a specific tool in then there are reputable sellers making great quality products out there. I would certainly recommend that. And there's some stuff here, little bits and pieces that I thought was really nice and worth keeping. Other stuff, not so much. And that's okay, that would be the same if I was buying on eBay or There's gonna be good I hope you had fun. I had fun, and all is say thank you so much for watching, and I hope you have a great day. (waves with bean mitten)