- We live in a society that We write about them. We read about them. We watch movies about them. And in general, the genius label sells. Typically, everyone whom has accomplished something remarkable by really standing out in a way that really grabs our attention. They include scientists like Einstein, musicians and composers But genius is something more- it's a story. We remember the people who happened to be at the and hence, there was a way of recording their accomplishments. There are an exceptional who either have not been at or we know about their accomplishments, but we don't know enough Could we actually use data to predict who among the scientists That's where network science comes in. So we are curious: What really determines the genius label? And when we compared all geniuses to their scientific peers, we realized that there are really two very different classes: Ordinary genius and peerless genius. For example, Einstein, who turns out to be a When we looked at the scientist or roughly in the same areas there was no one who would or scientific impact to him. He was truly alone. When we looked at Stephen Hawking, we label him ordinary genius. To our surprise, we realized there were who work roughly the same area, and had comparable, often bigger impact than Stephen Hawking had. Among them, actually, a woman And it turned out, that there was absolutely The only article that we was in the context of her husband. That raises the question: Why is it Hawking the How does really the genius label emerge? It turns out, that the number of languages to which a person's Wikipedia was the strongest predictor We learned that the genius that the society assigns to but exceptional accomplishment to get the genius label- we always need something more. You need to be born at the right time. You need to be in the right circumstances. Throughout history, remarkable in the vicinity of big cultural centers. And everything that is outside was typically a desert of We have a very strong typically associated with and hence, we're losing many, many exceptional accomplishments because none of these individuals they're inspired by some And by unveiling these connections, you are digging deeper and deeper into the cultural and start discovering It doesn't require much that I'm past 50, which made me always wonder, &quot;Do I still have ahead of me To paraphrase Einstein, &quot;A person who has never made a by the age of 30 will never do so.&quot; That led to a conception in science that you have to be young to be creative. So we were curious, &quot;Is this or it is also true for We ended up analyzing and asking when did his or her biggest discovery? Was it early in their career or late? And to our surprise, the data indicated that indeed it's true. Most scientists make in the first 15 years of their career. And then after 30 years, the chance of: &quot;I would make a discovery than what I did in my thirties,&quot; would be less than 1%. When we dig deeper into data, we realize that we also have That is the reason why scientists appear to be publishing their in their career has to do with the fact that that's when they That is, scientists tend to have a much higher and with time, productivity wins. Consider, for example, Frank Wilczek, who got a Physics Nobel Prize for the very, very, very as a graduate student. But my real hero is not John Fenn was a chemist. He made the discovery at the age of 80, he got One night, my student came What would you like to work on?&quot; And I said, &quot;Well, how about success?&quot; And we had a laugh, but then we looked at each other and said, &quot;Hmm, that's interesting. We should study success.&quot; We understood that as a scientist, we're embedded in a of relationships, connecting our papers to each other by citations, by co-authorship- and we immediately thought that the availability of all about how scientific success emerges. What does success depend on? Productivity is one of them. How many papers did he or The more you write, the more potentially the more impact you make. But also matters: What is the impact of What is your biggest discovery? And how is it situated within your career? The question is: How does the quality and the ultimate success and my ability as a scientist Your 'Q factor' tells me: &quot;How good am I of turning an And when we put the career of many, many scientists we were able to ask: How does the Q factor change? How is it different from And what is the randomness And the outcomes were very We would think that good What the math very clearly indicated, that we are not privy to better ideas just because we have more experience. This Q factor, our ability to is really constant throughout That more or less, a scientist, they come with a certain Q factor that stays with them for Turned out that the Q factor alone, that is really unique to you, whether you will be really recognized as a important scientist. Productivity is the lowest predictor. If you just publish a lots of papers, that would not get you any closer to be recognized as a major scientist. The impact of those papers really matters, so does the impact of Big data could help us to discover those that really had the accomplishment and deserve the genius level and put them in the right place- and education is needed to make sure that everybody can develop that talent so that they are contenders