Soon cops will raid Edward Gein's house, them, it'll break them. Many will never be the same after that, but soup from a bowl he's fashioned from a human He then empties the remnants of the soup into Today is a big day for Ed; he's finally suit he's made. Illuminated by the light of a lamp that's slips on a pair of leggings that look like, Next, he slips into his corset, a garment woman. He pulls everything tight with a belt decorated be a person. He's almost ready now, there's just one human face mask. He looks in the mirror and thinks, "Perfect." He's finally become his mother; his masterpiece Reeling with joy, he runs into the garden We are talking now about possibly the strangest His story is like no other. Ed was truly unique in his depravity, and "The Texas Chain Saw Massacre" and "Silence But if there's one movie that fits Ed's We are sure you'll agree after you've a true American psycho. The question is, how did he get away with Did no one in that small town of his not wonder about the man? His entire house was full of things made from To do that he needed quite the stock of bodies. How did he get them? How did he manage to do it without the local But first, let's go back in time and talk How did a young man become such a monster, of Plainfield?" Edward Theodore Gein was born on August 27, the state of Wisconsin. His parents, George and Augusta, had one other Life wasn't easy for the family. George couldn't hold down a job for long fact he devoted much of his time to something That thing was whiskey. Augusta, someone who you might call a controlling had. To try and improve matters, she made the decision small rural village of Plainfield. There they would work on an isolated farm, of the village. The two boys went to the local school, but wrong with the boys. Ed had this habit of just laughing out loud He didn't have many friends, and even if put a stop to the relationship. You see, to understand Ed's later behavior his mother. She might have had an alcoholic husband who liquor, a man who could barely put food on She not only despised her own husband, but The only reason she didn't ask for a divorce When not in school both Ed and Henry weren't Augusta's reasoning was that most people She preached to the boys daily about the depravity about the fires of hell awaiting most folks. She told her kids that those who take to the She told them that women were loose, they one day have a date with the devil. Of course, Augusta said she was not one of She was moral. She had committed herself to God. Her bible was her blueprint for life. We don't need to tell you that this kind kids, especially when you throw demons and We'll get to the crimes soon, but you need life. The whisky eventually killed George when Ed After that, both men worked on the farm and meet. They did handiwork for locals, but something Yep, the Butcher of Plainfield was great with been arrested due to his mother's strictness. This is what one of the townsfolks actually Ed. Kind of a loner and maybe a little bit odd the guy to call to sit in with the kiddies." And get this, people still sent their kids Some of those kids told their parents that around his house, but the parents dismissed So, Augusta still had a firm grip on Ed's a man. Henry had at least managed to get into a relationship to his mom to think about another woman. Henry would actually talk to others about zealot of a mom, and when Ed heard this, he He didn't want to hear anyone talking badly With that in mind, what happened when Ed was There was a huge fire at the farm. Firefighters were called and managed to quell Ed later called the police department and A search party went out at night with their eventually found Henry. He was dead. He wasn't burned at all, he was just lying Surprisingly, the cops said no foul play. The coroner said Henry had died of asphyxiation. He said that even though it appeared Henry Was is it Ed who killed Henry? Did Ed want to be the sole benefactor of his Most people now think yes. Had the cops worked a little bit harder they monster. Not long after Henry's downfall, Augusta Now Ed had to play nurse for his mother, with around doing all the jobs in the house. Nothing Ed could do could save her. She had another stroke soon after and died. To say the least, the adoring son of that The house just got messier and messier, but Ed kept his mother's room as clean as possible, He also boarded up many of the other rooms kitchen. He still babysat from time to time, but his and German atrocities during the second world He also had a thing for detective pulp fiction, of cannibalism in the Pacific. Ed managed to get by doing odd jobs and he sold that had once been his brother's. What the locals in the village didn't know The death of his mother had traumatized him He had become deranged and there was no going We don't know the exact time when Ed started that during the late forties and early fifties He'd sometimes wait until someone had been in the middle of the night and exhume the He's now called a necrophiliac serial killer, with the bodies before he got to work on making Let's now fast-forward in time and tell the property and had the shock of their lives, What he saw that day was so terrible, so unthinkable, horror, and sadness. He died soon after from heart failure. It was the deputy sheriff that first arrived He opened a barn door and before his eyes, a beam. To him, she looked like an animal that had butchered. She had already been split down the middle It was enough to make the cop vomit on the Her head had been removed and the tendons through them. It sure was a sight to behold. Worst still, the police found her head in Ed had driven a nail in each of her ears and of hanging trophy. There was much worse to come. The rest of the police department arrived Now it was time to check the rooms of the In the kitchen, they discovered Ed had likely On the stove was the heart of a woman, kept Cops would later say Ed was no doubt a cannibal the stomachs of the townsfolks was that they'd them. Did that make them cannibals, too? Inside the houses, they found stacks of human They found at least ten severed heads. Some of those heads had had the faces peeled They ended up becoming Ed's face mask collection. To make them more realistic he'd adorned One of the cops who saw those masks remarked One of the faces of a recent victim had only in a paper bag. The cops weren't anywhere near finished They found the skin wastebasket we told you They found chairs with human skin coverings. There were skulls with the tops sawn off; found noses, lips attached to a drawstring, skulls on bedposts, and of course Ed's piece with the breasts of a woman. So after his arrest, how did Ed explain himself? He admitted that he'd robbed the graves He wanted his mother back and making things having his mother around all of the time. By making a woman suit he could actually become It turned out that those kids had been right house. One kid, a 16-year-old who sometimes went told him the heads and faces were all stuff That wasn't true; they were all local women. Cops did wonder how a man could dig up a grave they went to the graves of the victims sure missing from their coffins. Occasionally Ed would take what he needed he wasn't interested in. So, what led the police to Ed's house in That was because the police went to a local of a woman named Bernice Worden. Ed had shot her and slit her throat and then store and take it to his house. Hers was the body hanging from that beam and police to follow. The cops also found out from Bernice's son and said he'd come back in a day to buy On the floor of the store, the cops found Ed didn't immediately admit to this crime, to get him to confess. It was simple enough. They just made him look at the corpse of the end, he cracked. He also admitted to killing a tavern-keeper A mask made from her face was found in his At first, the cops didn't believe that all robbed from graves. What they thought they had on their hands in U.S. history, but as we said, Ed told them lying. He also said he only killed people when the bodies impossible. He guessed his grave-robbing lasted from 1947 been helped by a man named Gus who'd stopped home for the elderly. We probably don't need to tell you that a story like this before. At first, Ed was reluctant to open up to investigators, talked. They listened as he explained the thing he skin suit, don one of his face masks, put and then run around in the garden, especially That may sound about as crazy as crazy can how come Ed Gein is called a serial killer. Isn't it three or more kills that gets a Well, it's generally thought Ed killed quite Remember he lived in a pretty remote area, went missing around places where Ed frequented, those disappearances. Police found the genitals of girls in Ed's to some missing local girls. It's also believed that Ed was behind the the Plainfield tavern one night and were never One of the missing men's jacket and his The judge who presided over Ed's trial later more than two people. That judge found Ed not guilty by reason of at Central State Hospital for the Criminally It's actually quite unusual for serial killers many people would disagree with the judge Ed Gein almost certainly had a case of what's condition in which a child desires his parent Ed's mother's fanatic talk of God and were bad except for her no doubt was the foundation from other women. He actually told the police in what they said with the power of women, but unable to actually surround himself with dead ones. He told police his victims were usually quite He always denied he had intercourse with the The cops didn't believe him but were taken in skinning women. The police said what was surprising was the It seemed to them as if Ed felt he hadn't Ed Gein died from lung cancer and respiratory If there's such a thing as an afterlife, buried with his mother. There is just one problem, though...Henry As for that old farmhouse, the building that "Psycho", it was burned down in 1958 while It was no accident of course, but no one was When Ed was told his dear mother's house destroyed, he replied, "Just as well". Believe it or not, the nurses who were charged man, although some of them said he liked to He was docile most of the time and proved handicrafts. Now you need to watch this, "America's Most Or if you want to know more about investigating Profilers ACTUALLY Catch Serial Killers."