Will we ever find Antarctica, Underneath the Antarctic ice sheet lies would we find if the ice disappeared? And is it look like without ice? What types of rocks make largest continent by area, the current home place on Earth, with temperatures dropping to aspects of Antarctica in this engaging video "Roll intro" Antarctica is the continent of extremes: least populated, and least polluted. It differs water on a continental scale, the extensive extreme environmental conditions, and the almost entirely covered by ice and snow, surrounded by about 9% of the Earth's land area, making it with a total area, including ice shelves, of 13.8 (10.5 million km2) and the United States is located almost entirely south of the 60th and its coasts are about 950 km from 2200 km from New Zealand, and 3600 km from Africa. an ice sheet, which contains nearly 70% The average thickness of the ice sheet, valleys, and plains, is about 1990 meters; the thickness exceeds 4000 meters, making the three times higher than that of other continents. Massif, 4892 meters above sea level, while the western Antarctica, at a depth of 2538 meters. shape irregularized by the Antarctic Peninsula, indentations on opposite sides of the continent, cap reflects the features of the underlying Eastern and Western ice caps. The fronts of these of the two Antarctic regions, converge at the foot separating the Weddell Sea from the Ross Sea. the southernmost parts of the Atlantic, Indian, between 50 and 60 degrees south latitude, like Australia's Heard Island, are almost like Macquarie Island, are ice-free Despite ice covering about 98% of Antarctica's kilometers of exposed land, mainly concentrated Peninsula and the Transantarctic Mountains. small rocky outcrops of the highest mountain The true boundary of the Antarctic region, the wall from the rest of the world and is an oceanographic boundary known as the The Antarctic Convergence is a 40 km wide 45deg and 60deg South and is traversed by an intense distinct bodies of water due to differences in probably formed 25 million years ago, is the Antarctic Ocean and the other oceans the strong circumpolar current has biologically during the same period, atmospheric carbon began to form so that about 15 million years ago, almost entirely covered in ice with an Well, that's all I could tell you about this still a couple of things you'd like to know... global warming... how many years will it take for instead, is surely this: Can it ever become understandable curiosities, stemming from the hostile and unknown land is ultimately Mars or any other world; we perceive them as But to make predictions about the it is necessary to know its past. Understand when? The history of Antarctic ice is complex despite apparent stability, the ice cap has Periods of ice accumulation have alternated with more recently - according to many - If we wanted to imagine what Antarctica was just look at how the forests of South America are the animals that inhabited it at that time were in the South American continent. Beneath its icy from what we know today. Using satellite scientists have been able to outline the revealing a topography shaped by rivers and lakes, Antarctica once had forests and rich which probably expanded from South America Australia. The average annual temperatures were higher than today, just as were the CO2 levels. from Australia about 53 million years ago, and the Drake Passage about 30 million years ago. in some places and subduction in others caused time. About 200 million years ago, the Antarctic African, Indian, and Australian continental known as Gondwana (the southern part &quot;Hey, guys, just a moment before we continue... Click on the bell, you will help us to After this period, Gondwana slowly split to create gradually moved away from the other southern As the continent shifted to its current position, seasonal differences in sunlight and the overall higher latitudes. However, even when its position it still had a much warmer climate than of forests that at various times reached as alone cannot explain its cold climate today. the global climate from the Cretaceous period for example, the concentration of carbon dioxide it is today, leading the planet to have a warmer glaciers everywhere. Additionally, the structure that warm currents could penetrate into the high Studies of the continent's rock formations that Antarctic glaciers began to form in perhaps 38 million years ago. fossils of tundra vegetation recently show that the climate was similar to that of thereafter, Antarctica cooled further, and the to those of today about 13.8 million years ago. cooling of Antarctica: the widening of the sea between South America and the Antarctic Peninsula. crucial for the establishment of circulates clockwise around the continent, Once the ice began to spread in Antarctica, feedback mechanisms. With more ice, there space (higher albedo), which acted to further Today, with the increase in carbon dioxide in the always desperately seeking catastrophic the ice is retreating and that - even worse - But do we know what Antarctica would look Yes, we do.