- I had 100 cockroaches here James Bond style contraption forces them out after And then I put it in a and then I release them in this office. Now you might think, Some people are afraid of cockroaches. Trust me, I know. (man yelling) And that's exactly the point because this isn't just any office. This is ground zero for one that scams people of their life savings. A year ago when I released stumbling onto the low-level thugs in this international scam operation, I said we were gonna glitter bomb our way all the way to the top, even if it meant taking this fight to the other side of the globe. And so after a year we infiltrated not one, but four different scam call centers. We released cockroaches, glitter bombs, and then, of course, we hacked their CCTV so we could watch the whole thing unfold in real time. So buckle up because this is multinational adventure. And please watch to the end can actually do to help put four massive call centers. Now, why would we go after Well, we're doing it for the 60 to scammers in the past year. But more specifically, who you might recall from my exactly how one of these scams work. - [Scammer] You're like Do you know this? - [Bessie] Yes. - [Scammer] She was like - [Bessie] Aw. - [Scammer] I used to share - [Mark] Basically, it starts Then they pretend to be Amazon the victim they've been But if you call back, you Then after they call, they eventually get on and importantly, have the victim type the $200 refund amount into a bogus form. - [Scammer] Please enter - Only they take over and secretly type the amount of $20,000 and then they hit enter real quick. - [Scammer] Check everything. Is it correct? - [Bessie] Oh, no. This is a mistake! Oh, I screwed up! - [Scammer] Oh, Jesus. - [Bessie] It was supposed Oh God almighty. I'm exhausted! I can't do this! My mind is absolutely fried. - [Scammer] Ma'am, please Please check your account. Did you really receive - [Mark] Then they take her to a totally fake spoofed bank account page where it looks like because they just sent her - [Scammer] Oh my God. Plus $20,000. - [Bessie] Yeah. - [Scammer] Please save my job, ma'am. If I'm not earn for my family, my family will die due to Please, ma'am. - Yes, of course! - What should I do? - [Scammer] I really You're also like my grandmother. - [Bessie] You know, I'm an honest person. - [Scammer] You're making me cry now. I'm getting attached to you. - [Bessie] Now how do I fix this? - [Mark] And now you can see how he's weaponized her empathy. Now fix her mistake, how she'd be willing to go to thinks is an extra $20,000 it's $20,000 of her hard earned savings. And she's gonna send it in the Now, in case you think they've gotten a lot nicer over the last year, here's another call from a few to pretend they're from the missing taxes that are owed. - [Patient] I just retired and then I was diagnosed So my retirement hasn't And after today, I know but it's worse now. - [Scammer 2] Oh, I'm - [Patient] I would rather just pay it. Otherwise, I'll be worrying about it and I'll be worse in my Or even if I have to pay it in two halves. - [Mark] So the scammer places authorities to see if there's done to help her out. - [Scammer 2] Thank you so much I just had a word with the them about your situation and they're also concerned about your health. - [Mark] So concerned, in fact, she'll only have to send - [Scammer 2] Actual amount found out missing in the taxes was PS1,489. - Now last year's operation was effective in getting a handful of not only covered in But the problem was we low-level mules and supervisors who then send the bulk of the money back to the actual And while we did turn over all the intel we gathered to the five major reached out to us, to truly avenge Bessie, our goal was to take our glitter either temporarily disrupt or down a few of these terrible call centers. It'd be like a special operation. And every special operation a target, and a plan. For the team, I turn back to my good who you recall from last year specializes in reversing the computers and gaining access - [Scammer 3] Is there - [Jim] Yeah, I wanna - [Mark] And then another YouTube channel called Trilogy Media would in India implementing the pranks, but more on them later. For the target, together, we were able to locate and gather tons of incriminating information on four different scam call centers. For starters, there's Met Technologies India on the 5th floor of this building. They've been in operation over 12 years and they've got over 1,000 agents. Their owner is Mr. Kunal Gupta and you can even see the rest on their public website. And you might ask, why would a scam call center And the answer is they all do percentage of their employees do legitimate call center work. So if they get rated by the authorities, they can point to that small clean while the real runs here behind a secure door. Then we found VRM, also on the 12th floor of this building. They also have over 1,000 operation for six years and shifts to target people in time Oh, and allow me to Rajesh and Vidya Goenka, the husband and wife co-owners. Next was Ansh Info Solutions on the 5th floor of this building. They also run three shifts 24 hours a day and they've been up and with all their key info shown here. They're located just In fact, all three of these centers miles of each other which is a hotspot for scam And finally, there was but we're not releasing public And you'll see why in just a little bit. And so once we'd amassed four of them thanks to Jim's handiwork, we hired 10 private investigator types to apply for jobs at and after a few weeks, Now, in order for them they had to legitimately scam some people, but we told them to remember then we would reach out and And at first, one of our agents in the protocol and used his phone of the bathrooms and the server rack and whatever this is. But they must've seen him CCTV because the next day, some of the security team Now, luckily, his roommate knew to lie and able to escape through the back alley, but they stayed out in front sent this message saying the him and they would pay him handsomely. And of course, he didn't They were just simply curious gathered against them already. So from that point on, we reiterated to the remaining sleeper cell until we were And speaking of the plan, now that we saw what we were up against, we knew we'd have to go full high-tech gadgetry that (explosion) Which is why this first Kind of. I mean, it can function but if you unscrew just it reveals a trough. And if you put military grade trough and then screw it creates a perfect seal But then at the exact precise moment you want to release a cloud of death, you just twist the lid like this, allowing the smell to escape through these holes and fill the room. And we're using a water bottle because from looking at the CCTV footage, we know they allow them to have So they'll be able to Plus, no one's going to suspect Next up, if you take some hand soap and same kitchen grade food coloring we used on the devil's (crowd cheering) then when you wash your hands, it will leave them stained - [Worker] Oh crap. - [Mark] We'll leave this in we'll learn exactly who does This next one is the most simple, but also perhaps the most effective. You take a box of Sudafed and some of these labels and Then, importantly, you add the name of the boss box like it's his prescription. And then you leave it in the bathroom next to your blue soap. Next up is that custom built box that can store cockroaches in it. So after a predetermined time delay, the microcontroller will which causes the wall to That means if you then nothing happens and then suddenly, you get a bunch of cockroaches Although you can put more And some other ideas we had were bees 'cause we heard India has some sting as well as possibly rats looking at their security the rats could make And using a lunchbox for strategic choice because we already knew from our recon work, they always make it past checks what's inside. Next up, I love the idea of the chaos that could result if we but we were concerned that room was too small because I want everything I do to be exciting, but at the end of the So instead, we found these micro like massive vape pens. We also noticed motorcycle floor and past security. So the plan was to put it inside it would also detonate And finally, as the piece de resistance, we're gonna deliver them a package, only this isn't an ordinary package, It's glitter bomb 4.0, which of course, as we all know is equipped finest glitter and an - I can still smell it. (man coughing) - [Mark] And so now that our team, target, and plan were in place, after one and a half years of prep work, it was time to avenge Bessie and execute the special operation. Step one was getting the Trilogy to India with all the contraptions stored securely in their luggage. - [Youtuber] Oh my God. Stepping foot on Indian soil. - [Mark] Now safely on the ground, step two was to go pick that we could put in the lunchbox. But once they'd arrived to the beekeeper, they found out you can't but you have to take the whole hive. - [Youtuber] Dude, no. They're gonna get out! - I'm not afraid. - [Mark] Also, apparently, there's no such thing as stingless bees. - [Youtuber] Oh my God! Oh (bleep)! (group laughing) - [Mark] So we punted on that idea and headed to an open air market where we could at least secure some rats. By the way, the Trilogy Media YouTube who's a former magician, and Art, who played professional basketball in Russia for eight years. They're just an incredible duo. And speaking of incredible things, this is a good time to point India were just so freaking lovely. It's true that nearly originates from that country, but everyone in India They are a tiny, tiny fraction of the total defined by the worst in their midst. Most people we interacted with there had hearts more like Johnny, who's an honorary member of who's made it his life's take these guys down, even if that means working hands on 100 cockroaches. - Alright, let's go. - [Mark] So with the goods procured, it was time to meet up to the hotel to do some final which went about as well as expected. - Seriously, though, are we Right here? - Yeah. - We can't do it in the bathroom? - [Youtuber 2] 16, 17. - [Youtuber 3] Yeah, no, get 'em in. Get 'em in. All of 'em, yeah, yeah. The more the merrier. (group yelling) - [Youtuber] Don't scream. It's okay! It's okay! - [Youtuber] Grab, grab, grab, grab, grab! (bleep) stop it! (bleep) No, in, in, in! (bleep) God! (bleep) Grab him! No, no, no, no! Please, please, please, please, please! (group laughing) - Okay, pause. Pause. Accounted for, right? Everyone? - I swear, I would not let you down. - We decided the first call center we'd hit would be Ansh and we were feeling optimistic about our chances. And that's exactly when received its first major blow. So apparently, there's this WhatsApp group that 55,000 scammers all across India belong to so the different scam call centers can communicate with each other. And because Johnny was still a former days, he saw this message pop up. &quot;Two of us in the town cuss word Trilogy people. We followed them, but the driver drove the car very fast to the Salt Lake side. There was two Indians with them and they were shooting a movie.&quot; So apparently some scammers had the market as the Trilogy 'cause they've confronted in their five years of making videos. Now, thankfully just outta habit, Johnny was driving in a way anyone to tail them, but they still were able to within about a half a mile. But then it got much worse. &quot;Might be there working with the FBI, so I request all of our brothers to have an eye in Salt Lake. So whenever you see them, you shoot them.&quot; Which was super devastating to me that we'd have to scrap while the mission was important, it definitely wasn't But when I brought this up to the guys, they'd already discussed it this was a cause they were that they were willing So we decided moving forward, Art and Ashton wouldn't step a foot outside their hotel room. And that's when the second apparently the group text center so much they just changed and they were planning on agents to a new floor where But this is where we had a stroke of luck because at the last minute, Johnny thought to have scammer friends apply for a job. And because he had so much they hired him on the spot and gave him a more highly trusted role, which meant he could be the one to smuggle in all our gadgets. And so with that, he loaded up, headed in for battle, and an hour later, we had a man on the inside. And by the way, now that we're inside, I'll give you a very quick learned about how these scam them for so long. First of all, 90% of the victims are - [Caller] I don't understand that. I don't understand all of this. - [Mark] They really only make calls during the US working day hours and not on the weekends chance the person who This is why you never They don't have anyone In fact, many of 'em have an auto dial you're over 65 years old, and it just hangs up. The most common scam is but they also pretend Norton Antivirus, the IRS, It's always changing, but it's also always something build trust right out of the gate. If you wanna know how that information unfortunately boss's computer, so we can't get to it. Although I suppose if you had access to the internal cameras, you could just watch the boss you'd be able to access their which is what we did and how we know these large call centers That's $18 million a year. An opener will take the average of $7,000 a month. Then if they keep the victim they hand it over to a closer $15,000 a month. They never say the word scam or victim, instead referring to them That way they just seem Although what I think does all the walls plastered with like synergy, or management, or process. So that's your crash And the FTC has put out a list scam and four things you can and I'll link to it in And so now without further ado, we kicked things off with And while that was marinating, he went to the bathroom and the special medication with the boss's name written on the front. And it didn't take long for us to get our first hit on the smell. What was great though is they noses subtly in silence so the people next to them wouldn't feel accused. Well, for the most part. Then, a few minutes later, we had our first bathroom customer who clearly doesn't wash her But then we had a second chance with an apparently more we struck pay dirt as figure out what the heck just happened. And five minutes later, you could see him still And not long after that, we got our first mention of the special package in the bathroom. - [Worker] There's Viagra in the bathroom. - [Worker 2] Viagra? - [Worker] Yeah. - [Mark] The audio cut out here, but our agent told us they the boss could possibly Although it certainly doesn't he uses this as his And at this point, our agent placed and then countdown on the cockroach, rat, and smoke bomb traps so he can - [Jaani] Come on in, man. Oh. - [Secret Agent] Go, go, go, go. - [Jaani] You okay? - [Secret Agent] Yeah. - [Jaani] You're safe. - [Secret Agent] Yeah. I thought they were just following me. - [Mark] And since they of course have no idea what's about to happen, they're still just casually - [Worker] There's Viagra in the bathroom. I think I know who needs it so bad. - [Mark] And then a few moments later, the first boxes must have triggered 'cause this guy notices a cockroach And then he's quickly And I love it 'cause now you just randomly see cockroaches And so now that they know they call in the But it looks like he missed one. Or two. Or three. Actually, four. Scratch that. Five. And then as if perfectly on cue, right as the mop guy finishes And this causes quite quite a crowd and it takes them a while. They're eventually able to and gingerly take it off the premises. Followed soon thereafter And this is possibly my where you see a cockroach lead as they argue and try and make sense of what in the world And by this point, you could tell the boss is pretty sure they're under attack, but just we sent them one final package. And they almost opened it right there, but I guess with everything so far that night, he took it downstairs. And then this happened. (alarm ringing) - [Package] Ha ha! You guys give up? Or are you thirsty for more? - [Worker] There might - [Mark] Yeah, in fact, there's four of 'em and footage to the cloud. - [Worker] It smells! (box spraying) - [Worker] It just blasted and... - [Package] Five, four, three, two, one. Activation complete. Recovery sequence initiated. - [Worker] It smells so bad. Yes, it smells bad! (box spraying) Very smelly! - So after our incredibly we waited to see what And we didn't have to wait long. &quot;Yesterday, those cuss words sent Ansh Solutions a package bomb and it exploded sprinkler water or whatever it was. These guys are playing good with us. I'm reminding you guys, they must be in between And now we had 'em 'cause they know which of their employees &quot;Check the lunch boxes, ladies purse as well. Even check the water, whether there's some color mixed in it.&quot; I assume he's referring &quot;But be cautious, guys. Seriously. They came to bad word all of us and they're still trying to bust us.&quot; After that, there were a so we didn't think it was safe on the other three centers to But the beautiful thing &quot;Big centers in Kolkata and Delhi are closed from today as well as Monday as per the information I We had created enough confusion did the other three centers get shut down, but we got all the large scam down for a few days, too. And if you add it up, that means those tiny cockroaches going from the victims to the scumbags. And I would say that's the perfect ending, but it actually gets even a little better. Once Ashton and Art were safely they decided to troll that scammers by uploading - Surprise, surprise, scammers! Art and Ashton over here. - No matter how many numbers we're still watching. Not only that, we've also downloaded every information, all 57,000 We have every single one of We're submitting it to the FBI CBI here in India. So you guys better run (explosion) - [Mark] And so if you wanna see how quickly the scammers started removing themselves from the chat group as well as a lot more details ground over in India, you And not surprisingly, Ansh and the other scam call centers eventually opened back up, albeit this time with But they still didn't and still this moment that we have access So Jim improvised a bit, calling them out by their real fact he was just looking - [Priya] Yeah, hi, sir. My name is Carolina Fernandez. I am calling you from the Microsoft. - [Jim] Oh, hi, Priya. (Priya gasping) Hi. - Who are you? - [Jim] I'm a ghost. - [Priya] Do you know my father's name? - [Jim] I dunno, but is your father proud Does he think you work for Microsoft? - [Priya] Yes, of course. - [Jim] But you don't work for Microsoft. Did you tell him that? Will I tell you one more name? - [Priya] Yes. - [Jim] Saweeni. (Priya gasping) Oh my God, Saweeni! Please talk to me. Hello? - [Mark] He also managed to change the way their voices sound when they would do outbound calls - [Worker] Who are you? Who are you? - [Jim] You're speaking very strangely. What's up? - So to see a lot more of you should go check out his video. So after all that, we're sort of in a good news, The good news is that because been involved in, the 4th center here is gonna in India and shut down very, very soon. The bad news is that these other three are still very operational. And for reasons I can't say here, we don't have the same option do on the 4th one. Now you might ask, why not just privately reach out to the proper authorities in Kolkata where these three call And the answer is, that's been tried before While there are many good apples, there are a few bad apples happening to these guys. So where does that leave us? Well, as they say, sunshine And here's where you come in. We've invested a lot of resources this video as entertaining you'll consider sharing Number one, the more people are aware the less effective they become So please share it, especially And number two, the more people that see this three specific call centers, the more the press will pick Heck, tweet our videos This helps out the good apples just sweep all the evidence under the rug or quietly tip off the scam center bosses. The press and public can We've seen this tactic work have mountains of evidence If you are with the press send us an email to we'll share everything we have with you. If you combine them, these three centers have been in operation an astounding 29 years and they're still scamming this day, even right now So let's see what we can do. And depending on exactly what happens, I'll either post a follow-up channel or on my other social channels. So subscribe and all that stuff if you wanna stay in the loop. Glitter bombs and cockroaches are just harmless entertainment, but our best chance of working down for good is by shining a light to foster some accountability. Thanks for your help. Now let's make Bessie proud. I wanna thank Nord VPN for I've been using their service now because they really With Nord, you can surf your location stays private, Because even though I'm not a bad guy with something to hide, I generate a ton of And I prefer that information wasn't sold or used Nord collects and stores and makes it so others can't either. Plus, if you're traveling and you want your exact same internet like to watch all the it can virtually transport you to nearly 60 different countries. They also have a new service which is sort of like an malicious sites, downloads, and trackers, even when you're not connected to a VPN. So if you travel or you're just ready to take your privacy more seriously, you can get a two-year plus one additional month free by going to nordvpn.com/markrober. And the good news is, if it's not right for you for any reason, they've got a 30-day money back guarantee. So once again, that's nordvpn.com/markrober or use the link in the video description. Thanks for watching and sharing you've ever met or ever will meet. And let's get these punks shut down. (dramatic bang)