Hello, friends! Welcome to a new episode but first, let me thank you all for on Che Guevara, Napoleon, and Mao. It's safe Now, it's March, and it's clear that this We considered many candidates and ultimately women in history. In terms of fame, by Cleopatra, Marilyn Monroe, Today, we'll be talking about Lady Diana. [music plays] Diana Frances Spencer - Princess Diana, wife of the British Crown Prince She was one of the most talked-about of '80s and '90s pop culture, of the 100 most according to Time magazine. Diana has already to find another historical figure about whom, there are still so many questions Despite the modern era and a wealth of documented sources, Every detail of her life was examined still remains a mystery. The most precise lovers, friends, and biographers in perspective, but even in the dates Many details of her life, particularly her Everything we know about her life Even now, people who don't have continue to become fans - but of these half-fictional versions of her story biographical films, and, of course, series like The her image has been immortalized. Why is it Was she a tragic victim of the British of her own image? Why, after still provoke so much emotion and discussion? Despite the common belief that who happened to marry a prince - this was certainly not the case. Diana was The Spencers weren't just any ordinary family; they were a prominent aristocratic family. in 1954, the wedding was attended by and Princesses Margaret and Joanna. attending an ordinary social The Spencer family's lineage spans more you'll see that Diana's ancestry of her future husband, Charles. Let's start with was the 8th Earl Spencer. The first Earl Spencer in 1765. His son, Baron Robert Spencer, was the wealthiest man in England. Moving forward George Spencer, the 5th Duke of Marlborough, a second surname. And that His descendant, John Winston Spencer-Churchill, grandfather of Sir Winston Churchill, This means that Diana and her future husband, through several lines. Each of them descended from different daughters of Henry VII. who married the King of Scotland, while Charles the first Duke of Suffolk. Incidentally, Diana's a relative of Charles II's great-grandmother, So, if we lay out this royal family tree, it is deeply rooted in both Diana was by no means an ordinary girl. descended from Edmund Burke Roche, who lived in the 19th century. For his Queen Victoria granted him the title the first Baron Fermoy. Frances's father, Maurice and her mother, Ruth Sylvia, served as that Diana's familiarity with the royal family Her entire family history was deeply intertwined with the crown, spanning centuries. Throughout many years in business, lies in efficient processes. Time is the most implementing new solutions - ones that helped drive business growth rather than getting Many services exist to help business owners manage essential tasks, but in business, but also reliability. Whether you're just starting out or already running a small business, and companies is the &quot;Tochka&quot; bank. it has developed genuinely useful tools such as services for launching internet ads, and even finding counterparties. Tochka has introduced a highly useful feature: where you can allocate money for. or even employee salaries. On any plan, allowing you to plan your expenses and income so you won't need to maintain extensive You can set aside money from each deposit and make payments directly from the fund if needed. who want to grow their business wisely even in tough times. Focus on what of your comfort. For more details or to open in the description. Diana's deep English roots partly explain the tolerance and patience shown her later rebellious actions. To continue the aristocratic line, a male heir was needed, but a year before their long-awaited son. Then Frances gave and shortly afterward, they finally had a boy, For years, it was believed that the cause which led her to an affair. did journalist Andrew Morton, recordings in which Diana spoke about was a domestic tyrant who often beat his wife. with wallpaper magnate Peter Shand. In general, none of this was unusual for aristocratic families. It could have continued with When Diana was eight, her parents divorced. Diana's mother left for Scotland with her lover, Peter Kidd, whom she later married. would remain strained until her death. without contact. This was one Many noted that these family dramas with her husband and her overall desire by everyone her entire life. At the age of 12, called West Heath. She never completed According to those around her, Diana was not She was more talented in dance, swimming, people noticed her capacity for compassion and In 1975, Diana's father received the title of Earl, making her Lady Diana. John Spencer Raine of Dartmouth. The Spencer children often ignoring her and refusing to share a table treated her nicely. Later, Raine was among those from Charles. There are many mirrored in Diana's relationship with Charles, before leaving to study in Switzerland, He came to the Spencer estate for the British heir appeared amusing. Here, it's clear we're no longer discussing &quot;ordinary&quot; this is a crown prince visiting her Diana's time in Switzerland was short-lived. She felt deeply homesick, and moved into an apartment in central London the flat with friends and soon started as every member of an English aristocratic family is traditionally expected to work like the primary heir of the Spencer family, Charles Spencer was set and heir to the estate, so it made sense for Diana to pursue a career of her own. as an assistant at a kindergarten. worked as a nanny for expats from the U.S., and even briefly taught ballet. Diana once even winning first place However, she was too tall to be a ballerina, for an aristocrat. Her mother helped at the Betty Vacani's ballet studio in London. aristocracy, including Queen Elizabeth in her But three months later, Diana injured her knee [music plays] Dear friends, I've often shared the importance of building a personal brand in today's world. for entrepreneurs, where I discuss and what tools can be effective. saying you'd love to attend one of these lectures. that this year I'll be speaking at the for entrepreneurs and top managers. on the main stage titled "Personal Branding and to chat with forum participants and answer all ceremonies will be held during the forum: These are prestigious business awards where The awards will take place over four They aim to highlight the achievements of the The forum will be held at the Hyatt Visit the award websites to apply or participant of the "Facets of Personal are in the description. See you at the forum! During this time, the royal family faced and public forget about Prince Charles's They had met in 1970, and sparks flew immediately. When news of their relationship became didn't approve of Camilla, partly because she of a potential royal consort. Charles was sent off to serve in the Navy, It seemed like the drama might end here, resumed, and the press began capturing Camilla was deeply unpopular with the public, started to slip. Here, it's important the British Crown's intense focus on image - an essential factor in Diana's story. in the UK's political system. While or governmental matters, the influence remains tremendous. Furthermore, a guardian of the nation's cultural but society often holds its cultural symbols Any deviations from protocol by become instant topics of media scrutiny. Think of the royal family as characters in cherished style and personality. if a main character suddenly The monarchy is similar: while some say it's an outdated institution, the British people fairy tale, even if there are For decades, public approval Charles was the heir to the throne, holding was meant to become Princess of Wales and Queen Consort. These are not they are among the most Selecting a consort was to be done with utmost that Charles had little influence over it. The choice was entirely in the Queen's hands, guided by her vision of the ideal Camilla was never seriously considered, unlike the Spencers. The Spencers were ideal and the monarchy itself. Initially, Elizabeth older sister, Sarah Spencer. in the constraints of royal life - the protocols, She had her own checkered reputation, but it displeased Elizabeth. their younger daughter, Diana, in the 1970s, parents arranging with what feels like a nod to medieval customs - With her endorsement, Charles Diana immediately caught the dubbed her "Shy Di" due to her But this wasn't shyness; Diana wasn't a timid girl. At a tall 178 cm (5'10"), she often tilted her head down to make it easier for people to speak of shyness, which only enhanced her Diana's relationship with as rumors of her as the prince's a photographer from the Evening Standard came to take her picture. She posed outside with and during the shoot, the sun came out, translucent, revealing her long legs. The photos spread across the media instantly. upon seeing the photos, remarked, "I knew you that impressive." The royal demanding the immediate removal of the images. of Diana's media image, ensuring that that Diana wasn't a virgin. before meeting Charles were removed before This illustrates the monarchy's PR machinery: a true security force, discovering photos before they were published, negotiating, retrieving, The combination of modesty and natural allure the image of another iconic blonde, Marilyn Marilyn's famous 1954 image, with her while filming The Seven Year Itch. Contemporary observers noted that, like Marilyn, and from this moment, she began to be compared to Monroe in every aspect. Diana herself skillfully used this comparison occasionally wearing dresses reminiscent sensual image was later adopted met only 12 or 13 times over a couple of months. Officially, they were never alone; of other family members or servants. for the role of a royal consort. Biographer Diana's first visit to Balmoral, in Scotland in 1980, Queen Elizabeth II [music plays] during a formal dinner at Buckingham Palace, The wedding day was declared are a major part of Britain's national identity, and in the early 1980s, with high unemployment this provided an opportunity to give people from bleak thoughts and critical questions about in centuries, a future monarch was marrying married women from German dynasties, were British was in 1660, when Anne Hyde, daughter of an advisor to Charles II, Centuries later, it was Diana who achieved in making this a major media event. Diana and in British history, costing the treasury an enormous sum in the 1980s. Even was kept under strict secrecy, to keep the intrigue alive until the last moment. but this didn't improve their relationship; after the wedding. On July 29, 1981, of the wedding was held Diana's defiance of tradition began that day with her wedding vows. After discussing the part about obeying her husband, replacing The ceremony at St. Paul's including the creme de la creme of royal families The live broadcast by the BBC was watched by more than 28 million viewers, with an estimated 750 million and hundreds of thousands from the cathedral to Buckingham Palace. transformed Diana into a modern-day Cinderella it was far from a fairy tale. The Queen would compel Charles to break off his relationship After returning from their honeymoon, Palace, but Charles preferred There is no confirmation that their relationship of the marriage. Nevertheless, left to her with bulimia, and suffered from depression, The first rumors started to circulate that the fairy was immense. Today, we have the internet share details about their lives. there were only newspapers and television. to the royal family as a whole, Diana was the first Englishwoman to hold such a title in in 80 years, the last being Mary Queen Elizabeth II's grandmother. into a top blogger of sorts; they were dependent from photos, gossip, and rumors. One photo 28,000 pounds - it was a scandalous precedent, as the British princess ideally wouldn't even touch a non-British car. Yet it's hard to say Diana resisted this media attention much. she often added fuel to the fire, leaking her whereabouts ultimately making herself fully vulnerable [music plays] between Diana and Charles and his ongoing the first few years were relatively Diana gave birth to their first son, William, She became the first British royal to give choosing St. Mary's Hospital. the marriage had begun to fracture. Charles had stopped limiting his relationship and resumed a fully romantic relationship with her, which, naturally, was drawing However, this didn't prevent them from having but shortly afterward, Diana and Charles started to Kensington Palace, while Charles stayed Camilla and her family also moved to a house There are numerous theories on what went Beyond his obvious affection for Camilla, a fact Charles himself later admitted - Additionally, Charles was reportedly irritated that focused on Diana, not him, the future heir to the throne. By 1984, Diana's popularity Anyone who met her would note her natural charm and incredible charisma. She had who appreciated her openness and conversational she always found time for personal interaction, and accepting cards and flowers. Her as she actively participated in her children's lives, distant, formal approach of to rely solely on nannies, choosing instead to She played with them, picked them up from Charitable work, in fact, It was a cornerstone of her life, of charitable foundations in various that assisted those with AIDS, leprosy, were often connected to visiting homeless and those living with HIV. While as part of their duties, there was Queen Elizabeth, for instance, but none of the royals performed these duties with as Diana. The royal family performed the protocol, being formal and calm, Diana, however, was the first member and demonstrate genuine compassion - she appeared as a real person, One of the most memorable instances was where she inaugurated the UK's first AIDS ward. At that time, there was widespread fear and that it could be transmitted through touch. removed her gloves and shook hands with The photos of Princess Diana shaking spread worldwide. No other public figure a member of the royal family. The image and a reporter from People magazine the British monarchy has done statements like this were not to Queen Elizabeth II. Suddenly, this of the heir to the throne, had become more than a small pillar in the monarchy - Diana consistently supported she visited Harlem Hospital in New York to meet After Diana's death, Gavin Hart, founder &quot;In our opinion, Diana did more to help and no one has yet done anything similar.&quot; We can see how aspects of Diana's image of Diana's son, Prince William. Like Diana, caring mother, engages actively in charity work, and strives to become a fashion icon. she wore set trends. Even on ordinary days would sell out immediately. was the Hunter Wellington boots she wore during her early relationship with Charles in 1980, Her signature oversized blazers, jumpers, and men's suits became all the rage in the '80s. Diana knew how to fit seamlessly into pop she surprised him by inviting top supermodels and Naomi Campbell to Kensington was at the height of her popularity - Had anyone done something similar before her? that had a reputation that couldn't possibly alongside a royal. Diana looked completely modern, unlike the timelessly traditional royal family. She listened to contemporary music, befriended bands like Duran Duran and Freddie Mercury, and was at ease in all circles, from She listened to the Eagles and Brian Adams. Ross, Lionel Richie, and Celine Dion. She attended shocked everyone by appearing in leather she was photographed. Diana was including Elton John. They met in 1981 and remained close friends until her death. younger son, Prince Harry, and Meghan Markle. She and George Michael, whom she met at the 1985 concert for World AIDS Day and remained in her advocacy for AIDS-related was Liza Minnelli. Diana was always at iconic photos of her was taken in 1985 a reception hosted by President Ronald Reagan. she danced the foxtrot with John Travolta Her love of popular music brought significantly boosting her popularity. in classical music, as one might expect aristocratic family. Her parents had and her years of ballet training left their mark. Luciano Pavarotti for many years. Pavarotti to ban landmines, a cause strongly supported standing next to Pavarotti after It was pouring rain that day, but the audience, allowing everyone a clear view This was Diana's precise, modern yet consistently reminding everyone and charisma. Her image was so successful reached 45%, just one point behind the Queen. For Charles, reserved and conditioned to royal protocol much like his mother, this Diana in every respect. Close associates this popularity gap irritated him. outshone him in the public eye, earning During joint appearances, people were far more The press wrote about Diana constantly, she often used the media Today, women can use social but at the time, print media was one of the few Charles as well, but usually focused that sooner or later, Charles's relationship in response, because it all seemed too one-sided. Yes, he was the unfaithful one, meeting was seen only interacting with everyday people at charity But, in reality, things were more complicated. and even now, people try to profit from them. with fresh revelations. Who do people talk about public image that's become a bit of a legend. a concert in London, the organizers asked him to and he agreed. After the concert, Diana "Why didn't you sing 'Dirty Diana'? It's my favorite!" As for Diana's rumored lovers, one name comes who was involved with her from 1985 to 1986. NBC once claimed they had a recording to run away with him. When their relationship and a year later, he died under mysterious a passenger collided with a car, and the police had been blinded by the lights of a third vehicle that fled the scene. Diana was convinced that British security services suspecting that a similar fate might await her. with some media speculating that he might a top polo player and riding instructor, and shortly after Mannakee's dismissal in August 1986, he began teaching Diana. Hewitt visited Kensington Palace and their relationship lasted until 1989 Hewitt claims the affair continued until 1991. are known because Hewitt later and co-authored a book about their romance, a long book on Diana's biography. Hewitt himself denies any possibility connecting them is their appearance -- That's where it ends, though, as Harry was born didn't start until 1986. But who knows -- in his pursuit of media attention, will go through with a paternity test. Despite the obvious issues in their marriage, Royal permission for divorce would have had to to tarnish the image of such a beautiful story. maintain a partnership for the sake less about love and more about stability. serves as a constant reassurance in times of crisis, must, in many ways, remain as it was 300 years the public's affection. She also kept playing in newspaper headlines. In February 1992, a significant moment occurred: during the trip, Diana decided to visit the Taj Mahal alone, She requested that reporters while Charles was attending a press conference. to take her to the Taj Mahal, a symbol of eternal he left her to attend a business meeting. around the world proclaimed her even published the photo with "I wish you were here." The message This scene at the Taj Mahal was revisited posed there together. At the time, there were that William was following in his father's footsteps Against these rumors, Kate and William's was a graceful nod to Diana's iconic image. The photo of Diana at the Taj Mahal was not A court photographer traveling with the couple asked the royal press secretary, a picture of Charles and Diana to kiss his wife, but Diana turned her head, resulting in a strange, awkward photo This image quickly spread across about the failing marriage, with many questioning Such incidents fueled suspicions that Diana But Diana was not alone in this media battle. Patrick Jephson, Diana's private secretary, revealing that Charles also to portray Diana as unbalanced. the "war of headlines." Jephson described as feeling like "a pool of blood slowly a vivid image of the toxic environment. was just the beginning of the public In May 1992, Andrew Morton published Diana later claimed she had never met Morton or given personal interviews, and this was true - to Morton through an intermediary, responding This book revealed, for the first time, her anguish over Charles's relationship with After the book's release, there was a notable suggesting that Diana's openness may have helped others facing similar challenges. She also mentioned her fears believing she was under surveillance The royal family was shocked by Morton's book. the impact of Diana's revelations, At the time, the royal family fiercely denied calling him a liar and claiming that the information came from those close to the princess. that Morton published transcripts of the tapes, confirming that Diana was indeed his source. debated to this day, with the royal had a tendency to over-dramatize events. In 1993, Diana's grandmother, Ruth Sylvia Roche, of the Queen Mother, formally apologized expressing regret for not warning She claimed that Diana's bulimia had started and believed her to be unstable, The only reason why Diana's family was their desire to be connected the wife of Diana's younger son, Prince Harry, this part of Diana's image. Unlike on the virtuous side of Diana's persona - Meghan took a more confrontational approach, However, it quickly became clear such a tactic couldn't yield the same results, We need to consider why to understand why the cases of Diana, Meghan, the are so challenging for the monarchy. like a charming, decorative institution to entertain the public. Why wouldn't they of the Kardashians, for instance? The thing is, a decorative institution. The Crown holds circumstances, the monarch can assume There's a standing, reserved government as the commander-in-chief of the armed forces Additionally, the Crown has its own Parliament has restrictions that don't a new foreign secretary can't access predecessor, but the monarch can. important documents of state. So, the monarchy who, if necessary, can not only step in Then there was Diana, who was openly revealing how things really worked behind the scenes. What might she reveal next? After the release the leading tabloid, published transcripts between Diana and her heir to the namesake gin business. It's still unclear whether Diana and Gilbey were just friends or romantically on New Year's Eve while Diana was with A casual radio enthusiast, who enjoyed listening the conversation. I'm not sure how much This radio hobbyist passed the tapes on hesitated to publish them, wary After the events of 1992, however, they decided it was now or never. in Gilbey about her difficult relationships with and even expressed concern about a possible and affectionately called her "Squidgy," meaning the press dubbed the scandal "Squidgygate" published another transcript of the same Like much in Diana's life, the tapes came of the tapes suggested they were likely not random interceptions but rather direct to British intelligence. According to one theory, she was Morton's source, were being recorded and [music plays] As a final blow to Charles and Diana's marriage, published the transcript of a recorded phone call, this time between Charles and Camilla. the sensational conversation between shifting the media's focus to Charles. thanks to a detail in which Charles Camilla's tampon, he earned the nickname humiliating but disastrous At that point, ignoring the issues On December 9, 1992, British Prime Minister John Major announced to the House of Commons The royal family's official position but did not plan to divorce. didn't approve the divorce at that point. scandal for the monarchy, as 1992 for the royal family. That year saw two of Elizabeth's children, Prince Andrew Windsor Castle also suffered a major fire, and with the UK facing a deep economic recession, public scrutiny over the high cost of maintaining the royal household intensified. John Major even influenced the royal family to start paying income tax for the first time since 1937. In this context, a costly divorce for the family wanted to spotlight, fearing it Who knows how the public would have reacted -- perhaps the longstanding approval ratings Why keep a monarchy if it can't If they can't manage themselves, how And so, the path to divorce began. In December from public social activities, The press now turned its attention on her relationship with art dealer Oliver Hoare, and his wife wasn't exactly on board In 1993, Diana began seeing Will Carling, who was training William and Harry and happened to go to the same gym as Diana. &quot;Princess in Love&quot;, was released, detailing Although Hewitt was heavily criticized, and was adapted into a film And what was Charles up to? On June 29, 1994, he publicly confirmed his extramarital Diana's reaction to this humiliating Wikipedia wasn't around back then, Instead of lying low and waiting for a Vanity Fair event in her The media battle between Diana and Charles and final, round. With tensions at an all-time high, the press eagerly awaited Diana's next move. commitment to charity work. In 1995, she made a two-day trip to Moscow - In the late 1980s, a UK fund the Tushino Children's Hospital in Moscow, to exchange expertise internationally. Through received advanced equipment from by Queen Elizabeth's mother, According to Moscow doctors, where children injured in car While others in her entourage fainted at the During the same trip, Princess Diana opened for disabled children at Moscow School No. 751. came with her now-infamous interview on YouTube. In November 1995, Diana sat down with BBC journalist Martin Bashir, What made the interview so shocking she said it at all. It was unheard of and strictly forbidden by the Queen for royals Morton's 1992 biography could openly participated, it was "leaked," to the camera. This is where she delivered in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded," By then, it was obvious that this not only Camilla but also the Queen, the Crown's Another provocative statement see Prince Charles as a future king. This was overshadowing even Diana's revelations In the interview, Diana also with Hewitt, admitting she It was here that she delivered her famous line, wanted to be remembered This interview left no doubt that Martin Bashir, who conducted the interview, though it later emerged that he had used deceptive tactics to secure Diana's trust. Bashir forged bank statements showing supposed payments from British Jephson, implying he was feeding like information on her whereabouts, these documents to Diana's brother, Earl Spencer, to Diana. Patrick initially tried to talk Diana out been obsessed with the idea of being watched. and leaking information. It's thought the journalist's manipulative tactics implying, "If you don't speak up, and you'll be painted as crazy." Patrick Jephson resigned in was still issuing compensation The latest payments included $2 million in charitable donations to organizations chosen by the royal family, along with which he then donated to a children's hospice. was viewed by 23 million but a bombshell. This was not into the hidden, almost sacred, but also due to her candid revelations talk shows are on every network, family therapist blogs are everywhere, and nearly But in 1995, it was unheard of to publicly discuss and infidelity - especially coming who was supposed to embody British values. The impact of this interview it reached a new, unprecedented level of Imagine how many women saw that they or suffering from depression; After the broadcast, a poll revealed that 92% of respondents sided with Diana. By January 1994, her popularity surpassing all other royal family members, including Queen Elizabeth at 44% Diana's popularity surged as public opinion A month after the interview, Buckingham Palace officially announced to the Prince and Princess of Wales, This suggestion from the Queen Negotiations over divorce terms, which would Diana, who supposedly longed for freedom, recommendation to divorce by saying for three months. Finally, between Diana Spencer and Prince Charles an agreement that forbade them from married life. Diana received a one-time payment of $22 million and an annual allowance And, of course, she gained the freedom might not seem like much but it was certainly substantial - to live comfortably for quite some time. Susie and Tarek Kassem, auctioned off letters the princess had written to them with close friends, worried that phone In a letter dated December 17, she wrote, for all of us." This letter recently sold for the record price, $31,000. Altogether, the sale of 32 letters. The divorce was officially &quot;Princess of Wales,&quot; but at Charles's insistence, This meant that, in effect, she was and she now had to bow to her former She retained access to the royal to keep all the jewelry she had received her engagement ring. While she in central London, she was able to keep where one of the floors served The former spouses received equal who were 14 and 11 years old, respectively, in boarding school, and during with each parent. After the divorce, her new relationships and her Diana announced that she intended few organizations, including the Royal Marsden Hospital the National AIDS Trust, the Leprosy Mission, the homeless shelter Centrepoint, Diana was involved in that wasn't socially She organized fundraising balls and gala events that helped raise hundreds of thousands of she accepted an invitation from against the use of anti-personnel landmines. a Canadian-led initiative begun in 1990 aimed at creating a treaty to ban landmines Diana traveled to Angola, a country Throughout this conflict, approximately 70 million anti-personnel landmines had been planted averaging nearly five mines per person. countless people on crutches, in wheelchairs, Diana visited hospitals caring for the injured, was her walk across a cleared minefield. she invited the BBC to document her journey. The resulting film included footage shot in which she shared her personal She spoke about how one out of every how poor the medical care was, and how local conflicts continued. to a field where, just days prior, some to play football on what turned out to be in a mine-clearing procedure, donning a and a protective face shield. And so, she walked remarkable gesture - appearing in public "revenge dress" for the press was one thing, but Diana later admitted that her but she managed to bring widespread ensured extensive coverage on the problem. the Ottawa Treaty, which banned and transfer of anti-personnel mines, the international campaign to ban landmines was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. retraced his mother's famous walk. and walked along that same field. Personally, hoped to achieve walking on a field it felt like an empty gesture to me. Diana visited Pakistan twice in 1996 for an oncology center built by Imran Khan. Cancer treatment was indeed one of Diana's philanthropic focuses, though it seems there may have been even before her official divorce, a cardiac surgeon from Pakistan. They were where Diana had come to support whose husband had suffered a heart attack. mediums, psychics, and astrologers - a fact I only learned while researching this. it makes sense that she would be surrounded by astrologers, yoga practitioners, She also had a psychologist. It was at Diana's initiative that a relationship Diana and Khan were already acquainted when in fact, Khan tried to dissuade her from discussing at Khan's hospital, immersing herself in Pakistani culture. She started listening to Eastern music, studying began to appear in her wardrobe. Diana even visited Khan's family in secret. and was very surprised - Diana was clearly serious would describe Khan as the love about their romance, as Diana did everything Khan, too, proved himself to be a respectable man; even after Diana's death, unlike many others, He only gave one interview, to the Daily Mail in 2008, where he said he never saw Diana as a celebrity or someone special - in his words, she was just an ordinary person. In June 1997, Diana's relationship with Khan it was around this period that she met Dodi Fayed, beginning the last romance of her life. Mohamed Al-Fayed. The story of the family's with Dodi is shrouded in mystery. According years earlier at a polo match in 1986. they met again in 1997 on Dodi's sparking their romance. It certainly Let's go back a bit. The British establishment held the Al-Fayeds in deep suspicion, had long sought entry into British high society When Mohammed and his brothers started their in the early 1980s, they claimed to come of shipowners, landowners, and industrialists However, in 1990, the UK's Department Al-Fayed was actually born and raised in Newspapers took to calling him the "fake pharaoh." Tom Bower, who wrote an unauthorized that the controversial businessman had shaved to his surname for a more elite image. from his acquisition of the Ritz Hotel in Paris iconic national symbol, this time for France. came from the Sultan of Brunei - possibly as Al-Fayed had been given broad The Sultan denied providing stating that if his powers were it was without his knowledge or permission. that Mohammed was repeatedly frustrated with the lack of progress from the British elite - Al-Fayed paid two Conservative MPs to ask questions in Parliament on his behalf. One of them from Al-Fayed and subsequently resigned. even after a 900-page report concluded there was convincing evidence of up to PS25,000. Compared to today's it seems like mere pocket change. wrote about Al-Fayed, noting that to become an Englishman, no matter how is toward him." Ultimately, Mohammed to approach this exclusive ruling class through royal at the time. He had previously Earl Spencer, and her stepmother, Raine. Showering Earl and Countess Spencer with to make Diana a regular visitor to Harrods. to his office and gave her gifts. He would approach her at charity events, and offering his support. This led to a significant moment in the summer at the Churchill Hotel, he persuaded Diana with her children. The British press didn't In a Vanity Fair article from 1997, he was described as an immature man Despite his father's love, and relied entirely on his father. that his association with Diana cast Just before reuniting with Princess Diana, film Kelly Fisher. But in June 1997, Mohammed where Diana and her children were vacationing. to be with Diana. Adding fuel to the press's that Diana herself tipped off photographers in They followed her, and then The Sunday Mirror of Diana and Dodi embracing and kissing, just three weeks before her death. details about Dodi's breakup with Fisher, Fisher hired famed attorney Gloria Allred to represent her in a lawsuit against Dodi, accusing him of causing financial harm for their relationship. She claimed from that infamous Sunday Mirror Those photos, in fact, were part of my own I saw them in a French magazine, showing Diana and Dodi on the yacht. Every detail was labeled - wine brand, sunscreen brand, Dodi's sunglasses brand - everything was marked with links The feature appeared just days after Diana's death. No one hesitated to profit from her passing. [music plays] In the months leading up to her death, Her anti-landmine work drew significant she made news once more for a charity auction at Christie's. One of which sold for $65,000. All proceeds went to AIDS charities and where Diana was president. Another famous for $24,000 was resold at Sotheby's Of course, the media was captivated by the new Dodi's father's shady dealings, and Diana's criticism, and it wasn't just them. former butler, Diana's mother, Frances, who this period. He found Diana on the floor with Her mother, reportedly drunk, insulted for her relationships with a Pakistani heart Diana cut off contact with her mother. or ever could have, we'll never know. Diana and Dodi arrived in Paris owned by Dodi's father, Mohamed Al-Fayed. that Diana and Dodi were leaving the hotel Trevor Rees-Jones and the head Henri Paul, who was driving. Paparazzi, pursued their car. At around 12:23 AM, the Mercedes lost control and at high speed (quite a symbolic number, right?) died on impact. A French doctor, who happened upon the scene recalled that Diana briefly regained consciousness Incidentally, Diana's fans also blamed this he provided inadequate first aid. a broken arm, and severe chest injuries. before losing consciousness, she asked, A two-hour operation could not save her, and Bodyguard Rees-Jones was the only by the airbag, though he suffered and was in a coma for 10 days. from an old photograph, using he lost his memory and couldn't There are countless contradictory theories many of which implicate British intelligence services. Initially, Henri Paul, who was driving, was blamed. Some speculated he had conspired that he hadn't actually been drinking and that this was fabricated to mislead the public. was swapped with someone else's at the crash site. The only indirect evidence was that he had unusually large considering his position. However, in late 2007 when a former Scotland Yard concluding that Henri Paul's blood was three times the legal limit in France. was double the limit for that area, including Princess Diana, a factor that played a tragic role in their deaths. why they would have driven so fast in the middle not just weekly but daily, constantly photographed So why speed through Paris at night at 120 just to avoid a few extra photos? There would she was destined to be the center of attention. suggesting that the Mercedes Diana crashed The previous owner had warned the Ritz at high speeds. Naturally, the paparazzi were to speed up in an attempt to get away. that he always believed the press would editor, and publisher who paid for photos of her had blood on their hands. Witnesses claimed a white Fiat Uno that cut off Diana's Mercedes, triggering the accident. Police investigators found debris at the scene, from a late-1980s Fiat Uno. on the damaged Mercedes. Over more than 4,000 white Fiats matching drew the most attention. named Le Van Thanh, the son of a Vietnamese as a security guard that night. just a few months after the accident. urgently repainted the Fiat the night of the crash. against him due to lack of substantial was the French photographer James after the best shots of Diana. For instance, on a yacht belonging to Dodi's father, Andanson During his 1998 questioning, it was revealed it had just been sitting unused in his garage. at the time of the Mercedes collision. Andanson sold the Fiat, and from a gunshot wound in a burned-out car. bragged to friends that he had shocking photos from the accident scene. His death was ruled a suicide, but Mohamed Al-Fayed's lawyer argued that Andanson because of those photos, and his car The theory that British intelligence wanted to one of the most popular ones. According to and as proof of the conspiracy, to her butler, Paul Burrell, for safekeeping. was planning a "car accident" causing her to suffer a head injury, all She also recalled the tragic death who had died in an accident years earlier. also supported this theory, claiming that but that Diana was pregnant with Dodi's child. to prevent a former royal from having a child found no evidence of pregnancy. Immediately launched an investigation, which concluded against the journalists who had pursued to provide aid to persons in danger but due to insufficient evidence, of the crash was identified as who was under the influence of alcohol. Mohamed Al-Fayed, who rejected a new investigation began in London. During the investigation, in 2005, Al-Fayed in his London department store, In July 2008, the verdict upheld the crash was caused by Henri Paul and Although Al-Fayed had said the Harrods this didn't hold. In 2010, Harrods and eight years later, the store's management and return it to Al-Fayed. The official reason to erect a memorial to her near Kensington Palace to honor her than in a department store. was unveiled in July 2021. Mohamed Al-Fayed were victims of a conspiracy orchestrated of the royal family. What was the reaction Journalists quickly changed their tune. the media was filled with harsh criticism of and mocked. But as soon as she died, from judgment to near reverence, anything negative about her. and public dislike of Charles grew. The rumors that he wanted Diana dead In fact, polls in Britain in September 1997 showed that 31% of the population supported William, while only 12% supported Charles. the British Prime Minister at the time, Tony Blair, gave a speech in which he publicly referred to Meanwhile, the Queen was seen as indifferent, At that time, Elizabeth was with and Harry, on holiday at Balmoral Castle for refusing to display the Union Jack at half-mast at Buckingham Palace. The press demanded, Show us that you care." Elizabeth remained silent Diana's funeral did she record Many familiar with the royal family, including was simply trying to protect her family from the Yet the theory that the Queen was directly remains one of the most popular. On August 31, 1997, Diana's casket was brought and two sisters. First, it was taken in the royal chapel at St. James's Palace. at Westminster Abbey in London, and the country For people who had followed Diana's every step, her sudden death felt like the loss of a loved one. Around three million people came to pay their outside Buckingham Palace that authorities to stop bringing flowers, as they and posing a risk to public safety. in the royal funeral plans, which were applied Approximately 2.5 billion people watched the televised broadcast of Diana's funeral, to Charles. Elton John, a close friend Candle in the Wind at her funeral. This song written in 1973 as a tribute to Marilyn Monroe, and Marilyn seem intertwined. The original lyrics though I never knew you at all," referring to The song's lyrics were fitting for Diana too, the press's relentless pursuit, and fame in a car accident at the same age as Marilyn Upon hearing of Diana's death, Elton John specifically for her. The song only once in public, at her funeral and he never sang it again afterward. This song In 2007, it entered the Guinness World Records as the best-selling single in music history. from the single to Diana's memorial fund. The Princess of Wales Memorial Fund as countless people around the world Diana was, of course, the pinnacle in the eighties and nineties. Many media of the 20th century and the most People who knew her or even saw her from from her name. Numerous books have been made about her life, some even during fully grasp who she truly was. a nearly unique media personality; no one of her level had ever But in today's world, it's unlikely she'd Figures like Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, with shocking statements, cannot achieve there is little left that can truly shock us. of authenticity that people were longing but in a representative of authority, to understand her, people So, that's the story of Princess Diana - the most famous, most photographed woman of her time. with Elton John's heartfelt words, of the song, which began with "Goodbye, English Rose." [music plays]