When you think of road construction, you probably delays, all to make wider, faster roads. But this This intersection might look pretty typical, but and something needed to be done. The first problem drivers to take this turn at high speeds and only controlled by a single stop sign for this trying to turn. Not only was this dangerous, most of which were turning left. However, due to options were limited to fix the problem, a mini roundabout made of plastic. This roundabout of recycled milk jugs onto the existing road, amount of space. It was built as a pilot project, if they found it to be unsuccessful or kept to installing the plastic panels, and the project was to traffic, and the test began to see if it would the center island had to be clear of obstacles drive over it, as they wouldn't be able to make technically drive straight through the middle, higher speeds. Drivers seem to respect the panels causes everyone to slow down and yield to traffic and more efficient intersection, solving the was completed for a very low cost compared to require any additional land. Despite the it has created real results by improving safety out this mini roundabout is just one piece of a implement small changes in design that slow down drive according to their perception of danger. and if we perceive more risk, we drive slower. massive impact on speeds. Straight, clear roads speeds are acceptable, whereas curvy, narrow roads drivers that they need to slow down. It might more risk can actually be a good thing for safety, attention on streets where cars should be going where drivers can make mistakes and force them to a straight, wide-open street. This is especially such as residential streets, as that difference with a pedestrian. And unfortunately, pedestrian contributing reasons that will require policy such as the ever-increasing size of vehicles or factor in this problem, and thankfully, we can Cincinnati, Ohio, had a huge problem with speed, full of homes, families, and schools. Thankfully, solution has already prevented crashes and saved We'll take a deeper look at what they did in a in safety, what tools can be used in communities pretty simple: landscaping. Streets lined provide shade, and improve air quality, but they create the perception of a narrower roadway, for error. When trees are placed between function as a physical boundary between the two, Curb extensions, also called all sorts of other into the road to narrow the roadway. This visual and the smaller turning radius reduces the speed reduce crossing distances for pedestrians and can This can have a huge impact on pedestrian safety streets with parked cars, any cars parked up to creating blind spots. By bringing the curb further sight lines are greatly improved for both done this just using paint, cones, or to improve safety and show that it can work Curbs can be modified at other points in roadway intentionally curves by modifying order to take the turns at a safe speed. used to be a standard straight residential street drivers. They also added these median islands which are another common tool used for traffic obstacle in what would otherwise be a wide-open this gives the visual appearance of narrowed lanes can safely make it through the space between the with a crosswalk, they reduce crossing distances and cross each direction of the street separately. of perception or turning movements, there are some driven anywhere, you've likely been over a speed driving over them, they're cheap to install to very low speeds. But the speed bump has some crawling speeds but still need to keep speeds in bump. It isn't quite as an abrupt bump and allows more appropriate for residential streets. It also drivers are traveling at the designed speed. ensuring vehicle speeds stay low on the entire Speed humps aren't without their issues, which is less than ideal. However, these larger an incredibly simple solution: make some gaps and they're designed to reduce delays for have a wider wheelbase than regular cars, gaps between the speed cushions and don't have they can go between the gaps. Regular cars speed cushion even if they aim for the gap. with a flat section on top, and even higher speeds. These can be paired with which forces drivers to slow down and brings since they are higher in the sightline of drivers. creating raised intersections. This keeps vehicle for level crossings since the crosswalk and the physical barriers like bollards or planters to A lot of these tools can be combined as well, islands or landscape curb extensions. However, match the use of the road. While a speed hump a residential area, you wouldn't want to put street is made for homes and people, between places quickly. That might seem pretty mismatched in terms of their purpose and their A stroad is a mix of a street, which is and a road, which is designed for cars to those two ends up with a mix of high-speed cars, and pedestrians living, shopping, or working has proven to be incredibly dangerous for stroads have been discussed in depth by many further in a future video. But let's take a look Ohio, and how this fix is already proven the final and most versatile tool in our A road diet is the conversion of an existing road vehicle travel lanes. This can result in a most common four-lane to three-lane conversion lanes. There are tons of possibilities but one common motive behind any road diet is safety improvements are accomplished in a few road like this, these left lanes function as both turning left. This means large differences in drivers having to weave around turning traffic. higher speeds in general, since drivers aren't Visibility is also a huge problem for traffic at an intersection, they block the view of lanes. Meanwhile, in a three-lane setup with it allows for all turning traffic to move out rear-end collisions and increasing visibility built as a median island, creating a pedestrian These median islands alone have been shown to All of these safety improvements are calculated And while concepts in those fields can sometimes and easy way to learn more about concepts in sponsor of this video, Brilliant. Brilliant technology works to modeling data to scientific proving to be six times more effective than is that it's customized to be tailored towards You take a quick quiz when you sign up and you're allowing you to learn more about what you're out or have years of experience, I found the applies problem-solving techniques using geometry. and is something that I always found interesting want to add something fun and productive to Brilliant has to offer for free for 30 days by on the link in the description. And Brilliant is premium subscription, so if you're looking to When vehicle lanes are removed and more space rethink how people can get around the area and street. And in Cincinnati, they decided they but it most definitely wasn't speeding. This 4-lane road had a 35 mph that over half of drivers exceeded the speed The highest recorded speed was 89 mph, and These roads were basically built as highways This is Matt Butler, president who was a key part of transforming this street. They were experiencing a lot of reckless afraid to walk. Neighbors had also complained striking their parked vehicles, crashing into and we listened to their concerns. We up radar devices to really get a quantitative and we came up with some conceptual designs. way to slow traffic down is to reduce the lane the drive lanes and repurposed them for either so these countermeasures, like the bike lane, a lot safer because they're reducing the other great thing about the bike lane is it's And the project has already Roadway data shows that reckless speeding crashes overall have decreased by 30%, and the with a 93% reduction in injury. This project was done with less expensive construction materials to last at least five to seven years, and we but other communities an opportunity to see it functioned really well, that people were There's a huge backlog of maintenance on and unfortunately, as a society, we've the expense of maintaining what we already have. communities can do this pretty quickly without a if something isn't working exactly right, then that because we needed to accommodate school bus say, permanent poured concrete, that would it was just the contractor basically move things around a little bit, and they Not only has this project improved the street, but how much money has been saved with the cost of value to each different type of crash. Many the obvious vehicle repair cost to hospital bills data, they were able to look at crash data from the money saved. In our case, we just looked at to kind of give us a sense. So, our $500,000 that few months, according to the federal government's place these on top of the street, our costs were was within a matter of like a month and a half or With the changes they were able to create, I for anyone wanting change in their own community. at least in the city of Cincinnati, get speak to their elected officials, go to Council the type of things that they want. And there's started this about four years ago, the budget was about $500,000, and now it's $10 million. much bigger than what it was just four but people have to speak up and and don't be discouraged if you get a no; then So, whether it's a plastic roundabout change is happening in communities all over, streets for all. This next video reimagines and dives deeper into some of the problems be sure to subscribe and check out our Patreon