Remember when TV shows used to have that's why I rewatched Transformers Prime the hit Transformers movie since, I don't know, I started my rewatch of Transformers Prime I Yeah, this is a nostalgia video, aren't you Transformers has been apart of my life for years. my adolescence. Star Wars, Transformers, and of excitement in my life. As you've surely and MAN did I grow up in the time to When I was like 11, 12, and 13, I grew up in maybe... anyways prime years to be a Transformers Fallen - which I saw 4 times in theaters. If seeing a movie 4 times in theaters is rookie me. I know a lot of people hate on Revenge of over Optimus Prime going ape shit in a forest Also in 2009 was the finale to the three season Revenge of the Fallen and Transformers Animated, that I fell in love with. There was the War for Initially, in preparation for Transformers One, Fall of Cybertron games, because I adore them, see that I haven't streamed Star Wars But as it turns out, those two games are, well, So that brought me back to Transformers here's my proof ( https://youtu.be/MRWKv4Cgzvc to it too. Upon my rewatch I found and the show is just as enjoyable THE STORY OF TFP The Story of Transformers Prime isn't just about Transformers series. It was the beginning of the people at Hasbro didn't think too favorably of so they went ahead to start a new continuity, In the days before the MCU redefined movie Transformers and Hasbro were building their differed from the Bayverse. While Michael Bay was and didn't plan on doing any other Transformers before his eyes, alongside the whole Pain &amp; Gain Okay side note, the whole Michael Bay thing Transformers after Dark of the Moon, he was Pain and Gain 2, so he was given a deal to make a On the other side of things, the entire way to be setup, was multiple tv shows in the same On top of those two shows, they would have the with War for Cybertron and Fall of Cybertron were books in the works for this as well, None of that happened though. There was conflicting visions and a struggle between High Moons Studios, the creators of the continuity in the same universe, Rescue Bots weren't supposed to be in the Because Prime was canceled in 2013, the entire Cybertron games ended by trying to slip into even though the movies had a really convoluted While all of this information is relativity how Transformers could've been in ties with simply because these were tv shows aimed at which were fairly popular in all fairness. into the Aligned continuity, kind of like if that sequel ever gets announced? Oh yes, it It's kind of funny, Transformers could with Cinematic Universes than the DCU. a solid return from its sequel, it would which would be a shame. I still find it funny how of cinematic starts that would never come. Like in their eyes after Age of Extinction. Maybe but now that we've talked about Prime, Not a Kids Show Something that I love about series like Clone is that they set the tone. Both Rebels and Clone the actual stakes of the show. With Rebels we Luminara Unduli is found dead, and in Clone couple episodes. But Transformers Prime doesn't Cliffjumper gets got in every iteration of that Rock, Dwayne Johnson, to play Side note, I'm glad that Cliff is not he's like his own actual bot, until he gets merked first episode. It's like genuinely jarring. and killed without a sense of mercy. After and killed again. It's absolutely insane. and I think that was something that This show, unlike Transformers Animated, the realism of the war between Decepticons and the gravitas of the situation, and I think actual external creation of the show. Even with the Cybertron games, the backstory Once the stakes are established, the show really When I was young, I was really stupid, like most the Prime Universe, and the Cybertron Game I always assumed the Cybertron games but they technically didn't because the Dino Bots And after Prime finished there was that dreaded But because the Bayformers had first it was the Allspark that was a secret from the history channel discovered that the and then there was the arc that crashed on the then, when you come all the way around to Prime, Cybertron that feels fitting for the universe. In Generation One, we find the Autobots resources have run low, and they were in a dire because the war had run its course. In the Prime it was a dead world. Primus was This backstory carries into the relationship Orion Pax and Megatronous were friends and in their bond feel all the more tragic. In there's this notion that they were brothers rips Megatron's head off in Dark of the of grass in the Last Knight, and really shows The Prime version of Optimus is still latching War that ravaged their home world, and conflict feel more relatable, and that aspect There's also the 13 Original Primes, one of which was Optimus, which is a whole But having such an in depth lore to have makes the whole series feel connected. present at each interaction, especially for that specific aspect is most prevalent in Prime Thanks to such a crazy rich history, it gives season finale feels like it could be the end its heartbreaking or jarring instances. The his memory and returning to his status as away from becoming one with the Allspark, and and the restitution of Cybertron. The war between and I think part of this is because the and the Decepticons always feel prepared, I do personally like that Prime gives and destroy, or foot soldiers. There and they're both shown throughout the show. but they destroy the seekers and foot In past iterations of Transformers like Generation Autobots would come together, beat each other into for next week's battle. It's fun and enjoyable, gunned down inside of a starship (Transformers Prime executes the stakes for the team especially that in danger their lives, like Arcee and or the bots getting eaten up by Scraplets. like Ralph, almost end up dying, or when Ratchet gets his head caved in by Megatron when I think Prime matches the kid-friendly nature with the grittiness of the Bayverse. It just never Something that really sets Prime apart is their usage of zombies. This was bound deemed this era as "The Zombie https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJWwJDCwL7U we decided that Zombies were the coolest thing Remember all those Youtube videos on the them all, because my 12 year old brain was worried Transformers Prime decided, hey that's a cool I'm kinda 50/50 on the whole zombie thing, but I like it. Call of Duty zombies, tons of I have nightmares involving zombies, also had a Planet of the Apes themed Zombie I really don't care for them in general, but an extra dimension that isn't present really Using Dark Energon to erect the throughout each season of the show, the Predacons Rising movie that ends I think having zombies, adds to the entire various battlefields across Earth that tie there's this extra layer of what will he's resurrected as Megatron... then he in Predacons Rising as Galvanerd or something. When Breakdown and Skyquake are killed, they much differently from Megatron's. Skyquake is an two space bridges and Breakdown is turned into said earlier with Cliffjumper, he's turned into off a ledge by Arcee, by accident. These different happen to bots when they die on screen, and I'm not gonna be like those people who believe so let's not go there, but, Prime doesn't you've seen it, you get it, if not, let's Something that is cool about Prime is the dialogue is filled to the brim with to the maturity of the show. It doesn't force and I personally really enjoy that aspect. As but when I watched through I Additionally, Prime makes some incredible through when I was a kid that I got as an adult. Bayformers. Episode 13 of Season 1 is basically is Bulkhead turning into Sam Witwicky from Revenge the Fallen) How about Ratchet's rant about the like they did in the hit 2011 movie Dark of in another clip with Wheeljack. Or just Optimus and Megatron fighting in of the Fallen. Megatron's resting like Revenge of the Fallen. Starscream's Rock'em Sock'em Robots For a series about robots in disguise on Earth, feels different. There are some repeat locations mine showdowns, but each battle comes with but each of the bots on each side of the fighting style. I think this physical weight show really, honestly might be the best As I said earlier, in G1 the bots and then got tired, ran away and recharged here really put the damage in on the cons. internal organs out, or anything in I just mentioned fighting style and it compliments and fast, Bumblebee is a bit more of Ratchet is old, Bulkhead and hulking and brute, show reminds me of a Jaeger from Pacific Rim, the Megatron a lot. Rarely do we see Megatron get a Gladiator from the pits of Kaon. I don't cheer all of team prime in Episode 3 of season 2, he emphasis on Optimus' strength for the Autobots. that he is the only individual to handle Megatron pure fear his opponent has once he realized moment is very similar to his Season 3 fight I've never personally been a big fan of from this series, just because I prefer the he gets his massive physical upgrade, he The inclusion of the wreckers and Smokescreen is of unpredictability in every battle, because Wreckers might decide to blow up a mineshaft I do believe that the Rock'em Sock'em robots of battle POVs in the entire franchise. Like scene (battle of Chicago, Optimus vs Shockwave) exciting action packed scenes. But the way the so refreshing. It reminds me of all the Dutch One of my favorite changes to a presented in this show. He's not just the he is a monster. He's sort of like Megatron Aside from the action packed scenes of I think needs to be present for a Transformers until the 1986 movie where half the original reoccurring joke of Ratchet's "I needed and then some individual moments, like which is one of the funniest scenes in Optimus Prime... &amp; the Autobots Team prime is comprised of one of the best which I don't think is fair to compare most of the same squad, trading Arcee Robots in Disguise 2015. The main squad and Optimus is perfect. It's kind of Replacing Bulkhead for Ironhide and Arcee for grows with Smokescreen and a true, solid model To say the squad is unique would be a just because the main players of Ratchet, scrappy fighter and the heavy duty wrecker Arcee, and Prowl, with Bulkhead, The personality of Team Prime on Each of the characters go through and it really makes the whole series worth it. really standout to me. I really love the small Because the Autobots all play off of each of the Autobots really feel like the good they are always on the same side, and their for their human counterparts really ties personal fan of Autobot and Human dynamics, friendships feel right. Sam and Bumblebee was go with the Dad of the group between Marky Mark But in Prime they work. Optimus always and I think it's cool that while he has his he trusts Jack the most, and sees him like to feel natural, and even a lot like a Optimus Prime, is 100% the focus of the show, him being in the background and maybe not it's his quiet leadership that is felt the it's no surprise that Optimus is the Similar to the Transformers Animated most growth. Unlike in the Animates he's established himself as such and is In the Alignment Continuity, Optimus, literal created by the God Primus. Optimus put Unicron and was reborn on Cybertron as Orion Pax. he was destine to become Optimus again, which into stasis, returns as Optimus, and then His history as Orion Pax also becomes a crucial backstory feel all the more rewarding. I do really the ultimate sacrifice. While each season has him they never feel overdone, or overplayed. Optimus triumph. (17:52 Ep12 S3) -&gt; And when the music I'm like suit me up. It might not be Optimus The Humans In a series, like the Bayformers or like is overshadowed by human problems, I typically in this show. Jack, Miko, Agent Fowler, Ralph, like each of them, they can have their the show doesn't drown out the actual Autobots Marky Mark and Shia is that their human drama Remember Godzilla 2014, when you went to the and then you finally get to the action and can feel like sometimes. Focusing on Sam or Transformers Prime accomplishes human drama but it also focuses more on the Bots themselves, There are great scenes in the Bayverse but intervention. It's why Rise of the Beasts worked incentive to be on screen, instead of props on a Prime. They do have similar moments, but in all Optimus vs Unicron (S1), the destruction (S3) and the movie ending with Unicron's However, there is one issue with the humans gave to Prime for accomplishing a show not abhor. I do not like Silas, maybe that's the that I refused to watch the episodes with him in and works with Starscream and Arachnid. turned into freaking Frankenstein before lady arachnid. So despite me getting temperamental just not those humans. The first episode they The main human leads are also great by the Ralph is an expert hacker that is basically and Miko becomes a wrecker and even has a Like Noah from Rise of the Beasts, and it feels like they have something to offer. Sam Miko, and Ralph are probably the best human Con Artists I love Decepticons, you love Decepticons, hate each other, and the intermingling between I love how Shockwave and Soundwave are long have them questioned. Megatron's Decepticon control over Cybertron. His loyal servants are like Starscream, Dreadwing, and Arachnid, the Throughout every iteration of Transformers, dynamic, of powerhouse warrior and scroungy and while nothing will beat the dynamic Transformers Prime is a close second for me. he speaks aloud and it ends up being used I think Prime balances the comedic aspect of very well. In the Bayverse they're brooding for the Cybertron games, but in Prime, they're Decepticons and some of the more mature ones As mentioned before, the handling of Megatron's comprehensive villain. The dichotomy between apparent. While yes, their arcs end the same... individual wronged, but evil at heart. His his constant struggle with Dark Energon. But a Optimus' sacrifice, because they were brothers after one of the 13 Original Primes, and shortened and transformation, ha, into Decepticon Leader The rest of the cons, are similar to their G1 goobers and Megatron is simply their babysitter. I balanced, especially with Starscream being the I said earlier, that I really liked how they had the Autobots something to actually destroy, but A Proper Ending I personally didn't really know that Robots like I did, but I didn't. I watched the 15 I found myself too old for the target I learned so much about the Alignment Canon, and Predacons Rising are the perfect endings to both Transformers, for me, has always had a sense of ending, and for me, Transformers Prime's ending and Cybertron, and Prime, I personally haven't The Bayformers died taking a note from the but we'll never see the end of that story. personally, I have no clue what's going on, something that happened, and who knows or Transformers One. I'm holding out hope, but in the Cybertron games. The Last But Transformers Prime: Beast Wars, Predacons all endings. In the Dark of the Moon novelization, that doesn't happen, because Michael Bay but it leaves much to be desired. Megatron's turn out for long, but it feels right. It doesn't end The true enemy in the universe, Unicron, mortal defeated, again by Optimus Prime. The name carries the weight of all Cybertronians. After and everything in between, Optimus and team Prime the entrance to the Well of Sparks. Optimus, imbeds himself with the lifeforce of the Leadership. The two, can no longer be apart. The is the rebirth of their planet. The end of and I'm crying again. He hasn't even reached Peter Cullen is remarkable, all the is singlehandedly one of the best in any of Transformers. As I wrote this video, I myself some of the best Transformers we've ever gotten. Prime. A future that looks hopeful (Robots and one where the legacy of the leader of the Cybertron, one where the Transformers one where Unicron is defeated and Primus breathes If you like Transformers and Star Wars, Patrol Star Wars Channel, otherwise, if you