Half a dozen uses for a OneDrive. Hi, everyone. I'm gonna cut right to the chase. If you don't trust Microsoft, If you've already decided that you will never trust the cloud, On the other hand, if, like me, you know how to work with Microsoft or at least you're willing to learn, on exactly how you can make use probably already on your machine and for So what is OneDrive? Onedrive, at its core is really nothing more than a way for files you have on your automatically copied up You can do more with that, and we'll But the bottom line is it's a very simple, placed in the cloud where What kind of things can you do? Well, let's start number If you do nothing else, your files saved somewhere safe that isn't We often talk about backing up and making that you're doing, but most of the time, place or at least nearby, For example, my backups Off site backup is one additional layer of protection should If my house were to burn to the ground, all of my backups would However, anything that I've got stored in One drive automatically It's still in the cloud. It's still there. I can access those files from somewhere when I recover from whatever the disaster This kind of dovetails on. That because all you really need to do to back up something using OneDrive is to Once you do so, then it If you make your OneDrive folder your processor and you start editing a document Every time you hit Save, Onedrive says, hey, that file changed. I'm going to upload it. In other words, it's backing up That's actually pretty cool, It is something that I've come to almost that whatever I'm doing in between in between the nightly backups that I do might lose is like the last I can always go back to OneDrive to get Now, I did mention that so far we've only been talking about having your What if you had another machine? That's really where What happens is you have two machines. Each of them are signed When you create a file and place it it gets uploaded to OneDrive online, to the other computer that happens A change in any of those three places So if I change that file on the first machine, it automatically It changed in the cloud, so it automatically comes If I make a change in the second machine that same file, then it It goes back up to the cloud and copied One of the side effects, irrespective of all the backing up that we've talked really easy way to copy a file As I've said in other articles, It's kind of difficult on a local area network, that. Everything it's doing is So the fact that the file might be going up to the cloud and then back down to The net effect is that you have copied Simple. Number four. Copying entire work A lot of us who do a lot of work on our I'll use Word as an example. You may have a set of document templates. You may have documents that you Pile them all into OneDrive subfolders But as long as it's within the OneDrive to the cloud, but it's also getting copied of other machines that happen to be It's a great way to make sure you've got the same reference material all It's a very convenient way to replicate of different machines without Now here's an interesting one. One of the things you can do with OneDrive is you can share files with people When you have a file in OneDrive, you can right click on it will be to create a shared link, a link There's various parameters But the bottom line, the simplest one is yeah, And in fact, in the companion article for this video, I have I've shared a photograph In OneDrive, all you need to do is click on the One Drive link that I created, You'll be able to download that picture. Okay, so we've got files We're sharing files with others. We're getting files backed up. One of the things that this really kind of highlights, one of the things that I functionality that we've talked about so And in fact, that's exactly For example, a spreadsheet of the articles I'm working the articles that need updating, That spreadsheet, which is in Excel, is shared with one of my assistants, We are collaborating on the same file, And I can see the work that she's She can see what I change as I do so. And that's all by virtue of the fact that it's in One drive It actually makes online collaboration really, really interesting She's in a completely So one of the concerns I often hear when I talk about cloud storage But one drive and some of the other What is the deal? Well, there's a couple Remember that I did say you kind There's not going to be some rogue Microsoft employee, for example, That's an assumption that I make. I do the files that I have uploaded, Yeah. Anybody with access to the OneDrive But it also gets a little bit weird because, for example, then the hacker would be able to see all There are three approaches One is the head in the sand approach. You don't do anything, you use it, You don't use online or cloud That's really putting your head of these services and features a lot of different aspects It's a choice. It's not one that I recommend. Your exposure approach, doing and that is they will not In other words, they will not put any files into OneDrive that they wouldn't be So for example, my spreadsheet yeah, It wouldn't really mean much to anybody else but if it got exposed publicly, You'd be able to see what articles But there's another level and that's the level that I call the I've got The tool that I happen to use is called encrypt all of the information Now I could choose which I want to encrypt and which I don't want to encrypt and I do have sensitive data in the cloud encrypted by Boxcrypter So that Onedrive Only I do, and only when I specify the vaults. the benefit of just about every feature that you're using a tool There are others. You could You could do this with 7zip. You could do this with Kryptomator There's a lot of different ways to do this for sensitive data by making sure you're I hope that gives you some ideas Like I said with a Microsoft account. You've already got it. You've got something like at least 5GB, maybe more of storage you could start for sharing files for collaborating, For updates. For comments, for related links and more, and this is askleo.com.