Hello. My name is Emma, and in today's an amazing way to This method I am going to teach to help you, and I know this because I use really helped me when I was in university, situations. This So, first, before I teach you about the method, you to think about: When do you take notes? take notes? So, some of you might think... college, maybe you're in high school, and you you have to take notes to help you remember and you're working in a business, and you you also need to take notes. So, this method studying. Maybe you're taking the IELTS or the test in terms of improving your So, how do you take notes? Okay? I know some teacher talk, and they use their computer, and or teacher says. Is this something you do? every single thing your professor says down says. Well, there are a couple of problems to you some of the problems now. So, for people are some advantages of this. You're able to a lot of what you hear down on your computer, this is it's a type of passive listening. using your brain to interpret what you're You're just copying word for word, you're material you're listening to. So, working with a lot of students also end up going on Facebook the times they get very distracted. When they for me personally and I think for a lot of not the best method. Again, for some people doesn't. A lot of the times it's actually is when you take notes by hand, you have to takes a bit longer than typing. So you're of an active way to listen. Okay? And they've do find that taking your notes by hand is So, today I am going to teach you a way to &quot;The Cornell Method&quot;. This method was developed actually encourage students to use this method Method? Okay, well, I'm glad you asked. So, I your paper. Imagine this is your paper that you can make a box just like this where you date of the lesson, you have a square or a and you have a rectangle at the bottom. Okay? -four different rectangles. Now, what do you do? So, I already said you this column, you're going to write the main Now, if this is confusing, that's okay because Okay? But for now, just to explain, in this words. Okay? So if you're learning about, you &quot;gravity&quot; here. Okay? You can also write questions the main idea. So this is just almost like This is where we write the smaller ideas, the or, you know, something like that, you can write about Shakespeare, so you might write, you when he died. You can write details, details you're learning a new word, you can write the class, you can write your formulas here. You explaining, you know, something about science can write an example here about Mercury. And students, they don't put pictures in their help with understanding and to also help you So here you write the big ideas or the keywords, after, you know, you've gone through the notes... or your teacher, you're writing here and here. about what you learned, and you look. You write maybe four or five things that you learned end of each class will really, really help So this is a very active way to take notes a lot of brain power which is good, and you're type up everything the professor says on the professor says on the computer. The other when you're studying for a test or an exam. want to go back to about &quot;Okay, where is gravity? And then you can read up on some of the very good for organizing your notes, which I'm going to show you an actual example of the Okay, so imagine I'm actually listening to a and I've just written my notes. Okay? So now is the title. The lesson I listened to is that usually means it's an introduction to isn't the real date. It's not 2060, but I so I've decided to just make up a date. So, So... Or questions. I have here: &quot;What is So, the beauty about this is when I'm studying If I need to find out: What's the difference and go right here. Okay? Here I have all the details. So, notice this one or two words, whereas this is a lot more &quot;What is English?&quot; I wrote: It's official... It's the most widely learned second language, So you'll notice I didn't write full sentences as quickly as you can. So &quot;It's the official language of 60 countries&quot;, and I could write &quot;lang&quot; here. This is short for &quot;language&quot;. If you can and again in your lecture, you don't have to write to write. Any time I see this, I know: &quot;Okay, me that's &quot;difference&quot;. So I don't have to is: &quot;What is English?&quot; And then I have dialects: Jamaican, Indian, dialect is a type of English. There are many professor talks too quickly and you have no That's... That's good. What you can do with you have about the material. You know: &quot;I Or something like this. So this can also help you can ask your teacher And then over here I have: &quot;American vs. British&quot;. vs. British English. So I wrote: &quot;er&quot; pronunciation, English. The vocabulary can be different. And here. You know, maybe I might write: &quot;lift vs. examples. This is just an example. It's not detail when you listen to So if you're actually interested and the differences, we do have a And what I actually highly recommend is and you know, practice this method. Write the key points the teacher is going to talk about, any videos on our website and, you know, for the material better and remember the material in high school, in university, in college, in The last thing I wanted to say is: &quot;Today lecture, think about the material and think today I learned that there are many types of there's so many different types. Maybe today I English and British English in terms of &quot;er&quot; multiple things here. You usually learn at least more. But what you can do is think about: learned today? And write those four of the really help you to So, I'd like you to come visit There, we have a lot more resources where you can practice using this You can also subscribe to my YouTube channel a lot of great resources on all sorts So until next time, thank you