We've just arrived at Terminal E in Boston's flight over to Doha, on an Airbus A350-900. Qatar in July of 2020-- a nice addition for Logan. in the airline world, billing themselves as with them for quite a while now, so I'm I love the design of the check-in hall here in during busy hours. Not too bad this morning, sit down curbside if you find yourself with extra of the way. The wait time for check-in is only Heading over to security, there's a short line, There isn't much for food curbside at Terminal Legal Seafoods is a good choice for seafood shopping options that you'd expect to find at were extensive renovations in terminal E in accommodate increasing international flights. As The growth in international flights here means of destinations from Boston. Here we can see our It's time to head over in that direction. We're gets underway on schedule, about an hour before 11 and 1/2 hours, departing Boston at 11:40 and following day. The A350-900's economy section is seats in Qatar Airways' signature dark purple, seats are in a gray fabric with a purple touch for toward the back. On the seat, there's a packaged substantial for economy, some headphones, and a an amenity kit in economy, and we'll have a look we'll try out those headphones, too. A bit about inches wide and with a pitch of 31 to 32 inches had plenty of room. The headrest is vertically Overall, I found the seat solidly above average in with a refreshing towel, also known as a large friendly and professional, and I get the feel if that's really the case, but the vibe is very throughout the flight. We push back about 10 highlights a few of the airline's more well-known the mix. The crew featured in the video have a nothing wrong with this safety video, but I feel During taxi and takeoff, and later during landing, mounted under the plane, either facing forward, hazy conditions due to some wildfires in Canada Now that we're in the air, let's have a look at so not something you'd keep and reuse, colorful with a design that evokes some on the back of the package. Inside we see a toothbrush and toothpaste, some This little kit is really quite nice and clearly products. The crew come around with small a beverage of choice just about 45 minutes after They have a sort of unnatural flavor, but the the entertainment system before the first meal of Qatar's many strengths. The options to keep you and the screen is large, crisp, and responsive. named after a kind of antelope that lives in thousands. From the starting menu, you can choose own device with the entertainment system, main You can also opt to spend your time reading the and there's information here for connecting your movies with choices from around the world, and genre. You also have a few options for the map, globe. I could probably do a whole video on much to explore, so suffice it to say I found Qatar Airways frequent flyer account, you get one also buy Wi-Fi for the entire flight for just deal. If you want to use your own device, there but that's down below and between the seats and screen are some buttons. To the right are a few are buttons for controlling the overhead light so that you don't have to reach for the ceiling. and still down further we have this other little today, so I can't tell you too much about it. To a good place to hang your headphones. And speaking are an over-the-ear design, and the quality although I think you'd ideally want to bring along make good use of that entertainment system. The p.m. Boston time, a little over more than an are chicken with rice, beef with rice, or a and along with it a white wine, which is a South expert by any means but I thought it was quite Jasmine rice. The food options are internationally I like this main course a lot. It's mildly spicy-- can't tolerate any spice, you'll probably want but I found this one to be solidly above average reasonably good as well. However, I didn't really salad-- bulgar wheat, I think-- with some edamame that I would like, but somehow it tastes quite like a nice mousse, but honestly, I can't tell which is served warm-- a nice touch. My takeaway nice wine, dubious side dish, average dessert. the Atlantic, but I'm able to get some work barely fits on my lap with the person in front of The sun sets as we're approaching Europe, time. Let's head to the back and check out the of the better economy-class bathrooms I've ever and the sink is quite large. There's some mood purple. I find a perfume spray by the sink, and toilet. There's even an adjustable air vent, airplane bathroom before. The floor is clean, so it looks like the crew are keeping an eye Europe over France, just north of La Rochelle. around with a snack and drink service. The snack served warm. Again, it's just a bit spicy-- pretty options as well. On that note, you can pre-order and they offer a pretty impressive range of or some preference, that's worth checking out in I'm ordering a coffee. Not bad as far as airplane small packets. I avoid artificial creamers, so Of course, the cup is branded, as is just it's dark as we cross over Europe, but we do looking East toward the border between France and coast of Italy, and we pass right over the city reach the island of Santorini, lit up down below juice or other juice-- I think it was cranberry. of service on this flight, and that really helps as we cross over the Sinai Peninsula, the mood again with the breakfast service. We're in one of the usual options, which normally could be quite vegetarian meal, which, in my case, I'm happy to twist of luck. It ends up being one of my absolute that's even comparing against some business class vegetarian meals handy in case they're requested and those people ended up not traveling. Either and mildly spicy dish with a side of fresh fruit. and the dessert is a Greek-style yogurt with a As with the prior service, it's all served with meal to close out the flight. Of course, there's would have wanted one of those original options, As we cross over the Arabian Peninsula, dawn is and we have these great views of the sunrise [Music] [Music] I'll be connecting to a flight onto Baghdad, you'll find the link on the screen toward the end. too. Rumor has it there's an indoor forest that out. And if you're still here, you're of exciting trips coming up, and it would be Taxiing over to our gate, you get a feel for gate about 30 minutes behind schedule, so hours. I'm thinking the turbulence along the way great flight! The quality of service, the array break things up with periodic meals and snacks flight breeze by. And the seat was sufficiently nice and professional, and while there were some most of the food on offer was good to variety of international dishes. I'll leave you and I hope you'll join me for