TONY PADILLA: If you actually number in your head, then your black hole. That's not just some of pictorial image-- it would. It would-- you couldn't store that much MATT PARKER: People think look at bigger and bigger bigger numbers-- which is not entirely true. But Graham's number I love, number that's been used TONY PADILLA: Well, because amount of what we call stored in your head. And the maximum amount of head is related to a black hole And the entropy of a black hole carries less information than Graham's number. So the inevitability is if you Graham's number in your head, eventually have so much collapse from a black hole. MATT PARKER: If you start with small number-- what you can do is you can So you could do 3 And you can keep going. In fact, what I've multiplied 3 by 3, right? So you could just That works just as well. And if you want, you could You could do 3 times And you could multiply And that's 3 cubed. TONY PADILLA: OK, and that's 27, I could write this The way I would write this down be I'd write 3 arrow 3. And that just means 3 multiplied by itself Hopefully you're still with Now, I say, what's MATT PARKER: If you do 3 to the 3, we would write that as the power of 3. TONY PADILLA: This means Well, 3 arrow 3-- well, we've already seen that OK, and 3 arrow 27-- well that's 3 to the MATT PARKER: And if you actually comes out to be around Now at this point, Right? How many arrows do you want? So the next one, let's say to the power of-- or arrow, arrow, arrow, want to call this-- 3. Well, that is equivalent to 3 to to the 3, to the double, That's 3 to the power of the power of 3. And that stack-- that stack is 7.6 trillion And you start from the top And you get an almighty You get a number that is You couldn't write these You'd run out of pens Don't forget just together was 7.6 trillion. Now we've got a stack of 3s And the question is, why would And so actually the reason we at very huge numbers. The famous, the quintessential well, it does end, it's is Graham's number. And it's the solution So in math we do things called at big combinations. And we look at networks, which and you look at different ways And so mathematicians looked effectively, graphs higher dimensional cubes. Bear with me for all this. You can get cubes in higher different ways to And they tried to count the I've got an analogy. There's a very famous analogy Imagine you've got a So you could have, for example, to have a relaxing time You can then try and select that group of peoples. TONY PADILLA: You could put some some of the people in another could be in a few committees, committees that you could And then what you do is, you committees. And I'm going to sort of pick So committees can form pairs, more than one pair, and so on. And then you say, OK, I've got And I'm going to give each pair's going to have OK. Now, I ask the question-- how many people do I need there place, to guarantee that there for which-- let's get this right-- MATT PARKER: There are four-- There are four committees-- TONY PADILLA: --each pair, committees, has the MATT PARKER: --and all I forget. TONY PADILLA: --and for which is in an even number MATT PARKER: The ultimate weird conditions on those links committees, what's the smallest required for that to be true? TONY PADILLA: So that's the trying to answer in a very So, he said, OK, fine-- BRADY HARAN: But he wasn't It was for something-- TONY PADILLA: No, it was to do dimensions, but it's the same MATT PARKER: And they worked out it's not infinite. And the answer is not bigger And Graham's number was maximum possible number for this to be true. And at the same time they number, which was six. So somewhere between number is your answer. However, to actually see more paper-- we use arrow notation to We start-- and I used 3s for a reason, arrow, arrow, arrow, arrow. And you call that your first call that g1. And already don't forget number was last time. This is already off TONY PADILLA: Let's call OK. All right. Now we say, well, it's g2. Well, g2 is a 3 where we've How many arrows have we got? We've got g1 of them. So this was stupidly big. This is stupidly, Right? And then we carry on. We do g3. And we get a whole How many? Well, you guessed it-- g2 of them. MATT PARKER: And then, the numbers which are beyond This is just-- ah. And then you keep And Graham's number is if you doing g's, right? You go all the way down to g64 TONY PADILLA: So it's just I mean literally. That's Graham's number. What do we know about Well, we don't know what We do know its last digit. Its last digit is 7. The part we know about The last one is 7. MATT PARKER: People say, And you can't even describe how you can't. The number you would need to say yourself, you couldn't describe And then-- Ah! And so the answer to this and Graham's number. Recently, though, mathematicians it in even further. I think it was early 2000, between 11 and Graham's So we're narrowing in, right. We're gonna get there. As far as mathematicians are number ever used constructively is quite precise. Because no matter how big a and this is just stupid big-- it's smaller than infinity. There's still an infinite number bigger the Graham's number. So, frankly, we've pretty as far as I'm concerned. TONY PADILLA: Yeah, I mean it's being used in a mathematical There's the sort of tree numbers, now. But you know, back in Just an interesting anecdote He was actually a circus mathematician. He certainly did a few came up with this.