Rice bowl Green pepper preserved egg fried meatballs Scallion Oil Baba Fried stinky tofu Sweet potato chunks sugar dumplings, sugar oil baba pan-fried buns Braised Meat Deli Cured Pig's Head Baking small fish small wontons, Wine lees fish stinky fermented bean curd (green curd) hand-shredded lemon chicken Freshly fried potato chips steamed shredded bird's nest, Roasted green and red peppers Roast Duck Flip the pan over high heat Fried meatballs Scallion Oil Baba Chestnut opening machine rice tofu sliced bamboo shoots sugar oil baba sugar dumplings pan-fried buns baked small fish handmade spicy fish steamed buns fragrant dried tofu Sauce salted duck Taste the stinky fermented bean curd Add chicken broth Potato chips out of the oil drum Fried Lotus Root Balls Braised Dried Tofu Sugar-roasted chestnuts Rice Bowl Lotus Leaf Shaomai Sprinkle with chopped green onion Cut pork rolls Stir-fried Pepper and Preserved Egg sugar oil baba Handmade sesame paste Squeeze lemon juice Potato chips Perilla Peaches Sugar oiled baba Fragrant Dried Tofu Sugar-roasted chestnuts Making Dumplings Shang Bi Xiang Street. It's 7:00 in the morning. Roasted peppers Changsha people's favorite Green and red peppers grilled on charcoal fire Is this spicy? Never eaten eaten it? Boss, is this spicy? There are spicy and slightly spicy ones. You can choose Yes, there are some that are not spicy. Is this for breakfast or something else? It can be served with rice, pancakes, or porridge . The peppers are roasted until the skin wrinkles. There is also one that does not require preserved eggs. Okay, just the peppers, only the peppers, not the preserved eggs Do you want spicy or mild? Not spicy, but slightly spicy. This dish is a favorite food of Changsha people. What is it? And roasted eggplant The round, grey one above is the preserved egg, also known as Songhua egg. Is this one with chili pepper? Yes, this one has chili peppers. This person ordered one with preserved eggs, and the other one without preserved eggs Is this delicious? Delicious? It's delicious. I want to try it. This is our specialty dish in Changsha Specialty Food,yes, yes I've eaten it in other places, but it's definitely not authentic. The most authentic It's freshly baked and bought now It's freshly baked and bought now yes The ones sold elsewhere don't have this scent. Add garlic paste, vinegar, soy sauce and other seasonings and mix well. A variety of spices together bring out the aroma of green peppers The round, grey one in the bowl on the left is the preserved egg, also known as Songhua egg. roast duck Buy one? I eat it for lunch, I can eat it for lunch, but I can't eat it in the morning. Take a shot How to sell? Y=34 Is Y=34, right? YES Any seasoning? yes pretty good Brand: Luo Ji Meatballs Bacon (pork) Customers are trying What is this? Fried pig intestines sausages He made it by hand Make the Meatballs Deep frying All products are made by hand. The meatballs are salty and can be used to make soup, braise, hotpot, etc. Pork rolls are filled with eggs. The skin is made with pork filling inside. What she puts down are big meatballs. Because they are made from real ingredients, this shop has a good business. Brand: Xiangtan Yige, Scallion Oil Baba. Make Scallion Oil Baba. The batter is put into a special mold. Put into the pan Is this spoon specially made? It is higher in the middle. Ah right yes It can be made into a hole in the middle. It 's quite interesting. It's a Changsha style. I haven't seen it in other places. After it's fried, it's a circle Fried stinky tofu, it's black The rack is fried, but you still need to add seasoning and stir it What is this for? What is this sweet potato what for? sweet potatoes sweet potatoes The sweet potatoes were cut into small pieces and mixed with wet starch fried to shape. This is what it looks like after being fried, sweet potato pancake She is making sugar dumplings The dough is rolled into long strips Sugar-coated glutinous rice cakes and sugar dumplings Deep fry until cooked If a customer buys it, dip it in powdered sugar and give it to the customer. Because the dough itself has no taste. Brand: 30-year-old shop, Nanmenkou Liuji Old Shop, Xintai Soft Candy Oil Baba A couple runs a stall This is the glutinous rice ball used to make sugar-oil baba Is there oil and sugar in it? yes mixed sugar oil baba Put the glutinous rice balls into the pan mixed with sugar and oil and fry them until cooked After shaping, flatten The front is crispy and the back is soft. This is the soft one. This is the crispy Sugar-coated baba is one of Changsha's famous snacks. Brand: Northern Old-Face Pancake Shop Various pancakes The pancake seller Thousand Layer pancake scallion pancakes sauce-flavored pancakes Pot stickers, pan-fried dumplings, purple potato cakes, pumpkin cakes, steamed dumplings sugar-oiled baba, Scallion Oil Baba Xintai soft sugar oil cake just out of the pot Decades old shop Decades? 30 years It's been so long yes Is this a scallion oil baba? Hey,yes Is this a sugar-coated baba? This is sugar dumplings. Sugar dumplings? yes What is that? That's the material for the crispy sugar-coated glutinous rice cake. Crispy So what is this? This is the leek box. The leek box Making sugar dumplings Xintai soft sugar oil cake just out of the pot This is a shortbread, this is a sugar dumpling, this is a sweet potato cake That is the scallion oil baba. The sugar dumplings Take 4 servings There are 3 in one bowl. 4 bowls Y=20 Small bowl ,3 in one bowl 3 in one bowl It's cloudy today Water chestnut, grows in ponds and swamps Looks like a devil's horn It can be boiled and eaten directly, or fried with meat.. Wang Ji Fried Buns Pan Fried Dumpling Ready? 3 minutes left This shop is famous online and I must try it for decades? More than 30 years More than 30 years! That's amazing. This shop has been in business for more than 30 years, and it still has the same taste as the neighborhood residents' childhood. Sprinkled with chopped green onions and white sesame seeds, the boss is a very friendly person. He told me a lot about the process of making pan-fried buns. Here is the method used. Fermented noodles are used to make fried noodles. In Shanghai, they are made of semi-fermented noodles. There is a big difference in taste. I bought one portion.Y=6 Serving size 6 I will put 3 peppers for you and the other three are original. You come here specifically to eat OK OK, thank you The aroma was so fragrant I was very hungry. I couldn't wait to try it. It was stuffed with pork. It was salty Unlike Shanghai Fried Dumplings, there is no gravy in it. But it is also delicious and has a different taste. brand: Lange Braised Chicken Bundled chicken is a semi-finished product made by bundling cleaned duck intestines, chicken intestines, pig intestines, etc. tightly into a ham shape, and then stewing in a special brine. When you want to eat it, cut it into thin slices and eat it cold or stir-fried. It has a soft and juicy texture, slightly bitter at first but then turns sweet, leaving a long aftertaste. What is chicken tying? Is this chicken tying? Yes, that's bundled chicken gluten, right? Pig small intestines (made bundled chicken) bundled chicken is a very unique Changsha snack brand: Hongjie Braised Meat Shop It is also a husband-and-wife shop that sells all kinds of cooked food and braised meat. There are pig skin, pig trotters, sausages, chicken legs, duck wings, and duck feet. Chicken feet, beef, tripe pig ears, duck gizzards, chicken gizzards, pig tongue, pig tail, dried tofu Brand: Xiangjun Chopped Chili Old Store Selling various chopped peppers, chili oil, chili noodles, pickles Hunan's chopped pepper is very famous, and one of its famous dishes is &quot;chopped pepper fish head&quot; Do you want to try one? Okay, thanks No, it's not mine. It's the boss's salty But I don't know what it is. Eat with porridge Are you searching for food? There are various kinds of pickles, kimchi, many of which I don't know what they are called. The white ones are garlic. Chinese people like to eat pickles for breakfast with porridge. The best winter peach The best winter peach The most delicious winter peach, from Mayang in western Hunan, the winter peach of the Miao people in Mayang Higher nutritional value How much? Y=12/lb Rarely sold right? Yes, this is our own. I went shopping to buy it. It is not convenient to buy it now Have fun. Are you work or play? working What is your job? taking videos videos? Come on, bacon, really local pork bacon? Bacon, is the authentic Xiangxi bacon smoked? Smoked, this kind of bacon takes at least 6 months to be ready, and is stored in the grain pile for 3 months In what pile? Inside the grain pile You see there are grains of rice here. And this is our own specialty, local pork, free-range, made by ourselves, we are the only one in Changsha Local pork? Well, free-range pigs are very delicious, and the pork belly is usually 60% to 70% pork belly. Steamed meat tastes like childhood, bacon is a real country product Are these two methods the same? Same, you can steam, fry or stew Smoked meat, herring, herring in the reservoir There is also this smoked pig head with bones really not available in Changsha. It is smoked with the whole bone, have you seen it? The smoked pig head with bones very delicious. This is a craft. There is another shop that sells bacon. People here like to eat cured Cured pork ribs, cured pig head Cured pork belly Smoked bacon: Put fresh pork into the pot and mix it with salt. After cooling, marinate for a week. After a week, take out the meat, wash it, cover it with gauze and dry it in the sun, then smoke it with thick smoke. Mung bean cake, chestnut cake mung bean cakes Look, these are all reserved by us. Already ordered? Yes, they ordered it. Try it, handsome. Try it try it ? Okay, okay, Maybe? sure I'll try one, thanks. The mung bean cake is sweet, soft inside, filled with mung beans, and the outer layer is crispy. It melts in your mouth. It is very delicious. I like it Y=15.4,Y=15 is ok not bad, it's still hot, just made it right, yes, the boss lady is doing makeup This shop sells dried fish. Various small fish and shrimps are dried Receive money: Y=20 After doing this, do that, do the small one, and now I am doing the big one drying it? Yes, this is stick fish. It is cooked and the internal organs have been removed. The salt taste is just right and the internal organs are gone? yes Do you know what kind of fish this is? I wonder This is a stick fish with only one main spine. Stick fish Auntie, what do you want? This is all meat, okay, I'll put this one on the stove, okay You can tell it's fresh at first glance. It's soft and tender. It's hard to eat if it's frozen, fresh is the best, The internal organs were picked out cleanly Which one do you want, auntie? You want that one, right? That one is drier. How much do you want? I'll help you pack it. If you want to install it yourself, just use this shovel How much does it cost per pound? Y=70 Y=70/lb (I didn't understand) That fish is Y=100/lb How much is that? Y=80/lb Why am I in a hurry? I have so much to do, why am I not in a hurry? I can't win no matter what I do. The lady boss runs the shop alone, selling and making dried fish, so she is very busy. How can I eat this? Sister Deep fry it and add some chili eat it with rice? This is the fish in the pot. How to eat it? Fry it? This needs to be deep-fried. Add some chili, some garlic, some salt. I'll put it in for you. It's inconvenient. Don't overdo it. It's enough, it's enough, it's enough. Y=20 Hunan people love to eat dried small fish fried with chili, served with rice. , noodles, steamed buns, and porridge are all available. There are many varieties of fish and I don't know brand: Yong Ge Chicken Specialty Another bundled chicken shop. Changsha people really love to eat this. I haven't seen it in other places. They also sell salted duck here, with a sign that says: Y=100/3 ducks. In addition, if you buy Y=20, you will get Y=10 bean shoots for free. Brand: Zhongji Handmade Dumplings and Wonton Shop Handmade Freshly Wrapped Dumplings Are these from shiitake mushrooms? Yes, mushroom and meat dumplings Dumplings are all made by yourself Dumplings are a traditional Chinese delicacy. The recipes and fillings vary in different regions. Dumplings symbolize reunion. During the Chinese New Year, I will definitely eat The sign says: Fresh meat wontons Y=20/lb, fresh meat with leek, fresh meat with celery, fresh meat with mushroom, fresh meat with corn, fresh meat with chives, fresh meat with cabbage Y=18/lb Now she was making small wontons. The action is quick. We also eat this It's not easy for the beautiful boss to run a store by herself. I believe the dumplings must taste good. There are more and more people buying food What are they selling here? Soybean sauce Water chestnut? What do you call it here? The peeled water chestnuts are white, crispy, juicy and slightly sweet. Water chestnut is also called &quot;horse hoof&quot; Lotus seeds are also sold here Sea gold sand can treat cholecystitis and gallstones. Just soak in water Sea Sands Sea Sands? Yeah, anti-inflammatory. This should be rarely photographed. What is this called? Sea Sands Sea Sands yes Live broadcast, huh? Sea of waves, gold of gold, sand of sand. Where did you pick it? Wild , Wild Wild Two for Y=5 Rarely encountered No,no two handfuls areY=5 Two handfuls are Y=5? Y=10Y=10 The couple was selling on the roadside and could be driven away by the administrator at any time. Local pork bacon, Xiangxi smoked, can be mailed They also sell bacon, smoked pork belly Brand: Aunt Wang's Pickled Vegetables Store The old grandma runs the shop Wine lees fish Pour the sauce on top and repeat. Pickled cowpea, pickled green pepper, spicy fish The red ones here are all made from wine lees. also dried salted fish Grandma, how old are you? I'm 80 80!OMG At 80, you can rest at home. What is this? Braised pork? This is salted fish, wine lees fish Wine lees fish? This wine lees meat? This one is also a fish. This one is also a fish? This is pork ribs pork ribs This is duck. duck. This is pork belly. Are they all made from wine lees? Chopped pepper and fermented bean curd Fermented tofu is fermented tofu The green one is smelly and salty, called Qingfang The red one is spicy and salty, not smelly, it is called spicy fermented bean curd Get a can or what? Fill it up, fill it up, ok, ok, stinky, stinky, but it tastes good Is this smelly? Yes, this is Qingfang, this is stinky fermented bean curd Mainly because there is nothing added, it is very soft and tender Factory made ones don't taste good Wechat payment :Y=15 Thank you The person just now also bought it after trying it There are also slightly smelly ones. I'll give you slightly smelly ones. Is there any that smells? Slightly smelly? That is that is? That's Qingfang, Qingfang smells worse Green square smells worse yes This has no preservatives added, so you can eat it with confidence You like the smellier one, right? It smells bad and tastes salty. It is also paired with porridge and steamed buns. It can be eaten as breakfast or dinner. I don't like this but many people like it. It is a famous Chinese food brand: Bamboo Tube Lotus Leaf Steamed chicken The chicken skin is yellow, very tempting Chicken itself has no taste and needs to be mixed with other seasonings Do you want chili? White sesame seeds, peanuts, sesame oil, vinegar, chili oil, coriander and other seasonings Tear it apart little by little with your hands, so it is called &quot;hand-torn chicken&quot;. It tastes better than cutting it OK? Sesame? yes yes Mix various seasonings according to the proportion and stir evenly to form a complex taste. That is spicy. Add a spoonful of sesame oil 1 spoonful of dark soy sauce white pepper Add the chicken soup stock (chicken stock) , which has a slightly refreshing aroma. The aroma of lemon. Stir evenly. This is a complex taste, salty, sweet, sour, spicy, five spices, and meaty, which is difficult to describe in words. Brand: Braised Zhuangyuan This store also sells all kinds of braised vegetables. The cooked braised pork This is a cow's stomach. the same as beef stomach. It is also Y=78/lb Can you weigh it for me? Y=47? Yes, yes, yes, Y=47 Various pickles, kimchi, and peppers Receive money and receive Y=18 Sour cabbage, sour radish, sour beans, cucumber peel, lettuce peel, pickled mustard peel, water spinach, cold mustard, pickled mustard, chopped pepper radish strips, snow mustard, radish, mixed vegetables, bracken, grandmother's vegetables, white pepper, pickled pepper, taro stems Brand: freshly fried potato chips, Potato chips of various flavors, made on site Potato slices The first starch filter Second pass starch filtration Fry in hot oil This is the first time I have seen potato chips made on site, with oil splashing everywhere Fry until golden brown, remove Sprinkle with seasoning powder You can tell it's crisp by the sound. Y=15.8/lb The customer asked for a mix of each flavor. The WeChat payment :Y=30 Y=30.5, and Y=30 is ok Brand: Nanmenkou time-honored brand, Yangji Sesame Oil Old Store, various flavors of broad beans, orchid beans, fried peanuts, pure sesame sauce and sesame oil. The boss showed me that handmade sesame sauce It is indeed very mellow, authentic pure sesame paste made by yourself? Yes, I grind it and sell it myself. I like the mellow aroma of sesame sauce. There are no additives. Many people buy red radishes here because they are very cheap. a small vegetable stall , she cuts off the leaves from each radish This way customers can spend less money when buying radish Y=1.5/lb These are the top leaves. This one is so tender. This is called &quot;Xuelihong&quot;, a common pickled vegetable on Chinese tables. It can be fried or pickled. Y=2.8 Brand: Demaolong Have a taste Various soy products Whole piece of dried tofu Sister, what is that yellow thing? Rice tofu Ah? Rice tofu Wash and soak the rice, add water and grind it into rice paste, then add edible alkali and boil it, cool it down, and form a block of &quot;tofu&quot;. She bought a lot of oil tofu Y=1.5. Brand: Nanmenkou Zhige hand-cut bamboo shoots The boss is cutting bamboo shoots carefully The most beautiful bamboo shoots Transverse slice Look at my knife skills Better knife skills, first-class Beautiful bamboo shoots Pure natural green food. Look at how pretty it is, the most beautiful bamboo shoots Can also be cut into shreds for cooking Brand: Xie Man's Handmade Fish Handmade spicy fish, usually grass carp, black carp Customers were choosing their favorite parts. I asked the boss what &quot;Xie Man Xi Zuo &quot; mean? Xie Manai jie, noun, Changsha dialect. What does grandma mean What does it mean? The youngest Ai jie, Man Ai jie, Changsha people call it Man Ai jie Ai jie.He doesn't know what it means. Ai jie means grandma ,grandma grandma is called Ai jie Man Ai jie is the youngest grandma So what about "xie"? Xie is the surname Fish made by the youngest grandmother surnamed Xie Changsha people really like spicy food. The fish is already spicy, and then they pour chili oil on it. Machine-sealed packaging WeChat payment :Y=27 Sauce beans, Laba beans, soybean Brand: Black sesame paste made on site Black sesame Walnuts are another price Which one? Walnuts walnuts are different price, right? Yes .Walnuts are Y=50/lb Adding walnuts will be more nutritious. Beat black sesame seeds into powder. Sesame paste is a kind of food made from black sesame as the main raw material and other grains. Since ancient times, it has been considered a good product for nourishing the body and prolonging life. If the right ingredients are selected, it has other functions. Gastrodia elata, leek seeds, wolfberry, cucumber seeds, Euryale ferox, chickpeas, cassia seeds, pumpkin seeds, flax seeds, Poria cocos, cooked black beans, cooked corn, cooked oats, cooked glutinous rice, cooked buckwheat, cooked red coix seeds, walnuts, etc. Bagging completed Brand: Preserved pork with preserved vegetables A traditional dish of the Han nationality, the pork belly is cooked in a soup pot, dark soy sauce is added, fried until colored, and then cut into slices. Then, seasonings such as onion and ginger are added and stir-fried for a while, then the soup is added and simmered over low heat until tender. The pork belly is served in a bowl, and the dried plum slices are placed on top, and the original soup is poured in to steam thoroughly. The meat is turned upside down on a plate. After the dish is cooked, the meat is tender and fragrant, and tastes salty with a slight sweetness, and is fatty but not greasy. Brand: Yilongyao Bird's Nest Shreds It is actually made of noodles, like flower rolls, not bird's nest. The meat buns are neatly arranged Cover the cage and keep the temperature These are steamed buns, which are staple foods and have no taste. You need to eat it with other foods. This store sells various staple foods, such as steamed buns, siomai, steamed buns, flower rolls, etc. What is this? Meatloaf? No, this is lotus leaf siomai siomai? Lotus leaf siomai? It's almost noon, and there aren't many people. Fruit and vegetable shop What is this? Master Ciba, Ciba is a kind of food made from steamed and pounded glutinous rice, various dry goods, ingredients and seasonings. Brands of dried plums and dried beans Brand: Youxian Dried Tofu Various soy products, some thick, some thin, some tender, some old, are all made from soybeans. Some are salty, some are tasteless. The darker color is the braised dried tofu, which is salty. Old tofu, soft tofu What is that yellow thing? Yellow rice tofu rice tofu? Made of rice? Yes, why is rice made yellow? Put lime, lime water After being cooked again, it turns yellow. Brand: Golden crispy lotus root balls Make lotus root balls and deep-fry them to set Purely handmade, mixed with starch and lotus root fry until golden. Take out Brand: Farmhouse tender pork Refined lard, clean and hygienic Fresh butcher shop, selling pigs in various parts, Chinese people like to eat animal organs Lard is very fragrant when cooking, I like it Vegetable Shop Various fresh vegetables This is the best pepper in Hunan this? This is the most delicious chili in Hunan. If you think it is expensive, you can buy a handful or two. What is this? That's the most delicious, yellow potato, sweet potato Ah? Jicama Jicama is a kind of potato, right? I've never seen sweet ones. You can eat them raw or stir-fried. I've never seen this one. delicious. crabs sell aquatic products tie the crabs with ropes for easy transportation. bullfrog Eel, loach soft shell turtle Squid, beef stomach, yellow throat, small loach Longspine fish rice wine noodles, vermicelli, rice noodles, rice cakes and rice There are various thicknesses of rice noodles. People here love to eat rice noodles. The beef rice noodles in Changde, Hunan are famous, and I also love them. Brand: Yinzhou Rice Noodles Brand: Pingjiang Dried Tofu Changde Braised Duck Xianggan is also a bean product, which is a seasoned bean product. It is also called bean skin, which is generally salty and spicy. Various flavors, various types of dried tofu Brand: Nanmenkou Old Vegetable Shop Clean vegetables are washed vegetables, seasoned meat, fish with viscera removed, etc. It is convenient for customers to cook sausages Various teas Glutinous Rice Cake Big steamed buns, much bigger than the one sold just now Brand: Taomei De Braised Food Grilled shrimp tails, free tasting, free vacuuming Yes, Braised Duck with Sauce duck That's it? yes Looks good This is roasted. How much is this duck for? Y=58 Tear by hand The taste is a bit hard, a bit salty, and spicy. It's OK, not bad. Braised pig's trotters, braised chicken wings, braised duck wings, and sauced duck are indeed Changsha's specialties, and many stores sell them. Let me take a look at the braised intestines I want to choose a soy product snack. What is this? Dried orchid (soy products) Brand: Lao Rong Fried Snacks Pumpkin Seeds The seeds are plump, can you see them? Pumpkin seeds? yes various candied fruits, dried fruits, dried fruits, melon seeds, desserts and snacks, tortilla cakes Tibetan specialty, highland barley pancake Can it be stored for half a month? It's still very crispy Crisp, always crispy Highland Barley How much is one? Y=5 sweet, right? yes How do you sell this? Y=10 Chestnut This is the first time I have seen a machine that is specifically designed to open chestnuts. Opened, easy to stir-fry Sugar-roasted chestnuts are delicious There is black quartz sand inside the machine. In order to prevent the chestnut shell from carbonizing or even catching fire while the chestnut kernel is still not fully cooked, and to avoid this state of being mushy on the outside and raw on the inside, stones are added during the frying process. The chestnut shell has a large specific heat capacity and can easily absorb the heat from the wok, and cannot transfer the heat to the chestnut kernel in a short period of time. The boss took it out to see if it was cooked. then threw it in and continued to fry. The color of the shell was bright, and the air was filled with the sweet smell of chestnuts ready! Filter out the black stones It was so fragrant. The texture was soft and waxy, and the taste was sweet. suitable for all ages, I like it. Brand: Dongting Lake Qingshui Fish Balls and Meat Balls Shop Processed fish This is glutinous rice meatballs, already steamed, can be eaten directly, it is salty Fish balls, lotus root balls, pork balls, fish cakes, pork rolls, and some others I don't know the names of. After you buy it home, you need to do some secondary processing, such as cooking soup, hot pot, stewing, etc. The male boss is eating, the female boss is frying meatballs, the couple runs the shop with great care Another shop selling pork with preserved vegetables Already loaded, more convenient This is fried and braised pork skin and fat bird persimmons. It's the first time I've seen What is this? Bird persimmon? Persimmon Bird Persimmon Walking into the quiet alley, I saw him transporting things with a shoulder pole, which is rare. Brand: Yangji Perilla Peach. Various fruits soaked in sugar water. I ordered the smallest portion, which included perilla leaves, pineapple, Home-style stir-fry of peaches, bayberry, and lychees rice bowl, vermicelli, noodles, and tinfoil. A small restaurant. I smelled the aroma at the door and ate here. affordable prices. I was very hungry. It smells pretty good. There are two people in the kitchen, a chef and a sous chef The chef is very young Flipping the wok is a basic Chinese cooking technique. Cooking over high heat makes the food more delicious. There is a term called &quot;wok aroma&quot;, which is the standard for judging whether a dish is delicious. It consists of four indicators: hot, fast, dry and fragrant. Only when all these four indicators are met can the dish have a good wok aroma. A bowl of rice is out of the pot It was so fragrant. The chili bamboo shoots and stir-fried beef I wanted are also ready. The characteristics of Hunan cuisine are spicy, fragrant, and good with rice. This is the taste I like. The beef is very tender, salty, spicy and fragrant. I ate all of it and felt full. What impressed me most about Changsha is Hunan cuisine. I love Hunan cuisine! I will come again next time.