Wrestling games are fun aren't they? A lovely mix of sports sim, beat 'em up, manslaughter. Due to wrestling's over the top nature it game publishers, allowing average Joes like oil and super flying dragon-rana each other, As such, there have been hundreds of wrestling 1980s. The biggest wrestling company then and now behemoth has licensed over 80 games in the wrestling stars like Major Inconvenience [Sgt. Slaughter] Chuckles the Wonder Clown [Doink], In this massive Royal Rumble of video game undisputed best? Of course, we're going to rank them. I mean, the clue is in the title of this video am I even explaining this to you. But before we start, some much needed ground - Firstly, we're not including mobile games, games unless they were ported for home consoles. This means there'll be no WrestleFest on I know, I know. - Secondly, titles with multiple ports will quality of said ports. The only exception to this rule is if one from the others. - We're also only considering titles released no WCW/nWo Revenge *disapointed groaning*, cheering*. And obviously no TNA: Impact*shouts in the AS YOU ALL SAY IT IS. - In addition, we're not including any games branding of the company; such as Hulk Hogan's because otherwise we'd be here for ages - However, we're not just focusing on traditional wackier titles are ripe for inclusion, as Oh and to save confusion, we will refer to WWF and WWE. Just makes everything clearer doesn't it? Let's rank 'em. I'm Ben Potter, winner of the Slammy Award 'insert obvious Stone Cold joke here' WWE Game Ranked From Worst To Best. 61. With Authority! PC - 2001 Long before WWE Supercard was a thing, in their first proper stab at a digital card A free to play download, With Authority! gave but without the thrill of opening a real pack Mmmm. With Authority! plays like your standard Magic: Ray Dudley standing in for Gideon Jura. Players could buy digital card booster packs with other players. The game itself is a bit, well, dull, and 2001. THQ shut the servers in 2003, but a community 60. WWF War Zone Now hold your horses there cowboy, before how much you love War Zone, bear in mind this If you remember our rules we said 'single port was significantly different from the To be honest, this rule was made specifically boy it is not a good game. Released a couple of months before the PlayStation Game Boy version of War Zone is a very half-arsed In fact the only way you even know it's throughout the game. The character models are the worst in WWE No-one looks how they should, most people has the same move set, finishers aside. Considering there had been multiple excellent is an inexcusable lazy mess. 59. WWE Aftershock WWE Aftershock proves the depths of WWE's it was always worth throwing a WWE title on sweet consumer cash. The only wrestling title on Nokia's failed upon release. The loading times bordered on the absurd, of no thrills match-ups, it was facing an a solitary clothesline had been thrown. The character models were awful, the sound But hey, if you persevered with Aftershock their own N-Gage and copy of the game then we all know that sharing the pain of a long 58. WWF Betrayal Whilst definitely a licensed WWE game, Betrayal a half-arsed side-scrolling beat 'em up Players can choose to play as one of Triple or The Rock, fighting a bevy of referees, goons in a quest to save Stephanie McMahon. Whichever wrestlers you don't pick appear is done and Stephanie is saved you find out Achieving what exactly, I don't know. Still, you win the WWE Title on a helipad, Betrayal is a fun little game, but it's not really a wrestling game is it. 57. WWF Raw By 1994, and after several good WWE games a walk in the park to develop a new title. But as we all know assumptions make an ass Or a Mr. Ass if you want to stay on theme Raw was a tedious affair to put it mildly. What you want more than that? Fine, it was an annoying, unbalanced game arms to play, such was the intensity of the The action itself was slow, and finishers set. There are also far fewer match types than of WWF Raw, so if you want my advice, I'd port instead. Thank me later. 56. WWF European Rampage Tour By 1992 WWE's popularity was waning Stateside, To capitalise upon this, European Rampage to hone in on this passionate section of the There's nothing great about European Rampage Playing like the WrestleManiatitles of the team only affair, with players able to make Randy Savage, The Ultimate Warrior, and Bret You travel through London, Munich, and Paris and Money Inc. before earning a title match European venue... Madison Square Garden. What's more, even though the game is European America. If only there was some kind of englishcanine 55. WWF Road to WrestleMania For those used to the in-depth intricacies title on a diminutive handheld may not compute. But there were a whole host of WWE titles especially. Out of all of them, 2001's Road to WrestleMania Don't get me wrong, it looks fantastic, Boy Advance, but considering that by 2001 this punch kick affair felt a bit dated by Still, Road to WrestleMania is quite fun, well as several match types and arenas to or two on a bad coach journey with it. 54. WWF WrestleMania: Steel Cage Challenge WrestleMania:Steel Cage Challenge was the and the second to last for the NES. The NES and Master System ports had different the ultimate WWE experience? Well no, probably not actually. No matter which edition you went for, every consisting of punches and kicks and the occasional But Steel Cage Challenge had one thing working It had a steel cage. Previously cage matches could only be found the blue caged glory from the comfort of their But the cage still isn't enough to make Steel Cage Challenge received average reviews with time. Even some of the WWE titles that preceded play than this. 53. WWF Royal Rumble Dreamcast - 2000 The Playstation had Smackdown. The N64 had No Mercy. And Dreamcast? Well the Dreamcast had Royal Rumble. First released as an arcade title by Sega, went absolutely mild. And it's not hard to see why. A paper thin roster, and literally two game Rumble is a poor excuse for a home console what else was available at the time... FROM THE SAME PUBLISHER. If this were just an arcade cabinet then it But as a home console release it's very, Still, credit where it's due, it could support the 30-man Royal Rumble match, but as there would pull double duty after being eliminated. The cheats. 52. WWF WrestleMania Challenge The follow-up to the genre establishing WrestleMania, worked with its predecessor and went "nah Gone is the front-on camera, replaced with nowhere near as good. Not as fluid or as fun as WrestleMania, Challenge to keep them coming back for more. While it's not going to make you bin all Challenge does have quite a degree of charm. The wrestler sprites accurately depict their which is quite the achievement for an 8-bit Wrestler themes are also re-imagined and play If you don't end up tapping your toes to to go and take a long hard look at yourself 51. WWF Raw Xbox, PC - 2002 Before THQ decided that Smackdown was going all across all consoles, non-PlayStation owners wanted their fix of WWE gaming. Case in point; Raw. THQ enlisted Anchor Inc. - who had developed Raw, and they missed the mark fairly spectacularly. See by 2002, Smackdown fans were used to having in a cell matches, even commentary despite Raw promised all this and more, but delivered swooshy cameras, clunky controls, and some There wasn't even a season mode, so after what was going to entice you back? It was a rushed mess of a game. 50. WWF Attitude Game Boy Colour - 1999 It wasn't possible to be as bad as War Zone a lot to be desired. Granted the roster is fairly expansive for like Stone Cold, The Rock, and Sable for some entire game. The graphics are decent, the colour scheme But the whole experience is a bit empty. It doesn't have the charm of previous WWE boring and - dare I say - generic as a result. The AI is also not great, especially frustrating ring from the top rope, change direction in The saving grace of Attitude is that it is you care about this game. 49. WWF WrestleMania 2000 Don't worry grandad, this isn't the N64 The Game Boy Colour port of WrestleMania 2000 wrestlers getting their own entrance... but There are also a decent amount of game modes and tag-team matches, to Survivor Series and mode. It's in the ring where WrestleMania 2000 Slow gameplay, some slightly suspect character bringsMania 2000 crashing back down to Earth. But we'll give it this, it does have a fair as basic a punch kick affair as some of the this. 48. WWF Rage in the Cage As you may have worked out from the title, but the game's real selling point was its Due to the capabilities of the Sega CD, Rage full audio in-ring introductions from Howard so. The wrestlers look a bit weird though - no that pre-match they stand awkwardly in the the bell to ring like broken wrestlebots. This aside, Rage in the Cage doesn't do as the gameplay and graphics are similar to lot of punches and kicks. But you can do some grapples and finishers 47. MicroLeague Wrestling The first WWE game ever made, MicroLeague the top world of Vince McMahon's band of A turn based strategy game, players pick from playing out on a series of pre-rendered screens Think Football Manager, but achingly slow, and you're on the right track. Despite its slowness and the fact that each actually feels like a true 80s WWE show, complete bottom providing commentary. With the subsequent success of GM mode in be a market for this approach to WWE gaming, could be pretty darn great. 46. WWF WrestleMania The one that started it all... well ok it first proper in-ring WWE wrestling title so WrestleMania is the true blueprint for every blueprint but a blueprint nonetheless. Players can play as Hulk Hogan, Randy Savage, or The Honky Tonk Man for some reason, with peers. You can have singles matches, or engage in will be champion. Naturally. It's rather basic stuff, but for the time release it still looks pretty cool. So iconic is this game, that when Darren Aronofosky's its own 'version' of the game called WrestleJam. 45. WWE 2K20 What is there to be said that hasn't already A game more broken than Matt Hardy, 2K20 was and passers by in the street upon release The 2K series was on unsure footing as is, Textures disappearing, sometimes non existent But don't worry, it couldn't get worse worse. At the start of 2020, a Millennium Bug scenario unplayable. Took 20 years for the Millennium Bug to strike So what went wrong? Longtime developer Yuke's had left town 20+ years of wrestling game development on 2K20's failure has forced 2K to entirely less of a focus on annual titles and a return all for it. 44. WWF Superstars The first WWE game made for handheld consoles, 1991, and as you'd expect it was a rather But you know what? Considering the limitations of the Game Boy,Superstars Developed by Rare for Acclaim, Superstars Granted it's not the most taxing wrestling kick, and body slam your opponents, and can ring like some big huge muscular wrestler Pre-match you and your opponent have a bit himself comments on the action, and with the makes for a fairly fleshed out WWE experience. Itdidn't change the world, that's for will always have a special place in their N'awwww. 43. WWF In Your House The sequel to the Mortal Kombat 'inspired' the arcade nonsense up to 11 and made for The digitised sprite look of Mortal Kombat predecessor was still sort of entrenched in fighting in a number of odd character specific The Hart Family Dungeon for Bret, a cinema crypt where the big spooky fella can throw Just like in real life. We know this game isn't for everyone, but shouldn't be taken too seriously, a bit A perfect counter to the sometimes-boring 42. WWF Super WrestleMania Remember WrestleMania? Well it's back, in Super form. Oooohh. As the fourth console generation started to title like they had never seen before, and prayers. With an expansive roster and a well defined was a clear evolution from the games of WWE to feel more like the actual WWE product. The only drawbacks to Super WrestleMania were roster, the gameplay hadn't exactly come Wrestlers had near identical movesets, and you'd expect. But as a core game to build upon, Super WrestleMania improved upon drastically in subsequent titles. 41. WWF WrestleMania DOS, ZX Spectrum - 1991 Yes, all these consoles were still widely WWE was the hottest thing since TripleJump a WWE game for them. What is essentially a scaled back port of a colourful well-rounded grappler that still I mean, not as cool as Superstars, but beggars The arcadey feel works well with these earlier and have a scrap is very rewarding. Unfortunately you can only play as Hulk Hogan, but you're equipped with a whole host of dropkicks. And if you get really angry or your best mate then you can grab a chair and beat your opponent 40. WWE Crush Hour Here it is boys and girls, the weirdest WWE noise* Answering the old age question of "what by Kane look like?" Crush Hour was WWE's attempt to muscle into automobile genre. Crush Hour imagines a world where Vince McMahon is shoehorning WWE talent into every show. Naturally, he decides a violent car deathmatch Featuring a massive roster of over 30 wrestlers certainly gets the feel of a WWE Twisted Metal You can engage in hardcore matches, gauntlet a logistical nightmare if you spend too much But Crush Hour gets pretty old pretty quickly. The game play is repetitive and the mechanics need to be. However, like many WWE games, Crush Hour has the mood for an utterly preposterous WWE game you can't go wrong with it. 39. WWF King of the Ring Despite the SNES firmly being the Nintendo getting its fair share of releases, with King for the 8bit wonder. Also released on the Game Boy, the two different version has a bigger roster with 11 wrestlers Weirdly, King of the Ring allows you to be Literally, there is a wrestler called 'you', Like other WWE games of the time, King of set of mainly kicks and punches, but again, There's an allegory about the WWE product just give me a minute. King of the Ring didn't re-invent the wheel, and Game Boy, it deserves some kudos. Plus you can probably grab the Game Boy edition of a Curly Wurly. 38. WWE Legends of WrestleMania Coinciding with the WrestleMania 25 Pay Per attempt to squeeze our collective nostalgia much better in the 80s and 90s?" Featuring a full retro roster and arenas but WrestleMania was the first modern WWE game Just a shame that it was quite rubbish then Coming out at a time when all developers ever into every possible game, Legends of WrestleManiawas Going for a piledriver? Hammer 'X' in time with a big prompt on Do it. Do it now. The gameplay as a result feels disjointed for the wrestlers, it all comes across a bit, Nostalgia is indeed a hell of a drug, but is one we could've done without. Luckily, THQ would have another stab at producing 'legendary' results *chuckles* but more 37. WWE Raw 2 A year after Raw's disastrously hollow release their mistakes, and released Raw 2, presumably Xbox fans. Raw 2 - or Raw 2: Ruthless Aggression if you this - was a massive improvement over its Whereas Raw promised a whole host of match 2 made sure to pack in loads of new content Finally, Xbox players could partake in a Hell match, and even march through the entire WWE The graphics were great - they were the only of create-a-wrestler spaces so you could make You could even select which referee you wanted but one that tasted of decidedly over-egged Unfortunately, the gameplay itself was still weirdly slow it's as if the matches were Proof if it were ever needed that a leopard 36. WWE Survivor Series The second to final handheld-only WWE title Series is one of the best portable WWE titles As the most fleshed out WWE Game Boy title, containing eight of the best from Raw, and Plus, all wrestlers can perform their signature multiple finishers in their arsenal. Seeing as Survivor Series was firmly during pledge allegiance to a certain brand in story But be wary of how you play, as story mode more on entertainment, with back and forth The graphics were crisp and the gameplay fluid the animation. It's like if Tekken was made with stop-motion and unsettling. There were no in depth entrances to be found, along as only Game Boy music could. 35. WWF Superstars 2 A vast upgrade on the original Superstars, than its predecessor. New to the game were cage matches, and a refreshed and everyone's favourite Canadian, The Mountie. Gameplay was tweaked too, with more grappling punch kick territory. You could even hold select once a match to to Hulk-up and shake his head a lot like a The characters were easily recognisable, which a biscuit and everything is olive green. Superstars 2 is not the most in-depth game one of the most in-depth on this list - but used to the gameplay mechanics, it makes for You could definitely do worse. At least 22 times worse according to this 34: WWE WrestleMania 21 Xbox - 2005 WWE on Xbox take 3. For WrestleMania 21, THQ did away with Anchor headed up by Mortal Kombat co-creator John The fact that this was the second and last everything you need to know. WrestleMania 21 picked up where Raw 2 left well as the ultimate sporting contest of champions... Look, it was a different time ok. The gameplay was ropey like its predecessors, and a little more fluid, and no-longer felt of old porridge. The big selling point for WrestleMania 21 when you hit your finisher! ...well, the screen changed colour. And not much else happened. WrestleMania 21 also drastically scaled back gamers is one of the biggest selling points Luckily, this was the last non-Smackdown game was worth as much as any Championship win. 33. WWE Road to WrestleMania X-8 Despite coming before Survivor Series in 2003, game all round, even with WWE's butchering To the untrained eye there's not much difference stop-motion animation style, and due to the list wasn't exactly expansive, although you'd expect. But there was just something about Mania X-8 The roster was more exciting for a start, Hulk Hogan and The Rock, and the hardcore clunky. The theme music hit the nail on the head once of Jimi Hendrix's 'Voodoo Chile' and Critics and players alike agreed that this being the highest rated and best selling of purple wonder. 32. WWF WrestleMania: The Arcade Game PlayStation, Sega Saturn, MS DOS - 1995 Can I offer you some delicious Marmite for One of the most divisive games in wrestling Starting life as - wait for it - an arcade across all the major consoles of the time. Developed by Midway Games - you know, the to cash in on that sweet MK hype, whilst offering Kang and friends and their wanton bloodbath. Whilst sequel In Your House would go fully it was set in a wrestling universe, whilst Players can expect a whacky off the wall arcade actual hand buzzers and gravestones went hand know the piledriver The Undertaker does. WrestleMania is still a very fun game indeed, fans who wanted a WWE experience based a little custard pie to the face. 31. WWF Royal Rumble Super WrestleMania walked so Royal Rumble as in work like a game... Royal Rumble took Super WrestleMania's decent top, expanding exponentially in order to give to date. An all new roster including New Generation tagged in with the old guard of Randy Savage for 90s grapple fans. In fact, both the SNES and Mega Drive editions being particularly notable for featuring Ric No matter your console, Royal Rumble finally the one thing that was massively missing from Razor's Edges, Tombstones, Yokozuna's in Royal Rumble. And if you couldn't nail your finisher, ring and bludgeon your opponent with a good Nice clean wholesome fun. 30. WWE 2K15 4, PC - 2014 ARE YOU READY FOR THE NEW GENERATION OF WWE ...ye- well, kinda? The second WWE 2K game decided enough was remodelled and reshaped what a WWE game should To make the game feel more like the WWE TV and had an emphasis on chain wrestling and This is all well and good when you're watching gaming you usually want to do mad things, as Hornswoggle, or dropkicking a chair into arrested or told off by your mum. Don't get us wrong, it worked well, but is divisive at best. Critics and fans saw 2K15 as a backwards step, fan favourite features acting as a further Even the re-addition of My Career couldn't To be fair to 2K the game is absolutely stunning. Pre-release images had us all foaming at our with the final product - obligatory glitches 29. WWF War Zone The first fully 3D WWE game, War Zone was Era. Released a little under two years after In game from the ground up. Gone was the OTT arcade style and bright cartoony grappling system, and layers upon layers of For the first time we had fully realised entrances, and a full commentary track from Vince McMahon The character models were all fairly decent, there were a ton of game types to keep you a wrestler' mode in a WWE game. In-ring gameplay was still a little arcadey, list to perform a finisher in the vein ofMortal And as a result, War Zone felt a little awkward Seeing as THQ had made the fantastic WCW/nWo a missed opportunity by comparison. Still, WCW World Tour didn't have videos did it. 28. WWE WrestleMania X8 The last game sort of released under the WWF but before release), WrestleMania X8 - again game released for Nintendo Gamecube. Despite it coming in an era of 'every platform X8 retains the core THQ Yuke's dream team success. The result was a fun pick up and play grappler, version of SmackDown. The gameplay was similar, controls not too felt weak, the sound effects tinny yet flat, audio due to licensing issues. There was also no commentary track, which depending upon how you feel about it. In an effort to try and appease Nintendo fans, to pay homage to No Mercy as well as Smackdown, of the N64 classic. The end result felt a little lost, like it Make no mistake, this is not a bad game, and with Raw then it could have been far far worse. 27. WWE WrestleMania XIX Gamecube's second WWE effort was WrestleMania Roman numerals work. THQ and Yuke's looked at WrestleManiaX8, and radically changed it for XIX while retaining Grappling was massively expanded, featuring WWE titles, and we finally had in game bloodshed a bit of the claret. But it still wasn't perfect. The opposition AI was sometimes ridiculous, a tedious unfair slog. The animation also left a lot to be desired, of the teeny tiny cute little Gamecube discs. Awwww. WrestleMania XIX's most head-scratching Mode, where after being betrayed by Vince locations battering everyone in sight and It's weird and fun, but seeing as this was mode you couldn't help but feel a little 26. WWF Attitude Attitude served as the final WWE game from with the license shifting over to THQ the And it was a good way to bow out. Although retaining the gameplay of War Zone, entrances, create-a-wrestler, and a brand life on the road as a WWE superstar. There was also create an arena mode which had fans realising just what could be done The roster too was absolutely massive for including this guy! That fella! And this walking abomination GET THE HOLY Attitude sadly has the distinction of being Hart, as the beloved three-time Slammy Award But for all of Attitude's positive steps, andfelt light years behind THQ's WCW games And as rough around the edges as it felt then, Time has not been kind 25. WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw 2009 DS, Nintendo Wii, Xbox 360 - 2008 Five games deep into the Smackdown vs. Raw as Smackdown vs. Raw 2009peered its vascular SVR 09's new features were about as exciting Gone were General Manager and season mode, to WrestleMania mode, robbing us of the chance THQ YOU COWARDS. The inclusion of the Inferno Match was a head in WWE history, with the last being a full The focus on tag wrestling was also a bit tag teams in the WWE at this time, and THQ teams like DX and The Hardyz. The roster felt like a missed opportunity Chuck Palumbo and Jimmy Wang Yang, and pointless Tony the soldier. Seriously, who over the age of eight thought Cue 20,000 comments below saying 'Tony for 24. WWF Raw - 1994 With Super WrestleMania and Royal Rumble firmly last, ending their 16-bit WWE trilogy with Raw - or Raw is War if you want to get "is WWE game ever made upon its release. While the look and feel was the same as its improved tenfold, making it a diverse, engaging More moves were added, with each wrestler and the addition of ridiculous mega moves factor. Attributes such as strength, speed and weight their own personality and offer a unique playing Crucially, Raw was the first WWE game in the so four pals could cram together on one couch The only iffy port of Raw was the 32X version The game looked better, and although you could - yeah me neither - enemy AI was overpowered experience. But still, Kwang! 23. WWE 12 Bigger! Badder! Better! WWE 12 was the first step in a post SmackDown It was indeed bigger, but it was more badder I think that's what they meant... As is tradition, THQ and Yuke's went back and sought to redefine how WWE games play. For starters the grappling system was completely options and instead creating a momentum-based So if your opponent is fresh as a daisy you spinebuster them with minimal effort, you'd Road to WrestleMania and WWE Universe were to play as made-up grappler Jacob Cass - voiced to become top dog of the WWE in a WCW war. You'd have thought WWE would be over the not. But for all of its new gadgets and tweaked paint on a slightly banged up car. Not quite the giant leap forward THQ was aiming 22. WWE 2K18 PC - 2017 It's hard to know what to say about the Yeah the bad stick out a mile, and the good They're much of a muchness really. The engine they're built upon is smooth graphics are superb, and the gameplay is about But ranking the 'ho-hum' 2K games means So let's do it! For 2K18 the popular showcase mode was removed, match was a very wonky experience, as the But on the plus side the creation suite was massive at over 200 wrestlers. But something just felt a bit off. It felt like we were playing out of politeness excited to dust off our elbow pads and hop 2K18 was also the first WWE game for the Nintendo the Switch port shall we? It's crap. 21. WWF SmackDown - Just Bring It Smackdown Just Bring It was the third entry the unenviable position of being sandwiched That's not to say it was a bad game, Just the exhilarating highs of Know Your Role, Doubly so, as the first Smackdown game for of the console, and felt like SmackDown 2: Two of the main problems with Just Bring It the Smackdown line; the commentary, and the This was the first Smackdown game to have it further enhanced the feeling and aura of understatement. To say it was bloody awful, even more so. The roster too was painfully outdated by the feature the likes of Booker T, Diamond Dallas on WWE television at the time. But before the advent of DLC, this was a problem us hone our craft at making truly terrible We did get Fred Durst though. Yay. 20. WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2011 Wii, Xbox 360 - 2010 The final Smackdown vs Raw game - in fact to the WWE and later 2K series, Smackdown the decade long Smackdown saga. Once again helmed by THQ and Yuke's, we DLC packages than we knew what to do with. New table and ladder physics allowed for more matches - the game play was still very enjoyable, a whole heap of content for solo players and General Manager mode of yore. Almost. And let's not forget the absolutely bizarre in particular making you take on an army of However, for all its new features and physics, age, staring into our eyes as if to say "please, While WWE 12 would tweak it and fix it up, 13. Sleep tight old buddy. 19. WWE 2K17 One, PC - 2016 The cycle of modern WWE games goes as such; strip back features, tweak remaining features, get that sweet sweet cash, rinse and repeat. For WWE 2K17 we were in the midst of the 'strip the popular and engrossing Showcase mode taken us. 2K had a good reason for this though, as they it drastically. However, they failed to really deliver on of Showcase mode. 2K17 was still a good game though, outside The submission mini game was expanded and as a playable character was fun, as who doesn't The rest of the roster too was absolutely available, although some are only accessible Still, there were enough wrestlers here to positives about the 2K series as a whole. 18. WWE Day of Reckoning Remember before when we said that the Gamecube wasn't quite working? Luckily, this had all been worked out for One of the more often forgotten WWE games, of both the N64 games and the SmackDown series, sort of under-appreciated monster baby. There was the easy to understand controls mixed with the overall presentation and depth Day of Reckoning also introduced the 'Momentum from being the beater to being the beaten. Beater-ee? It shifted the momentum of the match, basically. But not everything got the Midas touch. The inclusion of the bra and panties match and there were only four female wrestlers area was annoying - especially as it had been on the obnoxious. Still, a massive leap forward from the WrestleMania And things would only get better for Gamecube 17. WWE 2K16 One, PC - 2015 The 2K series finally found its feet with came before it. Graphically, the jump from 2K15 to 16 was 120, and the overall mechanics were improved Customisation fans rejoiced too as the creation in 2K15. Refer to the 2K features cycle in your handbooks The 2K showcase mode - which was senselessly Austin. Easily the best feature of the game, being was a thoroughly enjoyable experience and Again though, this wasn't a game you could and the simulation approach to WWE gaming But if you're after a truly immersive WWE that do it better or more thoroughly than 16. WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008 Wii, Xbox 360 - 2007 Are you ready to get EXTREME? Oh ok, then are you ready to get slightly Yeah, thought so. SVR 2008 introduced the naughty lads of ECW wrestling modes and tools. Gone was reaching under the ring for random weapon wheel, allowing you to curate your You could also set some weapons on fire which Superstars now had two different wrestling in a variety of ways. While this was good on paper, it massively Take the case of Chavo Guerrero; because he couldn't do springboard moves etc, even did them in real life all the time. Even at the shops. What was meant to open gameplay up, inadvertently of a fun experience than other Smackdown games Luckily SVR 2008 was saved by the 24/7 mode one big ball of action. However, this would be the last game to feature Booo. 15. WWE 2K19 Hindsight is a beautiful thing isn't it. Whether realising too late that that final fact that WWE 2K19 was in fact a very good unfinished face. It seems almost strange now that 2K19 was alike upon release, but is now widely heralded Moving away from the simulation style that 2K19 was a more intuitive and flowing affair, and realism... and whatever the hell big head My career mode was fleshed out, taking you mode returned featuring everyone's favourite 2K19 still had its fair share of bugs and naff, but it remained a very well rounded dumpster fire that was 2K20, its reputation Hell, WWE themselves still advertise it on With the WWE 2K future up in the air, if 2K19 is certainly a fine way to bow out. 14.WWF SmackDown! Playstation - 2000 Ahhh SmackDown. Little did we know back in the year 2000 that completely change the game. Although PS1 owners hoping for something in have been a little disheartened at first, WWE game with endless replayability, and sold The roster showcased the best of the Attitude than any other WWE game that had preceded The in-ring action was frenetic and very very at any point causing many fights with friends in a WWE game there was an expansive backstage But SmackDown was very rough around the edges, in a series and the first WWE game made by The entrances were a little strange, but did game, and some of the presentation was a bit that much. Luckily, the engine that ran the whole thing were miles better, the debut title still packs 13. WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2007 Finally THQ learned their lesson, and after exclusives, SmackDown vs. Raw 2007 reared owners a WWE game they could be proud of. Following on from previous SVR games, 2007 with some stark changes. The biggest of which was a switch from a traditional system. The change divided fan opinion, but purists Regardless of what controls you chose, the and expansive roster to choose from. Alongside the new grappling system were tweaked moves, and arena hotspots - a tiny bit like exciting or cool. Then there was SVR 2007's big selling point; Sort of. Yes THQ promised a big massive expansive immersive we got a small clearing with a few weapons Still pretty good, but nothing like what we 12. WWE All Stars Wii, Nintendo 3DS, Xbox 360 - 2011 All Stars is a surprising game. One look at the chunky over the top art of "this is an abomination, I want realism thank you very much". But that's a stupid thing to say. Stop saying it. All Stars took us back to the arcade WWE games and colour into a game series that had gotten Featuring a roster of contemporary WWE Superstars a 'what if' approach to storytelling, to come to life. Leaving all logic by the door, All Stars was simulation-like experience of the SmackDown weirdness. The game evokedmemories of sitting in your small child... or a grown adult as is the top, unrealistic, but so much fun you'll up in the first place. Luckily, we may be getting an experience like and if it's even half as silly as All Stars, 11. WWE Day of Reckoning 2 Day of Reckoning 2 was everything a good sequel basically. Realising they had a formula that worked, Reckoning's mechanics, instead loading it a kendo stick at. The story mode was expanded, picking up where with the omnipresent Triple H. At times the but it still made for a rewarding experience. Two new gameplay features were added in the mode. The stamina meter in particular stuck out to a fairly arcadey game, but the submission Elsewhere Day of Reckoning 2 had better graphics, WWE Superstars, as well as the usual game It also retained the basic but easy to use of a lovely cat on your create-a-wrestler's baddie. 10. WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2010 DS, Nintendo Wii, Xbox 360 - 2009 As with most of the annual WWE games, the and can radically alter their legacy. Case in point; remember the stick grappling Well it was unceremoniously binned off for traditional button approach to the rejoicing The HUD was also dramatically scaled back, Realising that SVR 2009 was as underwhelming it, SmackDown vs. Raw 2010 apologised to fans of creation tools, making it one of if not There was a story designer mode with support works of Shakespeare with Batista, while create-a-wrestler The online community creations suite was also put up with rubbish CAWs... unless you really The gameplay engine was starting to show its the shiny new features that we didn't really really matters? 09. WWE 13 WWE 13 is a curious beast. The last WWE game made by THQ prior to their the 2K logo despite having no involvement. Regardless, the game was really really good, corner. CM Punk as the cover star? An updated and retooled engine? A return of the special referee mode? We were all rubbing our hands with glee when Easily the highlight of WWE 13 was the Attitude chance to play through the most notorious Mixing actual footage with famous moments of the best features in years, and served In order to support Attitude Era mode - as WWE Superstars - WWE 13 had a chunky roster add in the usual CAW download suite, the possibilities The commentary was still absolute twaddle 08. WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw The first major rebrand of the SmackDown series, game to feature the WWE Brand Split, that Knowledge. Following on from the classic Here Comes the features that made the former game so great, The most notable was the clean/dirty system, you with new moves and options depending on The pre-match mini games were another fun the Earth. SmackDown vs Raw was the first in the series Although it was an extremely basic affair, out for. It also finally featured the voices of the an extra dimension to the fan favourite feature. One of the major reasons for SmackDown vs No Brock Lesnar. No Goldberg. No Steve Austin. We did get a handful of legends though, which 07. WWE SmackDown! - Shut Your Mouth Smackdown's fourth outing,Shut Your Mouth a threat - started to take its first baby that had proceeded it. Ok, so not entirely, as the gameplay was still death defying things you could do in game, in a train station. But with the vast expansion of season mode to reshape Smackdown into more of a sports Shut Your Mouth was a WWE game worthy of the of Just Bring It. But most importantly, Shut Your Mouth finally play with. No more weird regular cage with a roof, we panels and blood and crying. The roster was expansive, the amount of stages was frenetic and fun, especially when playing And if you wanted to you could play a special some reason. Probably just to make sure everything was Yeah that's it. 06. WWE 2K14 Following on from the well-receivedWWE 13, Sports watchful eye. Luckily, longtime developer Yuke's were going to be effective, and not just a case they stuck. The aforementioned tweaks improved everything improved running attacks to limit the amount Showcase mode returned in two guises; the well play through 30 years of WrestleMania. And The Streak saw you either defending the or attempting to break it, which was easier I mean seriously, the difficulty spike when ridiculous. As you'd expect, the presentation and feel mentioning the commentary again. You can't make me. Other WWE 2K games did bits and bobs better the series took the full leap onto a much WWE 2K14 stands tall above its siblings. 05. WWF SmackDown! 2 - Know Your Role The leap from Smackdown to Smackdown 2 - Know Realising they had a formula that worked, Smackdown's engine as much as possible for But like its predecessor, Know Your Role was The ladder match in particular was a sloppy about five seconds, such was the apparent But sod it, it was fun. The Hell in a Cell was strange too as it was even a Kennel from Hell. But you know what? It was the first time the match had been replicated accepted it gleefully with our mouths agape For you younger viewers whose earliest exposure may not get the hype, but the Attitude Era Even non-wrestling fans played the first couple 04. WWE SmackDown! vs. Raw 2006 SmackDown vs Raw 2006 came at a turning point The old guard of the Attitude Era were mainly invisible shoulders of John Cena and Batista. The SmackDown series also shifted too, moving style that dominated wrestling games for the SVR 06 introduced a number of new gameplay your fantasy matches - don't ask - to create-an-entrance We could also for the first time challenge which previously had only been available in While you may scoff and say "hunh you were the answer is yes. It made the game a more personal affair, and the stakes were much greater. SmackDown vs. Raw 2006 still holds up incredibly still at a loss with the collapse of 2K20, old PS2 off and firing up SVR 06. 03. WWF WrestleMania 2000 Here we go grapplefans, it's some N64 content WrestleMania 2000 was when everything changed. THQ and AKI jumped ship from WCW to WWE, and grappler series... if you don't include which was also incredibly good. The gameplay was intuitive and easy to jump chunky side - had a lot of character and charm any established wrestlers' appearances made Talking of rosters, the two main drawbacks difficulty. The roster itself was a bit rubbish, as outside H, and The Rock, you had a motley crew of Mideon, and Meat... unfortunately not the The difficulty spike - especially when playing and with a very vague reversal system on hand, WrestleMania 2000 and its sequel - more on around the world, with many wrestling fans of anything else. And who are we to disagree. 02. WWE SmackDown! - Here Comes the Pain Much like with the N64 games, there are a look beyondHere Comes the Pain. The definitive SmackDown game, it is my/Ben's one of the greatest rosters in WWE gaming modes to keep the experience fresh. Whether squaring up to bad lads like Brock Bischoff around, Here Comes the Pain was an The camera and graphics had been improved attribute system made each character feel You could also see how damaged individual you tactically target the leg if you wanted hit your opponent in the face if you were The true joy of HCTP was that you could play Whether you wanted a straight-laced technical jump off a helicopter and into the pavement It embraced the good, the bad, and the weird you say you ever got bored of playing this 01. WWF No Mercy 20 years have passed since No Mercy was released, for professional wrestling games. I know it, you know it, and even the wrestlers When Midway released TNA Impact, part of the on No Mercy, and with AEW having a game in links to No Mercy before any details have So why was it so good? The engine built by AKI for the N64 games release it just got better and better. No Mercy was its peak, improving on the ho-hum features such as breakable tables, ladder season mode, alongside a revamped Create-a-Wrestler inclusion of running grapples. Plus, weapons wouldn't disappear when you Yes, season mode was ridiculously hard, especially fact that some cartridges featured a bug that But the game itself more than makes up for cartridges then you had very little to complain To this day No Mercy still boasts a huge following, to a massive online modding community, it So here's to you No Mercy, the greatest that one day you will be toppled. Please. We've suffered enough these last 15 years And that was every WWE game ranked from worst If so, then fantastic, a WWE title shot awaits If not, we look forward to engaging in a No the merits of Crush Hour. Also, if you have suggestions for other "Every us know. If we like your idea, we will add it to a You can follow TripleJump on Twitter here, the things you enjoy by having a look at our Finally, don't for get to like the video, to the channel. I'm Ben and I'm Peter from TripleJump,