Hi! It's Hanbit here! In this video, I'll show you how to make a perfect madeleine. Madeleines... Madeleines are extremeley popular in the Korean dessert market. It has always been around, but it has risen in popularity recently. There are so many variations of madeleines in the Korean market. A couple of points that I want to stress when making madeleines. Firstly, I want to emphasize productivity. My audience consists of cafe owners as well as home-baking enthusiasts. Workflow, productivity and efficiency are terms that I care a lot about. and these will undoubtedly affect your product. Productivity = How many can you produce in a given time frame? It's all about being efficient and producing as much as possible. (same as Hanbit wishing to finish off and go home lol) With all this in mind, I will not rest the batter in the fridge! This goes against the norm and may seem unusual! Secondly, I want to stress the aesthetics. We are talking about desserts, so they have to look appealing! (Of course they have to taste delicious...) Desserts have to look pretty &amp; nice! So in this video, I'll show you an easy decoration for the madeleine. which would be the &quot;chocolate pan coating&quot; method. Of course, I cover different types of decorations in greater detail in my offline classes. First, we need to prepare the madeleine pan. Just grease the pan with butter. Just a quick mention about madeleine pans. The pan I'm using today is a local Korean brand. (unable to purchase outside Korea) I prefer pans where each shell is deep rather than shallow. This will allow you to produce a madeleine with a bigger hump (belly)! Now the ingredients. All the ingredients apart from melted butter should be at room temp. Eggs &amp; milk, honey, sugar, dry ingredients, melted butter Some people ask me about how you should melt the butter. I prefer using the microwave but you can also use a water bath. First of all, eggs &amp; milk go into the bowl. Eggs &amp; milk Honey Honey allows the madeleine to stay more moist. Sugar Now whisk + mix well. Whisk until you feel that the sugar has sort of melted (doesn't need to melt completely). Also, whisk it gently. If you whisk it too hard and incorporate too much air, then you'll end up with a madeleine with lots of air bubbles/holes inside. Dry ingredients (sift) Mix well. Tip here is to to start mixing from the centre of the bowl - and work outwards. Now time for melted butter (50) OK, the melted butter is at 50 Melted butter(50) Same as before - mix well! Mix until the batter is homogeneous + smooth &amp; shiny Finishing off with a spatula. Great, now time to pipe it into the madeleine pan! Right, I haven't put the batter in the fridge to rest. This means the batter will be rather runny which might make it difficult to pipe. Just use your finger to close/open the tip and control the flow. Now, into the oven! (yes, pre-heat it in advance) (Pre-heat 200) Bake at 180 for 9~10m Look at my madeleines straight out from the oven! Look at the hump! I drop it from a height and give a shock. This releases the hot air inside. And while it's still hot, rotate the madeleines so they don't stick to the pan when they cool down. Ouch it's hot! Make sure you're wearing thick gloves. Let's review the madeleines that I've just baked. They have super humps (belly) which I am really satisfied with. Wow...look at that! Thanks to the Korean madeleine pan I'm using. Now we'll work on the chocolate pan coating. The chocolate needs to be warm throughout the process. I use it at around 40~50 The chocolate needs to be warm, or else the chocolate will harden before I place the madeleine on top! So the chocolate needs to be warm (or work fast). Around 10g for each cavity. Just gently placing the madeleine on top. Leave it in the fridge/freezer for 10~15mins. Just make sure that the chocolate has completely hardened. This is a super quick &amp; effective decoration! So pretty! So we're done with everything. How was it? Not too difficult, right? Let's try it! The chocolate coating really reinforces the overall chocolate flavour! It tastes amazing! I'll be back with another amazing recipe! Thank you!