Today I made chilled somen noodles with pork and eggplant. Hello, I'm Yukari, a cookery researcher. This channel introduces various cooking recipes and useful information. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. Easy recipes at home Today I would like to make chilled pork and eggplant somen noodles. This is an arranged recipe for somen noodles that is perfect for this season. This time I will stir-fry pork and eggplant to make delicious chilled somen noodles. The ingredients are easy to find and very simple to make. There are some key points here and there, so please enjoy to the end. Please have a look at it. Easy recipes at home First of all, let me introduce the ingredients. Here are the ingredients. Somen noodles, eggplant, pork belly shabu-shabu meat, shiso leaves, ginger, white sesame seeds, here are the ingredients. First of all, I will use one eggplant this time. Please adjust the amount here to your liking. This one will be about 100g in its current state. And we are going to add two shiso leaves, but you can adjust the amount to your liking as well. As for the meat, I will use pork belly shabu shabu meat this time. Can use any meat you like. Can also use small cuts of meat or cut-off meat. And as for the ginger, we will use fresh grated ginger this time. Fresh ginger is more aromatic, so we will use fresh ginger, but you can use tube type ginger instead. Next, I will introduce the seasonings and other ingredients. Here are the ingredients. Here are the ingredients: water, mentsuyu, sugar, soy sauce, sesame oil, salt and pepper. First of all, I will use double concentrated mentsuyu. The ratio of mentsuyu to water can be adjusted to your liking. And this time add sugar. I will use cane sugar here, but you can adjust the sugar to your liking. The rest is soy bean sauce. I will make it a little spicy. If you don't like spicy or children eat it, you can leave it out. I will make it with these ingredients right away. Easy recipes at home Now let's make otsuyu (soy sauce) first. In a bowl, add mentsuyu, water, sugar, and soy sauce. Now mix well once. And once well mixed, grate the ginger. And mix well. I put ginger in this time, but garlic is also good as a substitute, so if you want a little punch, you can add garlic. OK. Then you can wrap up here and leave this one here in the refrigerator to chill. Now I will cut the ingredients. First, I cut the eggplant. Cut off the hefty part of this one. Once cut off, cut the eggplant into pieces. Cut into pieces of random sizes that are easy to eat. Then put this one in a bowl and add water here. Once the water is added, this is out of the quantity. Add a little salt here and mix well. Leave this to soak in the salt water for about 5 minutes. This will prevent the oil from absorbing too much. Now let's move on to the shiso leaves. This one is rinsed quickly in water. After rinsing, wipe off the water properly. Then press it down with your hand. After wiping off the water, cut off the stem. Now I wrap this one around from the front and cut it in half first. Now it's time to cut it into strips, aligning the cut edges. Keep the shiso leaves shredded like this. Easy recipes at home Now let's continue to boil the somen noodles. Put plenty of water in a pot and bring it to a boil over heat. Boil. Once boiling, add somen noodles here. And boil it for the time indicated on the bag or until it reaches the desired consistency. Be careful not to spill while boiling. OK. Then turn off the heat and drain the water. Then drain the hot water so that you don't burn yourself. Once the hot water is drained, rub it with cold water thoroughly. First, I firmly cool the somen noodles once. After that, it is properly rubbed and washed like this to remove the sliminess. This makes the noodles less likely to stick to each other. Rub and wash thoroughly like this. OK. Now leave it drained like this. They are boiled like this, plump and delicious. Then I drain the eggplant here. And once you do that, wipe off the water thoroughly. Once the water is wiped off, turn the sesame oil here. And let it coat the whole thing once. This will prevent the oil from absorbing too much oil and also prevent discoloration. Can be done with a small amount of oil. This is ok. So now going to fry the eggplant and pork. Now please prepare the frying pan. First, put the eggplant in the pan and cook it skin side down. Now let's put it on the fire. The heat level is medium. Now let's fry the eggplant. The meat will be added in the middle. After 1-2 minutes, turn over. Grilling from the skin side prevents discoloration of the eggplant. When the eggplant is getting softer and softer, turn it over again and put the uncooked side down and put the meat in the empty space. Fry the meat while unraveling. At this point, sprinkle the meat lightly with salt and pepper. Now I will fry the rest together. Make sure to break up the meat and stir-fry it well so that it doesn't clump. Mix them together. If the meat and eggplant are cooked properly, it is OK. Now let's finish up. Please take the otsuyu out of the refrigerator. Put shiso leaves and white sesame seeds in this mixture. Mix this well. Now the otsuyu is ready. Now let's finish up. First, put the somen noodles in the bowl like this. Then put the meat and eggplant on top here. And then pour the sauce over the rest. Now the pork and eggplant somen noodles are ready. Can do the serving as you like. Easy recipes at home This is the completion of the cold somen noodles with pork and eggplant. This is how it turned out. It is finished like this with lots of ingredients and looks very tasty. This quantity makes one serving. This one should be used as a guide. It's done. Now, I would like to eat. Looks delicious. Let's eat. Very tasty. The eggplant is very tender and the pork has a great sweet and savory taste. The rest is very tasty with the aroma of shiso leaves. Easy recipes at home Delicious finish today. This is the key to this time's pork eggplant cold somen noodles. First of all, pork, this time I used pork belly shabu shabu meat. Can use any pork of your choice here. I used one eggplant, but you can adjust the amount to your liking. If you don't like spicy food or if children eat it, leave out the soy sauce. The first step is to make the sauce base and refrigerate it until you are ready to use it. This way it will be cold and refreshing. If you want to eat it warm, heat the dipping sauce and use it. And as for eggplant, once you are done cutting it, soak it in salt water. This will prevent them from absorbing too much oil. If you coat the eggplant with sesame oil before grilling, a small amount of oil will prevent it from absorbing too much oil. Then grill the eggplant first, and when the eggplant is almost cooked, add the meat and fry until both are cooked. Then boil the somen noodles until the desired firmness is reached and then rinse them in cold water. This prevents the noodles from sticking to each other and makes them smooth and tasty afterwards. Then put the somen noodles in a bowl, top with the ingredients, and finish by pouring the otsuyu sauce over the top. This quantity will be for 1 person. Please use this one as a guide. I think it's usually a good guideline for about two people when you eat it for dinner or something like that. The ingredients are easy to find and very simple to make. It is very tasty and you should try to make it. Easy recipes at home Today I made chilled pork and eggplant somen noodles. I have many other various videos on my channel. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. I also post on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, so we would appreciate it if you would like to like, follow, and share our posts. Thank you very much. So that's all for today. Thank you for watching to the end today. Please give us a good button. See you in the next video. Bye.