Having fought the Ottoman army to a stalemate the Christian war council unanimously agreed Hoping to replicate the actions of October allow the Ottomans to cross the stream. They knew that there would only be enough to deploy for battle. The Christians planned to split their army The first battle group would deploy with its stream protecting its right flank. In doing so, they would draw the Ottoman army at first allowing several thousand to cross. They would then quickly surge forward and retreat would have been back into their own of fording the stream. In the ensuing confusion, the task of the through the Northern passage, and strike the simultaneously cutting off their retreat. The major encounter had finally come... It is worth mentioning, that during the final Allied the Christian army would likely have been them occupied for a few more days, rather that the Sultan's host would likely disintegrate The Austrian Archduke's assessment proved Ottoman leadership realized that they would day as their army was exhausted and running However, instead of allowing their troops instead agreed to attempt a night crossing. Utilizing the smaller fording points found the entire night and early morning of October into position. Although the Christian army was surprised necessarily caught unprepared. Upon seeing the Ottoman positions, the allied plans, deciding that the army would under the Ottomans, thereby eliminating the need Under threat of encirclement by the Ottomans, were quickly recalled and used instead to battle. The Christian artillery once again proved the Ottoman advance altogether. The exact deployment of the Christian army An unknown number of cannons were placed on with both batteries being assigned around It appears that the Western Christian infantry into five tercios and placed in the center light infantry covering the center right and Placed in between the tercios was a portion Sigismund Bathory. The second line, deployed in a wedge formation, the Ottoman ranks. Led by Archduke Maximilian III, it consisted flanks covered by heavy German cavalry, with At the back of the wedge were 500 of the most to offer. These riders, most of whom were from Westphalia, to toe in full plate armor. The third and final line was led by Tieffenbach cavalry and infantry, also including a number well. Around 10,000 troops stayed behind to guard The deployment of the Ottoman army is also shape formation was adopted. It seems that 24,000 cavalry led by Ibrahim batteries on either side placed in intervals, In between each interval was a unit of around the narrow terrain prevented them from forming The left and right flanks were occupied by In front of the flanks were the irregular right wing. On the other side of the stream, facing North-East, infantry, flanked by cavalry on either side, Additionally, a large contingent of cavalry orders to wait for an opportune moment and the rear. The battle eventually began with the Christian of artillery fire. The flanks of the first line charged ahead However, the Christian right flank, who had and found themselves pressed on two sides contingent crossed the stream and joined the Seeing this, Albert Kiraiy, who was positioned to rout the Tatar cavalry in front of him. However, rather than pushing their advantage, his command took to looting the corpses of This prompted the routing Tatar cavalry to Some units of Tatars attempted to swing around in the first line, however, Tieffenbach managed from the third battle line, eventually routing The Ottomans positioned at the Northern passage were unable to break through the Christian With both its flanks in danger of being routed, finally arrived in the vicinity. The Ottoman cavalry opposing them could do forward slowly. Using these moving fortresses as cover, the first line launched lightning strikes against The Ottomans were seemingly helpless in the who despite being outnumbered on the battlefield, effect. Whenever the Ottoman cavalry threatened to would quickly withdraw back through the gaps, If the Ottoman cavalry withdrew too far away would target them, and if they came too close, and the sudden charges of the Christian cavalry. Unable to endure such abuse, the Ottoman cavalry The Christian center continued to push forward, capturing all 109 of the Ottoman cannons. Sigismund Bathory then ordered his cavalry from the side. Leading some cavalry from the third line, left flank. After some fighting, what remained of the The seemingly unstoppable Christian advance who had taken up position at the fortified The Christian infantry repeatedly attempted were repelled by the janissaries. The Christians eventually realized that if from their fortifications, they would need provide. The Christian second line was finally brought Under the cover of artillery fire, the steel-clad crashed into the Ottoman positions. Simultaneously, the Christian infantry had and now began indiscriminately firing into Even under the immense pressure of the combined artillery, the janissaries clung desperately It was only after a bloody melee, that they the stream. Upon achieving this great success, however, Despite the allied leaders having agreed earlier would they cross the stream, the Hungarian Archduke's position, calling on him to press Both Maximilian III and Schwarzenberg were the army. Sigismund Bathory, Albert Kiraiy, and Count however, continued to pressure the Archduke, was theirs for the taking. It was also around this time that the Archduke had already abandoned his army. With this news, Maximilian III finally relented, The initial Christian attempts to cross were of the German and Transylvanian infantrymen The Christian artillery was eventually brought rifle fire, the army was finally able to force Once the crossing was completed, the allied their previous three-line battle formation. However, this was an incredibly difficult line now have to be rotated a full 90 degrees, lines. Worst of all, the crossing had not been completed different units being hopelessly intermingled. The army would be exposed to attack as it a significant amount of time that the Christians Ibrahim Pasha, having managed to rally a portion the Ottoman camp, saw that the Christian army The Grand Vizier hurriedly ordered his contingent Luckily for the Christians however, the Archduke wedge, and quickly moved to intercept the In the ensuing clash, the more heavily armed the impact of their charge scattering the Ibrahim Pasha himself was pushed back to the Meanwhile, it seems that the other allied impossible to organize their troops in a reasonable of the troops, who believed that the battle chance to plunder the Ottoman camp. As they approached the camp, the Christian of a battle line, albeit extremely disorganized. Their advance was met by around 4000 janissaries, entrance of the Ottoman camp and were supported Heavily outnumbered however, this unit was first line of infantry. Unfortunately for the Christians however, army finally lost any semblance of cohesion Hungarians and Transylvanians devolved into in search of plunder, with many even discarding A group of Christian cavalry also managed the North, and without facing any resistance, the Southern end of the Ottoman camp, where were still in good order. The janissaries first discharged their rifles, Christian riders, who began to flee. It was at this point that the supposedly victorious In their haste to cross the stream and seize and in part due to the clouds of gunpowder the Christian commanders had failed to recognize army was still intact. In addition to the troops still fighting, infantry and a large number of sipahi cavalry Additionally, the Ottoman reserves and rearguard, Anatolian cavalry, numbering over 25,000, the South of the camp. Finally, the unit that had been sent to assault had also been recalled and were now within The Sultan, who had at first considered fleeing, with the army and continue fighting. Mehmed III finally took charge, and under of janissaries and sipahi cavalry launched The Sultan also called upon every able-bodied and aid his troops in driving out the Christians To all those that obeyed, he promised to grant The now revitalized Ottoman forces quickly unarmed Christian troops, who were in no position Simultaneously, the Ottoman units outside both the North and South. It is worth mentioning that while these attacks that this was purely by chance, and was not coordination between the Ottoman commanders. As the fleeing Christian infantry began emerging own horsemen, who up to this point, were still returning Ottoman units. The sight of the panicked infantry sowed confusion As more and more panicked infantry began spilling unnerved, and soon, an unstoppable wave of A few hundred hussars suddenly broke formation riders, and within moments, nearly the entire The Archduke, along with a bodyguard of 300 to be brushed aside by the sea of panic-stricken Seeing that his efforts were futile, Maximilian haplessly attempted to rally the army. The only resistance the Ottomans faced as from the contingent of a German Prince, Bernard the pursuing Ottoman cavalry with two hundred Maximilian III, who by now had accepted that the retreating army with the Christian artillery. However, after firing two volleys, the artillery Many allied troops were slaughtered by the ford, some even drowning as they climbed over A Transylvanian officer recounts that bodies stream, that one could cross without ever The only saving grace for the Christian army, too exhausted to continue the pursuit, chased stream. Even with this disastrous rout, modern historians to do so, it would have been possible to rally protection of the fortified Christian camp. However, upon seeing the allied troops looting inside, and instead abandoned the battlefield. The only commander to actually have returned the time he arrived at around midnight, the Realizing this, the remaining Christian troops and returned home. On the Ottoman side, the Sultan at first struggled managing to do so a day after the last of However, as it was now late October, and with to its limit, they were unable to take advantage Large amounts of equipment and material were were unable to take much with them as they by the Christians in their haste, The battle last great victory in Central Europe. Having failed to achieve any significant change that the tens of thousands of casualties suffered for nothing.