(engine roaring) - Even your most hopped-up - Couldn't turn this (Ben and Davin laugh) - That's just... (explosion) (engine roaring) - Hi, I'm Davin. - I'm Ben. - And we're here to talk about down at Schumacher Racing. - Yeah, that was pretty cool going down there. It was awesome, it was awesome. - [Ben] We got quite a plus, we kinda just, I don't know, came up with some stuff of things that we learned while we - Things that we learned and on how awesome things are and crazy. - Right off the bat here, what sort of impressed you the most? - Well, given the fact that on a stand, that thing is six foot tall. Granted, it's a foot but it's six foot tall, and it is a daunting piece of equipment. - [Ben] Yeah, for sure. - When you're sitting there and you're thinking about what that engine is physically capable of, and how much power it puts out, and of course the heritage, and everything that it represents as far as how it got to where it's at, is it brings the hairs up when you're thinking about it. 11,000 horsepower is substantial. (engine roaring) When you're looking at the money in the carbon-fiber injector. Kevlar bags holding the blowers The same thing with the straps. The Mopar covers there that go over the top of the spark plugs, That's titanium. We're not talking about, let's just put a little piece of plastic over the top of this It's no, this is bulletproof shields. Let's be thoughtful about - Well and even here, the covers for the headers that oh, we'll just happen to make just because we can. - That was the best, too. And that was the comment, why aren't these aluminum Well, cause we got a carbon fiber shop. Why wouldn't we? (laughs) Well okay, fantastic. - [Ben] So, cool, this is the whole thing. As we go into this, there's so many cool numbers This whole process of completely tearing down happens, what, how often? How many runs do they get in? How many-- - So, what they shoot for is basically, ideally, this engine lasts one event. And that one event is typically and four rounds to the winners circle. So you're talking eight rounds. 12, 16 rounds, that's even better, because everything that they, and when the engine lasts, they're really talking about That's what their concern between every round, every time it goes down the track, it comes down to, it's tore down in the The camshaft's in it, the kinda your front bits are on there after the blower belt. So, the injection's taken off, the blower's taken off, the Usually, unless something happened, the magnetos are left on. And then the heads are pulled off and the pan is dropped. The pistons and rods are pulled out. So it's pretty much a full rebuild, but what surprised me is it's not a rebuild with or at all. So they're going through, and they have, they mark them, so they have on them. - And they check them for straightness, and they check them for size and all that. But they have done well, if we hit 12 runs, Regardless of what they look And play it safe because there's a lot of money - Yeah, I remember the piston with how many times each one had been, and then they had a whole, everybody had a notebook of keeping track of how and they all have numbers on them. It's crazy the amount of And also, the fact that That whole thing there. - That whole assembly is Which, I think 150 of because that blower's heavy. - Yeah, which is crazy to to lift a big block out of-- - Yeah, so as a comparison, when we, like, a small-block Chevy, is about 500 pounds. At about half the physical size. - And 1/100th of the horsepower. - Yeah, well-- - When one cylinder is yeah not bad. (engine roaring) - [Ben] We went down to and not only did we shoot this video of this whole engine being torn but you got to help. - [Davin] Oh man, heck yeah. There was gonna be no other way, yep. - So, talk about that experience for you. You've rebuilt a lot of engines. You race, yourself, with (engine roaring) - Yeah, so my thought going into this is, I can't wait to see what's inside of this because there's gonna be some that are just like, oh my God. And there's stuff that makes power. The blower makes all the power. Magnesium intake manifold. And I think it's funny how you have this huge opening on the top of this, but it's only open in the back based on how everything So for my end of things, yeah okay, we're just gonna and we did, But at the end of the day, it kinda all boils down to the same parts. or it is all the same parts. The blower's a new piece to it, but. Alright, so in general terms, you have to have some in to any engine to make them work. Typically, it's a carburetor. In this situation it is this, they'll call it a blower This particular one, oddly You're sucking air and fuel You're adding additional fuel in there to basically, enriching all that air, and shove as much into that will physically fit. And it's like that far at full It's got that much, it's not atomized anymore, it's just wet. - And speaking of fuel and power, and amount of space that has to go into displacement on this and - Actually, displacement-wise, It's 500 cubic inches, which, is big, but at the same token, there's a lot bigger motors out there. So, you're talking 500 cubic-inch, and they run on up to 90% nitromethane, which is mixed with methanol. So it's 10% methanol, 90% nitromethane. Nitromethane is an oxygenated fuel. So not only are you cramming as you possibly can, nitromethane, the potential energy is seven times more than your top racing fuel. So like 114 octane race fuel. It's seven times more, has seven times more potential for power. - [Ben] That's crazy. - [Davin] So yeah. - [Ben] Cool, so blower's - [Davin] Blower's off. Actually, some fairly We ran these on our But, yeah, it's two plugs per cylinder because there's a lot Also, that's why they and then your-- - Yeah, it's something, what, 88 amps, and 50,000 volts. are 44, 44 amps. Yeah, they're pretty the spark plugs. - [Ben] That is nuts. What are these patches right here. It looks like they're bubbled up and-- - Yeah, they're a controlled burst. So they're considered a burst panel. So it's pop-off valve, So if something starts to go wrong, instead of the motor completely just blowing it blows out and relieves that - Okay, so it's like - Yeah, yep, yep. And then, on the front of the and I think the back ones, as well. A couple of them-- - [Ben] Oh yeah, I see them. - Yeah, they actually have stress transducers on them. So that's kind of an early warning device as they start to swell, but as they swell they can start, the management system can as far as reactionary, yeah. Power down, cool. - Alright, so here, the intake manifold's off. That manifold is magnesium. Basically, just a weights savings piece. It doesn't work on heads and block but it works really well for the intake. And it's about another And then, here you have if you will, HEMI as far just like we had on our stock one. And the huge wide head. These are full-on billet aluminum heads. Don Schumacher makes these It's just 356 aluminum and And then what is different on these than a standard head is they actually have a stud that goes down into the block which I found that to probably of the assembly, is because inside the, right in here, well, you can see one right there. So this is a stud that but you have a nut that's And it-- - There's just, it's a So they've got a little stubby It's calibrated out so it's adjusted for the distance change. But you only have (popping) to tighten it. It's a tight-- - So that to that end there is, there's a stub that's on - Yeah. - Okay. - Yep, so when you take the head off, when you'll see it here, when you take the head off, there's four studs that go that typically aren't there. - [Ben] Oh, yeah. - [Davin] See them there? - [Ben] Yep. - And surprisingly, that's a lot of mass but they're not that heavy. You take everything off Cause, remember, their whole idea... So, at race day, they'll I say stacks, they'll have four sets with zoomies hanging off of 'em or the headers hanging off of them. - Minimizing the amount of-- - Minimizing the assembly effort, yep. Because they have 35 minutes to turn this motor in the car on - And what we'll get to are different people's - Yes. - So everybody can kind of, you have these units that disassemble off, and then, people can and then it kind of all comes Copper gaskets? - Yep, solid copper gaskets. Ridiculously heavy, in comparison. Surprisingly heavy, I guess I should say. - They're thick too, they were - Yeah, well they're, I remember - [Ben] Okay. - So yes, very thick. Most head gaskets are 40 thousandths. Now, what I found out is that head gasket is very key part of things We'll talk about that later. - [Ben] Okay. (laughs) Alright, so yeah we're And you can see all the it's just phenomenal. So these are billet They start with a three of solid aluminum and - [Ben] Did they tell, that a full day or 24 hours - Yeah, they can work 18 hours of milling and they're working on Because, typically what they've been doing is they've been buying blocks. It's actually dart machine And so they buy blocks, the general group buys blocks for 'em. And so dart machine does all And oddly enough, I It was like 10 grand, he said, for a block, which I was surprised at. Not that 10 grand is but it was surprisingly So they're putting together one unit where they can basically fill it full of, I think chunks of aluminum-- big spindle with them all on there. - Yeah, and it'll run for a week before anybody has to touch But, yeah, they're after like So big diameter lifters... - [Ben] That aluminum is just so crazy. - [Davin] Oh yeah, yeah. Those blocks are simply Look at all of the sculpturing This is not functional at all, - [Ben] Now, did they, because the heads are made the same way, right. - [Davin] Yep. - [Ben] It's machined aluminum. - [Davin] Yes. - Is everything, as far as flow goes, from what I understand... When you work on any of the is all that built into the CNC, or do they have somebody and do all that stuff? - Yeah there's, on a CNC, I'm going to say they come off the machine probably 90% complete, maybe in the ports, but there's in a port where you just-- - You can't get to it. - Yeah, you just can't get tools to it so you have to go in a hand port. You might clean up like a parting line but it's damn near not. - [Ben] Yes, alright. - [Davin] Alright, so rolling Obviously, a specialty oil pan. This runs a dry sump system. So what that means is it does not have a standard oil pump with a pickup inside like you have off a rear It runs a dry sump, so it's actually, that big hose, it sucking the oil out by where this is system So it's an external oil they're belt driven. And I don't remember how but, it's drawing all that volume out and then, pushing it - [Ben] That's cool. - [Davin] And the reason you A, it keeps the engine or the oil cooler, because it runs through a cooler and then it also allows you to about quadruple the oil capacity. So this runs about four gallons of oil in it. - [Ben] Oh, wow. - Because it has an external that back to. And then, also, as the you're not slapping, the which creates not only poor lubrication because it'll start to foam or, yeah basically foam the oil, but you're also not hindering horsepower. - [Ben] Okay. - Right, every time it - Not provide resistance? - Yeah it would be, yeah. - So we did have some comments oh, it didn't even look and all that sort of stuff. And, to a certain point we were limited to what they had on hand. We did, while we were there, get to see a couple - A couple other engines. Which was cool. from some other teams, too. - Yeah what this one had, though, was this was basically, the block was at end of its life - Yeah, we're talking about earlier, the tick marks of this and if we push it any further then we run the potential of - Exactly right, yep. Call it preventative So yeah, so this was a running engine and had assembled through, and we were basically as we that was our main goal, swap the base block out. - [Ben] And we'll see that later. And somebody, I think, was like, oh, did you - So you have large But then what you have instead of having a second set of bolts for your what this has instead of a splay bolt coming this way at an angle, it actually has, call it a horizontal bolt coming from the side pan. Doing essentially the same thing. - And that's what these are down here? - Yeah, yeah. - [Ben] Okay, I didn't notice that. - [Davin] Yeah, those and tied all that aluminum and everything and really truss the - [Ben] So right now, you are or removing the pistons. - Yep, pulling the pistons out. And a cool push tool by the way. That tool was pretty sweet. Simple, and again, it is a big That's really what it is, but it's slick. Slick and easy. - [Ben] Meant for speed. - [Davin] Yep. - And typically there's somebody - Yes, yeah, Brent is underneath the motor catching the oil down his armpit. And hot, by the way. - [Ben] Yeah. - [Davin] Laying on his back. - Just came off the track after goin' 300 and something miles and hour. Alright, looks like we're - Yes, so at this point, this is where they tear So they're down to, this is the, call it the bare block, if you will. - So they wouldn't go Right now, they're ready to that's sitting there, new sets of pistons. Sometimes, they have to do sleeves? - Sometimes, yep. And they'll do a sleeve right - They've got a cool thing and just go (whooshing). And because it's hot, that allows them, they just slide out, essentially. - More or less, yeah. - Because we were, I think, and because it had been it was hard to get them out. Because I think we had to just to clean it, or just to say, - Hey, get rid of the-- Get this block is leaving or whatever. Because I know they can reuse the sleeve. - Yeah, so can I go back here again where, so this is the oil pump. It's driven, basically, or a camshaft. And then this is your big, your bottom pulley for the blower. This is a tuning device. They'll put, potentially, Normally, your pulley up top though is more your tuning piece. That is not a water pump. This is just a, it's actually an extension for the fuel pump because the fuel pump goes off in front of the motor. - [Ben] Oh okay, yep. - So that's just a fuel It runs off the camshaft. And then, there's tensioners in that. That was actually, that big piece is what Yeah, so it's the end of the day, these 11,000 horsepower motors are held in by four hose clamps. (Ben laughs) This is your timing pointer right there, tiny mark on the balancer. This is-- - [Ben] This just kept as he popped it off. All of the sudden there'd be - Yeah, and I'll be honest with you. I really didn't quite was really doing. I was like, whoa. But this is a fancy timing That's the front of the and a lots of bolts to hold it in place. Now, part of all that bolt, or for that top cam here, is the fact that it allows - [Ben] Oh, okay. - So it's slotted. So you have a lot of bolts - [Ben] Gotcha, now that's one heck of a puller. to get the front of that off. - [Ben] (laughs) That's cool. - Now, we're starting, that's the very front of the crank. That's what that was. So you basically, have or the hub, and then this silver part I'm taking off right now there, that's actually just sealing the hub. - [Ben] So what's the, so obviously, you've got the crankshaft What's this guy running over here? - That's just a follower gears. So instead of using a around the lower and upper, it uses gear to gear to-- - So it's not driving anything? It's just a gear sitting - Yeah, yeah. - Okay. And how come they do it Just because of the gearing ratio has to-- - Well that allows you to, it has some adjustment for engagement where, when you're direct to, like on the flathead, you're kind of at the hope that things are cut - If not, there's no way of adjusting one way or the other. For lash. - [Ben] Okay. - [Davin] And there - [Ben] Also billet steel? - [Davin] Yep, billet steel camshaft, roller camshaft, obviously. - [Ben] Anything in - A crap load of torque on those bolt, or the nuts there. - [Ben] Yeah, so breaking We talk about putting you wrenching on the torque wrench later. - Yeah, so then, right that you typically don't have. So if you go back or turn the main cap, see they're using a puller to So they're threaded at the very top. - Oh yeah I see where-- to pop them up out of there. Now, I shouldn't say it's of block where the crank is Like on a Chevy, the main caps are prowed of the pan rail where this, the pan rail's, it's countersunk amongst the crankshaft. - That's a big crankshaft. - Yeah, now, cool little trick. That's a heavy son of a gun, right? And I was sitting there how am I going to grab ahold of this, not only is this out here where you have, I don't wanna say a lot of How am I going to lift because I'm used to That's a heavy steel crank. - I think it says it's roughly 80 pounds. - Yeah, yeah. And Cody goes, I said, He goes, &quot;Go grab a rag and I'm like, what? Kind of that little questioning. And I did it, he goes, &quot;Yeah, cause you're hands, &quot;course your hand can grip that better &quot;because you're a little bit tighter.&quot; I am hanging onto the snout, but just using that rag around there, I was like, &quot;Wow, that was pretty slick.&quot; - [Ben] Yeah, you learn - Yeah, and now, again, because we're changing the block, salvaging every piece So yanking all the studs out. The studs have an external hex on them, most of them, there's a to pull out. - [Ben] They let you use - [Davin] I know, it was crazy. - [Ben] It's a good thing - Yeah, it was a good thing of these bad boys that were in there. So they're put in with locktight, they are technically hand-tight but the locktight they use (Ben and Davin laugh) And they truly lock in there. And especially given because in between rounds as that aluminum expands and contracts, they recheck those and make are back in there, tight when They pull the head off, they'll make sure they're, so they So if you think about it, every time, they're a little bit while we're running on a cold block. And it's like no, uh (Ben laughs) So, propane torch, nothing fancy, heat the tar out of it And hope you don't pull a thread because pulling head bolt thread's not the end of the world but not great. - Well in this thing, the so not a big deal. - Well, all done relative to Nitro. Cause I loved the fact when he &quot;Well this would last forever (Davin and Ben laugh) You know, a mere thousand horse. - Alright, there she goes. she's down. - [Ben] She has served onto the, I don't know, - And they actually sell used parts. - Do they? - Yeah. - Oh, alright, so. You could have that in your next-- - Oh man. - Build. - But you better make sure It's not gonna be on the street. (Ben laughs) Yeah, so here's a line that were in there. Obviously minus the block. - [Ben] A whole lot of stuff. Alright, so onto the pistons. And this is something that they have new pistons ready to go but this whole measurement, at the races? - [Davin] Brent'll have it all prepped where they have racks of pistons. So, these pistons have been run. You can see that they got call it burn marks on the top, fuel been burned on top of them. So what they'll do is they'll set, they'll have eight sets of these racks they're all, everything's miked out. Yep, these are good rods, they're still within our use criteria as far as run wise. Same thing for pistons. They'll mike 'em for size really the big thing is making sure the We got a couple pistons it just pounds, that of the pistons, and it So they'll have 'em all set up with this with bearings in 'em. And they're ready to go. So in these cabinets above, they'll have 'em staged and set up. So then at the track So in this, so here he's checking diameter of the piston the skirt, but you check all that out. He's got a gauge for it there as well. And that's the top of the There he is just kinda Here's mikin' the skirts. He's gonna check... - This is it, yeah. - [Ben] Up above where it's going to that shot right Yeah here you go. - [Davin] So if you look, see he's holding it by the pin here, and then that's checkin, Cause those aluminum rods move. And that's actually why instead of steel rods, because steel rods can't of that beating that Nitro gives them. And then here he's putting the caps on. And I'm sure he's-- - [Ben] Probably checkin' them again. - [Davin] Yeah checkin' the, well he's checkin' the diameter of it. - A little implication. yeah the assembly lube that they use. - And then, oh, this is cool in terms of this thing that You've got these custom made-- - So they use tapered sleeves, which is something you can buy. Every parts house sell So if you have a 30 you buy a tapered sleeve that allows you to, how you is you would set them on the block and then they're wider at the top. They basically work as a funnel. Then you push your right straight down, just (whooshing) lickety split down into the hole, right? But you usually only have one. You don't have one for of, potentially, what, eight is 64, so you got at least 64 of these ready to-- - Yeah, cause it's, they're, that's how they are because when they're at the track, they're goin chunk puttin' those in as quick as they can. - Yeah they put eight pistons in in the time that I usually (Ben laughs) Yeah that is the truth. - [Ben] Alright, onto the heads. - [Davin] Yep, onto the cylinder heads. A big, they have high so he's gotta, again, especially toy. Notice it's not a pneumatic. I was expecting a pneumatic tool. - [Ben] Oh, okay. Just hand cranked. - [Davin] Yeah, just the hand crank. Probably found it's to work with, right. - So are these, we continue to talk about components and what is available to mere mortals (Davin laughs) In terms of rings, or and that sort of thing, what, is this custom stuff that they make, that they buy, that they, like what's one of these valves cost? - Those are, they're - Oh jeez, okay. (laughs) - Titanium comes with They're, I know, on my they're about $150 a piece. - Oh wow. - So yeah, the valves are expensive. But they are readily available to the general public. It's not anything that you can't Valve springs, I'm sure relative to the material And again, there's titanium and the whole reason there is to keep you valve train light. Because remember the RPM that to be able to control the valve is what you're after there. - Well the RPM too, powerful and fast enough with they're-- - Load. - Yeah, to actually be Otherwise they would - That's exactly what happens. They do, they'll hover, almost. (Ben laughs) Which is bad when the pistons (Ben laughs) Yeah, not good at all. - [Ben] Bad things happen. - [Davin] Yeah, ugly, ugly. - [Ben] So what's he Oh, this is another part - [Davin] How many times the - [Ben] He's got just a little etcher there to put a little line - A little Best Buy etcher goin to town. - [Ben] Okay and he's here - [Davin] Straight. - [Ben] Okay. - Yeah, that's a straightness gauge. And Brent was runnin' the wrist pins, he had a gauge for that, a V-block with a dial indicator right in the center. And he was rollin' it, just So at right here, what he's doing is he's hand lapping valves in there. - [Ben] Which is funny to see that old school engine building tool in this crazy, modern setting. - [Davin] Yeah, a little - I think he was sayin that he had gotten a new or something and they were awful. And the ones that he has are his that he's had for like 30 years. - Yeah cause the new instead of the wood so and the rubber on the suction cup is probably a little different. - [Ben] So here's the other head. Pulling out all those oil passages? Or what's the-- - [Davin] Well that was all the, that was spark plugs But then, yeah clean it up. So all those tubes are your oil passages. Oil comes into the back side of the head, runs down that tube and... - [Ben] New plugs. - [Davin] Lubricating - [Ben] Torque wrench on all the plugs. - [Davin] And the plugs are interesting. They last exactly one run. - Oh yeah, well up above he opened the cabinet and It was a giant cabinet with And then he had 'em sort of organized, like these are, cause They have some sort of tester where they-- - Well they read 'em. They read all the plugs, so how they look at it is, basically, how much of the electrode round loop is burnt off. Now if you and I were to pull a plug out of our daily driver and we'd be like, &quot;Oh no&quot; right? No, they're lookin' at it goin, &quot;Oh, half of it's gone? Perfect.&quot; - Oh okay, because they or what's the-- - No, what it's saying is, timing and the amount of fuel is exactly what they want. So it's their lean, rich measurement. - Oh because it's burnin' they actually want it to eat through it. - Right, because-- - That's showing that it's - Right, exactly, yeah. So what the fuel mixture And they check each cylinder because every cylinder potentially has a different size nozzle for the amount of fuel. So they might send slightly more fuel to one cylinder and then the other. And that's actually pretty normal because there's a couple cylinders that'll typically run - [Ben] Alright, super charger. Two people to carry this thing. - [Davin] Yes, and it's heavy. It really is. - [Ben] Even with it - [Davin] Yep, carbon fiber and aluminum. - [Ben] And then Kevlar to when it inevitably explodes. - It basically wears a bullet proof vest is what it amounts to. - So we'll adjust this right here and just leave it at that, but do you wanna have the honors of our blurb? - [Davin] Yeah, so this And, you have rule that are very specific in what you can and cannot do. It's in NASCAR, it's in Sprint car racing, it's all the way down to Right, you have rules. This is certainly not saying that this is a rule breaking function, but you're always lookin' And they leave rules open in some areas to say, &quot;You can do &quot;to make power.&quot; This is the area. So, we were asked that proprietary wise, this area of the blower is-- - [Ben] Off limits. - Yeah, off limits. - So there's some and everything else. And this, now that we've addressed that, we can get into how - Oh, yeah. - [Ben] (laughs) Those I kinda wanna have one or somethin, I don't know. (Davin laughs) They're so cool lookin. - Yeah, yeah they are. Yeah the way they twist through. - And mesh into each other, yeah. That just, and how much air they can move. - Yep, exactly. So, a while back, do you remember, it was all the craze with the kids with the fidget spinner? (Ben laughs) This is the original - Yeah you just have to have two people to operate it. So all these, what is he? - So traditionally, when for diesel engines, Detroit they were just these helix with basically, just the mechanical clearance. What racing found out is, &quot;Oh, if we seal this off, - It's keeping that extra air, it's forcing that air down and it's a seal. - It's a seal. And what you're doing is, as these things roll together, it's grabbing air and it's compressing it. So nothing different than or a fuel pump does. It's the same exact principle. And it's, again, instead in this case aluminum seal, which obviously, you can't hitting each other because and particles. - And you'd also lose power. - And right, so you but then you lose some power. And then of course as it heats up, it changes size and so on and so forth. So what has been added in blowers of today is you have grooves milled in and then you put Teflon screws in them. And that's what he's peeling off here. - [Ben] And it's a wear item. - [Davin] It is a wear item, yep. - Now is this something where, I imagine, I can't even but is he putting in new after every run? Or is this the sort of one that'll just-- - [Davin] No, no. - This'll get him through a race weekend and then they'll rebuild. - They'll change 'em as it wears, I'm sure, I didn't talk to him directly on what his limit is, but yeah, basically. As it's too easy to - Okay. And then this process of, those little things are in here as well. You can see the little grooves. - [Davin] They'll basically - [Ben] So yeah, you can see him shoving new ones in - [Davin] And I would guess... I didn't sit with him. That's like a sizer if - [Ben] It is, that's exactly what, you can see he's got the And yeah, so again, with all this stuff and how You can see the ones here He's got 'em all And then that machine was just a little, essentially a router bit that ran it all through and-- - Yeah cause the seals are oversized and then they're trimmed to size. As opposed to lettin' - [Ben] Well yeah, I would imagine you would also just have problems with it fitting in there So again, he's doin the same thing, adding new strips. And it has this cool, this is like one of my favorite shots watching this thing with the tool here. You have to lip fit. And-- basically a router blade. - [Ben] Yeah, zip, zip, zip. Cool. Back together. - [Davin] And the blowers You got gears on the end that tie the blades together and c'est la vie. - [Ben] I was actually surprised at, when he puts the... - And there he's just checkin. He had fueler gauges up in there just checkin' that clearance making sure everything's good. - [Ben] Add on some lubrication. - [Davin] Put the snout on. - [Ben] I was surprised with with how much oil came out from the, I guess the gears on the end that, keep everything lubricated. Keep them from heatin' up to much. - You gotta lubricate it. What I find is interesting is, I would've expected that to or, engine oil, what have you. But what's used is two stroke oil. - [Ben] Oh that's right. I forgot about that. - And one of the reasons obviously it has plenty for the gears. But the deal with two stroke oil is, if the seal goes bad, and cause that's what happens to it just burns. No big deal. However, if, if you're using gear lube, and it causes problems with lock up. (Ben laughs) So, in fact, the other thing so when they make the pass and at the end of the pass you see basically every blower car And it's kinda always that thing of, I always wondered like, &quot;God, do they all blow up at the end?&quot; Cause that's what it looks like. Big puff of white smoke. What it is, and I think we it's on there, there's a and it's say a pint, pint canister. And it's full of castor oil. Like you take for whatever, like your grandma would give you. (Ben laughs) It's full of castor oil and what happens, so when they shut it down, cause fuel is lubricating as they're turning. - Oh right, the injectors. - Right, well how you shut the motor down is you shut the fuel off. You stop giving it fuel. That shuts it down. Well now you got rotors goin in there just turnin, that are So what that plume is, of castor oil down into that blower. - Interesting. - Because it's still turnin, because you gotta remember The clutch is locked. You're not in neutral. So the motor's turning if it's rollin. Well, then the blower has to turn, shoot that castor oil in there, keeps it lubricated, but it's cylinder walls are hot cause you're blowin' some of it in there, and it's burning out of it. But yeah, that was something I learned, because I was like, &quot;What is that?&quot; And they were like-- - [Ben] They think of everything. - Yeah, I'm like, &quot;Oh yeah.&quot; Well they think of everything That's how the invention necessity is, the world's greatest invention, right. - [Ben] The necessity is - Mother of, mother of all invention, yes. - Yeah, you think about how many, where drag racing has come from, and they're learnin' new but they're especially learning new things every time something blows up. - Oh yeah, oh. Let's not do it that way. (Davin and Ben laugh) How can we make this last? So here is the... Now this was not a This was using up an old block, or a previously used block. If I remember right, when you were talkin' about the cylinder, it did have a cylinder problem. So one of the cylinder walls was burnt and they had just swapped it out and we... So here I'm dousing it with - [Ben] And every last, if there - And the cylinders all get from the heat. So, Cody was sayin, what the big idea here is not that they're trying you want fresh cross but the other thing is you if there's any scratches in the cylinder that are more than what you wanna have. And then of course if - [Ben] So you're brushing - Yeah, yep. Yeah so in a ball hone is literally a grinding stone. There's a grinding stone that are little balls. And as you, that's basically trannie fluid that we're sprayin' on there. And, just for lubrication in it. Count to 10, it's a heck of a deal. It cleans 'em up very nice. You get really nice cross hatch to 'em. So, just like we do on every engine, torque all the main - [Ben] Oh yeah there's the side. - [Davin] See there's the side, yep. Pulled the side bolts back out. - [Ben] That's a good build. What we were talkin' about earlier. Crazy that that's-- technically were not in there. They check, cause they of their bearings are. - That's actually, that, on this, - The thrust bearing is a - [Ben] Oh okay. Now those are your bearings. - [Davin] Yeah, so now - [Ben] You got your towel trick again. - [Davin] Yep yep, to which - Yeah, there are definitely a good number of take aways that you got from this of kind of-- - Bringin' back to the shop. but yeah some things to. You always learn somethin. There's gotta be somethin - And it's a, I don't know, in my opinion, it's a good way to live to not, with as long as you have to go into something &quot;Teach me.&quot; And not go in being like, &quot;Hey guys, I build engines all the time.&quot; (Davin and Ben laugh) - Right, exactly right. And I always kind of wonder Cause I ask a lot of questions, and it's not because I don't but it's like, I wanna ask the question cause, depending on how it's, you might have a different And if you go in there going, &quot;Well I know everything&quot;, so then you learn. So here, nice little tech tip, I gotta torque these things 140 pounds. Can you imagine putting and pullin' it, rollin' it towards you? - Yep, it's not gonna happen. - He goes &quot;Don't do it that way.&quot; He goes, turn it on it's side, push down. Duh. (Davin and Ben laugh) Right, but it's like, &quot;Okay, yeah.&quot; Now when you're doin 85 But at 140 you're, there's You know from- you weigh more than 140 pounds. - [Davin] It is. And that's the other reason Use that lever arm. On this, with the studs, too, we always put in a stud, you double nut the stud so you get something to torque in. Now granted, you're only puttin' these in, call it hand tight. But you see there's a little tool that they have right there. - [Ben] Right here. - Yeah, that's nothing more than a dead stop. - [Ben] Oh okay. - [Davin] It's just the So it's a-- - [Ben] So you thread it on till it stops. - [Davin] Yeah until it stops and then it drives in and then you just kick it real fast and it pulls right back out. - [Ben] Well that makes sense. - [Davin] Yeah, but you to get enough drive on the thread. - [Ben] To put it in, but to put it out, that wouldn't work. To pull it out - [Ben] Something like that wouldn't work. But, just for ease of-- - No, then they had, then there was an Allen head Just like we use on any of your poly locks on rocker arms. The same principle, then you just use that to back it up. But it's a little more self contained, a little less likely to some things like that. (Ben laughs) - [Ben] On go all your timing gears. Again with the kagillion bolts. - [Davin] Yeah, bagillion - [Ben] Or nuts rather. - [Davin] And the stuff that they're like, &quot;Yeah, leave this a little bit loose, &quot;and this tighten this. &quot;Run all these studs in.&quot; - [Ben] You ran all these studs in, what, just like stopped, like that was it? You didn't go, - [Ben] Once they were in Looks like you've got the - [Davin] Yeah. - [Ben] Get somethin in all the way? - Yeah, we had an issue, so one bolt, he's like, &quot;Oh yeah, they just run Well for some reason, that thread, it got about, there's an inch and a half of thread on there roughly. I got to 3/4 and it just (slapping), it just stopped. So there was either somethin that it caught goin down. And then just said, &quot;No way, I'm done.&quot; So we had to heat it. And it was right after Cody's like, &quot;Oh yeah, we never have Cause I asked, &quot;Did you really &quot;Oh heck yeah, this is what we always do.&quot; And then-- (Ben laughs) And then boom, this bit bites us in the... So there we are with our tapered tools puttin' everything in. - [Ben] And what are you checkin' here? - Here he's, well, so we And we're fine on top that's, basically fine on top - [Ben] So then you're doing your camshaft in. - See I learn stuff while - [Davin] That's right, that's right. (Ben laughs) - Could I do it myself? again that hub and almost or a water pump pulley there, but that's the timing hub. - Oh yeah I see you're-- - [Ben] Lining up your - And I think it was, it's Everything's timed at, if I remember it was 32 or 34 degrees. So instead of settin' it at, like we set everything at zero, they set it already advanced. - But it looks like you have a You had a white one, a - But that's your rotation, so 90 degrees, or 180 degrees out and checkin. And then that timing tab slides the, to get to your zero. So you're settin' zero - [Ben] It's fun goin I've watched this a kagillion times but, I guess the point of these videos is so we pick out the details like that. But, also we see people &quot;Oh man, I went through it frame by frame&quot; or, &quot;Oh I watched it - [Davin] Which is great. That's awesome. - [Ben] Yeah you pick - [Davin] Just runnin' and this is using a huge Settin' it in position, meshing up the gears. Cause it's got that follower in there. And here what I'm trying to find is, basically where the cam and there's all those multitude of holes, well they're not There's some play to 'em. So you're tryin' to find out so you can get the teeth all at the same time. So now I'm just rotating it over and we're watching the, he's settin' timing marks on it. We adjusted it cause it wasn't So, you're settin' the position, you're degreeing in the camshaft here. Slightly different than how we typically, we run it off the bottom and with the gear to gear - [Ben] And now you're goin, now you can tighten it all down. - Yep, yep. Now what we didn't catch in here, I guess, but, so something I found is, so, traditionally speaking, you set, you degree your and you're done, right? Cam's in, perfect, everything's great. The step in between putting is we took the gauges, found and checked the timing on number six. - [Ben] Oh interesting. - [Davin] And while we were doin that, I was scratching my head goin, &quot;Why are we doing this, If it's in, it's in. And so I asked Cody, I'm like, &quot;Why do you check the &quot;it makes no sense to me.&quot; And he goes, &quot;What we're &quot;is if the block is physically twisted.&quot; - Oh wow. - Because if the block when it comes up relative it'll be different, and So it's probably, ultimately, than if you were, let's say - [Ben] Interesting. - But I thought it was - And when you say mike, you mean trying to mike the whole block, make sure it's square. - [Ben] Okay. (laughs) - It's a quicker check than goin through all the inspection procedures. And here you're setting the camshaft, or basically checkin' Makin' sure that it's not too tight. - So you pulled that off - [Ben] Okay, so it's a spacer? - [Davin] Yep. - So you checked what that end play is. And then did they have to take up however much? - Yep, yep. Again, that is nothing So your fuel pump could go but then the belt would be hittin' it. So that's a clearance function. And then this is the, So you still only have one as far as driving the distributor. Or in this case magnetos. So, what there is is there's a one to one, so when the front one exactly the same amount of times. - There's a gear in there? - So there's a gear in there, yep. So, what it does is it doubles to run two distributors. And they have to be-- were a mechanical thing in there. - [Davin] And of course cause you don't want them out of sequence. So that's our tray of pistons and we got the sleeves on every one of 'em. Set her down in there and It's amazing how slick they were. - [Ben] There's your oil pump. - Yep, that's the oil pump. I tried puttin' it on the other way. I was trying something - You're tryin' to really - I was tryin' to streamline, trying to streamline the front end. - [Ben] It's kind of - [Davin] Cody's like, &quot;Dude, those bolts &quot;are not gonna line up Picky picky. - [Ben] What does he know. - [Davin] Yeah. Dropped the other four pistons in. - [Ben] So easy, look how - And Cody run... That was something that is based on speed, so they're running all the And they're not tryin' to torque them, they're just runnin' 'em up tight. They've done the checks, they know it's 24 pounds or whatever and they're gonna torque these to 60. So you're not relying on You're still goin back to you know the-- - [Ben] Tried and true. - [Davin] The tried and - [Ben] Now these were still pretty high on this too, wasn't it? As far as the-- - Yeah, I'm trying to Stock's, standard is like 45, I wanna say they were at 60. So a fair amount more. Especially goin into aluminum. This pan was trick. (laughs) Again, so they glue the oil pan. The oil pan gasket is glued to, the rubber gasket is glued to the oil pan. Again, so-- right there you see it. - [Davin] So it's in there. So at the track, it's the same thing. Cause they're doin it So it's all ready to go in there, (whooshing) pop it up in there. - So he's under, Brent zip zip zip zip zip, and then starts pullin' everything. - [Davin] So there's our short block. - [Ben] Cody standing back - [Davin] So at this point, when you're at a race let's say 10:00 in the morning and they're not gonna run somethin like that. I've always wondered why, So, do all these teams show Because they're all sitting - Oh right, yep. - Just the short block sittin' in the car. Heads are off, it's like, what is? It's one of those things - Why wouldn't you just - Why wouldn't you roll up ready to run. I understand maybe the bouncing around in the trailer, you don't want that so you But the heads, why wouldn't you be sitting on the stand ready to roll. The reason is, is as your day progresses and your weather changes, that head gasket is one of - In terms of adjusting your-- - Compression. So they'll use the same on each side, but they will adjust them. So instead of sayin, let's say instead of puttin' in there they may put in On whatever the increments are. But, that is one of the Because the idea is, you wanna make as much power as you can, (engine roaring) but it has to be what the and of course clutching But at the same token, if you've you can't run a lot of compression. It doesn't want that, it wants less. So you're playin' with that. So now it makes sense to why they hustle their hind ends off (cranking sounds) a half hour after they've standing around for four hours doing stuff but not Goin, jeez, why aren't Well it's because they and it's a half hour beforehand and say, &quot;Yep, this is the gasket, - [Ben] Glued on gasket as Or is that just sittin' there? - Yep, yep. Ah, no I take that back. Those just sit on there. But they're a heavy rubber - [Ben] (laughs) Look at that, that's basically what, and just weld on a pipe? - Exactly, exactly right. (laughs) And now you're gonna ask, &quot;Why didn't you roll this on it's side?&quot; Cause at this point it's getting heavy. - Oh yeah if you start rollin' it, it's gonna wanna go (whooshing). - Yep, and now, again, - [Ben] (laughs) Cody here - Yeah I got a lot of to counteract the roll. - [Ben] Yeah you can tell that you're puttin' some effort in there. (Davin laughs) I think you were sweatin' after this. - [Davin] Uh yes, yep, definitely was. And, I forget what we were doin there. - [Ben] Probably droppin' in, oh no tightening those-- - [Davin] Oh tightening down those-- - [Ben] Studs. - [Davin] Those inner nuts, yeah. - [Ben] The nuts on those studs. Okay, so torquing those too. - Yep, so those gotta be torqued down. - You mentioned earlier that they had sort of an extra little, almost a crow's foot type-- - Yeah a little crow's, yep, a little closing crow's foot. And again, you can only go (popping), just a 16th of a turn. And there's like a little lock, square washer in there as well. See what they do, they have which is, and you can see some right here. So this tan grease is, so under every head, and you see the, basically to wipe it on. So every washer and every hex nut gets coated on the bottom where the torque surface is mated. Just like when we put 'em together and we make suer they got, as far as the bolts are concerned. But what that is, it's a grease relative to diesel assembly. And, at the end of the day, they found that that gives them the most consistent torque. So the idea is you're between the steel, so and clamp pressure. Because that's, torque is the materials together. That's the whole idea. So the more consistent the more consistent the clamping load is. - [Ben] Lot's of torquing. - And now these mammoth pusher heads, diameter wise, they are huge. So, right here, So you just saw some So there's the peanut butter goin on. So right here, you will notice, out of the eight push And it's right here, okay. There's no push rod here. So one, two, three, four five six, eight. Right? So as we're doin this, I say, &quot;Hey Cody we got one more.&quot; He goes, &quot;No, no no no, I'm like, &quot;What do you (Ben laughs) Well, and he explained. He said, basically because and the valve train angles, the whole shaft assembly down on there, because one spring or one coming towards the valve train, you would have to basically A lot, all the way. What you've run the risk of, is you run the risk of taking that into your valve and your you risk goin (popping) So you risk damaging a valve. So what they do is they that one in, you see it's missing, so they put 'em all in there. Cause you gotta line a lot of stuff up when you set all this together, It's kinda tricky. So he goes through, you run 'em all down. - [Ben] Torquing. - Yep, torque everything down. And the same thing on the But see the, on a Mopar, call it spring loaded. You can just see the So what it allows you to do, is it allows you to slip the valve train, or the rocker arm over and whenever you want. So kind of a slick-- - These springs right here let you slide it over. So basically, he'll go through to take the tension off of that, or to basically drop that lifter. - At this point, you're so when you turn it over, it's fine pushing up on - Exactly right. You drop the lifter down, then you set that last push rod in, and then set your stuff on and then continue on as normal. So here we're puttin' - [Ben] Look at all that. Injector, everything, crazy. Got your headers comin' on here. - [Davin] Yeah we put these on separate, we didn't have 'em on already in that. And you can see, real quickly there, you can see where the in that same direction. That means we're all set to the same spot. Call it number one. - [Ben] Okay yeah and - Yep and then you're Cause there's a clamp from doin, basically Cause when you're standing next to this when it's running, why (engine roaring) It's violent. - [Ben] Punching you in the face. - Yes, yeah. Yep then lift up the big blower - [Ben] It gets all strapped down. Got pins and everything that holds it-- - And you notice they the ends of 'em. Red and black, it's relative to the, which mag it is. - So each mag drives one - Correct. - Okay. As opposed to like one drive and one side-- it's for coverin' all that fuel to burn all that fuel up. And then, part of the, like we were talkin about tuning stuff before, they're recording exhaust temperatures. That's what those are. - Okay so each of those, - Every pipe has a EGT on it, yep yep. - [Ben] That's cool. - And there's sensors multiple, all their places around the - And all that stuff is sort of how they have been able to arrive calculation because there's - Yeah, there are no dynos capable of holding the power that... They have a dyno room, but the dyno room is actually for dynoing the blower. So they spin the blower, which is an obnoxious amount of power just to spin just the blower. In the motor they-- - So they have like some crazy - Yeah they have a huge, a foot and a half in diameter-- - And every time they turned it on, everybody in the whole entire shop, massive shock when they turn that on. Everybody stops what they're doing and just puts their hands over their ears. (Davin and Ben laugh) - It's obnoxiously loud, yes. And it has sound deadening in it. So even then it's still loud. But, yeah so they dyno the, basically your injector And they've learned what that's a good basis for what kind of power it's gonna put out, or a deciding factor. Back to the blower too, back up just a bit. So you got, like I mentioned before, you got a bottom pulley here crank. And there are different ones, but typically these stay the same. This is just a follower up here. Or a tensioner, a mechanical tensioner to keep that belt tight. And then the very top pulley, they will change that. You change the number of teeth up or down and that changes the of that blower. So you can, and this baffles my mind, you can over drive it, which means it's turning Which makes sense, right, you're putting more pressure, or you can under drive Lot's of it. - That's crazy. - Which is, when you hear under drive, it's like, &quot;Oh hold it, &quot;slower than the bottom, &quot;somehow that doesn't make sense.&quot; But you gotta remember, it's always more than atmospheric pressure. Anything over atmospheric pressure's making more power than Yeah, pretty neat, pretty wild. - And even with that said, that, the amount of power that it takes, the amount of power that to just run the super charger? - Right, because the air the resistance of that. - The amount of force that it takes just to drive that unit to then provide more power... - Is said to be 800 - (laughs) So even like, your most hopped up street engine can't even turn-- - Couldn't turn this (Davin and Ben laugh) - That's just (explosion). That's crazy, absolutely crazy. Alright, so it's together. - [Davin] It is together. Now the fun begins. - [Ben] And off to the races. Which, get at us with some of whether we ran into some hiccups and we couldn't start it on time. Or, we've got our engine stand now, so we're at least able to start it. But, you build something like this, you want it to go in the car, and you want it to go fast. - Yep, exactly. So somethin that I found and you get that, &quot;Oh wow, what's gonna be And the most surprising thing is when you're in that shop, to me, is the fact that it's just because they're working just in a huge warehouse. At the end of the day. So you have semi-truck and you're working outta that. That's just like, wow. You know the size is just remarkable. But it makes sense because you've got six to eight guys workin' on this car and when it really counts, you're working out of the trailer. So why not practice in the trailer. Why not always be out of... And you don't have to worry as much about, like I've gotten and forgot the jack, the timing light, because I'm not workin' out of my trailer I work out of the shop. And then, and it's like ah. It eliminates that. - This is the same thing We do this project here and then we've gotta pack it up and go to a barn find hunter, and then we're like, &quot;Oh crap. Oh no, I know So before we get into this, rough cost of an engine like this? - So, the rough cost, you're at 10,000 for a bare block. You're at probably three to four grand maybe five for a crank. Rods are cheap at $150 a piece, not bad. That was $150 a piece. So you got probably another, Somethin like that. Super charger pushin 30 I guess. But at the end of the day, just in very generic, round numbers, you're 60, $70,000 to - Right, that's not counting is carbon fiber. - It's all carbon fiber body panel, yep. - And the amount of time and engineering and just brain power that goes - Yeah there is-- - That whole engineering side of it. - There, even the body over sponsorship. They do have a purpose for Dragsters are not the because you have the, in that you have these canards in here to help deflect the air up over the tires, otherwise, those tires Air doesn't wanna go over the top. But everything on this otherwise there's no point. You have a front wing of down force to keep because air up underneath Which you can get only so are sayin, &quot;Op, I'm done.&quot; And then at the same token, that big wing is not up It's not a spoiler on your Subaru. It is there for a real reason. It is, what was it like, two ton. - All the Subaru people are furiously typing something right now. If they've made it this far in the video. (Ben and Davin laugh) - They're still tryin' to figure out what to do with four more pistons. So you-- But you have this huge wing what was it, two ton of down Because at the end of the day, it all boils down to how much power can those tires apply to this. And, I think it Tony when he goes, &quot;Yes, we're (engine roaring) (Ben and Davin laugh) At the end of the day, we're tryin' to increase And, so it's absolutely phenomenal when you see what those tires, the contortion the tires do. - He says they grow, in terms of height, they grow like eight inches It's... - Yeah so they get narrow and tall by, like say about eight inches. When they're at top speed, when you see the profile across them, they're round on the front side and dead flat on the back. (Ben and Davin laugh) This is the wackiest lookin' thing. But yeah, so... So some of the questions we were asked. We talked about how much power it takes to spin the blower itself. So one of the questions, okay well it's burnin' fuel, it's got a 18 gallon fuel tank. - Which is up in the front up here? - Yeah, way up front, In fact, there is a... So right here is a, it's but it's also a tube that forces air into the top of the tank. And basically it To help-- it's got a little, it's - Just extra. It's like super charging the fuel tank to force that... Cause I forget what the, the fuel line is literally two (Ben laughs) And the fuel pump is more than capable, but anything you can do to So anyhow, it uses all 18 gallons. That is the point. You don't have extra at - 18 gallons in a quarter mile. - Yeah so 18 gallons. And actually they're doin a thousand feet, they're not even goin, they dropped the length of track from a quarter, 13, 20, down to a thousand feet. So they're off the throttle - Oh really, okay. But just using a quarter that's not, it's probably than 72 gallons per mile. - (laughs) And this isn't What a 50 gallon drum goes for-- - Well and a 50 gallon drum you get, I think it was 45 gallons, cause you can't fill a 55 gallon 100% full based on the fuel and So you get 45 gallons of fuel. And that fuel is right (Ben laughs) So yeah, it is not your economic commuter. - So yeah, essentially if you would be going through - Oh two drums to go a mile, basically. (Davin and Ben laugh) Drum and a half. - Hey look, I didn't notice and there you are. - Oh yeah, yeah. And at that distance, when it felt like the skin with the sound waves goin by me. It was amazing. I've been close to 'em, runnin' at the track, but I've never been And that's just a phenomenal experience, at the race track, is phenomenal. Standing there is like way over the top. It's pretty cool. - Over all, just a super unique experience from start to finish and, if super thanks to DSR It was Kyle, Kyle Cunningham there and everybody it was awesome. - Oh yeah there was, we came across no one that wasn't hospitable, willing to answer that Or get into the deep details, they know what they're doin So-- - Yep, exactly, so what Oh yeah, gosh we gotta get to the-- - [Ben] I know this is-- - [Davin] Yeah this is the best. (engine roaring) (drilling sounds) (engine roaring) (engine roaring) - Okay so, we're at the track. In this instance right here, just in terms of how we this engine isn't the one that we-- - [Davin] No, this is not the one that we put together. - But, fill me in on where your build went and how it performed, - Yep so it saw race time. It went into the dragster It was the number one qualifier when they went to Virginia. So at the Virginia race they with the motor we put together. It ran-- - You probably didn't tell anybody. - No I haven't told anybody, hold it, I don't think that I haven't ran into. (Ben laughs) So it was number one qualifier there. It ran four rounds of qualifying, it was number one. It had a bi-run in the first round which means there wasn't a competitor, they had a bi-run, it was an odd number and being number one qualifier you get to run by yourself so to speak. In round two, Tony went out in round two for tire shape basically. So they put it on the trailer. The next week they went to Bristol and they were only the - Aww. And this is out of how many cars, in this race-- they had there, there's always six, typically there's at least 16. At Virginia it looks like there was 15 or somebody dropped out, I don't know. But you're typically around So, number two qualifier in Bristol. And, made four rounds of qualifying there. So we're already, the let's see six, four, we're There's four more rounds to run to win. It won first round, it won second round, it won third round, and it won the race. So it came home with a Wally. - That's awesome. - So yes. (laughs) - They didn't send you a - I got a picture with Tony - Nice, that's awesome. (Davin laughs) - Yeah, pretty awesome, pretty awesome. - That's, the fact that we got to do this is like pretty incredible to begin with, but to like, for you especially, being the car guy that you are, like that's, that's-- - Oh that was phenomenal, that was-- - You'll be tellin' your great-grandkids about that for sure. - I remember when I built that (laughs) Yes, that was, that is definitely &quot;Oh yeah, this would be sweet.&quot; That's so over the top for me I couldn't even imagine doin that. And now I have done it. And just the icing on the cake is the fact that it was and then won the race after that was just like, wow. And to this point in the season, that is the only race they have won. Which is odd because Tony is pretty unstoppable most of the time and just kind of an off year. - Sounds like they need to - Well there's been some so we'll see. - Ah you have the magic touch. The magic touch. - Come in with my little - Well, thanks guys for watchin. Hope that you enjoyed just There's a lot to talk about on this. And... - Oh yeah, there's a lot of stuff. - And yeah we're, we got a couple engines that-- That are our next Redland rebuilds that will be coming to you as soon as we can get 'em to ya. - The unfortunate part, they won't make the But they're gonna be fun. - One of 'em comes as close as you can get in the real world. - In the real world yes, yes it does. - If you have questions I feel like we covered a whole lot, but if there's any other questions, leave 'em in the comments below. Subscribe if you haven't and yeah, watch more of our videos. - That's right, till next time. - See ya. - [Davin] Yeah hit that. (engine roaring)