- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a Professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. This month, we're talking all things like depression, eating disorders, schizophrenia, During the course of this month, we are going to discuss the psychological and biological underpinnings You'll learn a lot of science. You'll also learn a lot that exist and that are in development for these various mood disorders. We will talk about behavioral meditation, breath work, supplements and novel compounds in various clinical trials. Across the month, I think that there are common pathways underlying many mood disorders. In fact, mood disorders from one another often of the same neurochemicals in the brain and body. That actually should be because what it means is that of one mood disorder or or behavioral intervention we gain insight into other As always, we will discuss that people could implement Before we dive into today's topic, I'd like to discuss a very particular set of scientific findings and that are important for and all states of motivation, as well as depression. Basically, I'm going to of my discussion with Dr. Anna Lembke, who I sat down with to discuss addiction and the biological basis of addiction and addiction treatment. A very important aspect of that discussion was when Dr. Lembke described literally the circuits in our brains that control our sense and ultimately whether in our pursuit of pleasure or not. This is an absolutely crucial aspect to the way that we and especially under The pathway that she was describing is the so-called pleasure system. However, what most people don't realize is that the pleasure system is also directly associated with, and in fact is the very same system that modulates mental or Essentially what she described is that whenever we pursue something that we think will bring us pleasure, and that could be anything that we think will bring us pleasure from to a particular job or goal, that we experience release of Now, dopamine is associated of motivation and drive. It is not the molecule of reward, it is the molecule of However, as Dr. Lembke pointed out, when we are in pursuit of something, there is a release of that makes us feel motivated, and in general, it makes us feel good. But very shortly thereafter and beneath our conscious awareness, there is a tilt of the pleasure literally a shift in the neural circuits that underlie pleasure and pain, such that every bit of that causes release of dopamine will be balanced out by And we don't experience at least not at first, we experience it as craving for more of the thing that brought us pleasure. Now, that sounds pretty good. You get pleasure and then to balance it out. It's subconscious and you experience it as the desire to seek out more pleasure. However, it's actually And we really need to keep an eye on this if we are to remain happy, if we are to remain in The crucial thing to in constant pursuit of pleasure, the pain side of the balance tips so that each time we are in pursuit of that pleasureful thing, we are going to experience, we literally achieve less dopamine release each subsequent time. So we get less pleasure and the Now, after a certain point or threshold, we call that addiction. And the way to reset the balance, and this is very important, the way to reset the balance is actually to enter into states in which we are not in to literally enter states maybe even a little bored and anxious, and that resets the pleasure pain balance so that we can return to in a way that's healthy, won't lead to this over in the amount of pain or addiction. So this is very important. And if this seemed vague, what this means is we of any state of mind that leads to very large And if it does, we should be very careful to not pursue that repeatedly over time. During today's episode, I'm a real life example of a with a young man who's 21 years old who's dealing with a disruption in this pleasure pain balance. He is essentially depressed because of his ongoing pursuit that initially led to a lot of dopamine, but over time has led to and more and more of this We could call him addicted Whether or not he's addicted really, isn't important. What is important is that he as low affect as it's called or anhedonia, an inability to experience or from anything else. And he's currently undergoing treatment through a rebalancing of So while I can't reveal that wouldn't be appropriate. He did give me permission to reveal the general architecture And I spent some hours with talking to him as well that he's working with what's going on here 'cause the relationship between for sake of addiction, but also for understanding how how to remove ourselves And as you'll see today, many of the molecules and neural pathways and biological mechanisms to counter depression, feed back onto this pleasure pain balance. Before we begin, I'd like is separate from my teaching It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is InsideTracker. InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I've long been a believer in for the simple reason that impact our immediate can only be detected from The problem with most is that you get information metabolic factors, et cetera, but you don't really know what Some things might be flagged but really interpreting to bring those numbers into is what it's really about. An InsideTracker makes all that very easy. They have a platform, it's a dashboard that will tell you for instance, what sorts of dietary changes or exercise changes will help metabolic factors, and other that are right for you. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to insidetracker.com/huberman. And if you do that, you'll get 25% off any of InsideTracker's plans. Just use the code &quot;huberman&quot; at checkout. Today's episode is also brought Athletic Greens is an probiotic drink. I've been using athletic And so I'm delighted that The reason I started and that I still take Athletic Greens is that it really covers nutrient and micronutrient needs. It has vitamins, minerals, and the thing that's especially is the probiotics, because there are so many data that show that having a is vital to having a healthy immune system and for healthy gut brain axis, literally the functioning various aspects of brain inflammation or limiting brain by having a healthy gut microbiome. And that's facilitated by If you'd like to try Athletic Greens, you can go to athleticgreens.com/huberman. And if you do that, you can The special offer is which make it very easy while you're on the road or in the car, and a year supply of vitamin D3K2. Vitamin D3K2 have been shown positive health effects on hormones, on cardiovascular health, and so on. Again, that's athleticgreens.com/huberman to claim their special offer. Today's episode is also Belcampo is a regenerative that raises organic, certified humane meats. I don't need a lot of meat. Typically my diet regime until about noon, and then I have a lunch So I'll have some piece and some salad typically. And then in the evening is when I tend to emphasize carbohydrates. That helps me be really and sleep well at night. When I do eat meat, I insist that the meat be of the very highest quality and that it is sourced in humane ways. Belcampo's animals graze on open pastures and seasonal grasses, and that results in meat and healthy fats. There are now a lot of that high levels of omega-3 for cardiovascular health of maintaining what's called the various things in our brain and body that maintain a healthy but one that doesn't go out in any way that is detrimental to us. If you'd like to try can get 20% off by going and using the code &quot;Huberman&quot; at checkout. That's belcampo.com/huberman for 20% off and use the code &quot;Huberman&quot; at checkout. Today we're discussing depression. In particular, we're going to The phrase major depression one form of depression from the other, the other one being bipolar depression. Bipolar depression, sometimes is really characterized by manic highs. So where people aren't sleeping and they're talking very fast, and they're buying things that they can't afford, they're starting they're manic, followed by periods of lethargic, and so on. Bipolar depression is an for us to discuss. And therefore we are separate episode related Today, we're going to talk also sometimes called unipolar depression, just because it doesn't It's more characterized by the lows. We're going to talk about the biology, the psychology, and behavioral, drug, all of that. Before we go forward into the material, I just want to emphasize about mood disorders carries with it a particular sensitivity, and that sensitivity is one Today's episode, and indeed for this month on mood disorders, you're going to hear various to diagnose and characterize If you recognize some of these or in others that you know, that's an important thing to take note of. However, accurate diagnosis by a qualified healthcare professional. So at once I'm saying, keep for things that sound familiar to you that might be of concern. And at the same time, I'm saying don't necessarily Take those flags of and bring them to a qualified and they'll be able to as having a particular mood as having a particular And that's an essential step. I don't say this to protect us, I said this really to protect you. Okay, let's have a fact-based And I promise you that where about depression, I will In fact, we are going to for depression that are and that right now are actually And from my read of the we're still a bit in the That's actually a common Many times there are or that look really terrific. And there isn't a lot of However, any good discussion and in particular about mood disorders, has to get into mechanisms. So we're going to do that. And in doing that, we're for the tools of how to and how to deal with it if you happen to find yourself depressed, or if you know somebody What is this thing we call depression? Was I mentioned before, it has two forms, bipolar depression, which and major depression, also is the other. Major depression impacts That is any enormous number. That means if you're in five of them are dealing or have at some point. Look around you in any environment and you can be sure that a that you're surrounded by or will be at some point. So this is something we and that we want to understand. It is the number four cause of disability. A lot of people miss work, miss school, and before then likely perform due to major depression. Now there's a very serious about depression and it relates in diagnosing depression. Earlier, I did an episode who is indeed a medical doctor and a PhD. He's a psychiatrist. And he made a very important point, which is that the field of are confronted with a challenge, which is they're trying to within the stuff that's in our brains that's deep to our skulls. We don't have access to and electrodes and things like that. Someone just comes into the for depression so to speak is language. In order to determine if we have to use language, also how they carry their body. Also some general patterns of health. So let's talk about depression the way that clinicians because one of the issues is that we use the word depression loosely. A lot of people say, &quot;I didn't get this job &quot;I just don't know, I &quot;or I'm exhausted. &quot;I'm so depressed or I'm so depressed &quot;I thought I was going to go on vacation &quot;and then they canceled the flight.&quot; Okay. That is not clinical depression. That's called being bummed Now that person might be depressed, but clinical depression actually has some very specific criteria. And those criteria are by the presence of certain things and the absence of a So let's talk about the in somebody that has major depression. First of all, there tends There tends to be a lot of sadness. That's no surprise. The threshold to cry is often Now that doesn't mean that you're depressed. Some people cry more easily than others, but if you're somebody who and suddenly you find that could be a sign of depression. And I want to emphasize, could. There's also this thing a general lack of ability to enjoy things, things that typically or Things like food, things like things like social gatherings, a kind of lack of enjoyment Sometimes that lack of enjoyment is sad, and sometimes it's just flat, It doesn't feel good It's like bland food. It's like these experiences are analogous to biting into your and it just not tasting very good. It just doesn't taste And that's a common symptom The other one is guilt. Oftentimes people with about things they have done in the past, or they'll just generally And we're going to talk to some of the more serious symptomology seen in depression sometimes, things like self harm, But for the time being, we this lack of ability to or kind of a flat affect as it's called. Sometimes even delusional thinking, negative delusional thinking, and in particular anti-self confabulation. What is anti-self confabulation? Well, first of all, confabulation of our mind and our nervous system. You sometimes see other in people who have memory deficits either because they have brain damage or they have age-related dementia. A good example of this would be someone with age related dementia in a location in the house and And if you ask them, &quot;Oh, They will create these elaborate stories. &quot;Oh, I was thinking about &quot;and I was going to take the bus, &quot;and then I was going to do this.&quot; They create these elaborate And yet that person hasn't and that person doesn't And so they're really They're not lying to get out of anything, they're confabulating. It's as if a brain circuit just starts generating content. In major depression, there's often a state of where the confabulation are not directly or completely linked to reality, but they are ones that make the self, the person describing them, seem sick or in some way not well. A good example would be somebody who experiences a physical injury perhaps. Maybe they break their and they also happen to become depressed. And you'll talk to them and &quot;How's your rehab though?&quot; And they go, &quot;Oh, it's &quot;I feel like I'm getting &quot;I'm just not performing well.&quot; And then you'll talk to the person that they're working with, their kinesiologist or whoever And they'll say, &quot;No, they're &quot;And I tell them they're improving, &quot;but somehow they're not &quot;they're not registering You notice that sometimes it's subtle and sometimes it's severe, but You'll say, &quot;I actually heard &quot;You're getting better, &quot;around the building now &quot;before you could barely get out of bed.&quot; And they'll say, &quot;Yeah, well basically, &quot;about the parking lot that &quot;So it's not really me.&quot; And these aren't people that their accomplishments 'cause they're trying to brush off praise. They are viewing themselves and they're confabulating that is very self-deprecating to the point where it doesn't It's not what other people see and it's actually not And that's a symptom of depression that I think we don't often think about or conceptualize enough. So it's not just telling people, &quot;oh yeah, it's not as good as These people really believe that and it becomes disconnected from reality. So it's if they're sort and they're losing touch with including data about themselves, their ability to move and get around it, for example, in that particular instance that I used as an example, The other common symptomology is what they call So vegetative symptoms without any thinking, without any doing, or without any confabulation. These are things that are The word vegetative, you might know it sounds like vegetable. It actually relates to that nowadays is more commonly called the autonomic nervous system. The vegetative nervous system and the autonomic nervous system, historically were considered And it relates to things or to our ability to sleep. So vegetative symptoms be things like constantly being exhausted. The person just feels exhausted. It's not because they exercise too much, it's not necessarily because but they're just worn out. They don't have the energy they once had. So it's not in their heads, it's probably, and now I think we have good that there's something off, something is disrupted in the autonomic or so-called vegetative nervous system. And one of the most common symptoms of people with major depression, one of the signs of major and not being able to fall back asleep despite being exhausted. So waking up at 3:00 AM just spontaneously and not I want to emphasize that that could happen for other reasons as well, or warning sign of major depression. So let's talk more about It's well-known that the is disrupted in depression. What's the architecture of sleep? I've done entire episodes about this, but very briefly in two sentences, although they're probably early in the night, you tend to have slow wave or Rapid Eye Movement sleep. As the night goes on, you tend to have more That architecture of slow wave sleep preceding Rapid Eye Movement sleep is radically disrupted In addition, the pattern during particular phases Now this is during sleep. So this can't be that people are creating this These are real physiological in this so-called autonomic And then there are some to the autonomic nervous system, but that we normally think of And these are things So you can imagine that one because of the anhedonia, the lack of pleasure from food, right? If you don't enjoy food, then you might be less That makes sense. As well because of these disruptions in the autonomic nervous system, these vegetative symptoms, you can imagine that someone because some of the hormones hypocretin orexin and things that those will be disrupted. And if those names of don't make any sense to What those are just hormones when we feel hungry, and as well as when we feel full, we have enough so-called satiety. If you want to learn more about those, we did entire episodes So you can see that the impacts us at multiple levels. There's the conscious level of Well, that's reduced. There's grief, there's but then there's also There's disruptions in sleep, which of course make when we're awake. We know that sleep is You're waking up early, you That's going to adjust your affect, your emotions in negative ways. We know this. And appetite is off. And there are hormones that get disrupted. So cortisol levels are increased. In particular, there's a whereby cortisol, the is released in a healthy way only in the early part of the day is shifted to late in the day. In fact, a 9:00 PM peak in cortisol is one of the physiological signatures of depressive like states. It's not the only one, but So there are a lot of things And by now you're probably thinking, goodness, this is dreadful. Like there's all this terrible stuff. And indeed it is terrible. It is a terrible thing to find oneself in a mode where things you're exhausted. And oftentimes there's also an association with the anxiety system. So just because people are exhausted and lethargic and they don't enjoy things, doesn't necessarily mean that There can also be a lot of anxiety about what's going to happen to me. Am I going to be able to Will I ever get out of this state? And so things really start to layer on. And if this sounds depressing to you, it is indeed depressing. This is really the place that And it's a pit that they just don't know how to climb out of. So let's just take a few minutes and talk about some of that creates this cloud of symptomology. I think that's really important to do because if we want to understand how they work and why they we have to understand some So let's spend a few minutes talking about the biology of depression, what's known and what's not known. Because in doing that, I think you'll get a much clearer picture about why certain tools and why others might not. So one of the most in the search for a was this finding that there are drugs that relieve some of the Those drugs generally fall but the first set of were the so-called and the MAO inhibitors, the You don't need to understand but I'm going to give you so that if you want to Most of this work took and in the 1960s, and when new classes of drugs were discovered. And these tricyclic antidepressants largely worked by increasing in the brain, as well as And they were discovered through a kind of odd We don't have time to but suffice to say that because of the exploration for drugs that alter blood pressure. Norepinephrine impacts blood pressure, and drugs that lower blood pressure reduce levels of norepinephrine. And that in many cases, was or depressive like symptoms. And so these drugs, these tricyclic drugs, and the MAO inhibitors actually And frankly, they do quite a if not all of the symptoms However, they carry with Some of those side related to blood pressure itself, by increasing noradrenaline, you raise blood pressure. That can be dangerous, But they also have a lot The reason they have other side effects is because they impact systems that impact things like and others. And we'll talk about each Okay, so the experience of observing some relief for depression with the tricyclic antidepressants was terrific, but there side effects that people they didn't like these drugs at all. A lot of people get dry mouth, they'd have sleep issues, They made some people so uncomfortable that they preferred not to take them, even though when they didn't take them, they had a worsening or a maintenance of their depressive symptoms. A decade or so later, of the so-called pleasure These are pathways, that reside in different but connect to one another. So it's a circuit. And when you stimulate these or with electrical believe it or not, that's been done in animals and humans become to get more stimulation of these pathways. So this pleasure pathway or are very what we call reinforcing. In fact, animals and humans will work hard to get stimulation of these brain areas even more than they will or even if they are addicted and they are in a state of withdrawal, the ultimate state of craving, if given a choice, a person or an animal will select to have stimulation instead of the drug itself. And that is a major and This pleasure pathway, involves areas like the nucleus accumbens and the ventral tegmental area. These are areas of the brain that are rich with neurons And if you think to the of anhedonia, lack of pleasure, a lack of ability to experience pleasure, well, that was a smoking gun with the dopamine pathway in depression. And indeed that's the case. So it's not just norepinephrine, it's also the dopamine or pleasure pathway is somehow disrupted. And then in the 1980s, there was the discovery Most people are now the Selective Serotonin The SSRIs worked by distinct mechanisms from the tricyclic antidepressants As their name suggests, SSRI, Selective Serotonin Re-Uptake Inhibitors prevent serotonin from being after two neurons talk to one another. What do I mean by that? Well, here's some very If you don't know any neurobiology, you're going to know Neurons communicate with one another by spitting out chemicals into The little gap between or by the Brits, the synapse. Those chemicals bind to the and cause changes in the on the other side of the synapse. Serotonin is one such neurotransmitter or more specifically, can change the activity in very meaningful ways. Selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor means when a person takes this drug, some of those drugs include the more typical names are things like fluoxetine, when people take those, in the synapse and is able to be taken up by the neuron on the opposite side because of this selective It prevents the clearance of and thereby more serotonin So SSRIs don't increase the in the brain. They change how effective the serotonin that's already in the brain is at changing the activity of neurons, okay? So they don't increase serotonin, they increase the efficacy in the way that I just described. So that was more than 15 seconds, but now you understand how SSRIs work. And I wouldn't be talking about SSRIs if they didn't in fact work. Yes, there are many problems with SSRIs. They do carry certain side Also, about a third of don't derive any benefit, it doesn't relieve their However, for the other two thirds, there's often a relief of some, if not all of the symptoms The problem is the side effects And so these days SSRIs It's sort of what I would because we often hear about but these drugs also have They've also improved a lot of lives. The issue is that they tend on different individuals, and sometimes varying effects over time. So they'll work for awhile then There are also a lot of and those mysteries bother people. What mysteries am I referring to? Well, SSRIs increase or more specifically, of serotonin at the synapse, or very soon after people But people generally don't from their symptoms of depression if they're going to until about two weeks after So there's something going One idea is that the SSRIs of depression or even remove through so-called neuro-plasticity by changing the way that And there are many on this, but the main categories that relate to neuroplasticity One is that the ways in which SSRIs might, and I want to emphasize, the production of more in particular areas of the hippocampus called the dentate gyrus and This is important. We're The other is that the in various scientific studies to reopen critical periods of plasticity. I'll just briefly describe There was a study done by that explored brain plasticity that's known to be and disappear in older animals. And this is also true in have a far more plastic in many more ways more easily And what they showed was given to adult animals can reopen this incredible period of plasticity, can allow more plasticity to occur. That was interesting. I mean, it's purely through increases in serotonin transmission. And there are other studies can increase the number of new neurons that are born into the adult brain, so called neurogenesis, the So it's very clear that there are at least three major chemical systems in the brain; norepinephrine, dopamine, and can adjust the symptoms of depression. And those actually can be So for instance, epinephrin is thought to relate to the sometimes called psychomotor retardation. This is the lethargy, this is the inability to get Dopamine is thought to or I should say lack of is thought to lead to the anhedonia. The lack of ability to And serotonin is thought to some of the more cognitive of depression. So we've got the norepinephrine system related to activity and alertness, the dopamine system pleasure, and the ability to and then the serotonin system And unfortunately, brains and organisms don't work in a simple mathematical way where you just say, oh, well, this person's experiencing a lot of grief, but they don't have any And so let's just boost On paper it works, but oftentimes it doesn't work clinically. And another patient, who can't experience pleasure, They don't have any trouble sleeping, but they're just much more than they normally are, and they meet the symptoms of depression. Well, you might think, oh, well, do you just give that person and everything will be better? And indeed, in some cases that's true. There are drugs like Wellbutrin, which function more specifically to increase dopamine and they Many people get great relief They don't really impact the And therefore you don't get or serotonin related side effects. However, some people feel far some people get addicted because a lot of those make you want more of those drugs. So you start to realize that doesn't always make sense clinically. And this is why it's complicated. And a really good psychologist and a really good psychiatrist to try and pull and push to find the combination or may not be correct for them. There's a fourth aspect of that's really important to understand. And that's pain. We've talked about pain but even if you didn't hear and pain, just want to that we experience in our an injury, a cut, et cetera, but that we also And those systems are linked There's actually some data Tylenol, Aspirin, these sorts of things, can help certain people Now I'm not recommending people run out and take those things for emotional pain. But actually, if you think about it, that shouldn't come as any surprise. given the enormous number of opioids and things like their psychological pain. And as we know, those drugs for many individuals. They can help certain individuals, but they are very prone to abuse and they can induce addiction very easily in a number of people. There's a substance that's the letter P, that's manufactured and body, which underlies And indeed substance P to treat depression, A lot of people with depression and of course they could have They could have chronic and major depression. So you start to get the constellation of the many things that could happen. So that's all I want to say underlying depression or major depression. There's a lot more there, but I think if you understand and that it relates to some the psychomotor defects, dopamine and how it relates to motivation and lack of motivation and lack and serotonin and its and that low serotonin can and higher serotonin levels a sense of wellbeing and safety and feeling good about oneself. If you understand that and you is somehow involved in certain cases, I think you will know and its underlying chemistry And if you'd like to learn more, I invite you to pursue further on the internet. And we'll certainly go But that really sets the stage So next I'd like to talk about hormones and how they relate to depression. And I'd also like to talk about stress and how it relates to depression, as well as talk about some of the genetics or the predispositions to depression. And for those of you that are thinking, hey, I want the tools. I want to know how to fix depression. I understand the desire for that. I will just ask if you a little bit longer, not only about how this complicated some of the more but it will also position out of the tools that we will describe. You always have the option but I think it's important to understand some of the hormonal and stress-related aspects of depression. So let's talk about hormones. 20% of people that have major depression have low thyroid hormone. Thyroid hormone is related to metabolism. Oftentimes we think about to having a fast metabolism, but thyroid is related to including our ability to like protein and repair injuries. I did a whole episode on If you want to check that out, all of that is archived It's all timestamped, et cetera. You can find on YouTube, Apple, So if you're curious about thyroid hormone and growth hormone, and you want and you want to learn using various approaches, check that out. But 20% of people with major They don't make enough thyroid. And that leads to low energy, low metabolism in the brain and body. And there's a condition which is essentially low thyroid output. And again, I don't want related to thyroid. Sometimes a psychiatrists will to increase thyroid output and that will work to So there isn't necessarily with serotonin, dopamine, or substance abuse. Sometimes it's a thyroid problem. So there are certain that can impact the thyroid hormone system and make people more or make a pre-existing depression worse. And those are things like childbirth. So it's well-known that can often undergo what's It actually comes from the word They give birth, what's happier, what's of a new healthy child, and they will lapse into a depression. And that's thought to either directly to the thyroid system or perhaps to the cortisol system as well. We'll talk about cortisol in a moment. As well, certain women of their menstrual cycle that are very much like and oftentimes are diagnosed with clinical depression appropriately. And of course the menstrual with shifts in hormone levels. As well, menopausal and are more susceptible to major depression, regardless of whether or not they've had that major depression So these are things to and to definitely talk to a that hopefully includes and cortisol hormone. Why cortisol hormone? Well more stress is of major depression across the lifespan. How many bouts? Well, it turns out that as you go from having one to two to three, well, when you hit four to five bouts of really intense, these tend to be long-term your risk for major So whether or not you have to depression or not, one of the best things you can do to try and avoid getting depressed is to learn to control your stress system, to not go from short-term stress, which everybody experiences, we all have short-term stressors, to medium term stress to long-term stress, and to not have too many because that probability goes way, way up. And this is something I've not just in my scientific People in all sorts of I've seen that people will go through a very intense relationship, a breakup, sometimes it's the staying sometimes it's a graduate sometimes it's some other event. And then some months later And that's because the stress system is associated with the The cortisol system the way that these dopamine, norepinephrine And so there's this kind of on the systems that So learning how to control If you're not depressed or you're somebody that has not lapsed into take control of your stress system. And we did an entire episode and that involves dealing the medium term, and in the long-term. And there are a lot of One of the more important reasons for learning how to counter stress in order to offset depression is that there is a genetic predisposition that certain people carry There are these studies now of many, many thousands of individuals, these were mainly done in New Zealand, but these studies have looking at many tens of who carry particular copies of genes, what they call polymorphisms, in particular of a gene called 5HTTLPR, which is a serotonin transporter. So this is a gene that how much serotonin is If you have this gene, this polymorphism, it doesn't necessarily mean but it greatly shifts your under conditions of stress. So I realize some people and some people are So I'm going to describe this in a way that doesn't require What I want you to imagine like a very mellow hill. It's just a ramp set at What we're plotting there in your mind is that with each about of serious stress, so that could be trying to finish a degree or a relationship breakup, or or the loss of a loved one or a pet, with each about of stress, the probability that you will experience a However, if you carry this the steepness of that where it's actually more like a line such that you need far in order to lapse into a So if the typical person who has to experience two or of stress before they somebody with this gene is after just one about or two So that's how these genes work. They don't preordain or They raise a susceptibility. And many genes, many things related to work in that way. And we know there's a to depression. How do we know? Well, in what are called So these will be identical twins. And they can either be or two biological sacks while in utero, what's called monochorionic Well, typically it's monochorionic. And identical twins, for goes on to have major depression, there's a 50% probability will have major depression. So it's not 100%, it's not 100% inherited, it's not 100% generic, as you might say, but there's a much higher Whereas in fraternal and in siblings, that and in half siblings, it's about 10%. The numbers vary from study to study, but basically the more to somebody who has major that you will also get major depression. And therefore, if you haven't the more likely it is to learn to mitigate stress because stress is the major factor that can trigger one of So we've covered a lot and the hormones and the In fact, I think this is probably into the biology of any before getting to any specific tools. I mentioned that learning and deal with stress, learning how to measure and those might be useful. But next I'd like to turn that people who both have depression or who are prone to depression, as well as people who and simply want to maintain a good mood, who want to maintain a positive affect and pursuit of things in life, what are the things that you can do? It turns out there are and all of the biology that underlies the utility of those things. Meaning the reasons those things work will now make sense to you like serotonin and dopamine, and they adjust them through I know for many people is kind of grueling. I realized this podcast that you can listen to passively Although I would hope and still enjoy it and Why mechanism? Mechanism is so key because mechanism is a some of the chemistry of cooking. If you read a recipe and you often hear people say, That means that if you have you're good. You likely can make that However, if you understand a of why salt has to be or why the heat has to be well then not only can but that also gives you flexibility for when salt isn't available, or when you want to adjust or when you want to try a new dish, or you want to get experimental. So when you understand mechanism, it puts you in a tremendous place of power to work with your system. So it's not just plug and chug, like take 12 milligrams of this, you either feel better or you don't. You can really start to supplements, nutrition, behavioral tools, how those things weave or not work for you and get you to paths of healthy mind and body. So let's think about to relieve depression. We've talked about how some of the drugs that impact these different and why they create some of Problems are mainly created lots of systems in the brain and body. So you take a drug to increase serotonin, but that serotonin is also but to things related And so you start disrupting The same could be said for That any behavioral tool of a particular chemical ought to perhaps, provide some relief for of major depression. Let's take an example that on the podcast, which is, if you get into a very cold you will release in your brain and body. There's no question about that. I don't think anyone It's a kind of a universal Well, if some aspects of depression are related to low will taking cold showers Perhaps it might even of that depression. Is it a cure? Well, that's going Will exercise help? Well, if you go out for a run, you're going to increase in your body. If you enjoy that run, it's the levels of dopamine in your brain and body as well. Will that cure your depression? Well, there are a lot of studies exploring how exercise can impact depression. And indeed, regular a protective behavior against depression, but it also can help relieve some of the symptoms of depression. So you may ask yourself, why Why would there be prescription drugs or the need for to alleviate the symptoms of depression? Ah, well, that's the diabolical which is if people are far this sometimes called disease, but major depression, oftentimes to even get up and take They have no motivation to do it, they have no desire to go for a run. So you say, &quot;Come on, let's &quot;I know you feel better, it &quot;I heard on the whatever &quot;or another podcast &quot;does all these things.&quot; And they just don't want to do it. And to you, a person who's that perhaps could just seem and confusing thing in the world. But it's very important to highlight the fact that these circuits that are accessible to some of us, the circuits for happiness, for exercise, for if that's your thing, that those circuits are but for certain people that are experiencing major depression and are really in the they can't really access that people who are not So I hope that makes it clear. It's not offering any excuses for them. And indeed, I think those jolt them out of some of the but they're just not So let's talk about the to deal with depression. And again, anytime you add a behavior or a tool or a supplement, or subtract a behavior, tool, you absolutely should especially if you're somebody that's dealing with major depression. I want to focus on the stress system. And I'm not just going to tell you to get sunlight in your eyes and to get a good night's sleep, although I think everybody should do that on a regular basis, ideally every day, talked about those ad They will help your sleep, they will help you alleviate stress. I think you should have in real time, et cetera. But let's look at depression of a deeper biological phenomenon, which is inflammation There's growing evidence now that many forms of major depression, if not all of them, relate Now inflammation plays an It is a positive aspect Our ability to combat wounds, but inflammation gone unchecked, inflammation that lasts too long, or is of too high amplitude, meaning too many anti-inflammatory or inflammatory cytokines in the body is bad. And there's decent evidence can lead to or exacerbate depression. And that if we want to control depression, or limit or eliminate depression, that focusing on reducing inflammation and its associated pathways And I think this is a really regardless of whether or not or not. And today we're going to talk comes about through the So, first of all, who in creating chronic inflammation They are the inflammatory cytokines. Things like IL-6, interleukin-6, things like Tumor things like C reactive protein, alright? Not all of these are cytokines. You have interferons and prostoglandins and a lot of these things. But when we are stressed, we get inflamed, our brain of the brain become inflamed of cells, in particular, the cells that are typically thought to just be support cells, those cells and their biochemistry and their dialogue with the neurons of the brain and body I may have mentioned it But I certainly mentioned that adrenaline epinephrin, it doesn't cross the blood brain barrier, but there are certain things that are able to cross when we are stressed. Things like the E2 prostoglandins, those cross the blood brain barrier. And our blood and our brain, therefore our brain and because certain things can we call the BBB or the And also we have something which is really a plumbing system that links the brain and body. It's the link between the Well, there is a set of in order to limit inflammation. And this has been shown in several quality peer to reduce inflammation and in some cases, all of the One of those approaches of so-called EPAs or There's now a very long list of papers in quality peer review journals showing that when people ingest a certain level of EPA the relief from depressive That's incredible, right? That essential fatty acids could relieve symptoms of depression, as well as some of the Now, this doesn't and stop taking your antidepressants if you've been prescribed Please talk to your physician. And I should mention that have shown that increasing our intake of these essential fatty acids, in particular, the EPA can lower the effective Meaning if we required a 50 of fluoxetine, that one and thereby perhaps not experience as many or as severe side effects by taking or supplementing with EPAs. Now, the threshold level 1000 milligrams of EPA. So you will sometimes see or fish oil or any other or other source of EPA or 1200 milligrams. But what's really important to look at is whether or not there's more because the EPA in particular And actually in exploring on the effects of EPAs on as well as their effects on depression, there's some interesting such that people who took to 5,000 milligrams of EPAs, achieved a variety of different benefits. And in some cases, some side effects, we'll talk about those. And it does seem that this 1000 milligrams is the critical threshold for benefiting or getting some relief But people who took two And in the cardiovascular health realm, there it's a little more complicated. Some studies point to on cardiovascular health by taking increasing amounts The current data point to the fact that for every gram of there's about a 9% improvement the same dose dependent in combating depression I wouldn't say that the more EPA you take, the better you're going I don't think the data point to that. However, it does seem 1000 milligrams or 2000 milligrams of EPA, there does seem to be for many people, should for many people in major So how would this work? Well, turns out that these they impact neurons and that relate to things like serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine. These inflammatory cytokines act in a variety of different ways, but they mainly act to inhibit norepinephrine, and dopamine, norepinephrine and dopamine. And I'll give you one example of how EPAs can positively impact this process. And then it points to a second tool, which is the proper to offset the effects of depression. So now you should understand of serotonin is important It's not responsible for all the aspects of having a healthy mood, there's also dopamine and norepinephrine, but it is a very important one. Dopamine also called 5HT, essentially derives from a Tryptophan arrives into our okay, tryptophan is an amino acid. Tryptophan is found in Turkey, And that should therefore raise the idea, hmm, I wonder if one of who are depressed have such an appetite for carbohydrate late in foods is because they're trying and therefore more serotonin. And indeed that's the case. Tryptophan is eventually However, if there's excessive these inflammatory to not be converted so but to be diverted down The pathway involves something which converts tryptophan into kynurenine. Kynurenine actually acts as a neurotoxin by way of converting into And quinolinic acid is pro depressive. So if that seems like a what's basically happening that normally would be under conditions of into a neurotoxic pathway. And ingestion of EPAs, because it limits these things like IL-6, C-reactive can cause more of the or has in their body to be diverted towards the serotoninergic pathway. Exercise, it turns out, on the tryptophan to And the way it does it You now know that tryptophan into serotonin or it can be which is a bad thing. Exercise, the activation of the muscles through rhythmic repeated use, in particular aerobic exercise, has been shown to do this to some extent, tends to sequester or shuttle so that it isn't converted that is pro depression, okay? There are a lot of steps in the pathway leading to depression, but what this essentially means is that hitting a certain whether by supplementation or through some plant source if you're not into or trying to get up above for EPA by ingesting you certainly can do it through food, you don't have to supplement, but it's easier to do with supplements, that doing that will that diverts tryptophan into And exercise as well, augments into serotonin because it takes this thing that would potentially be a it pulls it away so that it can't actually go have its pro depressive effects. So you've got multiple steps here. We're describing two tools, increasing EPA and regular exercise as a way of increasing serotonin, somewhat indirectly, right? It's by limiting this bad pathway to promote the activity of a good pathway. But from the data that are published in Quality Peer Review journals, it really appears that does function to increase And so knowing that there and supplementation based steps, or if you prefer getting from nutritional approaches, I find that very reassuring all converge on a common That gives me great peace of hey, go out for a run, or you should get outdoors exercise, or you should take fish oil I have Scandinavian family or I should say they are that during the winter when depression is more likely, but throughout the year, really, they make an effort to regularly either through ingesting I'm not a particular fan of ingesting the skin of fatty fish, or by supplementing with Cod liver oil or other types of fish oil, sardines, and things of that sort, sardine oils. There are a number of that one could use. So I find it very reassuring that there's a common biochemical pathway that can explain why these but why they should work. They should work because they operate in the very same biochemical pathways that antidepressants that So what does this mean for you? Well, if you're somebody who again, don't stop taking Talk to your doctor, but talk to them perhaps and how these things can impinge on the same biochemical pathways. If you're somebody who is not suffering from major depression, I are really important to understand. And actually knowing these to get regular exercise. I think we all know that anywhere from 150 minutes of so-called zone two cardio Zone two is the kind of melowish cardio where you can sort of hold a But it's a little bit tough, you're kind of sucking And that's going to limit I think in all of us. I don't think that we as a strict threshold. I'm somebody who personally to take 1000 milligrams of EPA per day. I do that by supplementing fish oil. There's debate out there it's better to take EPA and whether or not DHA can impact the LDL, which is the so-called bad cholesterol. That's getting really down into the weeds. And we can talk about But for myself, I notice positive effect of taking anywhere from 1000 milligrams to 2000 I do that through supplementation and I do strive to try and eat some fish, even though frankly, I've For those of you that would or perhaps a lot more detail on depression and in and if you want to get into I invite you to go to examine.com, they list off and have links to 28 studies on the effects of EPA on major depression. If you go to pub med, there are many, many studies on this now that date back several decades, really. If you're interested in the as opposed to DHA, I want to point you towards not surprisingly EPA, but not for the efficacy of omega-3 fatty acids supplementation evidence from a meta analysis This is a really wonderful paper. The author is Julian It was published in 2009. We will provide a link to And that study is really points to why EPA in and that whether or not as a separate issue, that one wants to hit a if one's goal is to get or to keep depression at bay which is why I take a high-dose EPA. So we've got EPA, we got exercise, now you understand how Now, I want to talk about was quite surprising when for sake of treatment of mood disorders, and that's creatine. Creatine has a number of throughout the body. For those of you that are and actually for those of you that are into endurance training as well, creatine has achieved a lot because supplementation with into muscles and can increase So it's something that does indeed work. There have been debates it's unhealthy for the kidneys supplementation at high doses. And I invite you to go I think most people now accept the idea that for most people, not low dose creatine from one gram to five grams per day can have a number of positive effects on physical performance. People with kidney issues, et cetera, need to be especially cautious, but creatine is interesting However, there's also a in the brain, and that has everything to do with and these other cell types called, glial, and glial comprise several cell types, microglia, astrocytes, et cetera, but the foster creatine system in the forebrain in particular, has been shown to be involved and some of the reward pathways And there are now several although they're probably more because they're coming at least three quality that creatine supplementation doesn't just have these positive effects on physical performance, but can also be used as and to improve the symptoms This has been now done placebo controlled studies. The studies have looked at women, have it looked at men, some of whom were taking they've done magnetic So spectroscopy is a way that you can look at the concentrations of in real time in humans, it can be used for other And basically what's been the activity of the phosphocreatine can be beneficial or with improvements in mood. So let's just talk for a with using or supplementing creatine in order to improve mood and First of all, when I talk about creatine, I'm talking about creatine monohydrate, there are a number of Here I'm talking about The American Journal published a study, which was a randomized, double blind placebo controlled trial of oral creatine monohydrate. And what it found is that it could augment or enhance the response re-uptake inhibitor, in particular, in women with So like EPA, creatine supplementation seems to either lower the required dose of SSRI that's required or can improve the effectiveness However, there are other studies at creating supplementation And those are interesting as well. There's a wonderful and on creatine for the that includes beautiful and the dosages, et cetera. I'm not going to read off every line and every column in that review, but we will provide a link One of the things that's really striking about the lists of is that most of them used dosages that are pretty reasonable anywhere from three grams to five grams, sometimes up to as many 10 Many of these also were shown to increase activity of this phosphocreatine and some show a relationship between that phosphocreatine system and a particular category called the NMDA receptor, The NMDA receptor is that every budding because it is the receptor and chemical properties for so-called neuroplasticity. So it's not a receptor that's typically for just the on a day-to-day basis. It's a receptor that's activated when circuits are going to change, when they are inspired to change by some very strong stimulus, or in some cases a drug, or But the NMDA receptor for shifting brain circuitry. And so while the details it seems that creatine supplementation leads to increases in the in the forebrain. And that increases in the phosphocreatine system relate to changes in the way the NMDA receptors function and may lead to some of the plasticity, the changes in neural the shift from negative mood Now, there are a lot of gaps. There are a lot of little I just laid out for you. And some of them are still meaning, we don't really And more mechanistic data are coming. However, when you look over or when I look over the what you find is that positive effects of creatine. And one of the more interesting effects is that creatine has actually been shown to increase mania in people And that's interesting, we're not talking about but it seems that creatine and kind of mood overall. And you could see why for somebody that's but it actually might be who is very low affect So should you supplement with creatine? Well, as always, talk to but if you're somebody who that you can do and in order to improve your maybe even support other the creatine system There's at least strong studies to look to, to determine whether or not that's right for you. I personally take five grams I take it for the physical but it's kind of nice it's also helping me improve my mood. That's a choice that I've made for me is in within the margins of I don't know that it's but I find it very interesting. And again, I find it because there's a logical to support the finding and can offset the effects in some cases, or can improve the effects of antidepressant When I see mechanism and the mechanism and to a lot of the same mechanisms that are involved in prescription drugs, that gives me great reassurance some sort of mysterious by which a creatine might be working. So now we've kind of exercise, and their creatine and its relationship and the phosphocreatine And as you'll see in a few minutes, that NMDA receptor turns and is actually one of for some of the more novel that are being explored So let's talk a little bit and how it relates to some or novel therapeutic of major depression. And the compounds that we're you may have heard of which is getting increasing and in various experimental and the other is PCP. Both ketamine and PCP For many years, people go by the street name, And they create dissociative So dissociative states as closely meshed with their It's an odd state, I hear. And it's an odd state that clinicians are now leveraging for the And we'll talk about why that is, but let's talk a little bit and why ketamine and PCP of depression or how they even could work. I want to be very direct that still needs a lot of data. There are however, some excellent papers from really terrific groups. One of them is a paper that last year, 2020. First author is Vesuna, and the last author and who was Dr. Karl Deisseroth, who was a guest on the a few months ago. He's world expert in And this paper from Sam explored how these And they looked at this both and found that there was a, essentially a common mechanism whereby a particular layer of cortex, so your brain has this that is called the neocortex. It's where our perceptions lie, it's where our associations lie, it's a very important area for processing decision-making and planning, et cetera. It's literally stacks of cells, and one of those layers in the And the layer five neurons in particular, went into a particular rhythm this one to three Hertz were administered ketamine or PCP. There was activation of a this retro splenium cortex as it's called. And the dissociative state that emerged was an interesting one. And clinically what's for ketamine and things like it, that people who are will experience a kind of separateness from their grief and from their emotions. And that possibly there's plasticity, there actually shifts such that their emotions don't I'm using very loose language here, but that they don't feel as over written or as burdened by their own emotions as they did previously Now, absolutely in no way, shape or form am I suggesting that people in order to treat their own depression. These drugs are still although they are approved at least in the U S, by prescription for the What's interesting to me is sound at least at the outset from everything. It sounds a little bit That's sort of like to experience pleasure. And then one takes a and somehow is able to get relief by getting even further To me, that doesn't make sense, but that just speaks to and these receptors and these pathways operate through very cryptic means. And we really don't understand that relate to motivation And the results with these ketamine trials are looking very promising. In fact, there are a number of trials that show that a fair number in a therapeutic setting guiding the experience are able to get relief from their symptoms without the need for many, Just how many treatments varies from individual to individual, but it's not like people have This is really an attempt to that is related to neuroplasticity. Both ketamine and PCP which means they block the NMDA receptor. They do it through different methods, non-competitive and competitive for you chemists and pharmacologists out there. You can look it up if you like. But what's therefore even more surprising is that every neuroscientist of the NMDA receptor, not antagonism or blocking leads to changes in neural In fact experimentally, and I've done these experiments myself, if you want to prevent plasticity, you want to prevent an experience from reshaping neural circuitry, you give an MDA receptor blocker. I've done that many times in the course of my experimental not to myself, obviously, but in the course of doing experiments. So it's still a bit mysterious A couple things. One is this layer five We're going to come back to layer five when we talk about yet another emerging treatment for depression, so-called magic mushrooms, and the effects of psilocybin in the cortex. So there's a common theme emerging here, which is that layer five may be important for rewiring that can lead to recovery of some of the symptoms So if this is sounding a it's because this is still and still very much on the cutting edge of what's happening now. We don't have all the answers. So if it sounds like I'm and I'm being extra you are correct. Your antenna are correct in this case. I never want to misstep and but that's especially the case when we're talking about which formerly were which are now being used as in the clinic. There is a very interesting study. This was published in science in 2019. So these are very recent studies. The last author on this The title of the paper is &quot;Sustained Rescue of &quot;by Antidepressant And here, when we hear spine, we're not referring to running down your spinal column, we're talking about the spines, which are these little Neurons are not smooth by any stretch. If you zoom in on a neuron, and look down the microscope you'd find that some neurons are smooth, but most neurons have And those little protrusions And those little spiny where neurons can reach new synapses from neighboring neurons. So they increase the and allow new connections to be formed. And so spine formation is which is synonymous with which is synonymous with changes we feel, and we behave. And what was shown in the What they showed is that ketamine can relieve depressive symptoms rapidly by changing or increasing in this case, the spines on these neurons And if that word prefrontal rings a bell, well, now you remember the the ingestion of creatine activation of the in some way or another, of major depressive symptoms. So we're starting to whereby these drugs, ketamine, PCP, used in a therapeutic context, may be increasing neuroplasticity. Literally the changing of somehow through dissociative states. And I don't want to speculate too much about how that might come about, but one of the things or repeating theme of major depression is that when you talk to somebody it is a real downer. And I'm not being But if you've ever had a conversation with someone who's depressed, they're always talking about or in really severe cases, they are not even responsive at all. They just kind of stare at you I mean, they're truly depressed. Their system is lowered in So I think that it's of drugs that allow people of not caring or being to do anything is actually It's not always about and excited and happy. There also seems to be requirement for getting them distanced And this brings us back to way back at the beginning of this episode, which was this particular feature of the anti self confabulation, that everything that that I should say for that everything that of how life is bad and their experiences just point to the fact that This is the common language of depression. If this is very depressing it is heavy. And that's what it's like it's even heavier, of course, for somebody to experience them. And those beliefs, those and anhedonia and delusional those are the things that eventually, if they get severe enough, start to convert into things and in the most tragic of And so I think we can such as ketamine and PCP, but in particular ketamine as ways for people to get that they feel isn't just but that for the very they feel is them. And we hear this sometimes, That's a statement that I've challenged by. I mean, yes, indeed They are states that including happiness and sadness, but they are very much a part We don't experience them or across the room from us. We experienced them as our emotions. They are so much part and of ourself that a statement is a very hard statement to digest, especially for the depressed person. And so I think that the NMDA to induce neuroplasticity, the fact that PCP and activation of neural circuits activity of the NMDA receptor, and some of the positive or that are coming from this that ketamine and PCP and or the experience of sort of getting meta there. But the experience of may be an important path by which people treat their depression, especially where people are veering and suicide. So you may have noticed a theme, which is that certain that we've been discussing for offsetting the symptoms of depression, ingesting EPAs, reducing inflammation, or even the SSRIs for focus on changing some like raising the amount or reducing the amount in the brain and body. And yet things like ketamine focus more on rewiring circuitry, changing neural circuitry in the immediate and hopefully and keep people with major depression in what they call, remission, Another category of treatments that's being actively and in the psychiatry And that's a huge category of compounds. However, one in particular, psilocybin is one that's and actively pursued for its capacity to treat major depressive disorder. I want to be very clear that the work that I'm going to describe in university settings, by scientists and psychiatrists, and these are clinical leading to peer reviewed data. And those are the data Some of the major luminaries of course aren't limited to, but include people like Matthew Johnson who's at Johns Hopkins. We'll discuss some of his that he will be coming to just scribe the studies working on a variety of but let's focus on to rewire neural circuits There have been anecdotal data that psilocybin has this capacity, Well, psilocybin, magic mushrooms, mainly works on what's called with some affinity for the 5HT1 receptor. What does that mean? Well, basically, you've kinds of serotonin a lot of different kinds or other types of receptors. The advantage of having expressed in different even on different parts in the brain and body is that can have a diverse set of effects on different cells and tissues. This is also the basis of some of SSRIs, because maybe for instance, we know that taking Prozac fluoxetine will increase serotonin in one area, but also in another area. And then they will go have diverse effects on different brain circuits because of the variety of receptors. Receptors are just like parking slots where the molecule serotonin parks and has different effects. Well psilocybin engages or increases serotonin transmission, meaning it increases mainly by acting at these 5H2A receptors, but where in the brain does it happen and what are the major effects? First, let's talk about the major effects 'cause I think that's what The study that I'd like to It was published in may of 2021 in Journal of the American Medical so JAMA Psychiatry, and it's entitled, &quot;Effects of Psilocybin Assisted Therapy &quot;on Major Depressive Disorder, It's an absolutely beautiful It includes some of the like Matthew Johnson, Patrick Finan, Roland Griffiths, and others. We will provide a link to this study. It is available in its if you want to read it. It's got a lot of detail. So I'm just going to but basically what they did to come into the clinic. These were people that suffered from major depressive disorder, and administered either one They used particular dosages So you can look it up if in that level of detail. Typically it was 20 milligrams So it depends on body weight. Or 30 milligrams of of body weight. They were given in capsule form. So people weren't eating the mushrooms. This is obviously a very controlled study and they wanted to control They were randomized to begin or after an eight week delay. They had all the that one would like to see. What's really striking this study is that there was a very in mood and affect and relief in anywhere from 50 to 70% of the people that were subjects in the psilocybin treatment. And whether or not it was 50 varied according to how they maintain these whether or not they stayed in but these are really enormous and very exciting and are of psilocybin very soon, for various forms of depression, Now, of course, this is at present. There are a number of that are important to take which is that there are meaning people to direct As Matthew Johnson has told me, there is the occurrence from time to time of people having so-called bad trips of having anxiety attacks and all that. And they have ways to mitigate because the guides are trained. They have all the sorts of for heart rate and temperature and things that one would like to because these are very powerful compounds. I don't want to give away any with Matthew Johnson, because it will be reasonably soon here, But one of the things that came up and is a fundamental question that I had, that I think probably is does the experience that make a difference for whether from depression, from these In other words, does it Does it matter what they think about? Does it matter if they have And I don't want to hold I'll let Matthew provide But what's really interesting is there are some common themes and experience that lead to but they are subjectively very varied, meaning that whether or not people feel they had a good experience whether or not people or thought about the color of the ceiling, doesn't seem to have too much of an impact on whether or not they receive relief during these studies in It seems like different people can have lots of different experiences And that points to something deeper. It points to the fact that these drugs, which is really what they are, are rewiring neural despite a diversity of And that itself is really interesting. And it takes us back to a in this discussion, which This area that ketamine by generating rhythms of the, I mentioned one to three Hertz activity in layer five of certain Well, the 5HT1A receptor in layer five of the cortex, and layer five of the cortex because it's an area in which there's a lot of lateral connectivity. So connections between generally is what allows us So for instance, when we over here, we turn to our right. There's a very hardwired response. And typically we hear we don't look to our left. That's how hardwired some What appears to be happening of the serotonin system and is offering up or providing an experience whereby the lateral much more broadly than Now that also could be a bad thing. And I asked Matt about this, I don't know that when I hear that I want to look off to my left. That could be highly maladaptive, especially if it's a car That doesn't seem to be what's happening. It's not really rewiring these It's somehow rewiring emotional events, past and future events in to get some sort of relief or distance from these narratives, about their past and to see new opportunity and It's really a fascinating thing if you really think about it, because I would have thought that simply by ramping up meaning that cross associations, that things could either in ways that don't serve us, or would perhaps just So it's either going to be bad or neutral, but that's not really the Again, these are highly I do want to emphasize these things are still illegal. Most all places. There are some regions and where they are locally decriminalized, but they are not legal. They're still illegal. So what we're referring to here in which people are taking them legally. I think it's very likely in the legislature around psychedelics, and in particular, psilocybin And I think that for is what Matt told me and what which is that psilocybin. two dose treatments done in controlled setting with patients that are carefully the majority of people from their depressive symptoms, simply through the experience I did ask them about micro dosing. I made it sound as if I'd Microdosing, not micro dosing. Microdosing, and his His answer was that don't seem to be nearly as well, let's just call them what they are. These kind of high amplitude sessions that there are just one or two, there are some studies ongoing but that the microdosing to these macrodosing, I this 20 milligrams per 70 kilograms or 30 milligrams per 70 kilograms dosages given several weeks apart. So you'll hear more about microdosing and other psychedelics and their impact on depressive states and major depression in the episode with Matt. But for the time being, it we're looking at neuroplasticity, we're coming back to layer five, just like with ketamine and PCP. We're hearing about layer five, we're hearing about rewiring of circuitry, we're hearing about a of oneself from these and narratives, but between the ketamine work which is that in the ketamine work, it really is about during the session with the psychiatrist, whereas during the psilocybin journey, it's really about immersing and being fully present That does seem to be and what the difference is there and why they both seem from major depression isn't clear. I think most likely it that this thing we call major depression clearly involves serotonin, And in some individuals, in one or several of whereas in other individuals, it might be a different And of course there of other psychedelic compounds for treatment of major depression. But really psilocybin is the one that we have the most data on. MDMA has mainly been explored for treatment of trauma. There are some trials ongoing but the big breakthrough in the realm of trauma treatment, the so-called maps again, legally in a clinical setting. And there are other groups that are starting to do it as well. We are going to do an and some related compounds. So I'll save that discussion for then. One of the most common is about different different nutritional ketogenic diet, or vegan or the all meat diet, the There are actually really interesting data relating nutrition and diet And I think we just need to frame this by returning to something which is that the in particular carbohydrates that are rich in tryptophan, are in many ways the of depression treatment. Now, to be clear, I'm not saying that people should use food Many people do that reflexively however, they reach for carbohydrate rich foods to blunt their cortisol, because It blunts cortisol when you in particular starchy foods, and it does increase serotonin, in particular, if those in the amino acid tryptophan. Now ingesting food is wonderful but ingesting excessive carbohydrate or otherwise There have been some explorations of whether or not a vegan diet can improve symptoms of depression. Not a lot of data, not impressive data. There have been very looking at the carnivore or all meat diet. On that, I think there are now some that are starting to spin up, meaning those studies However, the ketogenic for its ability to relieve in particular to what's Euthymia is the kind between a manic episode in a manic bipolar person. We'll return to this but it basically, maniacs bipolars, either cycle back So rapid cycling bipolars So really quickly can be day to day, other people it's month they're going highs and lows. And you hear about mania and euthymia is that kind where people feel neither And there are some interesting studies looking at the ketogenic in manic depressives, but also in people with Why would this work? Well, we have to remember wasn't discovered so that could talk about it could make money selling And here I'm not disparaging It's helped a lot of people. The ketogenic diet was actually shown to be medically relevant for It turns out that in epilepsy, or in particular pediatric epilepsy, that a ketogenic diet and to predominantly one in which rather than more standard can greatly reduce the that these children experience. It's not always the case, And so you talk to a who's specialized in epilepsy, in particular pediatric epilepsy, &quot;Oh yeah, the ketogenic &quot;can be very effective How? How is it that a ketogenic Well, the way it reduces seizures is by increasing what's GABA is a substance that is It's an inhibitory neurotransmitter, meaning that when it's it has the tendency to reduce the firing, to reduce the electrical or sets of neurons. There are various compounds in particular, GABA in the forebrain. One common example would drinking alcoholic drink or two will increase GABA transmission, ironically will lower by increasing your It basically suppresses the And if people drink enough, it will suppress all pathways and people will urinate It will eventually inhibit So the GABA system has all over the brain and body. But alcohol tends to You might say, well then to suppress seizures? Well, that be a terrible idea because there tends to after alcohol stops having its effects on the GABA receptors. And so then there's an excitability for which an epilepsy would be terrible. The reason why the epileptic is that increases what the sort of the ti, the and that suppresses some that is the characteristic And there are other drugs, for instance, the benzodiazepines and Valium, and so forth. Those increased GABA transmission. Those drugs also have a and addiction, et cetera, and they're problematic for other reasons. But the ketogenic diet, by way of increasing ketone metabolism or shifting brain's tends to modulate GABA such and adjust the so-called This is getting technical, but glutamate is an GABA is inhibitory neurotransmitter, and their balance is for maintaining healthy levels et cetera. And so there is decent evidence that people with major in particular, the people with that are refractory, to classical antidepressants, can benefit, it seems, Now this is not always the case, but for those of you out with major depression, and for please talk to your psychiatrist. I don't know how many of about the ketogenic diet Psychiatrists vary in in the current literature they tend to be, but there are many excellent Most of them in my experience, are actually quite avid and what's new in this realm So it's really interesting that lowering carbohydrates to on ketogenic metabolism in the brain, increases GABA and can provide some relief for depressive symptoms. And that in particular, that in people that are to classic antidepressants. And that would include things I'll make one final point and GABA and depression, which is that it's also been shown that for people that that impact the serotonin or norepinephrine, the ketogenic diet, there may improve the ability for those drugs to work at lower dosages, which is reminiscent of supplementation. So today we've covered like a tremendous amount of material. This topic of depression to try and get our arms around. We talked about the symptomology, we talked about some of the and biology, and then we talked about that are really grounded in I just want to recap a few of those tools and what those things are. First of all, we talked about making the the pleasure system. That might seem counterintuitive. To not overly seek out pleasure, or else one can find themselves I mentioned way back at the a young man who I know with depression, and it is thought, and we don't know for sure, but is thought that some of that depression by an overindulgence in video games and other highly dopaminergic activities to the point where those were countered by the pain balance that Dr. Anna Lembke described. And he now has to do those and for many, many hours not even to derive pleasure from them. And worse, many other activities, practically all other they've lost their excitement for them. And so there's a really to reset that system. So, number one, don't either through activities or compounds. Might seem counterintuitive, but you're setting yourself up if you do that. It's not just about addiction that too, but it's also about setting and depression. How often can you engage Well, that's going to differ everyone's slightly different, but you should really and your extreme lows and We'll probably have a Dr. to try and get some more But if you do feel like you it really does seem like from whatever activity And ideally it doesn't especially in conditions Second of all, talks about and how the norepinephrine in many forms of major depression. And in depression, there is of nor epinephrin inducing that aren't adrenaline seeking per se, things like cold showers, things like particular that engage and tend things like exercise that of noradrenaline. I'd be remiss if I said could completely eliminate in people with major depressive disorder. I don't think that's the case. And again, I want to acknowledge that people with major depressive symptoms often don't have the or the capacity to engage but things like cold shower, things like regular exercise, they aren't just feel good activities. They actually engage the and keep that system tuned our norepinephrine levels And their mood enhancing at the level of neurochemistry, then we talked about EPAs, and it's clear that for most people, getting above 1000 milligrams and probably even closer to can be beneficial for mood, or offset major depressive disorder. Are there side effects? Well, you need to explore and with your doctor, everyone has a different For the margins of safety, for most people would but for some people that So definitely check with your physician. We also talked about exercise on a regular basis can offset I want to mention something I've mentioned on a previous podcast, but in terms of keeping the Inflammatone, all these molecules that and then the inflammation can through the pathways we described. In order to do that, it's to ingest two to four on a daily basis or near daily basis. These are data that were at Stanford recently in the journal Cell, Cell Press Journal, excellent journal that ingestion of these fermented foods really keeps the gut microbiome well in order to offset keeping inflammation at bay, it just turns out to in order to keep our mood in a good place. So EPA, exercise, fermented foods, creatine as a potential source or offsetting, or keeping us or relapse into depression. And then we talked about and the compounds that are being used mainly in the course of and depression, things like and related compounds. And then lastly, we talked about ketosis, which may not be right for everybody, but might be right for who are grappling with this. If you're learning from this podcast and hopefully enjoying it and that we describe, please subscribe to That really helps us. As well, please leave us a for future episodes and topics that you'd like to see us cover. You can do that on YouTube, As well, please follow us on Instagram. It's Huberman Lab on Instagram. There, I provide some recaps I also provide some original material that doesn't show up in the podcast. Please also subscribe if you haven't already. And on Apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five-star rating, as well as a comment and some feedback. Please also check out the sponsors that we mentioned at the That's a terrific way to We also have a Patreon, it's And there you can support the podcast at any level that you like. Throughout the course of today's episode and in previous episodes, I mentioned supplements that If you want to check out you can go to thorne.com/u/huberman. That's T-H-O-R-N-E.com/u/huberman. There, you can see the supplements I take. If you want to try any you get 20% off any of those supplements. And if you navigate from to any other locations in the Thorne site, you will also get 20% off that Thorne makes. We partnered with Thorne highest levels of stringency and quantity of the in their formulations. And last but not least, for embarking on this journey what is depression, how does And thank you for your [upbeat music]