The single of the quality of your life your mindset. The easiest this thing I do every year, ladies is earn millions of dollars. That's the easy part. Speaking to corporations. That was easy to do. Let me tell you what it took me years to do that I could do it. That's the biggest thing that you will have I would go see these various speakers and watch them. And up. I said, I could do. My mind then would say &quot;You don't have a college education.&quot; &quot;Les Brown, you can't do that.&quot; &quot;You've never worked for a major corporation.&quot; &quot;Les Brown, you can't do that.&quot; &quot;You have never&quot; before.&quot; &quot;You don't know the right people.&quot; &quot;You don't have the complexion of connection.&quot; &quot;Why would someone hire you?&quot; &quot;Why would someone hire you&quot; &quot;and to motivate them&quot; &quot;that you have never done?&quot; &quot;Be practical.&quot; &quot;Be realistic.&quot; &quot;Be logical.&quot; &quot;It can't be done.&quot; &quot;You have no credentials.&quot; And so based upon that to do it. I held myself back. Maya Angelou said and then They take some hits they have some disappointments I went through a divorce from someone that I was embarrassed, boom. My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer My best friend was diagnosed with cancer of boom, I took a hit. I was diagnosed nine years ago with prostate and given two to three years to live I parked. I took so many hits the impulse to dream through the experiences of life. I wasn't even dreaming anymore. I didn't even know where I was. You'll think And other people will think you're done too. They'll be telling you to give up. And people you thought that would support will turn against you. They'll criticize you. They'll tear you down. Your life will be full of darkness. And you won't see a way out. But when you're down in that hole The only person who can save you Your job in this moment to push yourself back out of your negative and into the arena of life If you spend 30 minutes I need you to spend an hour What's the worst thing that can happen to take a chance on me? People laugh at me? I lose all my money? So? I can come back again. See, my wealth is not determined my wealth is determined That's why I want you to increase your goals And I don't want you to ask yourself How it's none of your business. There's a reason we are told to walk by faith There's a reason we were told to as though they were. You have power in you that you don't even You want to develop an ongoing strategy. A plan of action of self empowerment. So you've got to listen to music and speeches Read books to strengthen your thoughts. Watch movies that fire you up. Because you're going to constantly have low where you won't want to keep going. You'll want to just fall apart. So you've got to control what you let in your and reprogram it with positivity. If you don't program your mind Monitor yourself talk You were born for this. That you have the power within you And as you read with the pictures and the dreams and the words it does something to you it inspires you. And you say, hey And you find yourself Let that drive you to work hard at developing technical mastery. Of covering all of your bases. So that whatever comes If you listen to what everybody else is saying then you will find yourself But you want to go to the other end of the You want to know things are going to get better. How? I don't know. And I don't have to know. I just have to have faith that everything's going to be all right. All I need to do To expect it. And to keep on doing what I can with what I've got Start planning and preparing because you expect to get it. If you want to come out here and reach your and make your dreams come true to do it by No. You want to begin to put out more energy You've got to become unstoppable. Because there'll be many things to turn you You've got to think constantly What are the rewards? What's there for you across the goal line? What are the things that will make it worth My life is worthwhile. Doesn't matter doesn't matter about what I don't have. Doesn't matter about what I've gone through. What's important is that I live life fully. And you owe it to yourself. So when you get up in the morning say, hey