- Hi guys, Clint Coons here and in this video, we of the stupid mistakes people make when it comes to creating their LLC (graphics whooshing) Let's get started. (upbeat music) Okay, so I'm gonna talk about oftentimes, when I review that people have set up with that are not familiar with for real estate investors. Or worse yet, you went You went to Legal, I mean Zoom.com and said, &quot;Give me an And you think you're protected. This happens all the time. People have these operating agreements that they're owning real estate under. They're operating their business under, and they don't know what's in they don't know what's missing. And as a result of it, this will come up when you're involved in a lawsuit, and it could come back to bite you. Well, I want to give you eight issues that I see many times that you should look to avoid in putting together your Okay, so what is the first one? The first issue I have is All right? We don't want to do member managed. If you're not familiar with this, when you set up an LLC, you have different styles It can be either manager Now the reason I don't is because in a member-managed context, all of the members can exercise control. So if you want to do like gift away part of and then you want to sell the property. Guess whose permission you You wanna refi the property. You gotta get your kids' Keep that out of there. So the other problem with member managed is when you file it with many time the secretary of who are the members. If you set up a member-managed LLC, then they want you to list the members. So now you disclose the that you own this LLC. Not a lot of privacy there. The other side of the coin as a manager-managed LLC. And even though you're gonna be the member and the manager, still, I like to set them up as manager managed, because it tells everyone, that has control. They run the company. If you give ownership away later on to your children or someone else, you're still in control, and So I would avoid member with manager-managed unless you're using one of my strategies where we're looking for anonymity. Then forget what I just said. But when you're setting up an LLC, and you're not doing the anonymity side, and you can look at my with Wyoming limited liability that's gonna be a little Okay, number two. This is a bad one. Number two is going to (marker squeaking) Okay, so what does that mean? So in a limited-liability company, you have the ability, right, to distribute money out to yourself. That's called a distribution. So you have your LLC. Let's say here's my LLC right here. It's got some money inside of there. I'm a member, and I take money out. Okay, when I take money out as a member, that's called a distribution. Now the problem I run into in, you'll see on an operating agreements, is they have provisions in to distribute the profits to its members, or distributed to cover their tax liability. Now that may seem great at the outset when you look at that. Hey, great. I get money out of my company. But remember it's your Why do you have to have an what you need to do? Why not allow the operating agreement to give you discretionary authority to make those distributions? Here's why it's important. Let's assume that you're sued, and they get a judgment against you. And they file a charging order on your limited liability company. And you've know all about if you've been a member that you don't have to creditor doesn't get paid. But, oh, wait a minute. Your operating agreement, doesn't give you that discretion any longer, 'cause your operating agreement forces you to distribute money out of it. See what can happen? You could have a judgment charging order entered against your LLC. You sit back and you say, &quot;Well, this company is They pull up your operating &quot;See right here? It states you gotta on an annual basis.&quot; So that is a trap. Do not have any language in there that forces you to make distributions. Which brings me to my third point in this. You wanna make sure that what's called non-pro rata distributions. (marker squeaking) So that is another important clause that goes right along with that. And with non-pro rata, if there's multiple members in your LLC, you don't have to make Let's say I created this and I have another partner involved. And this partner, here, is And so that partner doesn't want to take any money out right now, because it's just gonna So they want to keep the Well, what does that do to me? So I need the money. I Well, if it's pro rata distributions, and we have $100,000 in here, then you would have to divide it up 50/50. 50/50 like that. So I would get 50K, and my partner over here, she's gonna get 50K, and then possibly that money is gonna go to the attorneys, and So if I have non-pro rata distributions, it allows me to take my money, and I don't have to give Think if you had kids involved. Same scenario here, right? You could have a couple of at some point in the future, just because of they're there You decide who it gets the and it doesn't have to be equal. So you'd want to create your And you'll see that in All right, the fourth issue is going to be (marker squeaking) Okay, this is important to that in the event a member is under duress that your company, if a charging order's entered against you, that you do not have to that they cannot take that if a court tries to they become an assignee. Not having charging order that addresses these If a lawsuit develops, and a you may lose your interest, or the person that is a suit can assume control So you want to make sure Which brings me to my next point, five, (marker squeaking) Okay, no restrictions on transfer is really what we should be writing here. You have to make sure that in there that you can restrict who can become a member in the LLC. So by putting restrictions to restrict the transferability it prohibits or makes it very difficult, for a creditor to get your interests. But more importantly, in the future for estate bring other people in, you know who you're getting involved with. The worst part situation you is that that individual with now transfers their And now you're in business Who wants to be in that situation? But if you have restrictions to stop people from being able to just transfer their then you can be assured that unless you agree to the transfer. So restrictions on Number six, okay, improper tax provisions. All right? Improper tax. What does this mean? Well, an LLC is a hybrid entity. So in a hybrid entity, you can choose how you want that entity be taxed. It can be taxed as a C or disregarded entity. So many operating agreements are drafted as partnerships by default, but then the client chooses or an S corp, or maybe so it doesn't match the And so where you can get that you're paying taxes, or as a corporation, but it says So that could raise your taxes Or if you're involved in a lawsuit, someone could say, &quot;Look as a corporation, but its and it's treated as a partnership. Maybe there's a benefit So you want to make sure inside of your company that has been made with your All right, number seven, okay. (marker squeaking) Right to return of capital. This is an issue, when you have a right to return What it means is this, then I'm entitled to get that money back. No, we don't want that. Right? You may, it sounds great, just kinda like the forced distributions. You have to distribute the money to everybody on an annual basis. But think about this for a minute. If I'm putting $100,000 I can take it back at any time. Why do I want my operating that I'm have a right Because what that could be is that if, again, if you're judgment's entered against you, maybe a creditor now has found a way... Maybe they can't take it all, but they get a piece of that company, because they go back in, and they say, &quot;Well, we're entitled to receive our capital back. Distribute our capital back to us.&quot; And they take it back. So you want to ensure that that there's no right You do not want to have a right You have that control. You can decide if that's ever coming back. And the last issue that I see that I think's really important is no officer appointment provision. Okay, so when we talk about we talked about member managed But guess what? You can And here's the thing. I like having these provisions inside of my operating agreements to allow you to be a president, secretary, treasurer. So you can operate as an and you don't have to when you're dealing with third parties or member when you're dealing with them. You just tell them you're a president. It gives you apparent so that you have this control. And then when you start to build like I've shown you in many of my videos, where you have a Wyoming it can get kinda complicated &quot;Well, who's really in control here?&quot; Well, it's real simple now. If you have a provision in that allows you to appoint appoint yourself as a president. And then you can say, &quot;I am in control of this company as its president.&quot; And here's the nice thing about it. When you have officer you're allowed to appoint They don't get listed anywhere on the secretary of state's website, because that information isn't collected. So you can control it without anybody knowing if they look at the So it gives you some Having officer provisions Make sure you have that in there. Here's eight of them. There are so many more I don't want to have the time, but these are what the eight that I see in a lot operating agreements that you should check to ensure that you have the All right, guys, if you like the channel, give me a like on that. And if there's any comments about that, put some comments down below, and I'll get to those relatively shortly to make sure you're getting Thanks.