Ms. Shen's three-year marriage period has passed. I will handle your divorce process on behalf of Mr. Lu Yunchen. This villa belongs to you. You don't have to pay back the 50 million. Please sign for divorce. Did Lu Yunchen not show up? I'm sorry. Mr. Lu is very important abroad. The most important thing to deal with is not to accompany Bai Yueguang to perform abroad. Are you coming? By the way, give Lu Yuncheng a message for me, just say hello to his mother. The troubles tonight are all the best. To celebrate the fact that you have just become a single noble, you have to let me go. It 's not good, okay. This is okay. What's so bad about that Lu Yunchen who not only made you a widow for three years, but also didn't even show up when you were married or divorced ? You're so guarded. Is Ruyu worth it? I have a goal. You have fun by yourself. Let's meet later. Jiajia , who are you? This is a psychosis you asked for . You, let me go. Don't want me. I won't let you suffer. Get out of here. Get out of here. Lu Yichen Lu Yunchun After three years of marriage, my husband never came back to see me. On the first day of the marriage, my ex-husband and I went to bed It 's natural to pay back your debts and expenses. Your eldest brother Shen Yunxiang ran away and your parents jumped off the building. So you can only pay back the money my brother owes you. I will repay the principal with interest. How can I repay 53 million ? Hahaha, the figure you learned to dance is really good. Since we don't have any money now, let's charge some interest to make the brothers feel comfortable first. Feel good , hahahaha. Stop where the stupid young man dares to meddle in his own business. I want you to be damned. Oh, ho, ho, ho. It's okay. Go back. Hey, Lu Yunchen. Is there anything wrong? Who are you? Why are you holding Brother Yunchen? My cell phone, um, um, oh, he just called me &quot;baby&quot; in bed. Who do you think I am? What a dirty muscle . I'm in pain, damn woman. Find out who gave me the medicine last night. And that woman's smile is Mr. Luo. Also, today is the day you go to Huajing Group for inspection. Is there anything else? According to the agreement three years ago, Lawyer Wang already represented you yesterday. You and your wife have signed the divorce agreement. Do you have anything else to say? What did your wife say to say hello to your mother? The president is here, hurry up and assemble in the lobby. Shen Zhichu, where are you fooling around? Do n't talk nonsense . I heard that the new president has just returned from abroad. He is handsome and rich. If anyone can be his wife, it will be like smoke coming out of ancestral graves. That rumor is unacceptable. He might be a bald guy with a big belly. Hey, you two are late. What are you muttering about here? Well, after a while, the new president arrived and stood up to welcome the president. Why is he , Party Secretary Shen ? The company's image is very important. If I fire him directly next time , oh, it scared me to death. Damn, Lu Yunchen can't recognize my face. Forget it. He doesn't even have my name. I didn't remember , hey, you were so scared , hey, don't be sad, I take back what I just said, this CEO is picky. If you marry him and become the president's wife, you will be unlucky for eight lifetimes. You are right. Well, I What did he say when you become a secretary? Secretary, rely on me. I am an engineer. You asked me to be your secretary. I'm sick. You, calm down and go away. It's a bit hurried. I asked the secretary to clean it up, right? Why do you want a technical engineer to be your secretary? Are you teaching me how to do things? No, no, no, no, no , Lu Yunchen , Lu Yunchen , Mr. Lu, do you want to drink coffee or tea, coffee? I will only say this once. Next time I see you, please knock on the door and have a good coffee. He is. Didn't you want to attract my attention? I just went in just to give him two big mouths. Bazi then told him that my mother quit, why am I so cowarded, um, Mysterious Bookstore made coffee for the president, um , uh, uh , I'll help you wipe it , I'll help you wipe it , Secretary Shen, don't move , uh, if there's nothing wrong with that, I'll leave first . Secretary Shen, please help me choose a gift to apologize to people for the phone call last night. I took it and now I need to apologize to Li Yanran. What did you say ? I mean, why don't boys know how to choose gifts? Leave it to me to make sure you are satisfied. Have we seen us sleeping before? Mr. Lu, you must be overthinking like me. I have such a fairy-like appearance that I will never forget it. Goodbye, Secretary Shen. These are the apology gifts you chose for me . Aren't we still short of a cuckold? Oh, you need it urgently. This counter won't be able to deliver it for a while. If you insist, I will deliver it to you next week or next week. Or is this just a way for you to attract my attention? No, no, I definitely don't think so. I just think these gifts suit Miss Li's temperament. Green tea The mistress , then go green . Miss Li, who said that I want to give him the most taboo thing about being a secretary is to make your own decisions? Do you think I dare not fire you? Mr. Lu, I am a technical engineer and I like green the most. So, what about the job of secretary ? Let's find someone else to take over. Well, Che also said it was not to attract my attention. He cried, made a fuss, and hung himself. Secretary Shen, remember your identity and send these gifts to my ex-wife. What's her name ? Shen Zhichu. Handle Shen Zhichu personally . Lu Yunchen, are you sick? You haven't given any gifts after three years of marriage . You are divorced and you want to give me a breakup gift. But my choice of green is really appropriate. I am not green. Wait, you and my ex-wife have the same name. Is it possible that your ex-wife's life-saving death is not important? Xiaoxue, I can't keep up this lousy job for a day. He doesn't even know what his ex-wife's name is . He's called his mother. Oh, baby, let's ignore this scumbag. Didn't you have a good time last night? Yes, let's go there in the evening. Oh, I'd better not go. That old man, Mr. Lu, please ask me to take the stairs . Take the stairs, this is the 40th floor. What on earth is Secretary Shen betting on ? What is wrong with me? Think about playing hard to get. Mr. Lu, please back off a little bit. You hit me. Damn it, why is this woman so pleasing to my eyes? I will take her with Lu Yunchen tomorrow. When the little chef goes back to his old house for dinner, won't he? Come back, don't come back either. Grandpa, move grandpa out and force me to eat. It's a good way to feed the baby. I'll be there soon . Are you coming down? Well, I'm in the elevator. I 'll see you soon. Please call again later. This is not our big dust, it's them. Answer my call , Mr. Lu, please ask Mr. Lu Junyuan, let me ask. Your grandfather didn't know that I was divorced and actually asked me to take that greedy, vain and scheming ex-wife back to Mr. Chen 's body. You also know that if the wife hadn't been fulfilling her filial piety, she would have been there long ago. Did you have this engagement because of your grandfather ? You must be fawning over him. Besides, I have earned 50 million in three years since I entered the school. I should use that 50 million to throw it at his face. How dare you criticize me? Sure enough, domestic flowers are not as fragrant as wild flowers, right? Damn scumbag, then you plan to keep it a secret. Do you want him to know who you are? You won't have to hide it from now on. If you hide it from me, you will resign tomorrow. Are you willing to do so? What can you do if you don't? Three years of waiting can't be exchanged for looking at me again. You should be heartbroken. Then your legs and your dancing dream, Lu Shenchu, are not worthy of you, Lu Yichen. Lu Yichen, wake up. I'm blind and can't see. Clear it up, Lu Yichen, wake up, Lu Yichen, hold on , there are helpers coming very quickly, run, you run , my legs, my legs, come to me, my dream of dancing is gone. Mr. Lu, you asked me to search for a general manager. I have already started. I can ensure that you If you leave Huajing Group in three months, someone can take over. It turns out that Lu Yunchen will only stay here for three months. Then I'll be patient and let it pass. What are you muttering about again? Hey, what are the consequences of Secretary Shen having unreasonable thoughts about me? I can't afford it . Mr. Lu used to have my eyesight corrected because of my poor eyesight. What do you mean? He said he doesn't like you. He's not blind . You're sick . Grandpa, are you okay? The chef is back, come on, come on, sit down, sit down . Yunchen, that boy didn't come back with you. What's wrong with this stinky boy, Grandpa? Can you joke about your body? If I didn't say so, would you come back ? I 've been married to Yunchen for three years . I haven't even seen a great-grandson. Well, grandpa , actually Yun Chun and I have already arrived. The old lady, madam and young master's car has arrived. This brat is back. Come on, help me. I see the president, Mrs. Lu. Mr. Lu is delayed because of something. Let me clear the luck first. y Send it here, bastard, I won't come back. Send a dog here . Grandpa, don't be angry . Lu Yunchen should have more important things. Give it to me. Lucky. Mr. Lu went to pick up Miss Li . Mr. Lu, Miss Li has arrived. Since you found Miss Li, with your help Miss Li's career is getting better and better Okay, after all, she should do all these things for her to save me. I can't figure it out. I can't figure it out. Lu Yuchen, Lu Yuchen , wake up. Lu Yuchen, Mr. Lu, your savior has been found. It's just that Ms. Li's legs haven't healed yet, but he seems to Not only do I miss my savior Yun Chen, Brother Yunchen, my legs hurt . Brother Chenchen, thank you for coming to pick me up. Those fans are really crazy. I don't know what to do if you don't come. By the way, I called you two days ago. A girl answered the phone. Who was she? My secretary is like this. She is another vixen. See how I deal with it when I turn around. Let 's go. Grandpa , I'm going back first. Lucky, I'll take it away. Oh, it would be great if you had a baby earlier. Let 's go now. It 's okay . I must have read it wrong . You still know to come back. You are. Don't you think that my old man has lived too long and you want to make me angry to death ? Master, what are you talking nonsense about ? How could something happen to you when you are in such good health ? Yun Chen, you did it on purpose, right? You came back as soon as the little chef left. He just left and the tea was not cold yet. Yun Chen, you are fine in everything, why are you like that? What's wrong with Xiao Zhu? You 'd rather protect the foreign one? Li vixen doesn't want to look at Xiao Zhu. I, He Yanran, are not what you want. Don't explain to me. Explain to your wife. What has happened to him and me ? You know how my uncle has taken care of our family in the past few years . You have to prepare a cup of tea for me. You can leave. I'm too lazy. Take care of you, this bad old man, I don't need anything anymore. Don't send me those messy things again. I don't need that old iron, that broken dog, Xiaochu has already taken him away. I'll tell you again. What I want is weight. Grandson is not a dog. Grandson , uh, I want to ask you, that dog? What brand of dog food do you eat? I'll send it to you later. When did you get a dog? Well , didn't you recently get a dog son? Well, how about we find time to walk the dog together ? Well, what about the border collie? Do you need to be vaccinated once every three months? Oh, and you said that your eyesight is not good. Secretary Shen, make some tea . Are you free to chat with your male colleagues during work hours ? Mr. Lu, I think the job of secretary is not suitable for me. I'd better be my engineer. Do n't belittle yourself. Isn't this tea brewed well? Why is it the same as what I heard yesterday in Laozhai? The same security guard as you arrived. What kind of astragalus did you add to the tea ? To replenish qi , who are you? Since you are asking sincerely , I will tell you with great mercy that I am your Brother Yunchen. Am I disturbing your work? Why are you here? This is the first time I met the mistress in person. She is really pretty. Brother Yunchen, I have something. I want to buy something. Can you go shopping with me? The stuff is a bit dirty . Secretary, go shopping with Miss Li. This is part of your job. Part of me, it turns out that men love stupid beauties. Why didn't Secretary Shen say anything? I bought it happily. Lu Yunchen, you only find things for me. This, this and that. Bring them to me to try . Okay, please wait a moment, Secretary Shen. Come and give me. I'll do it if I call you madam . Secretary Shen, you're deaf, right? Don't think you can seduce Brother Yunchen just because you have some beauty. I'll sue you. Tell you, I have seen many scheming women like you. Believe it or not, I asked Brother Yunchen to fire you in minutes. You didn't record Yunchen's phone number. No, I'll call him for you. How dare you, a well-known person, dare me? Why don't you dare to fight ? Hey, what's going on? Brother Yuncheng, it's my fault. I don't know that Secretary Shen has other matters of his own. Is it normal for you to go shopping with me? I can throw away the white moonlight set. I'm afraid that you believe in the power of technology. Take it back and listen carefully. If it doesn't work, you can also watch the surveillance. Oh, it's time. I should get off work. Goodbye, Brother Yunchen. Listen to my explanation. Yes, good on me. I didn't say anything. I want to relax after a day of green tea . Yeah, thanks to my ex-husband for not repossessing the house . Who is in this comfortable fish tank ? Who knows? Hey hey hey, um , what's going on with my ex-husband ? Secretary Shen, what did you call me ? Why did Mr. Lu come to me so late? I drank too much . Come to heaven to pick me up. Hey, hello, heaven and earth. I'll send you there. Go to heaven, okay? Handsome guy, if you drink too much, I'll take you back. Let's go. I have people to go on a first-come, first-served basis. I can't take away any country bumpkins from anywhere. Can you? Okay, let's make a bet. If I can take him away, you pay for his wine. If I can't take him away, I'll pay for you. Just bet. I don't believe he can like you, a country bumpkin, Mr. Lu. Let's go home. Mr. Lu is home. Don't come. Come on . Hey, slow down and remember to pay the bill. What's the point ? You asked Xue Yuande to see you off. Why did you ask me to come ? Don't you still have one? Bai Yueguang? You asked him to come. Hey, what do you mean by calling me? Secretary Shen, pay attention to the attitude of your words. I will think you are asleep. Mr. Lu, where is your home ? I will take you home. Building 20, Qingyun Mountain. Didn't you say I would send you there? Did you give it to me? Now you are thinking about taking it back . I'll give you another chance. You'd better think it over before you tell me. You all know that I accompanied Yanran to perform abroad. You don't know where I live, Mr. Lu, you have countless properties under your name. How do I know which hotel you go to and which beauty you sleep with? How do you know you can't lie to me ? You 've made a mistake, right? Mr. Lu is going to die. Why is Lawyer Wang here Mr. Lu? Madam, oh, no money, Mrs. Lu, Mrs. Lu, Mr. Lu, I won't disturb you two anymore. Goodbye . Damn, this rich man is really interesting. We haven't seen each other for three years after we got married. After signing the divorce agreement, we started dating. Isn't this a waste of our lawyer's time? It's not a waste. After all, you will get a lot of money . I 'm going to buy you a drink. What does he mean? What he said is the truth. I am yours. Ex-wife , oh, wake up, I really owe you You haven't changed at all since I met you when I was 20 years old. You said that I put all my effort into marrying you, right? When I learned that Grandpa Lu asked me to marry you, I was so happy that I couldn't sleep all night . Forget it. What are you doing ? Secretary Shen, pay attention to your identity. You also want to play crawling on the bed and get fucked. Don't think that other people are so shameless every day. Apart from being rich, what else do you have for others to care about? Don't call me after work. Mr. Lu. This is this month's financial statement. Please sign it. Last night, I didn't do it . Mr. Lu, this is Please sign the financial statement. Your head injury is healed. Don't worry, Mr. Lu. If there 's nothing else to do, I'll leave first. Mr. Lu found the woman who was with you in the hotel that night and came to watch the surveillance. Secretary Shen, oh, okay, I just wanted to see which woman is so bold. Just after seeing her back for a few seconds, she said We found the person, isn't he? Fortunately, it's the figure from behind. What are you talking about, snow? I can't see clearly what I'm taking. Don't waste Mr. Lu's time anymore. This is the only surveillance picture . But it doesn't matter. Maybe someone will come to your door after a while with a pregnancy test report . Lucky you, you want to go to Africa. Plant a tree , oh, oh, oh, oh , oh, it's better not to suffer. Ji Chiyu, I'm leaving first. Secretary Shen, your back looks like the one in my video. Secretary Shen is back, wishing. You can go out first and you won't be able to resist me. You can't pry open my mouth and lift up my skirt . Say Secretary Shen lifts up her skirt. I don't want to say it again, Mr. Lu. Maybe I've been abroad for a long time and I don't know that your behavior is sexual harassment. Can I tell you at any time? Stop talking nonsense and start flirting. I don't want to do it myself. Do you know who I am? If you dare to do it, you will regret it. Wait until the end. What are you afraid of? I just want to skirt you Lift it up and look at the gangsters, gangsters , gangsters, you vixens, you vixens , Brother Yuncheng, why are you still protecting this vixen? He dares to hit you. It's all a misunderstanding . It turns out to be a misunderstanding. It's okay, brother Yunchen. Let's go to the movies later. I'll buy the movie. I have a ticket. Is that okay? Mr. Lu, I'm going to leave first. Secretary Shen is coming too. I bought yours too . No, I wish you all a good time. I have to go home and feed the dog. Bitch, it's a shame if you are self-aware . Since Secretary Shen is not available. Then when we go home, feeding the dog is more important than completing the boss's work, right? My dog is more precious , and it seems like It's not my job. I'm ordering you to go with me now . Don't regret it . I have nothing to regret. Remember to ask the finance department to sign the overtime pay . Brother Yunchen, you seem to be quite special to him. I just can't stand his arrogance. Hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha It's not scary. Look, his legs are exposed. Brother Yuncheng, the male protagonist, is so affectionate. I'm almost moved to tears. Oh, this is so unique. This King of the Sea and this Queen of the Sea should be together . Humph, oh, your hands are slippery, don't block me from watching the movie. I'm green on my head. I can't see it. Just forget it. You really think I'm a tolerant person. Brother Yun Chen, the Turtle, when I watched this movie, I thought of your ex-wife. She must be as vicious as him, right ? Secretary Shen, are you okay ? Your clothes are all wet. Do you want to go to the bathroom and change them? You did it on purpose, right ? Ah, am I not evil-hearted? Yanran is talking about my ex-wife. Why are you reacting so strongly? Who is that? You can't be slandered. It's not Shen Zhichu, you are a bitch. I won't let you go, Secretary Shen. You still want to attract Brother Yunchen's attention with your despicable methods. I advise you not to waste your efforts . Then what are you doing now? Who is talking to me as a lover or a mistress? Just rely on Brother Yunchen, he likes me . If your shoes are dirty, please clean them for me and I will forgive you. Oh, I have always thought: Why is this woman trying to make things difficult for women? Please stop provoking me . If you don't want to , if you don't want to, hit me. This is the first time I have heard such a request. I'm satisfied , help me, be honest, otherwise, Brother Yuncheng, he's going to hit me, how can you hit someone ? Because I have a vicious heart. Who allowed you to talk to me like this ? Do you think I dare not fire you? Now I fire you, don't regret it . Shen Zhichu, you are very good. Brother Yunchen, my leg hurts. I asked Xue Yuande to take you to the hospital. Coffee, Secretary Shen, can't have coffee today. Er, Mr. Lu, Secretary Shen has resigned. I know Mr. Zhu 's coffee. Do you want to make a new pot? No , um, Mr. Xue, CEO, doesn't like to drink the coffee you brewed? You have something to say? I don't know how many times Secretary Shen tried the water temperature and found how many kinds of coffee beans to brew the coffee that the president likes. Ah, I often see him carrying that coffee bean with him for fear that the CEO will want to drink it at any time. It 's hard to find a considerate, attentive and eye-catching secretary like Secretary Shen. Could it be that Secretary Shen was kicked out because he seduced the president? Are you crazy enough to spread rumors and let Mr. Lu hear about it ? It's over for you. Lu Lu, Mr. Lu. The one who talks coldly to me every day is not thinking about me. What are you thinking? My wife also ordered a dress at the dress shop . The dress shop accidentally sent yours and your wife's together. I was planning to ask someone to send it over . This, this, I asked Secretary Shen for the key . You'd better ask him to come over and take the key away. What did you say to the dog you sent it? I'm going to a banquet tonight to find a partner. I'm trying to catch a rich husband. Why does this dog look like this? Like lucky , haha. It's time for Mr. Lu to leave for the Li family's banquet. Wow, she's so beautiful . Mrs. Ye, who is this? This is the young lady of the Lu family, Miss Shen Zhi Chu Shen. She doesn't usually attend parties. I specially invited her here this time. Hey Xiaochun, you are here. Mrs. Li wishes you a happy birthday. You are so beautiful today. It's still you. You have the sweetest mouth . You are the prettiest in the whole show. Where is your husband? He is busy with work. Where is your dog? Let me help us get lucky. Look at you and say you. I am thinking about the dog and will send it to you later. Well, Mrs. Li, this is Mrs. Lu, please introduce us. Hello everyone, I am Shen Zhichu. Nice to meet you . Hello everyone. Hey everyone, Xiaochu rarely attends gatherings in our circle. Can everyone give him some space? Xiaochu is on his own and has fun. Hey, Yunchen, you are here. I haven't seen you in these years . Li has become more mature and stable. Mr. Lu is dead. I thought Mr. Lu wouldn't come. Just now, your wife said you were too busy and couldn't leave . Mrs. Lu Madam Taiga is here. Hey, you are having a quarrel. Go and coax him. How many people are thinking about such a big matchmaker ? Just now, I looked at him and went over there to find him. Okay , as expected, Li's pastries are delicious. Shen Zhichu, um, hello , it's you, how did you, a secretary, come in? You don't care about my shit or my farts, where am I going? It's none of your business. You, you shouldn't know that Brother Yunchen is coming today, so yes, yes, yes, I'm just here to block the road , Yunchen. If you're satisfied, hurry up and drive . Don't affect my eating. As expected, I'm divorced here . I want to see how thick-skinned you are for flaunting your great reputation. Why are you doing this? I dropped the cake. Why can't it be you? Why can't it be me? Mr. Lu is too lenient, right? So you came here to catch golden turtles. Anyway, it's not to catch you, young lady. Can I buy you a drink? Go away, Mr. Lu, I'm sorry, I don't know. He is your female companion . Get out of here . Get out of here. It's not too cold to wear a backless outfit like this. I'm happy for you to have nothing to do with it. Mr. Lu , you just delayed my pursuit of a rich son-in-law, Mr. Lu, Mrs. Lu Mrs. Lu, Mrs. Lu, you don't recognize me. Last time you and Mrs. Lu went to the hospital together and we chatted together. No, no, no, you must have mistaken me. I'm not Mrs. Lu. If you don't believe me, ask her. Is it too long ? I made a mistake , yes, yes, it must be you. I made a mistake . Mrs. Lu is there. Brother Yunchen, don't you blame me for taking the initiative to go on a date? Xiaochu, why aren't you with Mr. Lu ? Mr. Li, Mrs. Li, I have something urgent, so I'll leave first. It's okay. It's okay . If you have something, let's go. Can we make an appointment next time ? Yes, yes, yes. Yuan Just now, your wife ran out in a hurry. She seemed to be in a hurry. She didn't know what she was rushing to. My wife was right. Xiao Chu had just left. Why did this guy chase him out ? Master, Mr. Lu's car arrived. Mr. Lu , you asked me to check Secretary Shen's last time. The information is right here. I haven't even looked at it. Shen Zhichu is married. By the way , I heard that from my colleagues. He seems to have just received it recently. Come to Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, Mrs. Lu , is there Qingyun Mountain in front of you ? The villa you left for your ex-wife is right here. Go to Qingyun Mountain to see if my ex-wife is there. Okay, old Wu, just drive in. I have registered this car. The electronic access control has been scanned. Lucky, please wait a little longer . cky, be careful when you touch dirty things. Don't be blind like that dog daddy of yours. This voice is not art. Oh, why are you still swearing ? Hey, Mr. Lu, didn't you come to see your ex-wife? Why did you leave as soon as you got to the door ? It's not necessary. Neither am I. If you don't come to see him, then who should you come to see? Ah, as long as it's not Secretary Shen, it doesn't matter who my ex-wife is. Hey, hey, hey, can Mr. Lu walk well? Secretary Shen, you've got a certificate . The man didn't admit it just in the morning of the banquet. If it's exposed now, wouldn't it be very shameful? You're following me , you're dignified. The CEO actually followed me and you I 'm narcissistic. Believe it or not, I'm going to call the police now. Let's all take action together. Oh, Secretary Shen, you misunderstood . Mr. Lu is here to see his ex-wife's ex -wife . Has your ex-wife seen him? He's obviously a stalker. Why are you making excuses? Secretary Shen, pay attention to you. Attitude haha I have resigned What kind of attitude do you want to be a stalker? I'll say it again. I'm not. I don't believe it . You haven't told me yet whether you live here. I wish you, Mrs. , thank you for your hard work . You are a stalker and a pervert. Carat, I thought too much and came back so late to get skinny. I'll help you. Hello, thank you dear Oh my love, I can't do it anymore . I'm telling you, I 'm scared out of my wits every day and I'll have a heart attack sooner or later. I won't really let you know what I said. I met Lu Zhannan again. Well, hey, what will happen if you confess to Lu Zhannan? Ah, what you should be sorry for is that he is not you. That's not okay. This is not a broken thing. Do you want to avoid getting involved ? Hey, I didn't say it at the beginning. Wouldn't it be another embarrassment to say it now ? Hey, okay, you can make your own decision. You can drink less and have your feet re-examined when you have time. Well, I want to start applying for jobs tomorrow and start a new journey. Life , support me, let's go, bye, bye, hello, Secretary Shen Mr. Lu invites you to come back and continue to serve as a soldier . Secretary Shen, Secretary Shen, are you okay? Secretary Shen, answer me , Secretary Shen, are you okay? I'll come and see you. Mr. Lu is a good horse and won't look back. Goodbye. I'll work on an independent project with you. As long as you come back and work with me for another month. Secretary , I will give you an independent project . With my own independent project in charge , I will be able to successfully pay off my parents' last remaining 3 million debt and close the deal. Who said that a good horse will not turn back to eat the grass? As long as the rabbit does not eat the grass next to the nest, the turning grass can still be eaten tomorrow. How can I report it myself for five pecks of rice? Is n't it right? I need to replenish the national treasury . When I get rich and have a job , I will find a few more puppies to work with. No, why did Lu Yunchen ask me to be his secretary again ? Is there any conspiracy? Even if there is some conspiracy, etc. If I have a job and money, can I pay it off? Are you in debt? Hey, Mr. Lu, why did Secretary Shen come back again? He brewed coffee . Yes , . Yes, Mr. Lu, please have some coffee. You deleted my WeChat account ? It's absolutely impossible. When you lie, you unconsciously make a statement. I don't. What does this fox want to do again ? You agreed too hastily. Go out, Mr. Lu. The time you were drugged in the club, Mr. Zhou of Zhoutai Group was also monitoring and photographed his subordinates passing by where you were sitting. Zhoutai Group and Huajing Group have always been sworn enemies . I may have given you the medicine to threaten you to date Zhou Taizai. When we meet at the club, let's investigate the identity of his subordinates. What kind of torture is this? Why are you coming to this club again? Is it possible that Lu Yunchen knew that the person who had sex with him that night was my dad, Secretary Shen. Are you busy again? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no , no, I'll go there without me. Lu Yunchen knows. Restroom Mr. Lu Mr. Zhou will be here in a moment. Secretary Shen, why hasn't Secretary Shen come to see Mr. Lu? I'm late. Well, I specially prepared a few. I want to have a good time today. Happy. Mr. Zhou is so polite. I also prepared some for you. This person is you. Mr. Lu is here today to punish me. If you want to run away, please let me go. I'm a little bitch, I'll beat you to death . Oh, it's okay. Let me go. Do you know who my brother-in-law is? What are you doing ? Haha, Mr. Lu, I can discipline my own people . Mr. Zhou is so courageous , but today my secretary was very capable. Even the secretary is prettier than others , no wonder Mr. Lu can't let go I have to let him suffer a little injustice. Of course I have to protect him if he is obedient. But I am a person who must retaliate. Who gave you the courage to hit my secretary? Which one is the manual one ? Hey, hey, brother-in-law, brother- in-law , help me, brother-in-law, brother-in-law, I remember. Mr. Zhou's attitude is that he is the only child in the Chen family Lu Yunchen, what do you think? I'm very interested in the project in the north of the city. Is it Mr. Lu 's 10 billion project ? Zhou Tai Group withdraws from the competition. Please apologize to my secretary. I can't tell Mr. Chen about your brother-in-law. I'm sorry, Secretary Shen. I'll apologize to this bastard. Thank you for your apology, Mr. Lu. Why did you stop suddenly? Secretary Shen, you are mine. I don't allow others to bully you . Do you only bully me? What are you scolding me about again ? What would you do if it were not me but another secretary? No If President Lu, why do n't we have to walk , do n't you have to walk with me , I ' m reluctant to walk with me . You also like to dance. Welcome to Mr. Lu and Mrs. Lu. Please bring out all your new products. Okay, please wait a moment. You don't have to be embarrassed. I have never taken my ex-wife out. I prefer black. Who said that the bag I bought for you is new? The style matches your temperament very well. I want this bag. It doesn't have to be too expensive. Who said I would buy you this one ? These are all covered. Mr. Lu, you are really good to Miss Li. Mrs. Gu, do you want to book the tie for you now that you ordered two years ago ? There's no need to make a reservation every year. He doesn't like to buy it for everyone mysteriously . Mr. Lu gave everyone holiday gifts. Wow, the little secretary came to give it to me. It's so generous . Brother Fang, I'm back. Xiaochu is back. Hey , oh, let me tell you. How many times have I told you not to bring things home and not send them home? Money , otherwise my husband's family will look down on me. In fact, I already have He Yunchen. If he bullies you, I'll go to him. Hey, we're fine without it . Really, if you are wronged, I will never agree to it. Brother, please don't do this. If not for that bitch who cheated me of 5,000. I won't marry into the Lu family. Brother, we are very good . Grandpa Lu loves me very much. You see, Lu Yunchen is also very kind to me. He even bought me a bag. Yes , yes, I also bought you a hat. Let me put it. It's the office. Let's go have dinner. Mr. Lu, everyone will go back. It's the festival, and the old lady has been urging you to go back . I'm sure I want to see your thoughts. On the eve of the eve, when the party secretary saw my gift today, what was his reaction? Secretary Shen didn't have much of a reaction. Mr. Lu, please take Secretary Shen's things. Not so good. He was too embarrassed to send me to fetch food for him. Hey, why didn't you go back to the Lu family for the holidays today? Why didn't the elders of the Lu family say anything? You, Lu Yunchen, probably don't want to see me. What are you talking about ? Oh, my brother is the most important thing. Ever since my parents left , we have been left to live together. You want to drive me away? How could that happen? I went to serve the food. How could this happen? Photos of Li Yanran! Li Anran, this bitch, has changed her name to Li Yanran. I'm afraid it wasn't because I offended too many people at first, and I was worried that my enemies would come to visit you. He said that he is the ex-girlfriend Xiao Chu who Li Anran drugged you and injured for 50 million. Just leave this matter alone and live a good life with Lu Yunchang. What are you doing? Grandpa is sick . Grandpa, are you okay ? It's okay. It's the same old problem. This Aunt Li is really making a fuss and specifically asked you to come back. It's not a small problem for Aunt Li to do this. It's also my fault. I don't have time to take you for a physical check-up . I must take good care of myself before being discharged from the hospital. Are you hungry? I'll peel an apple for you to eat. Haha, you eat some apples and cushion them for a while. I'll go to the porridge shop on the corner to give them to you. Buy some porridge for easy digestion . It's better for us Xiaochu to be sensible and know my appetite . Did you and Yunchen have a fight ? Grandpa, don't worry too much. It's important to take good care of your health. I know. Ah, you have been wronged. If you don't want to see him, I won't let him come over. No, no, no. Yunchen is your grandson, why shouldn't he come to see you? Me and him, we can handle it well . He just had a fight. The call has come. I guess it's almost here. Grandpa, Brother Yunchen is still on the way. I'll come to see you first. Why are you here? Miss Li, please take out the flowers. Secretary Shen, please be a little more careful. Please be patient. Brother Yun Chen asked me to bring a bouquet of flowers. Why do you have any objections? Grandpa, Miss Li, this is the respiratory department. Mr. Lu doesn't know, or you don't know. Grandpa can't smell pollen. I'm sorry. I'll take it away now. Grandpa, I'll look for it. Doctor, the old man's condition is basically stable. We must not let him get excited anymore. It's nothing to do. Take him for a walk. The most important thing is to keep him in a good mood. Thank you. Doctor Xie, I understand. Well, it seems you should wait for a while before telling Grandpa about the divorce . Secretary Shen, are you a dog-skin plaster ? You've ruined my brother's life. I haven't settled the accounts with you yet . I haven't settled enough with you, right? You want to ask Secretary Shen to give me a price. How much will it cost for you to leave Brother Yunchen? You are Lu Yunchen's mother. How old is this drama about how much money can you spend to leave my son? I can still see 1 million. I will give you 1 million and leave immediately . Brother Yuncheng, Lu Yuncheng's current net worth is so low. Yeah , 5 million. Even 5 million , even 5 million and 500 million cannot buy it. My sincerity towards Lu Yuncheng. He is allergic to peanut butter and likes to eat seafood. I don't like coriander and vinegar. I like working out every morning. I like dogs. I don't like cats. He looks cold and stern and often makes his partners speechless. But he is extra gentle to small animals. These should be enough for three puppies to eat for a day. I just like him. I just like him. I want to seduce him and make him fall in love with me. Well, brother Yunchen, brother Junchen, grandpa, you still know how to come to see me. I thought you only spent foreign festivals in these years and didn't even have a family. Regardless of grandpa, I'm all here for work, right. Grandpa, Brother Yuncheng is usually very busy with work, but it doesn't matter. I can often come to accompany you in the future. Don't say goodbye. I have a granddaughter-in-law. Others, let's go. Don't, Ding Ran, go back first. Grandpa is hungry. If you're not hungry, I'll have someone arrange it. My grandson-in-law has already bought it for me. Please don't bother me. Grandpa, I'm really busy with work. I didn't mean not to come back. Don't be angry . Anger is not good for your health. If I can live long enough to see you and Xiao Shu give birth to a child, that will be a blessing. I tell you, this bag is a new one and it goes very well with your temperament. I want this bag and wrap it up. Little Chef's Bag, are you listening to me? Oh, I know, grandpa, I'm in a bit of a hurry , go, go, okay, don't bother me . Let the hospital contact me at any time if you have anything. How about I go ahead ? Well, I'm full . Well, Sister-in-law Li will be here in a moment . If you need anything, ask him to call me. OK, you go and do your work. Well , have a good rest . I'm leaving. Well, Mr. Lu has brought some clothes for you. It's very important for you to change to the meeting for a while. I even gave you a tie. When did I get this tie? What tie is in the cabinet ? Secretary Shen is in the company every year . Let him come in. Ah, okay , Mr. Lu, come to me, oh, that's me. I'm going out first. Come and tie a tie for me . I 'm clumsy. It doesn't matter if you ask Assistant Xue to help you. I don't mind this tie. Secretary Shen should be familiar with it . Mr. Lu, don't dislike me for being clumsy. Just like Miss Shen's way of tying ties is very unfamiliar and rarely helps others tie ties . Mr. Lu is very skilled. It seems that he often asks others to tie ties for him. Miss Shen is the first one to be fine, right? Let's go first. This is the chef's bag. What did Secretary Shen do when he went to the hospital that day ? What was he so crazy about? I put my bag in grandpa's ward. Could he have seen it? Secretary Shen answered me. Of course I went to see a friend. You Are you like Miss Li who thinks I'm following you? I was indeed the one talking nonsense that day . Wasn't it you who forced me to do that? Miss Li said she wouldn't let me seduce you. Am I angry? It was only later that you said harsh words to piss him off. So you were just talking nonsense, so you weren't pissed off by him. I'm a person with professional ethics. I won't seduce my boss. That's very good . Secretary Shen's professional ethics is simply a model. I don't dare to take it seriously. Are you sure you are just talking in anger unless necessary? I will definitely stay away from Mr. Lu and I will never let anyone misunderstand me. I can't use it anymore . I almost got caught . Secretary Shen, these information are now available. I have to finish it every day. Mr. Lu wants more than 1,000 tomorrow . Are you kidding me? Mr. Lu also asked me to give you a message. Secretary Shen is a role model. A capable person, please do me a favor. Secretary Shen, come on. How did I offend him ? I have always been a secretary. Could it be that Lu Yunchen already knew that I was his ex-wife, so he tortured me on purpose , uh, work, eh , Jia Jia, I don't know what Lu Yunchen is crazy about again. He is torturing me in different ways. He only started to do this recently . The last time I said I liked him was nonsense and he kept giving me more work every day. I guess he might be attracted to you and like you. It's impossible, it's impossible for you. Can you be more confident? You are so good. Lu Yunchen is more than enough to accompany him. It is normal for him to like you. Okay, let me digest. What is your identity? I want to seduce Brother Yunchen and feed Liu Da the last time. Shen Zhichu, the one you were beaten by, do you remember that we were working together so late at night that I was suddenly asked to deliver some documents? Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, I'm here to deliver the documents to you. Is there anyone there? Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu, where are the strange people ? Secretary Shen has touched enough. No , hey, you are acting like a gangster . You came to my house secretly in the middle of the night and you still touched me. Who is acting like a gangster and who told you to end up like this in the middle of the night ? Didn't you ask me to deliver documents? Sending documents seems to be a thing, but it's not that important now. Come in. Hey Jiajia. I'm wrong. Lu Yunchen just thinks it's good to toss me. Come on, have a drink. I 've sent you the documents. It's okay. I'm leaving first . Secretary Shen. It's so late or else I can't see Mr. Lu off . I have someone to pick me up. I 'd have known better if I didn't show off . You can't even get a taxi in this damn place. Let me go . Bitch, let me tell you. Is this the woman I like ? There is a sister of mine who can run away, but she is Mr. Zhou's lover. You won't regret it if you follow me. Don't come here. There are surveillance cameras everywhere. Just let me go. I can pretend that nothing happened. Even if you die under the peony flower and become a ghost, it's fine today. Even if the world is turned upside down, I want my brother-in-law to support you. Let me go. I am Lu Yuncheng's wife. Try touching me again. Hahaha, Lu Yuncheng still has a wife. Well, I see you are scared and don't hesitate to speak. Be good, I will love you now. Please let me go . Please let me go . Even after the first night, you still have the nerve to pester Brother Yun Chen. Oh, nonsense. He has already run away . Hurry up and give me that bitch. The one who stopped me is Yanran. Let me see where you are running today . Why are you here ? Secretary Shen's romantic affair has been brought to the club. Haha, why is this necklace here with you ? Haha, take me to find you. about his secret . Just entertain your remaining customers here. Goodbye. You are a group of toasters. If you don't eat and drink as a fine , I must kill him today. Hahaha, let me go. Let me go. Who can ruin my good deeds ? why are you here? Mr. Lu, I was wrong. Just for Mr. Zhou's sake, please spare me once. I will send him to Chen's house and tell Mrs. Zhou everything about Mrs. Zhou and his lover. I want to see and leave. Chen family Can Mrs. Zhou still raise these beasts ? Mr. Lu and Li Yanran, are you scared? Li Yanran was here just now. He and Liu Dan are in the same group. He wants to harm me. Yanran is not such a person. Well , I was wrong. I'll take you back. No thanks, Secretary Shen . I asked you if you gave the necklace I brought home three years ago to Li Yanran. Xiaochu, I'm sorry. I took her home and she took it away. I didn't know until later that it was like this . Xiaochu Ah, why are you so drunk? Well, Jiajia, you're here . Sit down and stay with me for a while. I'm so thirsty and I can't bear it. I was almost assaulted by a gangster today . Why did you call the police? Lu Yunchen is here . I guess all those gangsters have been crippled. Fortunately, the roadblock man is here . It's a scumbag I just found out today that Li Yanran took the necklace Lu Yunchen gave me. Are you saying that Li Yanran took your necklace and pretended to be you as Lu Yunchen's savior? Remember, I told you about my 50 million one. That thing was done by Li Yanran. He drugged my brother. My brother slept with this girl without knowing anything. It cost him 50 million to settle the matter. How could you tolerate this vicious woman? Uh-huh, the evidence? Lu Yunchen believes him. I can't help it. Shen Zhichu, why are you so cowardly? What did you say you were drinking here? Li Yanran is deliberately planning to get the upper hand. You go and grab Lu Yunchen. Grab him. Hello, here. It's Xiaoyese Bar. This lady drank too much. Please come and pick her up. Hmm, let 's go to Xiaoyese Bar. Secretary Shen, I'll take you home. Yeah, silly girl Lu Yunchen still likes you. She looks cuter when she's asleep during the day. I feel like I owe you , um, um, red pig's trotters , um, um, it smells so good, um, the mystery book, um, you're home, which building do you live in, um, Building 20, Qingyunxuan, where do you live ? I have no home, I don't have a father, you really don't want me anymore, pig trotters , um. It smells so good and i can See , you don't want me, my Secretary Shen, Secretary Shen, if you keep doing this, I'm going to deduct your salary. This pillow is so hard. Well, I should throw you out. Hey, Secretary Shen, why are you here with Mr. Lu, Mr. Lu? He can't sleep well Yuan De has a stinky face like a child . Are you ready for the morning meeting ? Go grab Lu Yuncheng and try it. Mr. Lu, please drink coffee . Mr. Lu, please drink coffee and try my new latte art . What? Why don't you do all these bells and whistles ? It doesn't taste good. Well, Xue Tezhu still praises me. Why don't you make it for Xue Rende ? His is an apple and yours is a love. Go out and have time to organize more information. Don't learn these messy things . Save the coffee and don't waste it . People go. What's up, Shen Mi? What are you doing sneakily? Am I not cooking for you? You must have poisoned the food, right? What did Mr. Lu say? I saw that it was noon and I brought you an extra meal . If you don't want to eat it , then I'll give it to Xiao Xue . How about it? It's too oily. The meat is too greasy. The pineapple is too old. Well, you didn't make it . Then you can let the gimmick pig cook it for you. It 's not that bad . Who can get used to this bad temper ? Miss Li, you can't make a reservation without making an appointment. I want to see Brother Yunchen. I need to make an appointment. I can't, but you can go in and try. I'm sorry , you bitch . You still hurt me. Miss Li, if you want to make headlines, I can also help you. What are you so arrogant about ? Just because there is no monitoring does not mean that others are not If you know , for example, this necklace belongs to you. Please return the necklace to me. Thank you, Mr. Lu . Brother Yunchun, he snatched my necklace and was stingy and refused to accept it. Just forget it. I don't have anything to do. I'll go see the client off . I'm very busy today. If you are busy , you should find me next time Then contact Xuan Yuede first. Xuan Yuede will see off Yanran, Miss Li. Where can I take you ? Um , wait a moment. I'll take the call, Manager Jiang. Mr. Lu wants to buy a villa in Qingyunxuan. I'm anxious to get it. Didn't Brother Yunchen have a relationship before? Set up a villa in Qingyunxuan? Why do you want to buy another set? Well, then give it to his ex-wife. Ex-wife, you are saying that Brother Yunchen is divorced . You heard me wrong. You go to the hotel, right? I will send you there. No need. I suddenly remembered that I want to find a friend. I'll leave first. Slow down. Li Yanran said. Tomorrow morning, I was fascinated by a little goblin in the office and divorced the chef. I came over to see how it could work. How could it be like this ? Do you know what's wrong? Do you know what's wrong? Well, there's sand in my eyes. Open the door and we can talk. What should I do? Blow it up once. Oh, grandpa, why are you here ? You have to find time to go home for dinner. Grandpa knows you, Mr. Lu. You also know that Secretary Shen also went to the club that night . What's going on ? Secretary Shen also entered the club that night. I can't hide it. Xue Yuande, go out first and don't come in if it's okay . Okay, okay, I'll go out first , Secretary Shen. Come on, hurry up . Okay, Secretary Shen. Book, what are you nervous about ? Well, you are so close to me. Of course I am nervous. Why are you in the club that night ? I will do whatever you want to do. Secretary Shen, have I ever told you that you like to bluff when you are nervous? Aren't you very brave? You dared to breathe just now ? I was wrong , uh, no , this occasion, uh, is inappropriate, inappropriate, uh, your aunt, didn't I want to ask him why he went to the club? Is the president's office very hot? Your face is so red, ah, yes, yes, oh, it's so hot , Secretary Shen, was in the meeting that day. All those who haven't met Mr. Lu, Mr. Xue, the president's office The curtains in the room seem to be broken. Let me go over and take a look. What police station are you talking to ? Okay, what's wrong ? Miss Li is harassing me at the police station. I 'm sorry . I want you to bail. My brother, why are you so impulsive? It's illegal for you to harass Li Yanran without permission . I just can't help it. It's hard for me to watch. When he returns home, I want to talk to him about it. If you have injuries on your face, I will take you to the hospital. Oh, Secretary Shen, it turns out that you are this useless sister. No wonder she is the same family . Toads who want to eat swan meat, bitch, you are the one who hurt me. It's so miserable. Calm down. You're stupid. Why don't you blame others ? Brother Chen is here, let's see how he deals with you, Li Yanran, don't think you can keep being arrogant. What do you mean you have to pay back what you stole ? Do you know that I am Shen Yunxiang's sister ? Don't you know that the stolen necklace is mine? Are you there? What are you talking about? I have no idea what you are talking about, Brother Yunchen. They bullied me, Li Yanran, you bitch is actually with Lu Yunchen, don't come here, don't come, brother Yunchen, you're bleeding , arrest this gangster quickly, you still want to go in, Secretary Shen, you'd better explain your problem . Xiao Chu explains why these two people are so arrogant. Who would dare in Jiangcheng? If you hit Brother Yuancheng, they should get out of Jiangcheng. You still dare to be so stubborn. I want to say sorry for him. Xiaochu, what are you doing? Hear him say sorry. Why are you apologizing to him? You are right to hit people, but you don't have to suffer such grievances . And He and Li Yanran don't know each other. Hey, don't be angry. I was wrong. Don't follow me. Brother Yunchen, your face is hurt. Do you want to go to the hospital and apply some medicine? No. Fortunately, you are here. Otherwise, I don't know what to do. I know that Brother Yunchen protects me the most. That mysterious book Why do you dare to let his brother come over to harass me, Brother Yunchen, why did you suddenly brake? Ah, you said the two of them are brother and sister , right? His brother is still a loser. Get off the bus , not get off. Secretary Shen, ignore the scumbag and divorce him when he gets back . He is sick, eh, wait a minute , eh, no men's slippers, just drink water. Lu Yunchen usually drinks. Even if he's not at home, he's still considered a husband even if he's not here . I'll go find him . There's no need to look for it. Let's leave, leave, leave. Okay, if it wasn't for my brother , I wouldn't have made you wronged . Okay, have a good rest. I'm going to work. Alas, I have a few friends who keep asking me about you and me. I'll help you make arrangements. Don't make random arrangements. Oh, I'll help you make arrangements first. You pick the fifth brother first. If you don't like it, I will help you arrange it. Mr. Lu, here is this month's financial report. Secretary Shen is very beautiful today. Do you want to go on a date? I'll leave first. It 's 6 o'clock on the second floor of the Garden Hotel. Okay, I understand . Who can resist such a good-looking girl like Secretary Shen? I guess she My ex-husband just blindly booked a private room on the second floor of the Garden Hotel. I want to treat my friends to dinner tonight. I 'm sorry. I'm stuck in traffic. You are Mr. Su. What about me ? I'm even more handsome than the photo , you know I'm good enough. It's not reliable. This is too exaggerated. Miss Shen is so young. I'm not young anymore and I've been divorced . If my second aunt and third aunt's neighbor had n't asked me to come, I wouldn't have been willing to go on a blind date. I understand that we are just going through the motions and we won't see each other again. I understand that you women like to play hard to get. It's a trick to order in advance. No matter what, I make tens of thousands a month. It's okay for someone to treat you to a meal for 200 yuan, but you don't have to . I still have a 40-square-meter single apartment. After the mortgage and marriage, you can wash clothes and cook at home, and I will give it to you every month. Why does 2,000 yuan look so much like Lu Yunchen? Why are you dissatisfied? Miss Shen, you don't have to do anything and you can still get 2,000 yuan, aren't you satisfied? I have a villa that I can transfer to you. We can also buy a car with a mortgage for you to drive . Are you kidding? Are you kidding too? Let 's forget it. What do you mean when I ask you? Apart from me, a divorced woman, which man with a monthly income of over 10,000 would fall in love with your French foie gras, black oyster pearls, Australian crayfish and this bottle? Please use the 580,000 yuan wine slowly. I have never ordered such an expensive dish. Are you blackmailing me ? There are already customers who have paid for it. The customer said that Miss Shen is worth all the expensive things. Pour the wine. Pour the wine. Still pouring the wine? Hey, hey, wait for me. Mr. Lu, it's interesting to see me making a fool of myself, right? Is it appropriate for you to go on a blind date just after flirting with me ? What about you ? If anything happens to Yanran, you'll be on call. Are you jealous ? Are you okay? I'm leaving first . Li Yanran and I have nothing to do with each other. Why is there an improper relationship? Just because she saved me, so there is no need to explain to me. Is she jealous? She is jealous, right ? Jia Jia, I don't know what Lu Yunchen means now. The authorities are obsessed with you. Lu Yunchen is completely fascinated by you. But what about Li Yanran? Li Yanranjiu She is a clown. If she could be in charge, she would have become Mrs. Lu long ago. Hello, Secretary Shen . Um, you are taking a shower. Go to hell. I just want to ask where the design documents were sent. Tomorrow, Lawyer Wang will come to comment on whether the hometown cat is a ghost. Lawyer Mr. Lu, Mr. Wang, has already We're waiting outside when we arrive. Secretary Shen , did you do something to Secretary Shen? You told him to hide and you didn't dare to see you . Go out and call Lawyer Wang in. Call Secretary Shen to make two cups of coffee and come in. Hey, hey, the total cost project has been evaluated. Look. The evaluation results are good . No problem. Thank you very much. Lawyer Wang made a trip. It should be right. Mr. Lu, if you and Mrs. Lu remarry, do you need me to do a pre-marital property notarization ? If you remarry, you have no plans to remarry. That should be my understanding. I'm wrong. Last time I saw you, I thought you were interested. We are in love, Lawyer Wang, where did you last see me and my ex-wife at the gate of heaven and earth? You were drunk at that time . Your ex- wife came to pick you up. Your coffee, Secretary Shen, Mr. Lu. Your ex-wife came to be your secretary, Mr. Lu. Mrs. Lu, no money, Mrs. Lu, Mr. Lu, Mrs. Lu Madam, my ex-wife Shen Zhichu , you are not my ex-wife. Lawyer Wang said it wrong . No, I am your ex-wife. Shen Zhichu's divorce agreement was handled by Lawyer Wang. He did not admit his mistake . Haha, do you think I'm ridiculous ? I defended you in every way, but you fooled me. when you Are you laughing at me in your heart? I don't have it. I really don't have it. I also feel that I am very ridiculous. 300 When Shaotian Guiyuan said that you were Mrs. Lu, I listened to your explanation . What was wrong with me ? Although I didn't take the initiative to tell you at first, but Whenever you have something for me Even if you care a little, you won't have to worry about me. We've been married for 3 years. From marriage to divorce, you didn't even know what I looked like. So are you taking revenge on me? How can I take revenge on you and myself? How could Shen Zhizhi be my scheming ex-wife? She doesn't even have coffee. Leave me Xue Yuande for one day What the hell are you doing ? I asked you to give me the information from the interrogation office. Mr. Lu, I gave it to you this time. I sent it to your computer. Hey, Secretary Shen and your ex-wife live at the same address. Could it be that Secretary Shen is you? Ex-wife , oh, my brain is not enough, what kind of evil fate is there? Ah, that's right , but Secretary Shen is not as vain, greedy, and scheming as you said. Did I say that? But why didn't Secretary Shen tell you directly ? Could it be that he wanted to take advantage of you and ask you for more money? Secretary Shen is not like that. Whoops Mr. Lu, you can't just look at the small amount of time we spent together. Maybe Secretary Shen is hiding his thoughts so deeply that he can't tell that you are teaching me how to do things . This flower is probably given to Secretary Shen 's suitor . There are so many. These flowers are for Secretary Shen and Mr. Lu. I'm about to give it to Secretary Shen. I'm about to give it to him. Give it to me. I'm going to give it to him. 6. I feel so bad about this inferior flower gun. I have to count the numbers on time and ask for the mystery book imported from the Netherlands . That mystery book should be very touching. Mr. Lu, this is tomorrow. I have packed up the meeting materials . The secretary's makeup is very beautiful today. Do I have to go on a date? Secretary Shen, I also compiled a copy of the data sources in this document and gave it to Mr. Lu. Didn't you need these before ? Don't you remember them all? Secretary Shen, I haven't been in a good mood lately. I'm sorry to trouble you if I can't remember so much data. Okay, Mr. Lu, your way of pursuing people is very special. Who said that what I want to pursue is really seriously ill ? I just said that if Lu Yuancheng knows my identity, there will be no good consequences. Why am I so unlucky? I can still work overtime. If you encounter an elevator or boat, it's the land transport's fault. I'll curse him. There are no seasoning packets for instant noodles . Oh, I'm freezing to death. Why is it so dark? There's not even a person there. Why don't you sing to strengthen your courage ? The moonlight shines down on Xiangshui Beach . You're calling , Lu Yucheng. Lu Yucheng, please come and save me. Ah, yes. Don't be afraid , haha. Why did you come? It's okay. Aren't you off work? I didn't pick up something. Then when I answered your call, I was suddenly hung up. What's going on ? Just now, when I sang, there was a voice that responded to me. Mr. Lu, Secretary Shen said, this voice is connected to Wumeng Mountain and the moonlight shines on the mountain outside the mountain. It was you who scared me to death when I got off Xiangshui Beach Sorry, Secretary Shen. I just picked up the phone while on patrol. It's okay. I'll take you back. I'm scared to death. What's the relationship between Mr. Lu and Secretary Shen? Xuanyuan has gone to drive. I'll take you back. Mr. Lu, I'd better go back by myself. Shen Zhichu, are you sure you want to break up with me so much? Lu Yunchen, what are you doing now? What do you mean? Hey, grandpa, Xiao Zhu and Yuncheng are coming back for dinner tonight. I won't rest until you come back . Well, then I'll trouble Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu, if you asked me to call back to the Lu family, I must know that the old man wants Secretary Shen to go back . Shen Zhichu will be filial to him. The person who agreed didn't know who told Secretary Shen that he knew how to dig out old people. Grandpa, Mr. Lu, do you really want to pursue Secretary Shen again? Who said I want to pursue him? I just want to see if he likes me. I 'll give him a chance to come. Let's have a family. It's been a long time since it was so lively. Grandpa, we will come back to see you often in the future. Right, that's great , hahaha, then stay here tonight, grandpa, don't, then I'll bother you. Grandpa, don't you like to eat green the most? Grandpa, look at it. Don't worry. I know you taste my body and it's not to deny it to that grandpa. I'm full. I went up first . Hey, I finished it so quickly . What else can I eat ? Hurry up, don't you know how to seize such a good opportunity? Hurry up , it's still the time to get married. Did you only give me a few pieces of cloth as a wedding gift? Why are you sneaking around ? Well, what are you doing ? You do n't usually live here. What are you doing today? Brother , are you a gangster? Why should I sleep on the floor if they all sleep on the bed ? Why should I sleep on the floor ? Let 's sleep in bed together. I don't dislike you, Xiaochu Yunchen. Are you okay? This room is very noisy. It's okay. Grandpa, come in. Hahaha, Yunchen. I just saw that you haven't eaten anything. This is the nutritious soup stewed by Aunt Li. You drink it. Grandpa, it's too much trouble. Come on, come on. Yunchen, come on and drink it. Are you sure you want me to drink it? Do n't regret it. This is grandpa's wish. How can you refuse? Okay, then you guys have a good rest. Hahaha, Lu Yunchen, what are you doing ? This is the soup you asked me to drink. Your hair smells so good . Are you perverted? Grandpa Lu Yunchen won't do that. I 'm bored. I don't need drugs for this trick of drugging . Lu Yunchen, don't mess around. Come on, we are divorced ex-wives and also wives , Lu Yunchen, my phone is ringing, Lu Yunchen's phone is ringing, hello , Assistant Xue, Secretary Shen , Mr. Lu, is next to you. Give him the phone. Assistant Xue will deduct three months' bonus. What's the matter? Mr. Yao will advance tomorrow. The meeting in Jiangcheng will start early tomorrow morning. You and Secretary Shen will work overtime for me tonight. Okay, Boss Shen hasn't rested yet, but you fell asleep first. You're so cute. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Lu Yuechen, you bastard, you haven't contacted you for three days , how much you hate me for being restless in my sleep. Shen, you kicked me so early in the morning. Who am I to tell you to be dishonest ? Who is the dishonest person ? Hahaha, you have the same demeanor as I did back then, hahaha. Grandpa, I'm leaving now. I'll come and see you for breakfast another day. No, no, no. Yueyue , I'm going to the company. Hey , you two are having breakfast. You 've figured things out very accurately . I can have a grandson this year. Then invite Secretary Shen to come. Let me introduce the project planning this time. I left in a hurry this morning and took the wrong computer from Lu Yunchen. Secret Shen Are you having any difficulties? Secretary Shen, is there something wrong with your computer? Why don't you use mine first ? Let me tell you directly. Our project this time uses the latest AOA technology to save energy and reduce power consumption by 23%. The natural removal rate is improved. 3 percentage points. Do you want the whole company to know about our relationship? Ah, what's our relationship ? Of course we came here . Of course it's because we slept in the same bed last night . Ah , uh, the project has been completed . Mr. Lu, please take your time and take a look . Oh, uh, Mr. Jiang, right? If you go to Mr. Lu , I'll do it first. Let's go. Manager Jiang has something to do . I have a document that I need you to sign. Have you heard about it? Secretary Shen. My relationship with Mr. Lu is not normal. I heard about it too. No wonder he was called secretary when Mr. Lu came here. Maybe she will become the CEO's wife in two days. Secretary Shen, thank you for your flowers, Secretary Shen. I really envy you for having flowers every day. It came by air . Secretary Shen's flowers are pretty good. I envy them. Lu Yunchen gave them to me . You thought you were divorced? A married woman can marry Lu Yunchen . Oh, then you may not know who my ex-husband is . What do you mean? Come on, give me a piece. What is this? Li Xiaojia gave it to Mr. Lu. Mr. Lu asked me to share it with everyone. Lu Yunchen, this scumbag, cough cough cough. It's not like smelling a competitor's biscuits makes you feel so disgusted. You're pregnant . I received the cookies. I still have some work. Why don't you go back first? Brother Yunchen, I came here just to tell you that I decided to see you again. That's great. Just think about it. I'll contact the doctor now. I'll find the doctor. I just want you to go with me for the last time. Just the last time. That doctor is very famous. If you can be optimistic this time, you don't have to worry about my legs anymore. Then let's go. I'll take you to the hospital. Congratulations. You're almost two months pregnant. Is it possible that I was pregnant that day when I was in the club with Lu Yunchen ? I didn't know she was a little girl. Are you still a man ? Will your father be happy? How come you two are together, Lu Yuncheng? Brother Yuncheng was worried that I came with me to see my legs, but it was you, Secretary Shen, why did you come to the obstetrics department alone? You couldn't be pregnant, were you pregnant with some wild man ? Are you pregnant ? Let me go first. Whose is yours ? Ask me who belongs to Brother Yunchen. If you do this, you will destroy the child in his belly. It is not easy to explain to him and his man when he goes back like this . Hum, what about him? If you ask me, then who is he to you? Brother Yunchen, my legs hurt so much. Please go with me. Let's see a doctor. It's Secretary Shen. Do you want to send him back ? No need to see him. Mr. Lu, Secretary Shen, will get sick by accident. You bastard baby, we don't want a father, okay? Secretary Shen should be here soon. No need to wait for him. Sorry , the meeting has started. Ah, I'm late. People who are not punctual don't participate. What do you mean? What 's wrong with you ? It's okay. For this project partner, our tentative partner is Yintai Group. I have always opposed Yintai Group. Focusing only on profit development is good to start now, but it is not conducive to long-term development. Secretary Shen, do you have a better partner? Or are you just expressing dissatisfaction with my decision? I don't have it at the moment , but you can give me some time. If I am wrong, please talk about the plan . If you don't have it, dismiss the meeting . You don't think I'm targeting you, do you? Mr. Lu always keeps a clear distinction between public and private affairs. Haven't you always wanted to work independently? This project can be handed over to you. Can you suspend your work as a secretary to go to the hospital ? What do you mean? What do you mean? You still want to keep this child. Why do you have to decide whether I can keep this child or not? It's none of your business that you love that man so much . This year's birthday is finally spent with you. If you give it to me next year. With the addition of a great-grandson , I won't have any regrets in this life. Happy birthday, grandpa . Hahaha. Okay, happy birthday, grandpa. Today, let's just drink and be happy. This fish is specially prepared for you by Aunt Li. Hurry up and eat it. Haha. Haha, Yunchen, you finally let grandpa worry for once. Why don't you hurry over and see where it feels better? What are you doing? I can't even touch you to give birth to a child for a wild man. Let go of you. Let me go. Lu Yunchen, don't force me. I hate you , Secretary Shen , you want to take the Rourou route today. I owe you to Durian. You said you don't even know who you are pregnant with. You still want to seduce Yun. Brother Chen , if I publicize this matter in the company, can you still stay in the company? I advise you to calm down. If I'm not happy, you can't even think about it better than laughing to death. Do you think Brother Yunchen can believe what you say now? If so, do you want to give it a try? If I remember correctly, you seemed to have been fired from the dance troupe. You are talking nonsense. I told you that what you did will be punished , Shi Zhi. First, I have a stomachache. Hold on, I'll take you to the hospital. Bro, I didn't mean it in the morning. Xu Yunda, shoot quickly. The patient is having a fever and the fetus has been hit. The situation is unstable. If you want to save the baby, you have to have a good rest. Well, what can I do if Shen Zhishu takes away the baby ? Nothing happened. Let's stay together. If you don't want me to have a child, Shen Zhishu, I promise you to take away the child . Let's remarry and be together, okay ? We will still have children. Don't arrange an operation to remove the child. Du Yuechen, this is your child. You lied all the time to keep this child. Hurry up and arrange the operation. Don't. I beg you not. Fu Yunchang, he is really your son. On the way, please watch this video. Someone filmed it in the club that night. The person who entered the room with you was Secretary Shen. Who said that Lu Yucheng was not in the operating room? He was really your child. Lu Yucheng, you personally pushed your wife and child to the operating room. Don't be anxious . There is no one in the shooting area. Yes. I came late and killed my own child with my own hands. Are you sure this is the operating room? Is it not here? Not here. Where. Book of God . Book of God. Book of God. The doctor just Where did the patient in the operating room go? I saw him go to the rooftop . He went to the rooftop. Shen Chu, you are so mean. Lu Yunchen divorced you and you still got together. Now it's fine. The child is gone. Now you know that I am Lu Yunchen's ex-wife. But do you know who the child belongs to? You blame me for this. You can't escape. Isn't it possible? If it is the child of the Lu family, how can Lu Yunchen do it? So what if you can stop him because he is his child? When I took your necklace, he thought I saved him, so he would not believe you. When you accepted Lu Yunchen's favor, you dumped my brother , drugged him , and lied to him. 50 million , then I did these things , so what? No matter how many things I do, Lu Yunchen will come, right? Auntie said, are you okay? I was wrong, I was wrong. I shouldn't doubt you. I just found out that the person who sent you to the club that day should be Brother Yunchen. He lied to you. I just talked nonsense. Xueyuan De asked him to explain everything. Xiao Zhu, let's go. I made some soup for you. Get up and drink. I have no appetite. You have no appetite. Children also need nutrition. Get up and drink some . Well-known dancer Li Yanran was revealed to have drugged and framed others 3 years ago. He has been taken to the police station to question Lu Yuncheng's methods. Only he could reach Xiaochu so quickly . Did you see that bitch Li Yanran was taken away ? Yeah, I saw it . By the way, Lu Yunchen asked people to pay off his parents' debts. You can relax now. Lu Yunchen sent a lot of supplements this morning and he didn't know yet. Are the children still there? I never entered the wedding room. Now I can't even if I want to. Let me go . I'm going back. Shen Zhishu, I like you. I know it's too late to say this now, and I know you will never forgive me , but I still want to say it. You can call me stupid or blind. I admit that I regret it. I haven't gotten along well with you from marriage to divorce . I know that you have suffered a lot of grievances and will be sad and disappointed. I promise you that I will not let you suffer any grievances again and I will not make you cry again. Please give me another chance, okay ? Mrs. Lu, this is the first time we meet Mr. Lu. You guys are busy, Mr. Luo, we are going back. Home, you let me in. I haven't forgiven you yet. Hey, Mr. Lu, you made your wife angry. Where are you taking me? I 'm giving you a gift mysteriously . Is this for me? But I haven't been on stage for a long time, so Miss Shen Zhichu, can you dance for me? I believe you, why are you all here ? Things on the stage are persistent and the most beautiful . Mo Yunchen. We have met before. I remembered that the little girl who was bullied in the martial arts training was you . The little girl who saved me was also you . The scar on your leg was left to save me. You all know that the scar on my leg was left to save me. I went to my eldest brother's house. Show me all your old photos and I remember that he went there on his own and not invited by me, hahaha. I also have a gift for you, Mrs. Lu. Mr. Lu commissioned me to draw up this marriage agreement. Please read it. Here is the marriage agreement. Mr. Lu Yunchen and Ms. Shen Zhichu voluntarily become husband and wife forever. Respect each other's love for life. If there is any breach of contract, all Mr. Lu Yunchen's shares and property will be donated to Ms. Shen Zhichu. Yes, this is about right. Sign it quickly, sign it quickly, sign it quickly . Shen Zhichu, are you willing to be Mrs. Lu again? Marry him, marry him, marry him. Marry him, marry him, marry him. Brother Xiaochu knows You have liked Lu Yunchen for many years. Brother, I hope you will be happy. Join the latest short drama circle to watch more short dramas. Daily updates. New dramas on the same day will be available first. Only 28.8 yuan for permanent viewing. Keyword search is supported. Kiss one, kiss one. Oops, I have something that is still happening . Hahaha