Skin color. Something that has united us the first things you see when you look at even individuals. While modern notions around color has always been relevant. Nowhere is India is one of the cradles of humanity, a land of traditions. People across the subcontinent been an idea of India since ancient times. both outsiders and insiders recognize an idea diverse these colors are, even in their family--the the generic brown dad and mom. All this is fairly admired in India--light-skinned ones. And it's For me, I've always been conscious of my skin too brown for Americans. More importantly though knee. It started to spread slowly but surely. Vitiligo, where my own immune system attacks the Indian chip away. It's probably the reason why enough about me. This is a tale about us. This is gods but ended up worshiping white men. This India first--let's start off with some background. The obvious answer is size and geography. India various biomes and climates, leading to people But we also have to recognize something else. or the various groups that migrated into India well Indian. Now, this happens everywhere across is a norm in human history. Various different in and out of regions. This is again super politicized to this degree, and we'll talk about it up now though is because it's important To put it briefly, India has about four or migrated into India and mixed to make Indians. three, and some have the fourth and fifth group. ancestral South Indians. Now, I'm saying South not necessarily the best way to describe it, but have this AASI DNA in them. These are some of the around 60 to 70,000 years ago, give or take, Next are migrants from around Iran. These ago. They were probably a lighter shade of brown and these groups started to mix. That's how the people from the steppe. This was a continuous years ago, maybe a bit later. These people lightest brown skin we could say. They came in Combine all these three groups, and you start in mind this history is still kind of contested; some groups came earlier, some groups came later. is this mix of skin colors, so just keep groups are in almost every single Indian, I'd say and I just want to emphasize every Indian comes to the ancient beliefs of these people, they Indian fauna. Their holy sites are in India. keep this in mind--we are all a mix, we're just region or caste, and we'll talk about this In terms of the last two groups, one is the Asia, probably around four to three thousand on the tribal population. So you may have heard a misnomer--everyone is Adivasi, everyone has a groups that came later. So this term is kind of definitely a bit after, we had some people coming Indians with some more East Asian features. Combine all five of these groups, and you get color. This mix of lineages, even within a single much variation within families. I know some of you so you know you can't get away from that. Here, and basically prehistoric history. What did We first start with the Vedas. Now, most people it's equivalent to color or something like is kind of like another politicization exactly how it was. &quot;Varna&quot; is an ancient you will see some colors associated with, say, for Vaishyas, and black for Shudras. And while you'll start to understand why it does not Color in the Varna is a very special and sometimes people kind of misinterpret people have golden hair or shining red hair, white.&quot; This is mostly to do with metaphors like a fiery or sunlike aspect to people. Keep in and this is all in India, and there aren't that also symbolism in terms of white being a color being a color of darkness, ignorance, and evil. ethnic groups or something, but let's keep going Surprisingly enough, in the early Varna, we like that. What do I mean by that? Now, let's Varna. The Upanishads are very difficult if not all, are probably pre-Buddhist, so maybe going into the thousands, maybe video--we're talking about skin and not like a you have a good skincare routine, comment in the Anyways, the Upanishads are important because for very specific purposes. They give us some we are researching right now. They tell us about you three very important verses, and this is in &quot;If one wishes to have a fair-skinned son who the mantra recommends rice with milk &quot;If one wishes to have a brown or tawny son who the mantra recommends rice with yogurt and ghee.&quot; describes, &quot;If one wishes to have a dark-skinned and live a full life, this mantra recommends Now, do you get what just happened here? This The verses are in ascending order of merit this last child--the dark-skinned one with isn't it? He's a special one. But why is it so special? And does that mean a dark-skinned son or dark skin itself? This verse is a reference to Lord Vishnu, the description of him having dark skin and you know, lighter brown eyes. That is considered it was a gift in Vedic India. Kali, Vishnu, Rama, Krishna--all these gods are have super vivid descriptions of their dark is &quot;Megha shyamam,&quot; which references a dark find this in the Ramayana, in the Bhagavatam, and various other scriptures. A big source Amit Majmudar. This is an awesome book; it's in this book, Amit actually describes something Firstly, there's Krishna of divinity--Lord Krishna, or Krishna as Draupadi--the wife of the considered probably the most beautiful woman Krishna in this sense means black or dark-skinned. whose original name is Krishna Dvaipayana because he was very dark-skinned, At this point, you can kind of see that stigma Ancient Indians actually liked all skin tones. light or white skin--white as camphor, a type of with Krishna, is also light-skinned. Now, this is devotees Shesha, this white multi-headed great light-skinned and Narayan being dark-skinned. and Rama being dark-skinned. It's kind of we see in Hindu theology, where we have this Of course, we have these goddesses like Radha golden-skinned. Same thing with Lord Buddha, sometimes variations between descriptions, people, but the dark-skinned people are is ancient India had a unique acceptance around you know, internal variance between certain but overall, we see in these scriptures a That's unique; that's different from India today. Ajanta. The earliest carvings date around to used by Buddhist monks and sometimes traders or Over the next hundreds of years, you'd see scenes painted along the walls in these amazing murals. at these paintings--these earliest depictions There's a lot of people who are dark-skinned, could choose from--minerals or plants or other of see this across the paintings as well--there are everything in between. So you see a whole And look, Indians are primarily dark-skinned, so they were painting themselves as they they did kind of go back, but we'll discuss but we also see similar depictions the Bagh caves in Madhya Pradesh, the these date to around the 5th or the 7th century could kind of see a snapshot of how Indians Well, most people skip around a thousand and go directly to British colonialism. But to wade into controversy and something we're discuss the truth in seven parts. We see and that is the Arab invasion of Sindh. Now, The Arabs would be promptly stopped thereafter, moot. We wouldn't see further invasions The reason I bring up the Arab invasion though of the Islamic world with the Indian world. We into India more, so you'd see this in Arab writing type of way, even though they're pretty effusive this? Well, early Arab visitors, merchants, wisdom and their knowledge, but they were kind of and knowledgeable. Remember, Arabs practiced so they kind of had a negative connotation people in the ancient world did have have been a bit exceptional here, but other And, you know, it's the ancient world--we don't believe, and that was then. But again, the reason the pinnacle of Islamic culture, this dark skin cases. And reinforcement is probably the more India. That is because this skin color stigma, spread more so because of the Turkic invasions when we'd see some of the first most he would come down and sack Somat multiple but he wouldn't really make that much of a base with a few later invaders until the Delhi Now, these Central Asian Turks themselves another cultural attachment--they were attached light skin is a huge thing; it is a beauty of dark skin stigma--whether it's the Arab or the Iranian Persian one--and they would despise Indians that they would conquer. They thought kind of a slow-motion cultural imposition start they conquered. Add to the fact that a new slave be carried off into Central Asia and other Arabs associate dark skin with slavery it was the turn of Turks and Persians Even the beloved poet Rumi, who isn't just had a lot of poetry criticizing dark skin and dark skin or arrogance or ignorance. And combination of Hindu, dark skin, slavery--that Hindus. It went away from this earlier Arab idea Rumi wrote Persian poetry, and Persian was So you start to see this dark-skinned stigma the west but also within India in the east. And who were working with these Muslim kingdoms. When you notice that skin is starting to get a being dropped--they're absent. They just this would leak into Hindu artists as well. They so they would be patronized to paint started to see themselves a bit differently. But beyond art, we have to start looking at the organize their empire, and what kind of hierarchy echelons? The historian Minhaj-hu Saraj notes all Turks of pure origin and Tajik of good stock. ceiling in the Delhi Sultanate administration of their skin color. Even later Muslim empires Turks or Persians or just Muslims from the West these people simply because of their lineage--they Now, think of the social effect of this. and all of the people below them are progressively person's psychology? What does this do this? This foreign elite idea of lighter skin over these hundreds of years of Islamic rule. is not that widespread, and that's because Marco Polo, a famous medieval European west coast of India from Kerala to Maharashtra of perplexed by was that the people liked and their gods were black, as he described as kind of like a devilish quality, while Even when you zoom out during this time period, were some of the biggest gods that this movement and Vishnu--the dark lords of India. An explosion thundercloud dark skin that was reminiscent dark blue skin starts to arise. Here, on one to shift around really dark skin, and people but the symbolic angle is also here. Either way, against this new beauty ideal--the embrace of But anyways, back to the Europeans. Marco Polo was missionaries and merchants who started to trickle earlier, the Greeks came to conquer India, it was time for trade, both in goods descriptions of how they looked, they said and the South Indians looked like Ethiopians. not mine. And this early European some Romans was fairly positive because of But as time went on, and especially after the and colonialism, things started to change. While India's Turk conquerors were into light concrete ideas began to emerge around the ideas of the earliest of this rhetoric that we hear of accounts of Portuguese rule in places like locals were forced to convert to Christianity, Francis Xavier, a missionary who advocated for the blackness of the Hindus, and he kind of This guy probably has over 100 institutes and while the British didn't really have as much it was mostly commercial and trade and for dark skin with the Portuguese. And again, standards--people back then were racist, like context of how these European colonialists especially them being considered Think of how often you hear the word &quot;fair&quot; in global literature also has descriptions about skin being better, whatever. But this almost about fair being good gives us a clue into the the British conquered India after commercializing were Indian markets and industries destroyed by Indian self-conception. The East India Company and of Indians. These Indians would work under British dark skin being bad again--we have another set of Islamic empires and elite attitudes eventually terms of culture. So this is how we start seeing Another aspect you have to consider is the British would be integrated when it came to studying people and super systematic--whether used for they were super efficient when it came to this. people that even the people may not notice. The between castes, differences in their demeanor, and they would craft theories such as the Martial those migrations I described earlier in the happen all across the world, but now we started of it from the British. And it is true that even in terms of their genetics. But while they same sources in most cases. Not just that, but tell someone's caste by their skin color or vice from, even then it's kind of difficult at times. caught on in certain parts of India, especially Even nowadays, there's these ideas about indigenous than others, and measuring like this type of stuff is almost always just used for This probably isn't the best path for Indians to and race and whatever group mix you are. I don't Either way, back to the British. Thomas Macaulay, created this &quot;brown Englishman&quot; concept where Indian in blood and color but English in tastes, only physically conquered and destroyed India, Indian institutions and replaced them with accomplished American historian ever, notes that a system of communal schools managed by village destroyed these village communities and took after a century of effort to restore them, One hundred years ago, there were now 730,000 7% of the boys and 1.5% of the girls receive that the government has established are not free a western purse, means large to a family always education basically ceased, while elite Indian Indians began to consume more British education, true. We started to see brown Englishmen, would rebel and fight for freedom. However, Indian inferiority and shame would stay in these a sense of deep shame here--a shame around Indian As the Indian Republic was born and India start to supercharge and accelerate across all Bollywood actually came from Northwest India, people were light-skinned and/or into this brown of effort actually went into making these say, lighting or makeup. This standard of beauty and still do kind of go crazy for films. But a actually started to hate themselves and their skin and this isn't just about facial features or One interesting manifestation of this in the separatist movements in places like Kashmir, foundational thought about why they are their whiteness. While they'll speak English language, when they switch to about Indians because of their dark skin Indians because of their lighter skin. of the separatist movements is integral--it rests on the fact that they don't like being Now, attitudes around skin color still persist better today than in the past. Images of gods and rarely feature this type of dark skin that's usually see actors with lighter or white tones at India is undergoing a massive transformation as we talked about--there is an idea of India shame or slavery and embracing what it actually its indigeneity. There's a pride in being Indian Some may call it nationalism, some may call rights--whatever you want to call it, Indians are in a positive direction. Indians are beginning away in shame, rather embracing who and what they filled with new Indians--proud, unapologetic, change is simply skin-deep. And like I told you Thanks, everyone, for watching. This is editing techniques in this video and maybe a bit what you thought about the video. Make sure you I try to reply to almost every single one, so when you guys do that, and it's also really good subscribe--everything I'm supposed to say. I want publishing more, I want to make better quality, take on India than what you may usually hear.