Welcome back to your source of hot .NET and C# poor guy wrote, &quot;I've got an amazing idea for how about giving everyone a couple of years actually using this stuff.&quot; Now, this poor a couple of weeks ago, and it was immediately particularly from Immo Landwerth, who's actually disagree. The predictability of the schedule &quot;Nah&quot;. You know I love these guys, they're top was me. The response from the community was &quot;100% agree with you. All of our devs schedule.&quot; This guy says, &quot;Agree regarding sake of keeping the language design team busy. &quot;Agreed. The pace of the core API changes &quot;I do believe we're reaching the point of an extra long-term support version. Yeah, Well, let's talk about this. Now, if you there is one reply which unironically is &quot;.NET has a bigger problem with some people This is actually the most meaningful tweet reply there is an adoption problem with .NET and because I don't work for Microsoft, but I see things that the team is focusing on that are Let's talk about C# itself. What's stuff! That's cool. Next year, what's new adoption of C#. People are really going now has file-local types. Let's go one fantastic, just what I've been waiting for. let's go! C# 13, another year later. I mean, I So now, I have this channel. I get access to real and this is a common take I see. Craigy here and I don't understand why they make changes isn't it counterproductive?&quot; Well, for beginners, we want to keep C# and .NET actually a viable are not scared by every year another 20 things will say, &quot;You don't have to learn them,&quot; but Now, obviously, the people working on C# are the You guys are the the the GOATs, I think, let's talk about other web frameworks that have in by the core team. You just get an admin screen. This is fantastic! This is used by lots and lots ecosystem. So why is C# and .NET leaving people build what .NET needs? Microsoft has the people. project, there cannot be an admin panel that you could be spending your time doing that and Here's another thing. Imagine you want to secure a server dependencies that you don't control. amazing thing called Devise. That's pretty cool. and it's even, look at this, this is the so you don't have to pay diddly squat to which does the same thing. This is so they're not starving, unlike most .NET's important even the Azure team contributed Azure So, in C# and .NET land, I want to build a JSON What are the options here? We go, ASP.NET use one of the following: Microsoft Identity, Server. Do you remember Identity Server? Probably Couldn't literally pay the bills, so they had to API without either using Azure or using Duende please write a comment and tell me that I'm wrong official Microsoft documentation has missed. think the amazing team could be spending time The next thing we need to talk about is the thread. So currently, we have an LTS for three LTS releases. You get three years of patches. context. And the only blog post out there that Inedo website that embarrassingly points out that and it'll be still under support long past on today. I just, the messaging is all Also, this is interesting. Yeah, okay, you three years of support, but where have I seen that even numbers get three years of releases. active and maintenance over a period of and then the odd numbers are basically Now, I think this is okay for Node.js right? If you're a genuine organization to be paying for Visual Studio or C# Toolkit or so this should be better than Node.js. The really worrying is that if you shipped an here on the latest LTS version of .NET, you everything. And well, I hope you're ready, update in your CS project file.&quot; Well, yes, you you've got on the microservices wagon, you've But anyway, you got to deal with the breaking this isn't, how do you know that your app isn't so you can't even plan? So you got the breaking breaking changes in .NET 8. Maybe you're lucky, an upgrade, despite what people says, it needs business stakeholders. Why am I dealing with this? apps are for life, not just for Christmas, So, what am I proposing to increase and safeguard should extend the LTS period to 6 years. I think patches. Yeah, people pay for Microsoft stuff, so just get for free with Node.js? Please, I mean, ship an enterprise app at the latest, at the of security patches. .NET has a huge advantage version, Microsoft Update will update the happen with Node.js. So you could put an app on kind of be safe for a while. Let's extend There are apps, there are critical quite important infrastructure that have no plan. version. And then you know what happened guys. Security is important. What happens if after .NET 9 is released? Are you not going to so let's just make it official and extend this just security. I don't need performance That was therapeutic. Thank you very much you agree with me, press the like button. adoption? Press the like button. If you think an idiot in the comments, and I will try to