So is it. Possible to lose your salvation. Or is it true that if you get saved you're always saved? This question can cause a lot of stress Can we sin so badly There seems to be a lot of disagreement so I'd like to add to the discussion. By sharing seven thoughts Someone is saved because of their faith, Ephesians chapter two, verses you have been saved through faith It is the gift of God, In this passage, Paul talks that they are saved through faith, So I need to make this clear. What determines whether or not they have faith in Jesus And like Paul said earlier, by filling their life Otherwise, people could. Be capable of boasting. That, number two, James Chapter two, verse 26 four So Faith Without Works is dead. Also in this passage, that in the same way, Faith is also dead James, earlier in the passage, explains because even demons believe in God And then James wraps up faith must have good works. Otherwise faith is. Dead. Now, while this thought may seem It's not. Some people may think that faith and works but in actuality it's faith alone And this faith is proved true According to the Bible, between belief and faith and were saved through faith as seen And at the same time, Faith is dead Thankfully, though, that gives us the definition of faith, is the confidence that what we hope for It gives us assurance. About things we cannot see. And the definition for faith is this faith is firm belief that results. And confident action. Because if you continue to read Hebrews belief always led them to do something. So let me try to bridge the divide What that works is dead. And here it is. A saving faith works. And that's it. Are we saved by the works But when a person understands That person will want to love him back. And that love looks like. Obeying his. Commandments. As seen in John chapter 14, verse 15, If you love me, obey my commandments, Grace should not be abused. ROMANS Chapter six versus one or two. What shall we say then? Shall Certainly not. How shall we? Who died to sin live any longer in it? In this passage, Paul Because if we're saved by grace, Any response to that thought by saying no, If we're dead to sin, So here's the issue. Some people in the past have abused God's Take Billy here, for example, and he I'm saved based on my faith in God. So I can sin right now Because at the end of the day, And my salvation isn't based on what I do, Now, while these exact thoughts, some of us can live And this thinking would put us in that if someone were to truly his lashings, his piercings, his agony, I would argue what Jesus did for them Despite their many failures As opposed to someone Oh, Jesus will forgive me, for this person who is abusing I would probably make the assertion. That they do not have saving faith. Not number four. Someone can know they're saved. First, John, Chapter five, verse 13. These things I have written to you that you may know and that you may continue to believe Of the Son of God. In this passage, John tells the Church is so that they would believe in Jesus that they have eternal life and And the key word here is no. And the observation I'll make Whether or not they have eternal life. So for Christians, it shouldn't they're saved through Christians can know for sure if they are Godly peace that. Can look death in the. Eyes and smile. Because they know where they're going. Once they breathe their last breath. That number five. Nothing can separate God's children ROMANS Chapter eight versus 38 to 39. And I'm convinced that nothing Neither death nor life, Neither are fears for today Not even the powers of hell No power in the sky above or in the earth Indeed, nothing in all creation From the love of God that is revealed In this passage, that nothing can ever separate them their own shortcomings and failures Because if their sin could separate them from God, It's important to note, though, Christians. So what Paul was effectively communicating who have faith in Christ Nothing could separate them. From God's love. Not number six. Some people look like they have faith, Faith. First, John, Chapter It is the last hour and as you have heard, many Antichrist have come by They went out. From us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, But they went out. That they might be made manifest, John here is explaining opposed to Christ that are present and but were never really Christian. And if they really were Christians. They would have continued in their faith. In the Christian walk. There's a lot of people who talk the talk Even walk the walk Judas Iscariot was one of these people. He was one of the 12 disciples But he betrayed Jesus for money. And might I mention. That no one suspected him So for people who look at believers who left the faith, I would say that Either they're like the prodigal son Decisions Or they never truly had faith and like Judas faked it and thought, Number seven, lives Second Corinthians Chapter 13, Verse five Examine yourselves Test yourselves. Do you not know yourselves Unless indeed you are disqualified? In this passage, Paul commands or test their life. To see if they are actually in the faith. And this is something Because we're sinners. And we should pay close attention where Jesus says, Shall enter the Kingdom of Heaven, Does the will of. My Father in heaven. Many will say to me in that day. Lord, Lord, out demons in your name, and done many Declare to them, You who practice lawlessness. So all that to say. If we're really Christian, we should really examine our lives Do I really have faith? And does Jesus really know me? And I'm not saying this to freak you out, Whether you truly have saving faith. So for someone who asks the question, My answer is this. If someone is truly a child of God nothing can separate them from God's love. Therefore. But they should always examine their faith Are reunited with Jesus. Okay. Also, here's all the points that we shared in the video And I hope you remember today. Jesus loves you.