If you play the saxophone or just enjoy seeing watching this entire video. I recently visited the France where they have been making some of the You're about to come along on a fascinating transformed into beautiful music making tools as well as traditional hand craftsmanship. You the Yanagisawa saxophone factory in Tokyo is both factories are located in residential different the rest of the saxophone making the opportunity to visit the Yamaha saxophone a strikingly different process there as well. so you don't miss out when I post that video This is Florent Milhaud, the saxophone product manager for Selmer Paris who's going to show us around. sheets of raw brass in this room they store the scratch. This is a high-tech laser cutter which part kind of like a cookie cutter but for brass. bell. This one becomes two halves of a tenor a tenor bow, and these will be necks. Over here tubes. It is very interesting to note that this body tubes have the same interior shape and volume from the 1940s. The fundamental differences from bells, as well as the tone hole placement and tone and tenor saxophone bells start out as a sheet of The two bell halves are cut from the rather than traditional silver solder. Selmer says the metal. Now the smaller end of the bell gets the process is fascinating and begins with liquid tin being cast into these rings of various diameters. The fused bell is then is pressed along the length of the bell Another important thing to point out is that all instruments, their entry-level professional assembly that is done by their foreign did with the legendary Mark VI which was often Ironically the Mark VI's that were considered more valuable today than France. Next the Bell flare is rolled over done for over a 100 years. A baritone sax that gets folded around its mold and soldered done by hand. Selmer Paris is one of the few A bass sax bell is made in two sections that The bow is made in a similar fashion, two halves are getting the the final shape just right. These Real quick this video is not sponsored right now. Your support is what allows me to this. To the many folks out there who enroll in mouthpieces, reeds and other accessories, I want this without you. After this video be sure to head every saxophone player at every level. Our gear for saxophone players, and our courses have their playing while having fun in the process. the body tubes each model of Selmer saxophone neck creates its individual character. We start with a tube and soldered together. These straight Unlike the saxophone bells, which are placed into a mold and liquid Giving them their final Body tubes are also made from a single sheet Once the tube gets soldered together by that very large, modern, and sophisticated used to be cut as circles and then the In 1922, Selmer was the first manufacturer on saxophones. Here's how it works. These half Then the body tube is put in position and a which results in a perfectly circular tone saxophone are made it's time to start attaching this factory. These huge rolls of sheet brass out countless small pieces. This is what a key for example. Other small parts like pivot screws thousands. Now it's time for us to walk back to Every Selmer saxophone has The complex key mechanism of a these key posts. This machine zaps the holds them in place temporarily so that This worker is using tin solder to attach The bells and bows get soldered together here as well. These two bass saxophone body tubes have just are attached the alignment is fine-tuned. As you metal quite a bit. Everything needs to get cleaned If you look closely at a saxophone small moving parts. Each one is unique to the factory. Hundreds of different small brass get that smooth to the touch finish. In using machines that have been in service everything up. These machines are huge vibrating a nice first stage of polishing. And in this and it comes out looking like this. Next step get a final finishing polish immediately before the lacquering room on a hanging conveyor Next up is the engraving. If you've wondered how they get such intricate designs detail. Well here's your answer. These high-tech and never get tendonitis. [Music] Here's another futuristic robot that performs multiple operations on each saxophone. For a perfect distance between the key posts and then trims Then it levels and files down each tone hole to saxophone parts are ready for assembly. At the And he adds the left-hand thumb Now it's time to glue the pads into their of shellac for each key prepared in these ready that light turns green the metal is hot enough to up to ensure that the shellac has melted and gets held in place while the metal cools. The final one where one worker puts together and regulates side C key, now she installs the hinge rod and As you can see this G sharp key is binding slightly installed pads are sealing properly, and now for assembled set up and adjusted there are several The final stop on our tour is the shipping a case along with their included accessories distributors and dealers around the world. making extraordinary instruments for over a comes a certain amount of rumors and hearsay shown here today helps saxophone enthusiasts Selmer saxophone. The mixture of cutting edge is striking and at the same time exciting to video and I hope you did too watching it. saxophones in Japan you may be as surprised as