This Animation is sponsored by Michael The year is 2020, multiple companies have retained control of the Terminator franchise and With each fracturing, a new Our only hope is to summarize the Skynet first sends a T800 to 1984. He sports beige pants, black boots, a patterned tee, While he's nearly impenetrable, he can be burned and as such, his hair shortened and his eyebrows are singed off. He then wears a leather jacket, grey shirt, and covers up an eye wound with wide glasses. His the mother of future resistance leader, John Connor. But he's hit by a truck and engulfed in an explosion. revealing his wobbly t800 endoskeleton, That gets blown apart and crushed in a hydraulic press. A new t800 appears in T2, this one wears leather pants, smaller boots, and both a His hair is shorter his glasses are smaller. He's been reprogrammed to protect John Connor from the T1000, A liquid metal Terminator with the ability to form sharp weapons with his and and morph into other forms. He's impervious to typical weaponry. but can be frozen and shattered, Although he can quickly piece himself back together. Ultimately he's defeated when blasted into molten steel, With the T800 following close behind to eradicate this timeline of all Terminator technology, Preventing Skynet's inception. T2 Battle Across Time, introduces the early Model T 70, with the As well as the spider-like liquid metal T1 Million, But that's just a theme park attraction so we'll move on. Terminator 3 Rise at the Machines, Includes a brief appearance of the T900, He wears a more streamlined jacket, looks about 10 years older and briefly dons star-shaped glasses. He's stronger, can withstand heavier firepower and has a hydrogen power supply, which is prone to explosions. This machine is in charge of protecting John Connor and his future wife from the female TX, Who's endoskeleton is encased in liquid metal, and mostly wears a skin-tight red suit. She has an arsenal of armed weapons, Can spin her head 360 degrees, identify DNA from a sample of blood. Morph into other people, and enlarge her breasts at will. But, in the end, she is no match for the T-850s power supply suicide, Which allows John Connor and his wife to escape to safety as judgement day begins. The TV series the Sarah Connor Chronicles features the smaller T888 models, Which make use of a hidden leg compartment to hold their gun. A liquid-metal T1001, that can use her extra liquid-metal to form pet eels and And the dainty in size T900, sent to protect John Connor. But this show is a whole can of worms, so ...let's keep going. Following Terminator 3, Terminator Salvation showcases the upgraded T1s, The hulking T600s which wear unconvincing rubber masks and tattered The smaller T 700 endoskeletons, Moto-Terminators and Marcus a human Terminator hybrid, Who unknowingly carries a chip that allows Skynet to control him. In a turn of events, Marcus rejects the chip and opts to help John Connor in battle. Going so far as to donate his heart to save John's life. In Terminator Genisys, the previous two sequels are entirely ignored. And this time the T800 appears older. sports a hooded jacket and has slicked-back hair. In this timeline, he was sent to raise a young Sarah Connor - Together they take And a remodelled T1000, then after a 33-year time jump, He appears even older and wears a green This film's future also The T5000, which infects John Connor with nanorobots, turning him into the T3000 hybrid. The T3000 travels back in time to ensure Skynet survival, But the T800 forces him into a prototype While the T800 lands in liquid metal, Taking place after T2, Dark Fate premieres yet another T800, And this one finally manages to kill John Connor. 22 years later he's older, sports a plaid shirt Blue jeans, and a slick brown jacket. He's also grown a masculine beard, renames himself Carl, adopts a family and is running a.... ....Drapery business? Dark Fate also introduces Grace, a human with cybernetic alterations, Who requires replenishment via various drugs to stay in top shape. In this timelines future, the animalistic Rev7 model is seen. They have tentacle like spikes on their back, and can split apart forming an additional liquid metal model, But the main antagonist, the Rev9, is able to appear human while retaining the ability to split his endoskeleton from himself. Grace, the T800 and a grizzled Sarah Connor protect Dani, this timelines future resistance leader, from the Rev 9 , which gets tossed into a giant blender, is overloaded with Grace's power supply, and held down by Carl, disintegrating Arnie needs another paycheck for the Father read us a bedtime story. But this book has action! Hmmm... Adventure! Huh? Sci-fi robots! And romance! You had me a robots. Babylon Twins follows young twin sisters with their family after warring factions Take over the world. When their mother doesn't come back from a mission, the now grown twins must venture into what's left of black-and-white as they thought. Use the links down below to purchase the first book in the Babylon Twin series for help support the animations and make Thanks for liking and commenting on the video, huge props the patrons for supporting the channel. Subscribe and ring the bell to be the