There's something happening to me there's something awakening in my mind. I can't control it. What did you see? Paul. There is a crusade coming Do you often dream things that happen, just as you dream them. Yes. The test is simple, remove your hand from the box and you die. What's in the box? Pain You inherit too much power, you have proven you can rule yourself. Now you must learn to rule others. Something, none of your ancestors learned My father rules an entire planet. He's losing it. He's getting a richer one He'll lose that one too Arrakis is a deathtrap Kill them This is an extermination They're picking my family off, one by one Let's fight like demons An animal caught in a trap, will knaw off it's own leg to escape. What will you do? Paul I know you One day, the legend will be born All of civilization depends on it The future, I can see it. I must not fear fear is the mind killer. My lord duke When the fear is gone, only I will remain. Welcome back everyone it's Charlie. This is good to be my dune trailer video. The sleeper must awaken so there's a whole they're doing with this movie and how they're Dune, because this is just meant to be the doing videos for the dune series. So be sure to subscribe to get everything to do to enter is be subscriber and leave video. So I'll start at the beginning of the trailer talk about Easter eggs as we go along. Most of you have probably seen or read at it at some point in the past one of the most the books is that opening prologue from the Virginia Madsen's opening prologue scene. The funny thing about the song that they put side of the moon. So just a bit of a wink and a clever Easter planet. That's the way the book opens. That's the way the David Lynch's 1984 movie of this trailer because it opens with his just wrote Rev. mother about the visions that that he's having visions of the future. He has all this power. They didn't know about yet sleeper must awaken voiceover at the beginning. The trail there's something happening to me. There's something awakening in my mind as Walder on Arrakis, so obviously this is all that he's having at the very beginning of coming. That's obvious he the Civil War that happens after their pretrade by Dr. Euie in the Bene the scene of the famous test. Obviously that's a big moment during the 1984 That's a big moment during the books. The Reverend mother has come to Caladan to think that he has if he's going to become years of selective breeding to create a perfect away from their demise while he is the protagonist The important thing to remember though is at the beginning of the story. One of the biggest characters whose driving movie pickup is actually his mother, Lady really big moves that the plot has during Lady Jessica was actually born to the Harkonnen her order and they ordered her to marry Duke wed that daughter to a Harkonnen prince in So the whole thing is they do want to bring Bene Gesserit order wants to be in control Jessica winds up falling in love with him So that's where Paul atreides comes in. He becomes the vessel for all this power that the Reverend mother has come to see what's asking these questions. Do you often have visions of things that come important to the dune mythology the Rev. mother Her order possesses sort of like the sum total generations. But Paul Atreides becoming the Kwisatz Haderach I can see the future. That's actually part of his powers the Kwisatz but the whole thing about all this power that's Is it actually becomes a bit of a trap. I don't of the going to deal with this during but he himself becomes sort of trapped within for him later on. Lady Jessica also winds up giving birth to and she also gains those powers when she takes have to characters with the powers of the I was a most of the trailer is just focusing him meeting the sand worms the sleeper must film the sort of the moment when he eventually to awaken within him. He becomes conscious of his abilities. What are the differences between this film Lynch movie blew through a lot of the plot that most of this will encompass the big Civil friend and meeting Chani and learning about will be what he does. Once he unlocks those abilities. I love the scene of him putting his hand in Everybody remembers this from the 1984 film to sense all these crazy things happening This is the same scene from the 1984 film Brolin thanos himself Oscar Isaac who's playing when the cast was doing there big interview master. He's the one is teaching Paul to fight before story. Their whole ideas that eventually one day dies of natural causes. Obviously that doesn't wind up happening. Gurney is one of his most important teachers bandages right mother is talking to about Obviously that's all just foreshadowing for powerful person in the universe is also a Emperor of Dune story which is something that all about the golden path leading humanity movies are really successful actually do the becomes God Emperor of Dune is a giant giant about his father losing the planet just foreshadowing to be happening later in the movie, so it's to get rid of house of treaties, it just that golden path now based on current events is I love the production design. I love the look of the sand worms everything Obviously they try to go back to a lot of for their designs really cool Easter egg hereto these look a little bit like jobless and crawlers. So if you're not a huge fan of the dune series. What you might not realize is is that George Frank Herbert did with that first dune book and doing the original trilogy, but really dune. The reason why looks a little bit like Star by that original dune stuff we get our first I'm sure he's going to be amazing monster Stellan Skarsgard who's playing Baron Harkonnen we meet Jason Momoa is Duncan Idaho for the people as part of the Dukes forces to meet that he is now in charge of spice production Duncan Idaho there ahead of their forces to don't realize those early in the story the characters in the dune story through all of with the sand worms and the spice itself is the spice that so critical to the function travel. It has all kinds of medicinal properties all like this wonder drug that does. So many different things, but it's only produced does not realize that the sand worms themselves sand worms themselves the most important resource one day the legend will be born all of civilization She's actually talking about Paul's son. She's not talking about Paul himself, but in any of the movies say that for eventual If you're wondering why there's not a whole There's a lot of shots of her early on, but this first part of the story should probably sequel that just because he doesn't really it sounds like that's going to take up most reveal of the sand worms to business not look just gives you an idea for the scale of things everyone let me know in the comments. What your most hyped up about this. I'll be just a small part of the story. Like I said this is going to be a two-part to come out in December. Hopefully theaters will all be open everywhere but I'll be more trailers in the next couple That new footage everyone click here for my and click here for that brand-new Mandalorian everyone stay safe I'll see you guys tonight!