New cars - this was once part of the American Dream. But it's now out of "Americans need cars, because Cars are quintessential to the American Affording a car, the maintenance car has become a major challenge, many thousand Americans. Americans and the automobile - A love affair lasting more than driven by the idea of unlimited All right, let's talk about... The "Land of the Free" and "Home of the cars populating an ever-expanding "We constitute the greatest country in the our people. Great in accomplishment in the past The modern United States of America... - "You want an automobile, because it's the "I think, if you look back in why they created the automobile was, especially when the roads and the interstate Hello from Indianapolis and the trademarked racing capital of the world - ... All part of the American DNA So you might ask, why are we in Indianapolis mobility and the challenges for many transportation to afford a car. Indianapolis is literally because major highways from the The last few years have been good Car manufacturers have been cranking and at ever higher prices for the last However, there are some dark clouds on the world's second largest automobile market. the equation has become this: No Car repair costs, car maintenance, car within the last two years. Why is that and how Car buyers of all ages, income groups and money - no matter if they buy a new or used car. Things have gotten so out of hand mobility for all - has become a struggle, or We are at the 2024 New York auto show, a show circiut - but before we go inside, In 2023 there were 292.3 million vehicles for 376 million gallons of gas used per day. gasoline, ahead of China, Japan, and Russia. a day - to work, to go shopping, or for a doctor's And when Americans go on vacation inside the Back at the auto show in New York we're meeting and car enthusiast. Greg is the producer He tests and evaluates new Greg has agreed to help us better going on in the US automotive industry, I did not know it's such a magnet for people, cars are now a luxury item for people. In many cases, yeah $40 -50,000 starting price. When people come here to an autoshow like this Is this an opportunity to touch thier dream, or is it 'I'm shopping for a car that has to be useful economical, good gas milage. Are they doing thier research here or is it touching the candy? It's a little of everything, you can touch the candy, becasue you see cars you know you'll never be able to afford but you get a chance to put your butt in the seat and say 'oh this is nice' And while you might not buy the upscale model you maybe attracted by the brand to go to something a little more afforable. "Affordable!"- that sounds good. The problem: nearly impossible in many cases. The same since interest rates are astronomical, compared That average cost of a new car that's gone up average cost of a new car was about $38,000. That Since 2020, prices for new cars have 31 percent. The increase for used cars It's getting very close to the United Sates. That growth in care interest rates. But those used car and much different thing if you can get zero Buying a $45,000 car - almost the median yearly at 7 percent or even higher, adds thousands in a growing number of Americans keep up with car payments before in many "I read that for most Americans largest expense after the mortgage, "The house, the car, college education bites. And you're not financing for three years sometimes seven years. That's a lot of time But wait - there is more... "What people are surprised by now are things a car and thinks about repair and maintenance to fix. And insurance is going up. So, "A couple of things are happening... costs are going up because it costs more - if you have to adjust your headlight but your safety systems and so forth. That's to use high-end computer tech and getting the In just one year from 2021 to 2022 insurance another 20 percent by the end of last in just three years - the steepest increase companies report record-breaking And that means - a growing number of so-called just about lets them get by - are getting and guaranteeing their need for mobility "Those are the folks, who are really not having access to mobility. And without employment. Without access to employment, "Public transportation... The public transport Those guys are trying to really do their who can't afford a car to places or for shopping, and of course, But here's the thing: transportation in the United States - if we're or maybe San Francisco and the tram system there - and Public Transportation - that doesn't roll off Public transportation customer only back where they were before the Covid In 2023, fixed-route ridership was more The city is bucking a trend areas in the US struggling with However, even Indianapolis is in transportation needs for more and but who must respond to changing demands You're well set in the metropolitan area, but and companies going outside of downtown. This is now you have to bring city folk to the jobs "It is a challenge. But you know what? able to do that. We're able to get people in to our neighboring counties where the jobs are, Enter Nicole. She works as a home elderly clients who need help with all sorts and any minor chores around the house. this morning. Nicole lives in the suburbs even further from any remotely convenient bus "You never had a car, or you don't want a car? " "I do, but I ain't had a car though, Untarnished mobility and or better work has so far remained elusive for the best way to get to work is by using "So, this is a micro transport program, to the doctor or to a pharmacy to pick up have transportation, who don't have In 2022, 5.7% of adults lacked reliable about 15 million Americans struggling The CDC, the Center for Disease Control has just a real, a growing, a bigger problem year after they don't go to the doctors they "Like here in Indianapolis, they're trying enough space for people in wheelchairs 1,2,3,4 Indianapolis councilwoman La Keisha "Driven2Success/Pathway Micro guests, and supporters are celebrating "If we had better transportation, we had but there are gaps in the services. So if right demand to where we need to go, instead of to for public transportation, to employment, don't have to drag several buses, uh, bags of take 3 or 4 kids or strollers on the buses "What do people in the, in the outer world have to understand about what the reality is when it comes to mobility and transportation?" uh, what most people don't understand is many shelter, out on the streets, homeless, unhoused. they're going to eat. If it's between the mortgage, they're going to pay the rent, or health, and transportation is one of the social Transportation is many things. Access to options are an ever-growing and important But mobility in this county comes back to one That's why affordability plays such "Affordability is sort of semi formally defined not a car, but for overall transportation costs. need cars to go to work, um, and to earn a living someplace to take a break, to go to a theater or That's why the future of the things transportation' - and with that, the country's social structure So, what will this future look like? affordability and personal transportation crisis? Design for Dreaming (General "I dreamed last night... We visit the SILO Auto Club in At first he started SILO - an upscale parking Simmons, a classic car enthusiast, that also functions as a social club for a exotic and luxury cars - all equipped with America's proclaimed ongoing EV revolution hasn't "I've not been as drawn to the electrification even as a consumer. But I also get the, the I get why there are reasons why we need to move Bad news for Simmons... - Electrical Vehicles, or EVs, soon with autonomous driving, are Experts add that all of the above will change faster and foremost - cheaper. billions on furthering the EV However, the number of EVs sold in the Only 1.2 million battery operated electric vehicles and just 190 thousand That's just a fraction of overall vehicle sales. were sold in the US in 2023. Roughly 12 On top of that - used car sales "I can hardly wait for this dream to come true" the next 10 to 15 years, industry But for now, US legacy car makers need vehicles at high prices and with the "For the legacy carmakers, they have the internal combustion engine profits are needed to be able to supply um, demanded by the growth and ever hungry For consumers, for potential car and need an affordable car to be their Prices for new and used cars will likely foreseeable future. The same goes for Real affordable mobility - so critical for "This is a question uh, that I think will And by that, I mean in a way in which America has technology on two fronts. So innovation on on the market facing front and, at the end of So, I do firmly believe that free this. And the free markets, um, by that pent up demand. As vehicles um, there will be a demand for an extremely low be a shake out here and consolidation that will Until then, affordable mobility for all can be "I think where we are right now, is we're of these new high costs of driving. We're over the next few years. The most fastest thing we could do would be simply A monthly cheque from the government go shopping and keep their doctor's And in the future... - say goodbye to All vehicles will be electric and a government sponsored basic subscription model, available anytime and anywhere, with a click Smart vehicles', as in safe, economical, possible by financial subsidies and incentives However, this will shake out - it's going to What do you think? Let us know in the comments,