In this course, you will improve your HTML, CSS website. Hello, everyone. In today's video, we're HTML, CSS and JavaScript. So this is the main nice hover effects. On the buttons and images. Okay, so the next section is going to be the upper with also nice after effects. And we're going And they're also going to have a timeline. Okay, and then the next section is going to one of these patterns can lead us to okay, so for example, you want to get to GitHub, or YouTube, whatever. Okay, and then the We also have a nice hover effect Yeah, there it is. And then finally, we have information here. Anything that you want, it's it's going to support multiple screens, you can So when I decrease the width, it's going to check you can sort of, you know, switch between the them to be on the right side. Okay, so as you to different screen sizes. Okay. So Sam is And also the portfolio is Yeah, also, everything is responsive. So even more responsive, you have the knowledge to this quick demonstration. I'll see you in the isn't many images. So these are the images I'm going to start by creating a new HTML file, folder. So this one is going to be storing our when to create a new style. So the extension So that's the sass preprocessor. It's much quicker Sass, you need to go to the extensions, and the SAS and then install that. And also, there's time that we make updates to the code. So we can might also want to download HTML CSS snippets. So Okay, I think that's it for now, we just need resetting. So I'm going to set the margin to margin and padding zero, box sizing, zero to none. Okay, so in the body, I'm just just to check out if our styles are working. styles folder. So here you're going to see Okay, and then it's going to generate a style css HTML boilerplate. So to do that, hold Shift and one, enter. Okay, so I'm going to Portfolio. Okay, so now I'm just going to link I'm going to run this with live server. So you can extension. Okay, so I'm going to There it is. Okay, so that means our styles the background color of red Margarida first. Google Fonts, Google Fonts, I'm Okay, so you need to select some font weights. So the regular ones only, all the way to 800. So link, once you've copied, go to the index below Okay, so I'm also going to copy the font family Okay, so now that we've done the fonts, we're mode. So to do that, we're going to be using some we're going to type root, and then we're going so the mainly the variables Okay, so you can do a variable literally for do colors. So the first one is going to be color a dark color 191 And then D to B, I think that's going to paste in the rest of the colors, because Okay, so these are the variables that we're I'm going to give it a background color. Primary, so VA primary color, we're going to dot one. Okay, so I went to also do a font size, a going to be our default font size. Also, I'm going going to be white. So by default on the text to Transition. So the transition is going to Okay, so like that. So now that we've done that, to give the body class of main content, so main we're going to have a header header with the class sec, one, section one, and then another class class of active, they want to see why we're using Okay, so now if we had and in the main are going to Section is going to have a class of section and then another class about. Okay, so now I'm Okay, so we're going to have five more sections. Okay, so we have section, section two, about duplicate this. Tomato three more times 123. Okay, a class of section, all of them. I'm just going four, and Section Five. Okay, you can just change And then the other one, this one's going to be Contacts. Okay. So does that. Now we have the these sections. Before we add any content. between the sections, okay, using the JavaScript. going to say font, awesome CDN. CDN. And then look version 5.5 point one, and then copy the even above and then just paste in the link Okay, so now we've pasted the link for font like, sort of get icons from font awesome to use the Instagram icon. So we can copy this just gonna paste it down here. And when I save, Let's see, there it is. So that means the default color of the website. And the icon is successfully. So now, let's start by installing target all of the links, the anchor tags, nine block, and then text decoration I'm going to actually give it was this I inherits we're going to inherit the color is going to be inherit inherited. Okay, so now So these sections are going to be able to switch they're going to have, they're going to have a have a minimum height of 100 VH. Okay, so that's And then we're going to do position of absolutes. zero is our top zero. And then we're going to do the spacing between top and bottom is going to Okay, so each and every second is And actually, we need to also do the header. height of 100 VH. So the height for and then we're going to do a color, the color for color. White, I don't know And then we're also going to have an overflow Okay, so now, nothing happens. When I inspect that are on top of each other. Okay, because all laying on top of each other. So to create we need a way to hide the rest of the sections and Okay, we're going to do the light and I'm going to target a section class. So this I wanted to be away from this Okay, so I'm going to use a transform for that minus one represent. Because by Okay, and then I'm also going to do a transition, actually, if you want, because we're going to you can, you know, make it easier by creating a And also we need the background color. So for Primary color, okay, so that's, that's the them differently, we can give them a different going to tag a section one, sec, one, sec one. So color if you want to, by by by default only to be because I want to be able to switch between these translate. Translate Y sheets, y one to translate We're going to do one. Okay, so now, when we the default place. So here we did transform, Translate we come back to the default place is going animation coming in, off screen and scaling one, zero to between zero, and one. Okay, so we So I'm just going to paste in some code for the, each individual section, you can give you can kind of, you know, give it a different Okay, nothing much, nothing much happens here, buttons, which are going to let us control these controls. So make sure controls pressure, this So inside the controls, we're going to have is going to have a class of control. So So that's a button is going to have a control. first one's going to be control one, the so on. So I'm going to say, control. So this one So the dollar sign means increment the numbers how many divs we've created. Okay, so control, actually is not going to win any other a play, I'm just going to put a class is going to have a class of Active button, so we don't need the Active button on the rest of will only want the first one to have active control two, three, all the way to five. Okay, a corresponding icon. So in this case, you can go search, let's say, home, you can look for an icon and then you just gonna copy this, and then we're looking for. This is going to paste in Okay, so we are using a warm briefcase newspaper Okay, so now, I'm going to save this, as you can icons will be here on the right side. So to do because we need to be at a fixed position. You can make a comment here, say controls, controls, and then here, you just do control So position, we're going to do person a fixed, is going to be 10 was only to be always at Okay, and then right is going to be 3%. So from the right. So there they are. So now Okay, so now we're going to do display, flex, flex I think we might be able to give him a font size this in the y axis. So to center this in the to center this in the y so as I they've updated, they've now nicely centered, I'm going to do align items to center as well. Okay, so I'm going Control class. So for the control class, I'm around it. So the spacing is going to be one room so pointer and then I'm going Background color is going to be So it's going to be grateful. So that's the to be 55 pixels because I want it to be rounded. something rounded. So the border radius is so as you can see now the rounded, but I want So to do that, we're just going to use flex, content to center, okay, so I'm also going to make we're going to use is margin. So top and bottom left and right. Okay, also, we're going to give put this box shadow in a variable, to be honest. Shadow shadow one. And then these are the values 15 pixels for the blur and then the opacity is gonna be using. And this is going to do over, just in case we don't like redo this picture, in this video. Okay, so they're, they're showing the icon size. So to do that, I'm going to If you don't already know about Sass, we can nest elements. So that's what I'm doing right now. to 1.2. Rem, I want it to be slightly bigger. and pointer events of none. So pointer I don't need to do anything, it doesn't react to with let's save, everything looks nice. Everything so if you remember, here, I've given this a I want this active class, to be applied and also, at the same time, remove okay, so when I click this, on only this button and then remove the remaining active buttons, little bit tricky for you know, for beginners, going to do now, actually, I'm going to tell the so in here, above the control, I'm gonna stop that. So it's just giving it a Okay, like, so background color is going to be And then I'm going to toggle the icon target the icon and give it a color of white. It seems like everything is nicely centered now. green. Okay, so now that actually go to the JavaScript. And let's create So let's do new file, it's going to be up some HTML elements. So I'm going to select all const sections document query selector, query of section. So remember, we've given all of the selecting everything with the class of section. I'm also going to select the bad is the parent container of this of these buttons. so it's like the parent, I'm selecting this to also select the each individual button with Okay, so there is a second button controls. So I'm also going to select the body, the body is main content, that's the class. Okay, so in I'm going to use the function function to create a transitions. Maybe we can name this function, we're going to come in here, I'm going Active class. Okay, so what, what do I So this, I want to be able to get rid of the class that's what I want to have the class one. So So we're going to do let we're going to so it's going to be initially set to zero and then is less than is less than the length, the length is this one. Okay, so as long We're going to increment increment. Alright, so now does that. sick person button. So the second set the eye. Okay, whatever index we're on. Actually, I'm going to add an event clicked on. So this is Is this the index? Okay, So the event listener is going to take two. The first one is going to be click, and then the So what am I doing? This one is going to be a Okay, so in this case, I'm going whatever button was clicked on the current BTN. And then I'm going to say is close to with a class of Active button, okay, so if you active BTN. Okay, so I'm selecting that it's, it's say current button. The first one, with an index then I'm going to say current btn index zero, then class name. And then I'm going to replace that ones, it's not active, active, B, TN, and then whatever button clicked on, when we're not go to the class and press the empty string. So this is referring to this function. Okay, so this keyword in JavaScript. So kind of active person, active BTN. we need to call this function, page function. Let's go actually worse, I need to Scripts, and then we'll go to source and then up go to the page inspect. And then when we click on whatever button have clicked on. And then it's Okay, that's a stat. We have say it didn't work. So when I click the class is going on. Canary properties of undefined class Class Name to replace. Okay, something is wrong class list. Oh, this no cloud is supposed to be Hopefully, issue work, click. Nothing undefined. That's weird. Current btn class name replace active BTN. So you just need to make check to see if the namings are correct. I'm just except Well, I think the naming is correct. Okay, let's try to figure out what's going on. Undefined current button at evaton Okay, the, the class naming is correct. Document query selector. All don't I just realized something I didn't I didn't find function here. I'm pretty sure. I'm supposed to like that, instead of, because this keyword Okay, so it only exists on the regular let me just show you from recording. that's when I realized that I've used the okay, everything works fine. So now it's working the, if you want to use the this keyword doesn't let's move on to the next step to the next step. the content. But to be able to do that we need Okay, so now we've done the active class for each button is going to have something So when I click the button is going So in this case, it's going to look for the portfolios, blogs, and contacts. So make sure you the class after the class. And then here I'm going the header so this one is going to do main, a home. It's up to you home. So this one is going to be home so give the ID here. So for the home, the first one, the first about. So this section about section, one, two ID, ID, so this one is going to be about, folio, then Id, this one is going to be ID, contact. Okay, so these IDs are going Okay, so now that we have those IDs, we've done these sections, let's They're there, but they're right the sections that are there, actually, we need Okay, you know what we want to give them different so you can see the difference, there's a scale scale is zero. And actually and the scale is zero as yet, so we just need to do a little bit of Alright, just for you to see these sections. Okay, I'm going to save this. So we don't do the active class. So when we click each so the active class is going to be to the sections. Okay? So here, I'm going to sections, we are selecting all of these sections the main content here is the body. Okay, so the parent of all of these sections. So I'm going dot for each, so I'm going to loop over whatever all of the sections are inside the body. So going to say section. Okay, so we have section, we'll look through later add event listener. And so you can do your cover function here, and then Okay, so I'm going to, I'm just going to say target. Okay, so I'm going to save, let's go to not doing anything yet, because the sessions are see it. But now it's targeting whatever element of as you can see, and then it's showing the development have clicked on. Okay, so we're just in this case, we want to target these buttons I want to say const. ID. And then we're dot data set data set like this and then.id. I've clicked on whatever element have clicked on So the data set is this one here. Get a data ID I want to target the data sets, whatever element I want to get the data set for that. So I want Okay, so that's what this is referring to. So variable called ID. Okay, so I'm going to say, if, we're going to do, we're going to first remove the Okay, that's something like that. which is the container of the buttons. But I want Okay, so to do that, we're just going so for each button, I'm going to do by btn is going to remove the class of Active button active class for the styling of the buttons. But this is going to use this for the sections, not the active different class name. Okay, so we're looping If we click New button, we're just getting getting eat or target. And then we're going to say class button that was clicked on. So here, we're the is gonna is coming from here the event. Okay, so now that we've added the class, Other sections. So as we're doing, so gonna do that sections. So this, we're click the Active button, I want to be able to translation to default. Okay, I'm going to do that for each section. So here from the section. So it's every second for every section, I'm gonna say a section, I'm it's like the same thing that we've done with that's pretty much it actually done. Yeah, I'm element, and then you're document. And then we're going element by ID. And then we're going is coming from the data set is going to be inside ID. So remember, here we give we give the ID here, we're going to pass in the ID. And also this data element we're on, and then we're targeting the You can name and then we'll do Class and active. Okay, so now I'm going to save let's our sections. So, home hopefully should have an but when I click something else, hopefully When I click Yep, it got rid of the activity. These about when I click, this one is active now Okay, so now we can only use the active on one are there, but we don't see them. Because they're So I'm going to go under Search SEC five, I'm just display block, so we only want to Now, let's say so now the head is active, it has a works. We can cycle through the sections. No, no, that's not what we want. animation. I'm gonna say scale. And the duration is going to be one second. And then So I'm going to do an animation down and then this one is going to be scale. And him. And then I'm going to do at 0% What we late transformed, transform, translate 0%. Translate Y. Okay, so for the Y here is zero. Okay, so it's only gonna 100%. Okay, what's my maths is broken, by the So when I tried to do a single click in double okay, so here is just resetting the values to let's save this. Hopefully it should Okay, we can see, but that's not the effects Okay, so we're looking for Scale Y. Okay, we run the scale everything. So we want come from, you know, up. As you can see, Okay, that's it for the effects now can take a break now. And then I'll be back in a we'll continue where we left off. Okay, let's throw the header to the content, insert the So for the header, we're only mainly So here, I'm going to do a class header content. So the header content is going to have a left we're going to have the right header so the Okay, so for the left side is there's there is going to do header shape. And then below that IMG hero, does the image name and then go to So we're gonna have h1, with name. Okay, so this pan is surrounding the name Name the only this bit a different color Okay, so this pan or save a class of name, I of the span class, class name is gonna sound gonna have a p a p tag, who I'm just going I'm sorry for the background noise, my mates main BTN. Okay, so that's an anchor And it's going to have two spans, this is of btn text. Okay, so it's just you can put any text that you want. So this somewhere, or to Google Drive, wherever you're there. And then another span is going to have an Okay, so now that's it for the header I'm going to get rid of this green color here. to see, to show you that the sections are guy read when I get rid of every thing. Okay, So now let's touch doing the After the controls, I'm just and the content and then I'm gonna do in the content components, so some we're gonna put them down here. Okay, so Header content. So for the other content, we're to put two column grid, grid template columns, and then one Fr. So they're all going to be when I inspect this, as you can see, we have two And then yeah, the height is going to be one or 2% left header, left hander. So for that display, Okay, and then position is going to be relative that's going to be behind our image. So this image Okay, so that's why we're doing the So the shape we've named that shape, ah, the shape is going to have a transition I'm just going to paste in transition and then a is going to be far, it's going to be secondary and then position absolute, and then top zero. And then we're going to do Z minus one actually wanted to be behind. And I'll show you what, what he does, I'll just So this is the clip path, these are the altering the shape. So to do that, we can do clip a clip path. For example, then this trapezoid, read. And then we can you know, generate the shape this code and then you can paste it wherever on case, these are the, these are the values that I'm going to target the image. So for the So the border radius is going to be VA, I'm going Small, too. So missing the border radius mod two so it is going to be 90%, height 100, height background color is going to be far. So the going to be the background color, and then the this transition multiple times, and then I'm going we have an image, the actual image, width Okay, and then object fit to cover so it doesn't going to stretch out, we also want to transition going to read you can put that into a variable, And then want this image to be in a grayscale for to put the guilt, Grace, grayscale to 100%. Then So this is the beauty of sass, we and then we're going to set filter. grayscale, Okay, so when I have the image is changing color. leave me cynical. So now let's go to It's mainly, so we have left header, I'm going to header. Okay, so for the right header, and when direction to column because I want everything to content to center, and then padding right? To put then font size. So for the name is the main and then I'm going to target this pan inside gonna have a color, different color, the color, Secondary, so via secondary color. So that's we have a paragraph, I'm going to give them And then left or right is going to be zero. line height. So line eight is the spacing of sort of like something like that I'm So there it is. Looks nice. So we just need to going to reuse this button so it's independent so this main btn actually, it's I think it's like that. Okay, so now we can try to can this button is going to have a lot of styles. Wanted to be nicely rounded, font size. We'll do color. Inherit it's going to be 600 on the text to be thick. And then I'm going to give you a border That's the border, I'm going to do display flex I'm going to say overflow to hidden. Okay. So Text, and then I'm just going to give it a Okay, so in the button, we also have, Okay. Btn icon. So if you don't remember the class it's gonna have a color of a green color, Flex. Okay, so we've done that over and over. So So to set everything just display flex So padding while RAM, so it's like spacing around. our button, but it's filling in the entire width, So to get rid of this effect, we can do btn the apparent container called BT and corn. Here, display flex on that display. Flex. And then we're Yeah. So now now now we need to have an bring in shape that similar to a button. So we're going to we'll say end for four. And then we're So we can start this to whatever And then write is going to be zero. Right Translate X. So we're going to take the shift away going to go like to the side away from the going to do the transition. I'm just going going to do Z index wanted to be behind the this shape is there, but it doesn't have a width, hover when I have the button. Have the button What do I need to oil What do I want to happen? And then the set a background Okay, so now when I inspect, let me is there the before suderman Is there, but one represent so we need to bring it back when we have and then when we are not having String A which is doing this effect from the wrong 100% Because we're going one 2% On the positive so I wanted to amend positive so it's coming from I think we need to add a transition somewhere. In safe. Safe scratch I don't know not doing it before transition. I think in the say start doing it. If it doesn't does, if it Okay, doesn't matter, but works. Okay, so now which is the about section. This ABA section, it's So much content there. Okay, so About me check how long I've been recording, a couple of times, and then I made an error now I'm going to go to the Mac labs the controls about in there about I'm So we want to be able to reuse this title inside it's like the main title. So we have Okay, so when to color this differently. it means we're going to style that difference Okay, so in the independent components, so we Alright, so, for the maintainer. text align to center, and then now header position relative and then we're Swap uppercase, and then we're going forum. font weight is going to be 700. And So for this pan, I'm gonna do color, it's going Okay, so after that we're gonna target PG, PG text so the big Tex is going to a position the main test. I'm going to say top 50% as well. And then we're going to do okay, I'm just going to paste in so transition behind the text Okay, and then the font minor C to cinema suit percent it means when to is going to be 6.3 Ram. Okay, let's Okay, so there it is. Okay, so about me Okay, so now we have the Now let's to talk about content. So it's about container container, and then I'm gonna have left and right. Okay, so we're going to have an h4 on the left about, okay, that's what we're Okay? And then I'm going to copy that button Okay, so below, below the paragraph, I'm going to Okay, I'm just reusing the baton. I'm going to same button over and over again. I think that's I'm going to collapse this pattern. And And then I'm going to be left with the ratable. item. Okay, so the bot item is going Text. Okay, so in here, we're just gonna have a p p dot large text. Okay, I'm going to say So here, I'm just going to paste in small text, and then we're going to break the line, go to the new line. And then so that's it for that. So mainly, on the right Okay, so we're gonna go independent about Okay, so in here, I'm going to say, about container. So in about display grid. Then grid, template columns, Two, and then one EFA. They're And then I'm going to do padding top and in this. So it's a no brainer, padding, top Okay, so on the right about, it's also going somebody columns, so this one is going to be Like that. And then below that, we're going to do We gap when the term so that's Okay. Now, let's save. Let's go there. So that's we just need to keep starting. Okay, so we're one pixels on pixel, and a border radius and using for one pixel and the color of gray. when we have a, I'm just going to say cursor transform, translate, I won't translate y Minus five pixels, I want to have and then goes for. And then the border, I'm going to change And then the box shadow. I'm just the opacity Okay, so from open one to open go to the About section. So there it is. So have it turns green. Okay, so below that, text the vertex, okay, so padding. Padding display to flex. And then we're also Alright, so now we're going to look for large the font size to three REM font weight to 700. color Tuva, secondary Saundra color. the small text. For this small text, I'm through RAM, and then when to position text transform to uppercase, so I wanted the size 1.2 REM then the color is going to be gray. I want these to be two pixels and then end So it's going to be like a small I'm just gonna paste in the code for that. So the top 250 pixels with two RAM, high two pixels, So this is the before pseudo element, the So there it is. Okay, so this is a grid, where objects here. For us to have like four items. about item, you can clone this three more data to whatever data fits your need. So For me to change every item here, I'm not going to I've changed the data already. So I don't want these items. I'm just going to paste in all of the so the idea of like sort of already feeding Okay, so this is the right about. About so left about is just there isn't padding, right? Padding, right it's going to line height. So the line height for this p and then we're going to do padding or RAM, and then the color is going to be tell you the h4 is just putting into uppercase the Actually Do I need to tell you the container, be nice already. There it is. So everything need to add more, more stuff below here. So we So let's just do that. Now. So let's go about container I'm going to collapse that. So I'm gonna do about stats first, that's okay. So is going on here. Just an h4 Seeing my skills. progress bars, the div, program, progress Bar. Progress Bar. Okay, so that's another Progress. Title. Okay, so that's a P progress Okay. And then below that, we're Okay, so in there, we're going to we're going frog text. So this is the text, it's going to be whatever percentage of your skill. So in this tag. And then below that, I'm gonna have a cluster And then in this whenever span, and then the Okay, so that's that for the so this is the times as many, depending on how many progress go to the styles. So about container. After Above stats. So here, I'm just gonna do padding gonna say progress. Progress bars. Okay, so I'm to columns. And then below that, like that. Here, I'm just going to do I want them to be one after another. So that's select the progress title, drug title. Here I'm text transform to uppercase, so font weights, I'm gonna put it the five I'm going to say progress progress display flex align items to center so in so the text is never just a great color. Okay, Okay, so there it is a one next to this something is missing here my skills Okay, Okay, so now we just need to Ah, okay, so we have a class was that title tight. Okay, it's not there. Although we need do the progress bar now. So if the progress So the actual progress I'm gonna say width it's going to be point four, five for this I'm going to put a position of relative because save this Alright, let's see what we get. So need something also inside to show the progress, that span inside that inside the progress. for filling in the width. So this pan is going percent relative here. So left and top is going to Okay, and then the background color is going But if I set the width here, As you can see, is there. But if I want to create more items here, if I see a progress when I go, as you can see, they all have the same according to maybe different programming language we need to give each individual Okay, so you see this pan, it is a class give it a class of that. And then after this and give it a different width according to Okay, so now it's going to be in safe, because 90%. As you can see, it's 90. And they want to progress bar. So this is the actual progress bar to change the class names for the progress span. name and then put a div to a different width. the stats. That does ups. I'm just going to paste there, so now I've done the So now we should have like six But now there's something missing. Look, this class names. Okay, so I'm just gonna copy those So here we've done the HTML already. And So make sure your width, so our full Actually, at, for me, I've put HTML it's up to you what you decide to do with now we have different progress bars. different class name to a different progress bar, bar, I can give it a different class name, you you want. It's not limited to six was it's a grid, as you want. It's up to you. Okay. So now, let's I'm going to collapse the progress bars. So we see So it's actually stat stats title. Okay, so this chair tighter. On this to be container. I'm just going to go outside. I'm just to uppercase. Then I'm going to give it a to say Enter. And then I'm going to do 3.5 3.5, left, left and right zombies Because I want to create a before so the So you know the drill. Before we've done this to an empty string. And then left, I'm just going I give it a background color of gray, and So my say transform, Translate X and then okay, now I'm going to go to the Okay, but we need their border. So we can give this title maybe a border Yeah, let's do a border. I think actually not a border. So this before so the we just need to give this a width with is there it's not showing. Inspect before pseudo elements. The know why the O is height? bone color. I think this there's something wrong with the big content empty string. Person relative have no idea why it's not showing. Save It's interesting. Let me try Still, it's not working. I think I've so check your naming. Start tighter. I'm just trying to figure out why the let me Okay, let's do something else. I'll figure I'll working. So let's do something else. So now we like a line here onto the title, but for some out why. It's not showing later on. Let's focus So now we need to do the timeline. For the Okay, so for the timeline, we're just going is stuff we've been doing. So it's going to be a grid So we're going to have a timeline, Timeline Item. So anytime I make a Timeline icon, so we're going to have an icon as well. And I'm going to pull that you can go to folder And then P dots to timeline to ration. And you started working for a company and stuff, have an h five with the span inside. And then a Okay, that's it. That's it for the Okay, we just need to add the title above the Okay, so let's save. Let's see what we got. So determine item to do a grid for this terminal go to the styles. Main here, Okay, so dots timeline. And when I say display so my gonna waste your time rewriting. And then So for the terminal an item, I'm going to say, absolute the icon, coding left, padding left then a border of one pixel border left. So I'm with a color of gray five, and then I'm going the actual icon, and I say percent of absolute. you can play around with this value to I'm going to save just show you what I mean. So T icon, okay, I haven't Okay, so now, so there is our play with this value the left left value to value that I found to be better. So I'm gonna say color of secondary and then I wanted to be for it to be rounded and then a border so that's why I did width and height as the same. using flex. So display flex align items and just and then I just typed it the icon itself and then Okay, that's it, the icon should be should we just need to style this text and the title. to rate shown okay. So to duration padding top and bottom is going to be point to radius is going to be 15 pixels. I want it to be block. Okay and then font font size is going to be point eight RAM and uppercase, and then we're just going to change the Let's now just save everything. So there is our timeline icon item, I mean, okay, So after determined duration, there is an h5. the padding, text transform in font man, I'm going to tell you the span inside and the font weight and the font size, just the I'm gonna tell you the paragraph, I'm gonna Gray to reverse the color for that green number there it is, everything is nicely styled. So now and then change the values. So what you need to to duplicate the actual term line item, because columns. So we just need to duplicate to promote in the data to whatever suits your need. Okay, some values again, because I don't want to waste again. So you can put it to whatever values that all of the data or just made the random. So for Okay, so for the line, we'll come back into Yeah, I think I'll take a break for So now it's time to work on the portfolio's page. So this one is going to be super quick So let's go to the portfolio section. put some grid items. So mainly, you're going we've created already. And then just put, change from where we've done it before. And then, the title. And then when I go to the portfolio There it is. So now, let's do the content. P with a class of portfolio, text, just put some in this case, I'm just going to put some random folios, something like that. And then item. So in Portfolio item, we're going to image portfolio one. So we have portfolio all the we're going to have below the image, we're have the portfolio item, I want to display the you if a user wants to. Okay, so I'm going to source. So the source of the project like the Okay, below that, I'm going of icons. So here I'm going to have an anchor tag website you want to. So for example, if I say WWE Target. And when I put the target to blank, so it to blank, it's going to open a new page. And Okay, so you can put as many icons as you I want to do GitHub, YouTube. Okay, That's the icons I'm going to be using. So six grid items, or more, whatever is depends, it's three columns. Because once you have okay, so let's go to the styles, I'm going to way, I'm going to start doing the portfolio texts. Put text portfolio padding top and bottom is going to be to ram text align, it's going to be the center. And then folios the container. And then I'm going to do grid template columns. And then we're going to fr Okay, so we're going to have three columns and going to be two REM as usual. And then I'm going a margin top three RAM and then I went to do portfolio item and we'll do percentage inside is the portfolio item and we'll give it a I'm going to do object fit to cover and then what 15 pixels, okay? And then below that below hover items Okay, so with actually before Okay, so there it is. So it looks So image we just need to keep going the border radius 15 pixels we also need to put I belief not it's not working let doesn't seem to be working whether re order Oh border radius okay, we'll item, let me just double check the Okay, that's that's okay. Have items with one going to be the primary and then position Okay, so it's not showing yet. Okay. border 15 pixels. Okay, so they have items positioned Oh, it's have item have a or is it like that? Okay, so there is our have item, that's here. So we're going to center all So you already know how to do flex align items to center and flex And then let's see what we get. It's loading. this. Okay, so there is all of the items are individual icons. Okay. So to do that, I'm going inside there, and just want to increase the So the first is going to be 1.5 Okay, and then after that, icons, I want to say I wanna, I want to center. And then the icon, individual of the primary. So width and height has to be border radius, 50%, width and height must be mesh was the same for us to make sure the icons the icons around it, so we just need to center in order to do that, and then we're going to give And then case, it's going to be pointer Transition, I mean, transition, the So on, however, we might want to actually want to so I'm going to target the eye. So you can font size and the color to white and then give Okay, so when we have this icon, I'm going whenever I just want to change the icon I tag, okay, so it's just in the color. So I don't want to display this by default, okay, grid item. So in here, too, I'm going to get rid I'm going to say I'm going to say go up opacity zero it means I'm gonna like hiding by And then I'm also going to do scale zero, And then let's do also a transition, the one have a grid item. I want to return these Okay, so to do that, I'm just going to scroll I'm just going to say portfolio. Portfolio the portfolio item is the grid item. And opacity and we'll set that to one scale also so when I have it's, it's showing, but I just I don't know why it's not working for the Uber sent height 30 pixels. Okay, so that's the I'm gonna set the image itself height to 100%. Something fishy is going on. object fit, oh, it's contained, it's supposed contained object fit to supposed to be cover. Alright, so now it's covering the whole grid what we need to do is just duplicate we can duplicate them by you can the rotate, but I'm not going to do that So if we done display grid, three columns. So what I'm going to do now is I'm So we have the portfolio images, so the image can your own images if you want. So you just you so portfolio item, I'm going to collapse portfolio multiple times 12345 As many as many times as you should have more portfolios, and then you just Okay, so yeah, I will, I will leave the rest up to portfolios. Okay, so I've pasted in the date images. So you just need to do the same as you liking. So I've changed the images. So now yeah, this before, so the element was not showing is I forgot to do percent of absolute on the absolute, and then it will show somewhere starts tighter. tighter, and then the content now the line should show. So now we should Okay. So that's it for the portfolios. Now similar to the portfolio because it's a great it's going to have three, three columns. portfolios, I'm going to collapse this. And when content content that's like the parent, the main in the title and then the title, just change it So it's inside the header, the about section, that's where we first name main title. We've started this without this text. Okay, so hopefully we should have main Okay, so we have the main title. So it's like the going to do dot blogs. So in the blogs, I'm going of the blogs. So in the blogs, I'm gonna do dot is a great item. I'm going to do to be duplicating Okay, so the blog, I'm going to have Okay, so you can set whatever image you want blog, text. And then in there, I'm gonna have anything that you want. And then after that, as well, like that. Okay, that's it for there isn't much to it, we just need to start so we just need to go to the styles portfolios, portfolios, and then Okay, so here, we can do dots, blogs. So the the parent of each individual blog, grid. So in So the standard stuff we've been doing we're going to have a percentage relative. And And we're going to give it a border radius of five And then we're going to give it a or you can use this one. Okay, so one one pixel on the x and then 20 pixels for the what do we want to happen? So when we have blue container, I'm actually also going to paste. And then I'm just going to increase point one to point three. And then after and then translate why I wanted the blog to go to go up minus 55 pixels. And then I'm going to and then inside, inside that one we have filter, I'm going to do grayscale, I'm going to translate, actually, the scale learn to So one by 1.1. So the image the normal scale point one. Okay, so it's like 10 larger by 10%. we're also going to do a boxer. We're going to the y axis, which is four pixels. So we wanted So now, let's save let's see what we got so there's a glitch somewhere. Yep, there Plugs. Me refresh this. I don't know That's, that's odd. Let me double check Oops, plus content. I don't know I know what's going on. Go back. Class. Oh, this class name is So get rid of this class name wrong. We're I don't know why this. This class name didn't these class names. We're not gonna use them. Let's Yep, nothing affected. Yep, nothing affected here. Okay. Yeah, so We didn't use those class I think we're using this about class names. it, or if it's affecting something, it means Okay, so now, not glitches. So there it is. So like, boom, boom, but we need to So to do that, let's go back to the styles. with the hover, we need to now style the image or 100%. And then I'm going to do height 300 Object fit to cover to cover and then what on the top, top right and top left was a Radius. Well, the radius top, top left, so top left is five pixels. And then we're going to do top right So there it is, we have a border top, Okay, so now we just need to tell the give So when we have the filter. We need so future one of the present. So here and then he has like one or 2% and then a Oops. Okay, so it's gonna transition slowly. it's going to go to one or two go to zero. you have the grayscale is going to go to zero, so the image is sort of like pops out. Okay, so Text. So for the block text, I'm actually margin top. So for the margin So you can play around with this value, see fit. But for this one, I'm fine, to be a good value. And then I'm going to do a Actually padding, no top and bottom around around for 4.1 Ram. Let me show you what I spacing around the text. So that's the padding I'm just going to do a border. A border top. Okay. Okay, so that's the border. So whenever the effect we're looking for. And then there's have the shadow on the x axis is too much, I Y four pixels. So on the X, I'm going to set Okay, since you didn't make any changes, but Okay, so can we just a blur to 15 let's tell the text. Okay, so now in the I'm just going to change the font and the when we have I'm going to set the color to Okay, like that. And then the after I'm just going to set the color as well. Color So the spacing of the lines to RAM. And of our RAM. So just to give it a bit of spacing. it's fully styled. So what we do, all we need to So to do that we've been doing this forever. and populate this multiple times, to whatever In this case, I'm just going to put them multiple values that suits your need. So just populate Okay. And then I'm just going to put like my on screen. So I've done that now. There it is. So Okay, yeah, that's it for the blog. Let me now section, we're going to have two sections left Okay. So for the contact section, go down So we're going to put a title, as usual, container. And then I'm going to paste in the If you still don't know we did this title just reusing that title component over and over going to do dots, contact, contact content, so we're going to have just left contacts, and Left and right contacts left. Okay. So let's start with the left we're going to have an h4 in the paragraph first. So h4 in the paragraph. So the h4 says contact me Okay, and then below that, we're going contact info. So in the contact a lot of icons for for the contact info. Okay, Okay. And then in there, we're going to and then we're going to have an actual icon. below the location, I am going to say location. So when I go it says location, see there's an icon I mean, before the location text, okay, so I Okay, so to do that, we just need to and change around the icons. Okay. So and when to your paragraph. And when I say London, United Kingdom. Okay, so we're still in the the contract item multiple times. Okay, Okay, so I'm just going to I don't want to waste your time So conduct item past that in multiple times to whatever you want. So there it is. Okay, so we've done that. So now let's to contact contact section. Okay, so let's we're going to do display container. Okay, so we're going to do display flex padding top 3.5 3.5. Okay, then we're, first So deaths left's contacts, actually. I'm going to do flex to, I want it to be smaller going to set that flex to one to make it cover the because I haven't put content on the other one. Okay, so now let me put the content first. So put all of the content, all of the content that After so after the contact I'm going to put another div. So this one I cons. So once you have like some icons that so in here, I'm going to say, dot contacts. icon. So this one is contact icons. And then And then we'll do an anchor tag that's going to facebook.com on depends where wherever Okay, and then here, I'm just going And then make sure you put the target to blank if Okay, so that's the icon for Facebook. Okay, so we have Twitter and stuff. Okay, that's right side. So the right side is going to have contact form form like that. Okay, so in And whenever div called input control dot input, to have two inputs. The first one is input text, required and then placeholder to a Okay, so we're also going to do another input. In And the other one is going to be email. Your email. Okay, like so. So now we just need Actually, not one more time. Here, I'm gonna In the sub type subjects, I don't know I'm just going to also do input control. text area. And then you can leave the name I'm going to do 15 and then eight rows. Like so. button, the button that we've created before. And code dot submit btn I'm just going to paste So it's called main button, we've done that I'm just going to save this to Okay, so there we go. That's why we got so now we just need to get started with Okay, so left contacts. Where Okay, so right contact. And then for the one flex two, and then this one is flex three. Okay, flex three, and then margin. Left is Okay, and then below that I'm Control the input control class. Okay, I'm is gonna be 1.5 REM literal zero. And then And do border radius to the pixels. And then I'm one size Eretz font family. Inherit, top and bottom is going to be point eight RAM. you can change these values to put values Border, I'm gonna give it to none as to do a background color and the width of one And then resize one to be form and the texture to be resized. So I'm going text area to have this tells us Oh, I'm going to So there it is. Okay, but I want this your Okay, so I want these to be next to each other. So this one, another class called input control. Okay, so input control two That's where I'm going to tell that when to do last child, the last input, the last margin left of 1.5 from the last child. Okay, last child, this one is going to have a margin Okay, so we can actually increase this font 500 making more thicker, or you can leave Okay, oh, you can also text message here like this. And then you can have like this, you can do a message here like that. Okay, you know, center the button. So to do the button you can do dot submit BTN. So just display Okay, so let's go back, there So now we just need to do the left side. which is just styling the text and everything. So Okay, so we're doing flex two for the left, margin top, I'm going to do one ram, font size transform to uppercase. Okay, after that, to give it a margin top and bottom one REM Lanre we should have done that into a global global And we'll do two to contacts. Info. So in contact item if you remember the class names, so just want justify content space between displace So there it is the spacing between. target the paragraph inside the quotation there And then zero left and right and then which using the important okay, and then Padding top and bottom is going to be zero and the padding around everything which one to reset it to keyword. Okay, so now everything we have a point so there's like a margin top 3.3 Ram. Everything Okay. So, after the paragraph, Okay, so for the icon, I'm going to say, I'm display grid, and then in grid template columns I want to restore this. Okay, it's not showing just going to show you why grid template columns, and then one fr for the second column, which Okay. And then I'm going to go back. So the text items to be in line with one another. So if So when I inspect this, so as you can see, this each item is going to have the first column of what of these grid items, each one is going So hence they're going to have equal spaces be on the same line, like that. So you get the icon inside there, I'm going to say Display, going to do font size, the font size, I'm gonna Okay, so there it is. So now the icons are these icons here. And then we're done for the contact info. So contact info. After the contact icon. So if you forgot to know what that is, where is somewhere down here. So it's this this So that's what we're doing now. Okay, so now we're to do display, flex, display flex, and then I'm to be sort of like to ram and then we're going to take us to external websites, I was just the center everything, we're doing that with we've been doing this width and height must be so, my I'm gonna do margin top and bottom zero, Okay, and then we're gonna do the Okay, and then on halfa. When we have this, And also for the icon, so we just want Okay, and then after the hover, just in general, icon, we're going to display flex, align items, Alright, so now there it is. So now we have a our website. Now we just need to work on the dark Okay, so now I'm just going to go to the after the controls, I'm going to BTN. Here, I'm just going to to toggle the dark mode light and So I just need to style that. And then we're Okay. So controls Okay, so after the controls, I'm going to touch one ram, and then cursor to pointer. And then the us to make them rounded. So I want the button to Flex one to send everything with flex so you Top and bottom is going to be point seven rem to paste in the box shadow. You can put this And then I'm going to toggle the and the color is setting the pointer events yeah, I mean, you know what I've been. Let's because I've been coping the wrong styles. I've been looking at the wrong element, I'm going with 70 pixels. Same as the height. height okay, and then we're So it's going to be rounded, then and give it a position of fixed and like that. So cursor pointer position or fixed. so we want to give it a box shadow. So Okay, so there it is. So I'm going to do when click the button. So I'm going to do transform. I'm going to do like minus five fix fixes. make sure it's very low, not high. So if you put So for example, let me say point, five 5.6 pixels, when I click, you won't see the effect. But lot of time to do the effects you have to hold, So that's why I'm using point one second to make I click as you can see, like the button is like I mean, the height of translation to minus translating, okay, so that's that. So the icon is just changing the font size Okay, so there it is. So now we just need to work we just need to go to JavaScript. JavaScript after Toggle theme. And then here we're gonna Document. Dot query selector. query selector. theme BTN. That's the class name we've given to. So here, I want to say tune button, I'm going and then it's going to listen for click. And Don't worry, we can do an arrow function. Now I'm going to say let's alignment, then I'm be documented body, the body. Okay? Document a class element, which is the body dot class list. talking one click, I'm just going to put a class it's going to toggle this class on and off, So let me inspect this. So let's watch out for selecting the body element in the JavaScript. So It's editing the class and removing the Okay, so now we just need to set the light mode all the way app I want to hear, I'm going to I'm gonna copy all of these colors here. Okay, so, for the for the light mode, you for example, the, for the background, I've used variable name, just need to change the property. Oops, to the white color. Okay, like the background is going to change to white. Okay, so you just need to change the values them around. Okay, so for me, I'm using white as I'm using a different color, which Okay, for the secondary. So when I toggle pink color. Okay, every secondary Okay, so let's keep going. I need which is white. So for white, think I'm using for white, I'm actually using grateful. So Okay, so this is great for now. So it's just just need to change the value of it. Okay. Yeah, Okay, so lets me go to other components. Okay, so, yeah, we might need to change some changing the colors one by one, I'm just gonna you can change these colors to whatever you Don't change the variable name, because we've just need to change the value of the variable on so what works for me is this color, color scheme. thing really works for me very well. color scheme that you want. It's really up to Okay, everything was fine. Yeah, I I don't have time to make it responsive. This But I It depends how many people have requested see me doing the responsive stuff you can? consider making a video about it or see how any questions or anything. Don't forget to ask Yeah, that's it. Please don't forget to like, Okay, so now let's work on the media queries. As you can see where we left off, Okay, so we just want to try to make it I'm actually using a different projects, Everything is the same the classes everything is so now let's go into the styles and create a partial to create a partial, we're going to use and then dot CSS. So this is a file, this file So I've already kind of looked at screen But if I haven't done that, breakpoints which your website your website start with a smaller screen. I'm going to start and media screen screen, screen, and then max width max. So the max width for this Okay, so make sure the spacing here is correct. So spacing must be correct the same as I've done so I'm going to I'm going to start with the it's 600. So this is the size 600. so as you can see, there's a lot of padding. padding somewhere. So this padding, right? Okay, so that should be Yeah, so I'm going So I'm going to say header. I'm Okay. So also, the other thing is, for us to use So let's go up to import a partial, just do Okay, so you do need to include the file it's a special. So you don't need to include to refresh, nothing works. Because for me the at the bottom of everything there must be down executed line by line. So the media queries have to import them here down here instead of up yeah, let's see if submitted the Milica is Let's see. So the mediocre is there. So now the actually direct header derived header content that this one, right header pin, right? Okay, so we're gonna say header, target And then I'm going to say padding padding zero. Something weird still fighting, right? Actually, we need to only use this important when it's really important every all of the styles, all of the pairings. to to ram, maybe just give it a little bit of Okay, so we also want to get rid of we can just say, dot controls. That's the class inspect the controls, and find the class name. I must say top, I must add that to auto to auto auto. And then we're going to say bottom at the bottom and then flex direction is going you can say initial. And then we're going to say and then we're going to say Because wanting to be centered. And then we're transform and Translate X minus 50%. safe. Let's see what we got. So there And yeah, in there. Actually, we And then we might also want to give it black with our content. And then gray five, that's the wrong color. And the individual control. So the individual control, bottom. And then point three REM left and right. instead of up. So when I go over the width is So now the controls will want them to be. Actually any to decrease the theme button BTN. So we're going to decrease the width Okay, so width and height 50 pixels. Okay, check from recording. Okay, so on a smaller device. Okay, so we also want to or the content, if you don't know what it the header content inspect. So this is the header to tag that. So the header content, we're going to template columns. I'm just going to say one fr no one if I just want fr, because we just want whenever. So now we have one column. Okay, so So yeah, so And also, I want, maybe I might To do that, we just need to, you change them or swap them around. So now, I'm going to target the left header, I'm I'm going to say, dot H shape, I'm going to get I'm going to set that display to none. So it's gone now. So after the left header, let's Okay, so for the right header, I'm going to stats, so how do we do that. So we just need to change I want it to be the starting point of view one. So was the grid. So this is the grid, so I want I want this row it was a two Okay, so we want to also I'm going to set the Okay, and then I'm going to margin, zero and auto just to center the content. Okay, now inspect. Okay, so everything was Mostly want to toggle the name actually. The name, 2.5. Ram. Okay, so RAM Linsay. Name Font size that media. So this one is not so when this was on over can sometimes you might yeah, let's keep going. So after the right So that header content and then left header. And then we're just also going to set the 2%. Okay, so, so there it is. Okay. So there is an issue with the height inspect header. the height of the header set height is supposed 100 VH, not the not a fixed height. So we So, let's go to the header and find header. where I've said that valley 100 VH. So here, mean height it media query actually max width, and then we're going to do 600 as to or six and then access under And max width. Oh, oh yeah, I Screen and all this the wrong thing. Cut this, here we're gonna say min height. 100 VH. Okay, the element or element that you want to do. That's when you can do it with normal CSS. You could Cancel this. Just set that to the normal now if the mean height, everything works. Okay, now let's go to the About. Okay, so And then we're going to say So let's look at the about container to see About container, this one, that's what we're going to fix that about container, grid template Okay, and then we're gonna say right about so the write about, we're gonna say padding top 10 in top. So for the padding top one, we said that Okay, so I'm also going to set the or suggested that you want to have Okay, so now let's go to the about okay, you we just need to get rid of the, the paddings Okay, so, here, I'm going to get rid of the just gonna do section select the section. So going to say to REM 2.5, Rem, left and right, and Okay, so yeah, as you can see, it looks good. So doesn't override the, the old ones by now you override we don't need to do it. Okay, so we need to write about less here. Let's go to left about stuff the left about I'm going to say then I'm going to target the paragraph in there. Okay, everything looks good. All right. So here after here, I'm So for the timeline, I'm just I'm going to do just one fr, I just want to And then I'm just going to set And let's save. Let's see what our timeline Okay. So after that, we might also want to do the About stats. So in the bus stats, Progress bars, remember the class names. that's what you want to have like a single Okay, so now let's go to the blog section, These are the blogs. So we also Okay, so about, then we're just gonna say blogs. So the template columns is just and then giving you the padding Okay, so now, you see that if I go to Okay, everything is good. Okay, so that's that. so, actually portfolios, we missed the portfolios. portfolios. So we're working on this section. Like here, so just copy this and put Now, so let's see what we got. Okay. Okay, so we might also want to give to Okay, so that's pretty much everything except Okay, so now let's look for the context There is a grid. So let's keep going. We need We're going safe column. Okay, so contact. So contacts container is a flex not agree. So we need so yeah, in the, I'm going to tell you the right Right contact once a margin left. And we said to say margin talk was that to 2.5? REM. camera just to make the video quicker. But you can Okay. So yeah, that's for the right content. So if so I want to take an input control. This copy the selector query selector. I'm going the selector so I'm looking for the input control the class name, it's actually input, control two So, but for this project I'm using I've named a But in the project we need to get in the video I see two. So here I'm using control two. I'm going to put that column so And then I'm going to target the last child is a pseudo selector say last child, so I want to the last challenge and when I say margin Excuse me. margin top so for the margin okay, so let's go to the contact. So as you was to have a margin left and visual so that Input left's will contract to this one. margin top margin left zero, what's inspects again it seems to have seems Last charge last year last charge I don't know why it still has the Oh, I think the media query is not applied. Let me refresh this again. And then I'm So this is the last child so I'm going to cut this and replace with the one you've Okay, now everything works. I think it's put the spacing here. So you need to space Okay, so yeah, everything is working So now we just need to mess around with The title is code. Actually. you know, let's make mess with So here we're talking the h2 and then and also we're going to say select Okay, and then that PG text 2.5 from as font size like that. Now, save. Now, let's I think we just need Omani to increase Okay. Yep, I think So you can kind of mess around yeah so at this size is this media So you can kind of work out what breakpoints in this case, we need to fix this inspect. the header content height need to Or we actually need to set the height to Okay, yes, everything comes nice to our header content we need to set min height here. min height. Okay, so let's go to find the content content. So we need to set a min height Okay, so yeah. So now here we can enter, try you know, kind of mess I think here the title it is Right header which is a padding, which I don't Header new. So here, it should be Something weird is going on? Okay, so yeah, so now, everything should you can reduce the font size at a certain Okay, so everything looks good. So let's say, can find like a break point you know, doing some media queries there. For Okay, so I kind of contact when does contact it breaks away too early. So I'm for the contact. So here, I'm going to say it paste to here. And then here I'm Okay, so for experiment with this values of So I'm going to copy the contract every everything going to do that early in this address size Okay, so when I go to the contacts, now So we can also mess with the padding of the around with the padding of the sections as well. top and bottom. I'm going to do seven Ram Something weird is going Let's inspect to see the body Oh, the body is a class of I mean, the header is So in the header, we need to get rid of that. Okay, so we actually need to override because the Okay, so yeah, there it is. So now when I, going slowly, but it's gonna, it's gonna work. Okay, so let's see. Okay, so that's for the contact section, I'm just going to do a media query So at this size, this section, I know that this 1070. Or, Yeah, let's do this size 1070 So that's the about and then grid template And then in the I'm going to tell you the write confirm. To confirm, so that's about, so that's 1000 pixels here, there in a single column. Okay, and also I'm I'm gonna say main Titan, x two. And for REM safe Okay, big Tex. Size facility for Okay, we're gonna increase that to maybe 4.5 frame Okay, so that you can, you know, sort of give you can give it a margin top to specify between Okay, so let me check. Let's do Let's do grid grid template columns. Let's just Okay, so now we have two columns of portfolios. Let's do the same thing for the blogs can Okay, so the blogs also going to Okay, so two columns for the blog's? What do we let's do one more media query. You can admit me and you can customize and change everything that pixels, nearly 70 pixels. So here the section something top and bottom 07 Ram, six RAM let's decrease the width. Okay, there So we also need to mess with this You know, I think I might actually But what we did with the content, the had a content lift header about. Okay, I think I going to put that in the nine in the in 970. And Okay, like that. So I think that it makes a lot Yeah, I think that makes sense. So we also need Controls, cut the controls. Cut that. And then you know, mess around with the values and affecting your media queries. So I think Okay, I might also want to specify around these reimagine. I'm going to say to ram for Okay, to ram seems to be small. Let's see, six is Still not working? We'll see why. Control. Margin. Oh, it's top and bottom is supposed to be way around. So let's bring it back to to ram is so I want to apply the margin left and right. Okay. I'm going to increase that to maybe 6.6. Okay, Okay, so yeah, you can you can kind of mess for breakpoints where you want to, you know, I'm going to reduce this to 1.5. Or one actually, queries, the breakpoints, like where your stuff doing the media queries, you can just create a quite early. So it's something as some put the blocks in a single column. Okay. So yeah, actually, I'll do one more. I'll do one I'll just do one more now. And then that's So in here, this section, I'm going to change Here, we're just going to change the padding. So about section about stats, let's do the stats. Actually, I think we've already done the progress bars. Yeah, I think yeah, we I think instead of doing the progress bars later, here, copy this cut, and then we do it here early, display of the Progress bars. We're at 700 Something big they certainly pixels. I think yeah, everything looks nice. So the I mean, I think everything is really nice now and everything, we can also kind of So we just need to, you know, set the And then maybe we can change the texture so can kind of mess around with the styles to see what, I don't know any size, you yeah, I think that's it for this video. please don't forget to subscribe, comment, and