[missile firing] [machine gun firing] [missile exploding] David Marquet: What? Crazy. I'm David Marquet, former nuclear submarine commander, and I'm gonna watch some submarine clips, and we're gonna rate them for realism. Officer: Torpedo! The Americans are shooting at us again. Jonesy: Pitch is too high. The torpedo's Russian. [torpedo firing] David: Yes, you can tell by the sound that it makes, and all different torpedoes So, one of the things we do is study all those different sounds to help us out. Officer: Conn, sonar, Alfa-class Soviet submarine. David: Alfa-class Soviet submarine. It sends shivers up my spine! The Alfa was this crazy submarine that the Russians built back in the '70s. People were trying all They had a titanium hull. They used liquefied lead if you can imagine such a thing. It was the fastest, Basically it's like a Miyata It was a crazy submarine. Officer: Weapon enabled on It passed Red October before it armed. David: If you turn your because you're trying to and you overshoot, you missed. Ramius: Melekhin, more speed. Melekhin: Negative. You're already running 110%. Ramius: Then give me 115%. David: No, you don't do 115% on a reactor. You do 100%. Point zero. [laughs] Officer: They didn't shoot at us. I can't attack a Soviet David: That's right. Rules of self-defense You see how Sean Connery and Scott Glenn, playing the they're, like, cool as cucumbers. These guys are within a few seconds of maybe getting blown to bits. This is exactly the way Mancuso: You're heading [torpedo firing] David: It's a highly unlikely maneuver to actually work, especially twice. And the torpedoes would so that, it loses some credibility. But overall, the sense of not really knowing what's going on, the sense of having to make decisions, the sense of this cat and When I joined the submarine force, I didn't come from a military family. My mom's like, &quot;What do you do?&quot; And I'm like, when this movie came out, I'm like, &quot;Mom, watch this Eight out of 10. [tense music] [man screams] [glass breaks] We don't use glass on [laughs] And that's why. [submarine crashing] Considering these guys they're in pretty good shape. Unfortunately, we kind of because in 2005, a US nuclear submarine did hit the bottom. This was a glancing blow. 98 of the 135 people on board suffered some sort of injury. It was very bloody on the submarine. A lot of contusions, broken bones. And this would be much worse than that, because it went straight down. They were going straight into the bottom. And so I think letting yeah, we saw some people bumping around, but basically everyone was OK afterwards. Of course you can't have That's the end of the movie. The sense of what it's like that's pretty good. So I'm gonna give it a six out of 10. You don't want to do this, by [explosion] [man screams] Why that torpedo just fell it looked like there was a cable cut. These things are strapped It's really hard to dislodge them. And then the other thing is, what they're showing It takes a lot for the weapon to go off, and the thing falls and bounces; the weapon's not gonna go off. You hit it with a hammer; the You heat it up; the These things are designed so that it takes a very specific to make the actual warhead go off. So, these are torpedoes, with the classic propeller on the back, and they're designed to go Submarines also can carry land targets and missiles and also mines that would It only takes one of to sink all but the very largest warships. It's a space that every crew member on the submarine would have access to and would be knowledgeable about. The reason is because if we need to muster the The philosophy on a submarine So with very few exceptions, the entire crew has I'm gonna give it a seven out of 10. [menacing music] [submarine explodes] Barney: Mayday! Mayday! The David: Now, this scene from &quot;The Simpsons&quot; sends shivers up my spine, because this is the worst fear of all submariners, flooding. At deep depth, the water and you don't need to Here's what happens. Let's say there's water in the That part of the submarine and then the submarine which means that the rushes more towards the front, and it makes it even heavier And so what happens is now the sub, you end up like this. And when you're like this, your ballast tanks don't work anymore. You can't use the air because the air will just go out the side. This is how you die in a submarine. And if you saw the movie &quot;Titanic,&quot; that's how that ship sank. And you remember at the end of the movie as the ship was sinking, and that's because the water was cascading from compartment to It's called the free-surface effect, and that's how you die on a submarine. It's not pretty. Now, if you're taking on the first thing you're going to want to do is come as shallow as possible. That does two things for you. No. 1, the pumps that have less pressure to pump against, so you're pumping off faster and the water coming in has Easiest way to stop because most of the is coming in through pipes, that we can shut. Isolate the system. Now, here, it looks or maybe even the hull. In that case, it's a very, very difficult problem, because when you get a leak, that water is spraying in so hard. It's harder than any water And they show it here; it's trickling in like a limp garden hose! There's no way! So, you're pushing against the pressure to put an earring pin in there? No. The most realistic thing is the guy underwater drinking beer. So I gotta give them, like, at least a three, though, for trying. [laughs] Morozov: From here to here. Robinson: Which means we are or we'd be crushed. David: Yeah, now, these You can see they have contour lines, and for a body of water which humans have operated it's probably very well mapped. Robinson: No, the Black Sea David: Yeah, the Black Sea is It's basically like a bathtub, and it has very little interaction, and you have rivers flowing into it, and then that flows out So, deep, there's a layer where the deeper water is anoxic. There's very, very little oxygen. And as a result, there's little decay. Now, I'm not sure it's but it's just like finding They're very well preserved. Whether they can use I don't know. But it's still overall That's true. Ramsey: We have rules that are personal intuition, gut feelings, hairs on the back of your neck. Hunter: Captain. Ramsey: We're all very well and what those orders mean. David: This is exactly right. You wanna side with Denzel, but what Gene Hackman is saying These guys are trained on this 100 times, including the exact kinds of errors that they're seeing right now. But then he takes it too far. Ramsey: Cob, arrest this Hunter: Capt. Ramsey, governing the release of nuclear weapons, we cannot launch our missiles David: That's right. So, Denzel doesn't need he just needs to say, &quot;I'm The rest of the crew knows. The procedure is if they those missiles aren't gonna fly. Gene Hackman doesn't have from his position because It's set up so that two people independently have to make the decision to launch nuclear weapons. Ramsey: I order you to place the XO under arrest under charges of mutiny! David: Now, this is all just a fantasy that some Hollywood people dreamed up. First of all, it's not mutiny, because Denzel is not It's just, he's by himself. Mutiny would mean he has a whole bunch of, or at least one other person with him. Denzel can't relieve the captain just because he doesn't agree Commanding officers can get relieved for, for example, a medical reason, he's incapacitated. Having a disagreement about something is not a legitimate reason for relieving your commanding officer. No one would follow that order. I'm gonna give it, like, a four out of 10. [alarm ringing] So, that's kind of what Now, the reason they have to practice this is because a World War II submarine spends a lot of time on the surface. It's really more of a submersible, because they have diesel Nuclear submarines, we spend almost all of So, let's say you're on the and all of a sudden someone sees an airplane coming toward you. You gotta get underwater So what's happening is are coming down from the bridge. Now, the hatch is open, we're opening the vents and tipping it deep. You gotta get the hatch shut before the water level or all of a sudden you're So it's a very highly choreographed and synchronized event. This is a 10 out of 10. This is exactly what it Man: Chief of the watch, David: So, you see here, as little time on the surface as possible. Submariners are allergic to sunlight. The whole point of being a So they pop up at the very last minute, and as soon as they get which they do very rapidly, shut the hatch and Here's the thing in war. If you can be seen, you can be targeted. If you can be targeted, you can be shot. If you can be shot, you can be killed. So the best way to break is at the very beginning. Overall, I'm gonna rate this Vostrikov: The reactor repair has failed. At any moment we could have an explosion, which could set off the warheads. David: No. Reactors don't explode. This unfortunately is perpetuating a myth that we have to fight in nuclear power, which is that reactors are and that a reactor's gonna explode like nuclear weapons can. So, first of all, the Secondly, I'd say within their power, it might melt down, but If it exploded, the chance of it igniting, detonating secondary weapons, zero. 'Cause the other weapons just because there's Vostrikov: This would only a few kilometers from the NATO base. David: It wouldn't set off the warheads, 'cause the warheads are unless their detonation You can't, if you blow up a warhead, it doesn't also blow up. The chance that they'd be so close that if their warheads went off, it would destroy this other again, highly, highly, highly improbable. Vostrikov: We could dive and David: No. What does diving have to do You just repair the So, I mean, they don't really Either they don't try and fix the reactor and risk an explosion, or So it's not like there's but I'm gonna rate this a zero out of 10, because not only is it but it perpetuates some of the unhelpful Klough: This is the Navy, where a commanding officer's Don't you dare say what you said to the boys back there David: Yeah, this is a Now, I'll tell you, I like because what it does is it When Capt. Sullenberger the Airbus on the Hudson River, one of the last things that &quot;Hey, you got any ideas?&quot; What you want is everyone Now, maybe in an extreme like you don't really but 99.999% of the time, saying, &quot;I don't know,&quot; That's really a good thing. Klough: You're the skipper now. And the skipper always knows what to do, whether he does or not. David: The official title for is commanding officer or That's a very common thing. But here, Harvey Keitel refers to Matthew That comes from an old German Dutch word that's based on ships: schip, schipper. Another term for the captain is little less fun. It's called the &quot;old man.&quot; And they might refer to 'cause typically the captain was the oldest person on the ship. Now, you'll notice they're And the idea, it comes the submarines, because they're so tight and so claustrophobic, they were a little less And the men tended to take some liberties with their uniforms. This is pushing it a little bit. On modern submarines, what you're gonna find is everyone is looking very professional. We have common uniforms, to protect us from fires So we take these uniforms very seriously, because they could end I'm gonna give it an eight out of 10. Man: Captain, we're David: Yeah, so this &quot;We're prepared to counter launch.&quot; Counter launch what? Submarines don't have weapons They have weapons to shoot down [missile firing] [guns firing] [missile exploding] What? Yeah, that's an incredible Look, these missiles are the size of small school buses. They're flying at 1,000 miles an hour, they're this far away, coming you put 100 bullets in it's still gonna go right Crazy. Multiple issues with tactics. The physics of the I don't think any submarine I love the movie, but it's not realistic. I'm gonna give it a three out of 10. [singing and drumming] Yeah, I don't think so. Here's the problem. Sound between a big interface, So, you can stick your head underwater and you can hear, say you then you put your head in the air; you don't hear them anymore. And the reverse is true. Sound that's in the air doesn't If he were drumming on the side of that little rowboat, and that rowboat was transmitting then, yeah, I could hear that, but it wouldn't have the fidelity that these guys are listening to. Good movie, but this Five out of 10 for this particular scene. Murrell: Mr. Ware, set Mr. Ware: Arr! [death charges firing] David: Yeah, so in World War II, none of these weapons were guided. You had to drive directly and launch your depth charges, hopefully setting them to the right depth. [sonar beeping] Von Stolberg: He's turning. David: So, he's listening to the sonar, and when you have two propellers, those destroyers have two propellers, and so when a ship starts to turn, what happens is the water and so the two propellers So instead of going, it's like, [mimics and you can hear that. And that's what the is listening to. So, the destroyer went over, and now it wants to come and at that point, it's very broad. That's the point of maximum vulnerability. I'm gonna give this an eight out of 10 for what World War II submarine-vs-destroyer combat looked like. There's no way! So, you're to put an earring pin in there? No. The most realistic thing is the guy underwater drinking beer.