BRIAN WONG: 10, 11. SPEAKER 1: Uh, Brian. BRIAN WONG: Oh, sorry, I We're here with the from Hyundai, the IONIQ 9. And, yes, it is closely but Hyundai says is going to offer even more luxury. Let's find out if that's true. Hyundai first introduced with the number 7 attached And what we have here today very in a very good way. This has a really sort It's still definitely an SUV. If you didn't know, you can But otherwise, the it kind of reminds me of an old And this has a minivan I don't know if they but it looks like it could quite easily. However, SUVs are what sells, Now, for an SUV, I think that The front is super smooth. If you look down here, this cascades all the way of plastic right here, looks really cohesive. And then these coverings also into it. Coming back this that there's a black line that sort of curves up as we Hyundai did that to make for lack of a better word, Now, this little Hyundai calls these like a very fitting feature. And these will always And, now, this black part So on higher trim becomes body colored as well. But here, I think if you it might clash a But for this green, which I It kind of looks tapers back down when but when you sit doesn't feel like that at all. Head room feels so you get kind of without really having to But it doesn't stop there. Here at the back is where styling really comes together. I love how flat this And I also really like that run all the and across the top of It reminds me a lot of where their SUVs had tail the entire side of the vehicle. This is a very modern take on The only thing about the back I is really, really big. I don't know if you that you're driving an IONIQ 9. But otherwise, I think that is really, really The IONIQ 9 will be offered drive and dual motor Horsepower starts at 215 for then jumps to 303 and 422 for a performance Hyundai is estimating to 60 mile-an-hour being 8.4 seconds and with the more powerful While we don't know which trims or even which trims Hyundai did confirm the top and it will come with the standard. All models of the IONIQ 9 will and that is about 10% more in the EV9's larger And that's part of the come with more estimated range. Official EPA estimates but Hyundai says it's for the rear wheel and that all trim 300 miles on a full charge. Speaking of charging, the IONIQ from 10% to 80% in just 24 architecture. And all IONIQ 9s will come with giving it access to Tesla's I don't think I've with a regular USB It's pretty cool. As different and unique as the might feel, inside, feel a bit more been in any of the new A lot of this stuff you're also Santa Fe. One difference, though, is that tunnel, this console here so you get an open space here. In other trim levels you'll actually be able back and forth about 7 inches. And that will give easier access to It does keep, though, this storage bin. So you can open it from That's nice. And you also get an pad here as well, 15 watts. And it also comes with a fan. Now, before you saw me charging one of the coolest features to technology is that it and that's total. So that's all the but that means that if Pro in one port, charge a phone or a tablet. Having all that power draw just And, of course, we put all these USB ports. The ones for the second row so you can keep the And there's also two for as well. The screen setup in the IONIQ you'll get in the Santa Fe, with one for the instrument for the infotainment, placed piece of slightly curved glass. And unlike the EV9, which has controls up there that the IONIQ 9 has kept in the dashboard, The IONIQ 9 will also to have a digital store, different themes or even design animations But for now, the company says it through this system which is good news to our ears. Now, what we're one of the lower trim Hyundai hasn't announced but this is something that will One way that you can tell is So on the top trim only going to be able In the lower ones, you're only And there's no which means that be six seat only and the As you can see here things are really spacious. As you can tell, just headroom And you actually get a with this seat. You can go very far which means that getting into to release here is really easy. Now, even though the IONIQ with the EV9, the has actually been And Hyundai says when it comes to interior room. So I put this thing through, of driver's seat, second row where I'm and here in the third I still have legroom, in the Palisade. But the thing that's really Like I mentioned before, this might really cut down third row But sitting here, tons and tons windows for a third row as well. And the other thing going to get in this third row so that means plenty I get car sick, but I would sitting in this third Hyundai hasn't provided yet a vehicle on each trim level, in a quote unquote, this has a ton of equipment. You still get heated second controls. And up front there, you three USB-C ports. It seems like all are going to be We were able to find another and we wanted to show you one chairs. So Hyundai tells us that in comes with captain's chairs, And so I have this little And what I can do use them to extend this because Hyundai has put in what seat now in the second row. So that means that the front all come with footrests and So now, while the car you can recharge too. The IONIQ 9 should go on and it will be built at And that's an important because that means that for the full $7,500 tax credit. Now, tax credit change, so be sure to page on Edmunds for Now, Hyundai is pricing for this vehicle, but because they said that all should qualify for And that means that the top under $75,000. And that should put pricing we're seeing with the EV9. But, again, in this going to get a little bit more that I think make it feel even For families that want more room there haven't been But I think that the is a good sign that going to be expanding. Do I wish it were a minivan? Only slightly. I think it's very good-looking. I think it's very cool. And I can't wait to Thanks for watching. [EASY MUSIC]