It's January 1879 and in South Africa, the Lord Chelmsford is supremely confident his army. Little does he know that King Cetshwayo's on the British camp at Isandlwana - it's In southern Africa, the 1870s are a decade in the region: the Boer republics, the British By the end of the decade, the Anglo-Zulu War Africa until today. The Zulu Kingdom is the result of a dramatic AmaZulu tribe. This rise to regional power status starts coup in 1816. The young Shaka served as a warrior in a rival leads a revolution in the Zulu way of war. He introduces conscription for all able-bodied stabbing spear called the assegai, and cowhide A) The spear is also known as the iKlawa after flesh. Shaka also introduces a successful battlefield of the buffalo). The formation has four parts: the chest, to the two horns to outflank the enemy and encircle Shaka's highly trained army far outclassed Inter-tribal warfare had been mostly a ritual annihilation to totally crush enemy forces. He then incorporated conquered tribes into grows from 350 to about 20,000 men and his Shaka's iron rule comes to an end in 1828 but the empire and army remain. So from the early 19th century, the Zulu kingdom Africa. But they are not the only power in the region, desired. In 1824, the British establish a coastal trading Durban. As Durban becomes a city and more Brits arrive, and the fiercely independent Zulus increase. Even more dangerous from the Zulu point of These Dutch-speaking colonists have lived but in 1837 they head northeast to get away The Boer migrants enter Zulu territory and with Zulu forces. In February 1838 the Zulus kill a Boer delegation such incidents. The killings spark a wider war pitting the power struggle, against both the British and the conflict over territory. Zulu warriors sack Durban, but the Boers then After the 1838 war, the British and the Boers eventually establish the independent republic of their colony Natal. The following decades see constant land disputes By the 1870s the British authorities in South see a potential solution in a confederation British rule. C) The architect of this policy is Secretary Shepstone. He thinks the British have a duty to Westernise politicians in South Africa who have been As a first step towards the planned confederation, is effectively bankrupt and fears its Zulu The British and Boers want to continue to Cetshwayo and his government are angry at Shepstone is impressed with the Zulu king: "[Cetshwayo] is a man of considerable ability, manner... I do not think he is very warlike but he is of his family, especially Shaka, to which (Cope. 50) D) The Secretary is unable to persuade Cetshwayo though. As long as the Zulu kingdom remains independent, The imperial government in London doesn't to British authorities not to start one. But the colonial authorities defy their orders, with an ultimatum designed for him to reject: hand over several chiefs to the British, disband Christian converts and missionaries more rights, over Zulu decisions. Other than the trumped up fines, the King Once the Zulu King rejects the sham ultimatum, the Anglo-Zulu War. The British invade the Zulu Kingdom on January In command is Lord Chelmsford, and experienced colonial conflicts in the empire. His recent experience fighting the Xhosa people warriors - an underestimation he will soon The British force that begins the campaign They're armed with the powerful breech-loading along several cannons, a rocket battery, and There are also African troops fighting alongside These troops are from tribes already under of white British officers. 9 of every 10 African soldiers in the Native 1 in 10 is allowed to have an outdated Snider These troops are poorly trained and are meant battle force. To distinguish themselves from the enemy Zulus, A second and more effective auxiliary force These riders are mostly from the amaNgwane The Natal Native Horse wear tan uniforms, their spears. The last component of the British-led invasion the Natal Carbineers. They're under the command of Theophilus riders. Chelmsford is supremely confident that this He plans for three British-led columns to The left column, under Colonel Evelyn Wood, Pearson, are to draw Zulu troops away from Chelmsford's central column will then have Ulundi and the main Zulu army. Meanwhile, King Cetshwayo gathers about 35,000 them off on January 17 with an impassioned "I have not gone over the seas to look for country and I would not be surprised if they land. What shall I do? I have nothing against the white man and I They want to take me. What shall I do?" The Zulu warriors answer their king: "Give We will eat up the white man and finish them They will not take you while we are here!" (David, 96) So Lord Chelmsford's 7800 troops have invaded warriors have come out to meet them. The very first battle would turn the entire Chelmsford's advance into the Zulu Kingdom His army is slowed down by its wagon train, into muck. The British commander is convinced the Zulus so he sends out units from his central column Meanwhile, the Zulu army is moving much more Their scouts identify Chelmsford's column the British scouting units away from the main They even manage to lure Chelmsford himself Chelmsford is so confident that he goes against the camp before he leaves. But the British are blundering into a Zulu Their scouts see some Zulu units on the move, units. In fact, they're the vanguard of the main down on the unfortified British camp. On January 22, the Zulus are within striking Veteran Zulu commander Chief Ntshingwayo kaMahole him of the weakness of the British defences. A warrior remembers the scene: "[Our] scouts [...] report[ed] to the leaders on the hills of camp like a lot of goats out the amadhlozi [ancestor spirits] of the Zulu and they should attack... In the end the young men prevailed against the order to attack." (T.E. Newmarch Papers) While Chelmsford is enjoying a picnic 20km Acting commander Lt-Colonel Henry Pulleine their size, so he doesn't fortify the position cannons. At 11.00am British riders out chasing a herd with the entire Zulu army. One of the cavalrymen, James Hamer, remembered: "On coming up we saw the Zulus, like ants mice, and stretched out across in an even We estimated those we saw at 12,000." (James Hammer Papers) The Zulus realize their cover has been blown, launch an immediate full-scale attack. The Zulu army advances in the horns of the from the valley and sweeping across the plain the vulnerable British flanks. According to a British soldier, the enemy Lt. Colonel Pulleine still doesn't grasp Instead of retreating to a strong defensive hill, he forms a fighting line at the edge But this perimeter is overstretched and its The thin British line initially holds its The riflemen pour devasting volleys into the of shrapnel. The Zulu formation's 'chest' is stopped But the 'horns' have more success, and The Zulus put them under immense pressure, on ammunition. DELETE) They even resort to smashing open for storage. Pulleine orders his men to pull back to camp But just as the British start to withdraw, charge the enemy. Captain Essex of the 24th Regiment is in the "In a moment all was disorder. Few of the men had time to fix bayonets before with fearful effect. I heard officers calling to their men to be general." [David 140] Trooper Sparks of the Natal Mounted Police "There was a great deal of confusion, no the camp [...] The Zulu Army had thrown out in on three sides and in a very short time It was impossible to make any effective defence." [Saul David, Zulu, p.136.] The battle becomes a slaughter. A handful of mounted Brits cut their way out of soldiers who make desperate last stands. The Zulus do not take prisoners, and 1300 Theophilus Shepstone's son George. Zulu losses are unknown, but are probably The Battle of Isandlwana is a clear Zulu victory: But just as that battle ends, another is beginning. On the border river between Natal and the the British have converted into a hospital Chard of the Royal Engineers. At midday on January 22, two ashen-faced British bringing dire warnings that the Zulus have be at Rorke's Drift. Chard knows the faster Zulus will easily catch to stand and fight. The British garrison races against time to All in all they have about 400 men. Meanwhile a Zulu force of about 4000 men approaches Cetshwayo's half brother, Prince Dabulamanzi His men were held back in reserve at Isandlwana is keen to win his share of the glory now to cross the Buffalo river into British territory. When the Zulus appear at about 4:00pm, the troops and their British officers flee, leaving E) He realizes that he can't hold the perimeter men to build a wall of biscuit crates as a After vicious hand-to-hand fighting, Chard and orders his men back to the second position. In the chaos, the hospital catches fire before most of the patients. By now it's 7:00pm. The British survivors, exhausted and short resolve to die hard. The Zulus sense that victory is at hand and the fighting illuminated by the flames of Private James Hitch is one of the men holding He's been shot in the shoulder, but he doesn't into the wound to slow the bleeding. He later recalls the frenzied combat: "In one of these nasty rushes three Zulus The first fellow I shot; the second man I laager, but he declined to stand against me. With a leap he jumped over the barricade and A few yards from the barricade lay a wounded [...] Presently I saw him, rifle in hand, It was too late to stop him; he fired, and the head." (Holme 284-285) But the Zulus struggle to coordinate their are able to beat off each new rush. Around midnight, the Zulu assault begins to morning, though Zulu warriors harass the British After 12 hours, the Battle of Rorke's drift hands. The Zulus suffer up to 850 dead and wounded, the battle is over. The British lose 14 dead, but most of the In a sign of the intensity and desperation Crosses, including 7 for the 24th regiment regiment in British army history. The battle is later famously depicted in the and Mangosuthu Buthelezi - the great grandson If you want to know more about Rorke's Drift, where they explore the battle in a lot more So an isolated British garrison has held out one dramatic action cannot hide the fact that After Isandlwana and Rorke's Drift, the Chelmsford's main column is gone and the in grave danger. The Zulus waste no time and surround and besiege The desperate Chelmsford orders Wood to create On March 28, Wood's men attack a Zulu hill trouble immediately. This time, the Zulus put up a spirited defence British rifles to pour fire into the attackers. The British attack is uncoordinated, partly One third of the British force, including the Border Horse, are killed, and Wood retreats But victory at the Battle of Hlobane makes Back in January, the King ordered his commanders but to draw them out into the open: that he has made trenches and built forts for it will be of no use. But if you see him out in the open you can him up." (Natal Mercury, January 22, 1879) of 20,000 warriors - many of them veterans attack the British at Kambula. But Wood has learned from British mistakes: fort, and clear the ground around it to create 7-pounder cannons. On March 29, the Zulus attack with the Horns arms and artillery fire from the safety of Some determined Zulus reach the wagons but The Zulus regroup and attack several times, to reach the laager. After four hours, the Zulu army is exhausted Wood sends out 600 cavalry to pursue them, The Battle of Kambula is a decisive British They lose 28 dead and 54 wounded but inflict Zulu wounded the British kill afterwards. The defeat damages the spirit of the Zulu "Our hearts were broken at Kambula. I dared not go within a shot of the British (Guy 210) The Zulus have suffered heavy losses which rifles, they have no answer to the British In April, Lord Chelmsford leads a new British at Eshowe. The Zulus intercept the relief column at the even Chelmsford has learned his lesson. The British fortify their position and use of the infantry. When the Zulus attack, a hail of British bullets The rest of the Zulus retreat, and lose even The tide of war has turned in favour of the King Cetshawayo tries to open negotiations On May 31 a massively reinforced British army Zulu kingdom. Amongst the invaders is a European celebrity: He's the son of deposed French Emperor Napoleon He's so keen to see action that he sets enemy territory - and is killed by a Zulu In an odd twist of fate, the Zulu War ends While European newspapers are abuzz with the Zulus muster the remains of their battered The British advance until, on July 3, they're They form a large square supported again by expected Zulu assault. The Zulus know that this is a do-or-die battle, in the balance. A British soldier later writes about the Zulu "Our fire didn't check them the least; rushing on, a thick black mass. Lord Chelmsford came galloping up, telling out my revolver. The nine-pounder crashed through them again cannister did not burst. Everyone thought it would be hand to hand faltered, wavered, and withered away." (Wright 178) The Battle of Ulundi lasts just thirty minutes. Once again, concentrated British rifle, artillery The surviving Zulus flee, and the British ground. King Cetshawayo escapes, but the British capture The Anglo-Zulu War is over after 6 months British-led forces suffer 1900 killed, while There is no formal peace treaty: the British ruled by puppet chiefs and rename it Zululand. This arrangement leads to incessant civil as king to restore order. Soon after, he dies after a battle against Zululand will remain semi-independent under war until the British fully annex it to their In 1906, a Zulu rebellion against British The Zulu identity of the state is only restored KwaZulu-Natal after the end of apartheid in The Zulu resistance against imperial Great but it wasn't the only act of military resistance, 100 years before the Zulu Wars and across few rulers able to go toe to toe with the He fought against British control, and his stole remains off the battlefield to study But his legacy is controversial to this day. If you want to learn more about Tipu Sultan Extra History and their documentary about You can watch Tipu Sultan -- Tiger or Tyrant? exclusively on Nebula, a streaming service like Extra History. If you head over to nebula.tv/realtimehistory for just $30 a year. On Nebula you can watch exclusive content Atoms about the Soviet Nuclear program. But you can also watch all our regular videos YouTube. That's nebula.tv/realtimehistory for 40% We want to thank Spencer Jones for his help As usual you can find all the sources for If you are supporting us on Patreon or Nebula, you. I am Jesse Alexander and this is a production that remembers the Shaka Zulu movie with David Never forget.