(high intensity music) - [Announcer] The following It contains strong language and violence. It is intended only for mature audiences. (high intensity music) (high intensity music) - [Guest] Technology makes - [Guest] And now they've - [Guest] Awesome! - [Guest] I do my shopping at home. - [Guest] I pay my bills. - [Guest] And I can learn something new! (enchanted music) - [TV Announcer] Prodigy now (television static hissing) - [TV Announcer] CBN's the only place to see Remington Steele! - I'm a man who enjoys - [TV Announcer] It's one- - [News Broadcaster] This at 4:31, West Coast Time, strong, jolting, and rumbling, it pushed its way through (television static hissing) as we begin this special report that what you're about to see and some of you may not wanna watch it. (television static hissing) - [News Broadcaster] 39 and no one can explain why. - [News Broadcaster] This is the body of the 20th victim found, a It'll take a long time to Some feel they never will. (high intensity music) (heavy rain whooshing) (somber music) - [Nexpo] The year is 2020. A woman and her husband sharing the home with two other tenants, an elderly woman and her adult daughter. (somber music) For the first few months, nothing In fact, they never see them, (high intensity music) At least, until. (neighbor pounding on wall) (neighbor pounding on wall continues) (high intensity music) (wind whirring) This begins seemingly out of nowhere and appears to have no end in sight. Every single time they do causing their newborn to cry, and causing the banging It's a constant back and forth dynamic, and things are quickly The cops aren't doing anything. (phone beeping) And so, at their wit's end, to air out their grievances At 11:09 PM on September 13th of 2020, a Redditor named peachesnglitter ventures to r/legaladvice to make a post, titled, &quot;Delusional neighbor when our baby cries and It reads the following. (high intensity music) &quot;I live in a duplex in and my son, who is only a few months old. My father-in-law owns half the duplex and is renting it to us, and the other half is and her adult daughter. My father-in-law has known and told us before we moved in that the daughter was mentally ill and had strong delusions on with the previous tenants. The last tenants apparently had to get a civil anti-harassment order but eventually moved out when the behaviors never stopped. Apparently the neighbor and abusing their children My husband and I brought our and we didn't have any until about two weeks ago. She has begun banging on and when our son cries. She screams at us as well, but I usually can't hear you know, over the screaming baby and the two dogs going because of the banging. It's absolute chaos, and it's made my postpartum Every time the baby cries, waiting for the screaming We've called the non-emergency when I can't handle it anymore. And the first time, they talked to her and she stopped doing it as often, maybe once every two days. Tonight though, she's back The air quality is so bad that I can't let the dogs out for long to stop them from barking, and the barking makes the baby cry harder, which makes the neighbor scream and pound on the walls harder. The officer I spoke with says we can try to get a civil but he knew for a fact that after the last tenants tried that, and he said his unofficial advice would be to live somewhere else. Is that seriously my only option? We can't afford to move, but I (somber music) (computer notification whirring) (computer notification dinging) (high intensity music) Unfortunately, this by anyone online, merely and just 10 comments. One user named LifeguardIl suggested that the neighbor was because they were sick of &quot;She's an owner, so you can't do anything. Your best solution is to against sound. From the other point of view, having a newborn baby in a to your neighbors from the noise. Just as much as you your neighbors hate your Maybe your neighbors can't You should really look into soundproofing, or your neighbor could and CPS for all the noise you make. Stop blaming the neighbor when you're the one making all the noise.&quot; It's an interesting thought process. However, the perspective They are responsible and there's really not much they can do about their distaste for a neighbor. As a matter of fact, that of those who did see her post. There's nothing she can do. And the matter was left at that. (high intensity music) (neighbor pounding on wall) (high intensity music) (neighbor pounding on wall continues) (high intensity music) (computer notification chiming) (computer notification chiming) (computer mouse clicking) (high intensity music) &quot;My first post never got much attention, but the outcome was pretty wild. Short version, in October of 2020, my husband and I were renting in a duplex where my father-in-law owned and a separate family We brought our son home and towards the end of September, the neighbor started to if she could hear him cry. The pounding escalated The neighbor bought a megaphone and threatened to rip us apart. She called us child predators, and threats until 3:00 The police were called multiple times, yet nothing could be done about it. One officer told us, 'I'm gonna kill you. See, it doesn't mean anything The elderly mother hadn't but requests for wellness The general advice that I got was that, as renters, we couldn't do anything. It was also suggested that since the crying baby was Since my first post, we moved in with my The neighbor ended up through the shared wall to scream at us and occasionally just stare at us. The smell that came out of the Our security cameras my son's nursery window at just staring and holding her cat. It took until the end of to be able to enter her property. And as it turned out, the since at least June, and dressed in her Sunday best, rotting in a dead-bolted bedroom. The news article said the and the daughter was taken to an inpatient psychiatric facility.&quot; (high intensity music) (camera shutter clicking) I would be remiss if I that fabricating stories and is remarkably simple to pull off. In the current online landscape, it almost seems like fake by a large margin, incentivized and the pursuit of up votes. There was something about this one though, that seemed eerily specific. The premise was haunting, yet (brooding music) In January of 2021, authorities in the city made their way to the in response to their 911 call. While there, they encounter a named Angela Greiner through in their shared wall, and immediately notice Because of this, they request to be let in to ensure everything there is okay, yet Greiner staunchly refused. For over a week, she wouldn't no matter how hard law enforcement tried. However, what she was unaware of was that police were of obtaining a warrant, regardless of her consent. By February 4th, their warrant's granted, and so, Richland PD returns And as expected from the revolting odor, the corpse of Greiner's mother, a 67-year-old woman named inside their locked bedroom. She reportedly died and was believed to have been for nearly seven months. (high intensity music) As stated by the OP, Greiner was taken to an and since then, there have on her status or whereabouts. The duplex, to this day, still stands, yet now bears a reputation forever haunted by the grim events that took place there. The story in its entirety that you truly never who's across from you, of the wall by which you sleep. For months, this family their daily lives with a from them, and completely unaware that their neighbor was At the end of it all, for their family, a place their yet, little did they know and what was waiting for them (high intensity music) on the other side. (thunder rumbling) (television static hissing) - [News Broadcaster] We call 911 to report a blocked driveway or a loud stereo. Leave the 911 lines open For anything else, call Think before you call 911. Think before you call 911. Think before you call 911. Think before you call 911. (thunder rumbling) (high intensity music) - [Nexpo] It's evening A 76-year-old woman named asleep on her couch. She had just undergone hip surgery, so she was unable to move. However, her evening (high intensity music) It's dark. It's cold out. And her home rests in a - Here. (indistinct) Drink it. It'll counteract the poison. Please, there's not much - Better than my grandparents. - No! Don't make this the issue. It wasn't the poison, she was only gonna- (high intensity music) - [Nexpo] At 7:00 PM, Loretta notices that something is wrong. The smell of smoke awakes her. However, because she's disabled, she's unable to check what's causing it. During this, her husband was so she was effectively helpless in place. Meanwhile, the smell persists. Something is on fire. And so, she grabs her phone, dials 911, and explains to dispatch the following. (dial tone ringing) (dial tone ringing) - [Dispatcher] 911, what is - [Loretta] Pardon? - [Dispatcher] 911, what is Okay, tell me exactly what happened. - [Loretta] I think my house is on fire, and I'm here alone, and I'm in a walker. - [Dispatcher] Okay. All right, I have help on the way. I just have a couple of questions, okay? - [Loretta] Okay. - [Dispatcher] All right, or the firefighters, excuse me. (Loretta panting) - [Loretta] Hurry up, the - [Dispatcher] Okay, they- These questions are not gonna Okay, what type of building is involved? - [Loretta] It's a log house with a tin roof, but it's I don't know! - [Dispatcher] Okay, I These questions are not delaying the firefighters at all, okay? - [Loretta] Okay. - [Dispatcher] Okay. All right, I do have them coming. All right, I'm sending to help you now, stay on the line, and I'll tell you exactly what to do next. - [Loretta] What should I do? - [Dispatcher] Okay, is anyone - [Loretta] Well, I'm inside the house. I don't even know if I can get out. - [Dispatcher] Okay, all right, I have them coming as How many? - [Loretta] It's just me. - [Dispatcher] Okay. - [Loretta] I mean, my and I can't get him. I've tried his cell phone. - [Dispatcher] Okay, exactly No, inside the home. Exactly where are you - [Loretta] Oh, right now (dispatcher typing on keyboard) Smoke's getting bad. - [Dispatcher] Okay, leave the building, close and remain outside. Do not try to put the fire out. Do not carry anything. Do not carry out anything that's on fire. - [Loretta] I couldn't, (Loretta chuckling) I'm on a walker, and I can't hardly walk. - [Dispatcher] Okay, all right, as quickly as possible, okay? So just let me know when you see them. Okay, where exactly is the fire? - [Loretta] On the roof, I think. - [Dispatcher] Okay. (Loretta coughing) Okay, was anyone injured? - [Loretta] No, I'm the only one here. I'm not injured, but my and I can't get out the door. - [Dispatcher] Okay. Okay. (dispatcher typing on keyboard) Okay, I have them coming, okay? They're coming as quickly as possible with lights and sirens, okay? - [Loretta] Okay. (Loretta wheezing) (tape player clicking) - [Nexpo] This back and forth continues for 15 agonizing minutes. Yet for this entire duration, Nevertheless, the fire Where is everyone? - [Loretta] Oh! Oh, I think fire now. - [Dispatcher] Okay. (indistinct) They're here, they're I'm letting them know exactly They are there. - [Loretta] Okay. - [Dispatcher] So I promise, Just they have to make - [Loretta] Okay, but they better run. (fire crackling) Come in here! I'm inside! - [Dispatcher] Okay, ma'am, What's your husband name? (Loretta screaming) What? Miss Lor- (tape player clicking) (tape whirring) (fire crackling) Hello? (fire crackling) Hello? (fire crackling) Hello? (fire crackling) Hello? (fire crackling) Hello? (fire crackling) - [Nexpo] This sound. - [Dispatcher] Hello? - [Nexpo] The sound of flames continues for nine minutes straight, with the dispatcher that help is on the way. - [Dispatcher] Hello? - [Nexpo] Little did they know, though, that on the other end of the line, there was no longer Loretta Pickard, in this moment, in contrary to all assurances by dispatch- - [Dispatcher] Hello? - [Nexpo] had perished in the fire. (fire crackling faintly) (camera shutter clicking) (high intensity music) (camera shutter clicking) (camera shutter clicking) (camera shutter clicking) (camera shutter clicking) (high intensity music) You wouldn't believe it, but for over half of this phone call, help was just a few short feet away. Firefighters were outside and had every opportunity That evening, there were anywhere near the residence, to utilize the reserves in their truck. Instead of putting out the house fire with Loretta trapped inside, however, the crew's captain, James of the reserves to as a forest fire behind the home. This, by default, nullified any potential of combating the blaze's origin, diminishing any possibility at all. (camera shutter clicking) - In a case &quot;8 on Your Side&quot; has been investigating all year long, Loretta Pickard died in pleading for help, but and did nothing about it. Well, now her estate will of money allowed under state law. &quot;8 on Your Side&quot; Staci DaSilva - Loretta Picker's niece tells me the settlement does and she's just happy... (somber music) - [Nexpo] Since the incident, the Pickard family has undergone against the county, as in it's been revealed that James Williams would frequently take Snapchat videos while at the scene of house fires. And allegedly, the evening of Loretta's death was no different. Even further, it's been that little to no effort was made to get inside the home either, effectively leaving her helpless and alone to endure one of the most (somber music) In the aftermath of this incident, the Pickard family has been from Polk County, in On top of this, James and a void of heartbreak, loss, and despair has been eternally left in their wake. (somber music) No matter how much and has been taken after this incident, nothing in the world can who lost their life during It was the day after Thanksgiving, a time engulfed in positivity. However, for the Pickard family, this day will forever be that they would ever spend with her. That fateful night, lost the love of his life. Their grandkids left a loving home that they would never return to, and their entire family their final goodbyes to that they would never see again. (somber music) (heavy rain whooshing) (television static hissing) (VHS player clicking) - [TV Announcer] Do not And if you see any of your playmates about to get into trouble, or someone you know. You not only have to but for the little children and can't understand that some (thunder rumbling) (high intensity music) (water sloshing) (high intensity music) - [Nexpo] In 2018, a (computer notification chiming) It's named &quot;Vera Korotaeva,&quot; and over the span of less than one year, they'd uploaded over 1.4 (high intensity music) Within them, we're able to observe the inside of an apartment occupied by what seems to be a family. And to be honest, not a They spend a ton of time And at first glance, it might be nothing more than Now, this would make sense. However, there's one small problem. This isn't Vera's only camera. (high intensity music) (camera shutter clicking) (camera shutter clicking) (camera shutter clicking) This channel, &quot;Vera Korotaeva,&quot; is likely run by not the And they've got eyes everywhere. (high intensity music) (high intensity music) Taking a look at the details of Vera's videos presents For instance, their titles like Putin and Hitler, and often use incredibly abrasive language when referring to their Furthermore, in their descriptions, they can also be found going housing the disabled, and But out of everything, the video that something is off here from the 26th of October, 2019. It's simply titled, &quot;water supply repair.&quot; And at first glance, it seems ordinary. Upon translating the description, though, we find this. (high intensity music) (high intensity music) I will be honest with you. I've tried to read through to glean any sort of logical but it doesn't make much sense at all. From what I could gather, though, Vera seems to be furious at a judge. They then go forth to that I believe they requested, and then fantasize about killing them by cutting the judge's It's incredibly disconcerting. And regardless if the tenants even know that they're being watched, what I do know is that completely unaware of what's For over four years, this bizarre completely untouched and With this, their backlog are public, documenting their daily lives without that the very person who owns is broadcasting them to the world. Today, &quot;Vera Korotaeva&quot; into the incredibly bizarre behavior of a peeping landlord. It's an unsettling inside the furthest confines I have absolutely no idea to do this, and even to abandon their project completely. If the upload rate wasn't enough, they appeared intensely as not only were there but also uploads containing and even trips to real world locations. With the language barrier stopping me in my tracks, though, unfortunately, deciphering any of this By the off chance any of or understand Russian, I to learn more about and what exactly they were doing. Who are these people, Why do the cops constantly pop in, and what are they looking for? Most importantly, though, why and who in the world is Vera Korotaeva? (thunder rumbling) (television static hissing) (VHS player clicking) - [Narrator] The goal of this of the potential for The key is to recognize them beforehand and make sure you are Because when it's gotcha, it's gotcha! (thunder rumbling) (water sloshing) (keyboard dinging) (waves crashing) (water sloshing) (water sloshing) (enchanted music) - [Nexpo] Back in February, we discussed the unquantifiable Earth's greatest enigma, an entire biosphere not made for us. One of humanity's greatest exploring the far reaches of the deep sea. And in a way, much of what's in it is completely alien to us. The peculiar thing about the ocean is that it makes up the vast majority of the planet we live on, yet stands so painstakingly The potential for death, freak accidents, and disappearances are all spawned entirely by the mere nature of the ocean's environmental medium. (high intensity music) (waves crashing) (water sloshing) (melancholy music) In February of 2022, five by a fuel trading company named Paria to perform maintenance on an oil pipeline. Located at Pointe-a-Pierre of Trinidad and Tobago, the from an oil riser, named Berth 5, 60 feet vertically down into the ocean, 1,200 feet away from to the open sea, under another It was meant to allow ships to Paria's facilities However, by this point, this particular pipeline was sealed off and hadn't been used since mid-2018. That day, the five men on Kazim Ali Jr., Rishi Nagassar, Yusuf Henry, and Christopher Boodram, and they were tasked with air-filled habitat at Berth 6, removing a steel cover from the pipe, removing an inflatable and installing a connector up to the main platform And first, everything The crew makes their way and remove their scuba gear, so they can effectively While doing so, however, they notice that the inflatable isn't coming loose. No matter what they try, it And so, Kazim volunteers to help with dislodging it. (water sloshing) (water sloshing) (water sloshing) (indistinct) Upon heading back down Kazim hands the tool off who takes another crack at dislodging it. But what they're unaware they're unknowingly opening the door to a gargantuan difference in pressure, and would very soon find predicament. (divers shouting in foreign language) (air whooshing) (water sloshing) (water sloshing) (water sloshing) (divers indistinctly yelling) Right here, in but a fraction of a second, all five men and their equipment 50 feet down and over 120 And without even a second to they are effectively trapped in a pitch black cell underwater. (high intensity music) (divers screaming) (divers screaming in foreign language) (divers screaming in foreign language) (water sloshing) Immediately, they scream for help. They have no idea what but they're in excruciating pain, and they gotta get out of there. In the next few moments, and orient themselves inside the pipe. They explain to each other their and try to deduce which side of the pipe they're even facing. With hope quickly fading, Chris to try their hardest to get out of there, out of that hell they're stuck in. And so, he proposes a plan and to inch their way out. It was a 50-50 shot that they'd be heading in the right direction. But at this point, it was one (high intensity music) With no light source, no sense of direction, they begin to shuffle their way forward. In the beginning, it seems to be working. However, they quickly of this pipe head down to a lower depth and have collected pools of water and oil. Were they to continue their through fully-submerged sections of pipe, a proposition that, with no knowledge of how long it would go on for, With this revelation, Kazim, Rishi, and Yusuf decide to stay back. It's a risk that they just can't stomach, and so, Chris reassures them and continues onward with Fyzal by his side. (high intensity music) (water dripping) (camera shutter clicking) In the following moments, two scuba tanks lying in an air pocket. They equip them and make their way through fully-submerged, For a while, they were However, on their journey, Fyzal had come to an He is excruciatingly that he simply can't continue. Chris proceeds, onward and onward, not even sure if he's heading Nevertheless, he holds out hope (high intensity music) Until he finally (water sloshing) (water dripping) He looks up, and it's open. In complete disbelief, he screaming and pleading (Chris banging on pipe) outside its opening are two drop a chain down to him, and ultimately, save his life. (high intensity music) But there's just one problem. - [Diver] Chris? - [Chris] Yeah! (diver and Chris shouting Huh? (divers shouting in foreign language) - [Nexpo] Four men are still and still need help. To his dismay, Chris is that can be done about them. It's apparently too dangerous to get them, and essentially, all hope for their rescue is lost. In utter disbelief at what he's hearing, Chris even tries to head however, is ultimately (indistinct) For three excruciating days, the remaining four divers begging and pleading Little did they know, though, Help was never on the way, and the men were effectively left to die. (indistinct) (high intensity music) (high intensity music) As of writing, there's between Paria, the Coast Guard, the contract company, LMCS Limited, that assigned them to the job, each of the accused passing for their inaction to a different party. (melancholy music) No matter what ends up happening, that the victim's families as according to every report available, it seems that little to no effort was made by the companies or at all. (melancholy music) The incident that occurred on that otherwise ordinary day is one of the most haunting freak accidents one could ever find themselves in. What began as an ordinary job had, out of nowhere, morphed into I cannot even begin to fathom in the dark, inside of a 60 feet below sea level. And even more so, bearing the apprehensive for help that never came. (high intensity music) (television static hissing) (VHS player clicking) - [TV Announcer] These before you call- - [TV Announcer] Gulf-side pool, cable TV, volleyball, and if you stay you receive a vacation club card with over $100 in valuable discount. - [TV Announcer] Valuable Call now and ask about our special 49-day- (TV announcer's voice warbling) (television static hissing) (television static hissing) (high intensity music) - [Nexpo] It's late at night, and a truck driver named Eduardo (light switch clicking) - [TV Actor] This place, - [TV Announcer] Not Then stay here at Super 8. Clean, comfortable rooms, more than any major economy chain. Clean, friendly, Super (upbeat music) - [Nexpo] His night is unremarkable. It's about as ordinary as you can imagine. He cleans himself up, and just a couple hours later, falls deep into a much-deserved slumber. (upbeat music) (TV actress singing) Well, that's what should have happened. (high intensity music) (birds chirping) It's been two days, and A security guard on duty However, a do-not-disturb and the room is locked from the inside. (high intensity music) (security guard pounding on door) No answer. (security guard pounding on door) - Eduardo, you in there, buddy? - [Nexpo] Still nothing. (security guard pounding on door) He's not there, but it's locked. Suspecting that something is off, the guard manages to unlock And at first glance, this On the floor, the blankets lie haphazard. On the table, a handbag, a bracelet, a scale adorned with the and a photograph appeared left behind. Yet once he makes his and towards the bathroom, what awaits him (high intensity music) is completely unexpected. (high intensity music) Hanging by a suitcase strap, a badly decomposed woman and Eduardo is nowhere to be found. (papers rustling) (high intensity music) You know, you would think would make this woman's However, reality has Police have since connected her likeness with the woman in the her identity remains exactly how it's been from the day she died. She is unknown, unidentified, a Jane Doe. (high intensity music) After an autopsy, it was revealed that she had heroin in her system and had passed away by The evidence from the motel room, including the scale with were their only real leads in However, frustratingly, No witnesses, no footage, not even Eduardo. (high intensity music) It took seven entire years before Eduardo's family And coincidentally, they not long beforehand. Upon being shown this they revealed that they (camera shutter clicking) This is not Eduardo, and they have never seen (high intensity music) That day, an entirely Not only was there ambiguity and this woman's identity, but now an unnamed male As the years went on, leads on him were all but non-existent, and all they really had to to that scale. George Martinez was However, given how many George tracking this guy down in the To this day, this mystery barring one credible tip in March of 2021. It's been rumored that her name was Becca and that she flew there from Why she did this, who she came with, and how she wound up in a motel However, with the rise of the internet and breakthroughs in technology, perhaps someday her (high intensity music) (heavy rain whooshing) (brooding music) (computer chiming) (brooding music) It is hauntingly mind-boggling on this Earth has been for over 30 years. Much like the case with Joanna Lopez, having such hard photographic yet knowing absolutely nothing and what happened to them What took place on that fateful And to be honest, a lot of Eduardo was merely stopping So how did he become so wrapped up in such a tangled web of mystery? Perhaps there was more to this story, something that he wasn't letting on. However, given that that question will (brooding music) (computer dinging) (keyboard keys clicking) If you know of or recognize I implore you to reach out to the Albuquerque PD with information. This is an absolute Hail Mary, however, someone on this Earth has For all I know, this case anytime soon, but keeping and in the public eye, in my opinion, that is the key to closure. (brooding music) (high intensity music) A neighbor with a grim secret, a life lost through inaction, a peeping landlord spying a claustrophobic nightmare, and a mind-bending mystery Tonight, you and I dove from around the internet. It's been a long couple years, I know, but I promise you this series is back. Sincerely from the bottom of my heart, thank you all for your love and support. Throughout the years, you and that truly means the world to me. With that said, if you for this series, any events, anything, feel free to submit them to the show's dropbox at Once again, that's Thank you all again for watching, I'll see you in the next one. I love you all, and goodnight. (melancholy music) (melancholy music) (melancholy music) (high intensity music) (high intensity music) (high intensity music) (high intensity music) (high intensity music) Tonight's video has been One of the skills I wish I picked up on while growing up is speaking All my life, I've come across for example, spoken However, I've never quite or respond in an appropriate way. And that's why tonight Babbel is one of the top language that is scientifically proven to help you start speaking a new language in as little as three weeks. Their app is incredibly Straight out of the gate, you're set up with a based upon your own skill that are actually surprisingly Even better, they also have when you're sitting on your couch and need something to pass the time. None of it feels like yet you're learning You know, they say winter Just kidding, nobody says that. But what I will say is your subscription to Babble by clicking the link in Thanks so much again to Babbel for sponsoring tonight's video. And more importantly, Like I said earlier, this video and I promise you, it's I've been restructuring and all I gotta say is to the Nexpo channel in 2024, so by the time you guys see this, there will be another video So be on the lookout for that. I'm really excited. Wow, I just started rambling. (Nexpo laughing) Thank you guys so much for your support, it truly means the world. Again, if you're still here somehow, check out Babble. Yeah, I don't know, I'm gonna go now. I've been working way too so I'm gonna go start the next one. I'm gonna go do it! Here I go! I'm going. I'm going right now. Okay, all right, I love you all, and good night. (heavy rain fall whooshing) (enchanted music)