Let's hear it for Lucas. All right? Everyone's tired of me. Yeah. We'll talk about that in a second. All right. last year or two when we've spoken, you To go to a mexican restaurant, and I Shilling, We should start with a mind. Why did you buy a bankrupt Mexican Because we're not that savvy. Quite frankly, if you don't know what Colorado where Trey and I grew up, you've been. If you haven't, you're like, what is But it went bankrupt and train. We've kind of figured that when you hear hard can it be? voice in your head. You know, the food sucked. place? It took the last couple of years. It's a dog in the documentary would say spend $6 million. And then it turned into about 40 and But so it went went, oh, here we go. Like when we've got a really good friend division of Park County, our our who's always shooting us, shooting video And there was this moment when And I just thought, well, and it was at each other and everyone's stressed And I just thought about like Kitchen was funny music playing behind this And so we, you know, encouraged Arthur And we ended up with this movie called was. you know, a three or four part kind of things. to cut it down to its core. partner, Trey, you know, as an artist great guy who dedicates himself to Right. $40 million later, we have a mexican But I will say we sort of we have when I people went last week. And setting aside the $40 million, I'm not a savvy businessman. I don't think it's getting close to The we have 265,000 people who are our biggest fans. were on the million plus person email 14,000 people a week right now. And and us about opening Casa Benitez and other It's like, okay, you know, like and came from Denver that we would be in Yeah, but it is, it's open. I'm being self-deprecating. And the movie shows how how hard the partner's dedication to the cause. who kind of is not in Why not always, Arthur Bradford. documentary anybody saw called Six Days And we just kind of kept filming. said, you know, it's like such a rapper Like, here's our here's our dock crew. ended up making something really You know, you mentioned Trey is sort of in the documentary. relationship between the two of you work days there, it's pretty evident that Yeah. and how does that relationship work? It changes all the time. know? just been through it all together. You know, but Treisman, I mean, he artist and he's so talented to people Yeah. songs and you know, and I can kind of, along those things. the way. ideas to the show. to have like, what the hell are we going So sometimes it's a producer director At the end of the day, I think we like say at Bloomberg screen time would be, I voices. know what I mean? you see the movie Cost of Needing Me I mean, the title comes from a point where the camera, they catch him just in you know, Trey, it's like you see this Is Trey, right? Elvis thing to someone in the middle And it's like, that's Trey. his mind on doing something artistic, He'll work harder than anybody. And like, I'll I'll go. Yeah. Denver, too, and I understand all the I have a real. with custom and he does is, is pretty Now, you said in a 2010 interview with No, this is not a bad one. you said in that interview that you You're like, there is no way we're going because this was celebrating a certain I believe you're now 53. Thanks for reminding me. Is there an do you is there an end in you guys just reached a point? doing it. tired of it. to I know we don't have an end in sight. it's because it's it's still such an Yeah. now, a live action movie. going to be like, All right, here we go. you know, hang out with those characters we love we love doing South Park. long enough to reach the singularity and Yeah, I mean, it sounds crazy, but Yeah, but we have no, no, we have no that. Good. That was the one that was going to show South Park. Oh, Do you ever feel. Yeah. Oh, my Lord. which are the two shows I really grew up Do you ever because I believe you have a The Simpsons people, right? personally. like because they're I think they had something like that. Yeah, Yeah. forever, Do you ever think like, okay, Oh, that's not not so that won't happen. be in the air singularity future or No, The Simpsons was an incredibly You know, we were in college watching people, along with Beavis and Butthead. Those those were like, Oh, you can do You know, before before that, there was animation. you really love? last five years? I watch any television. Not like none. I got kids and I got work. I don't do anything more, Val. I'm like, you know, hang out, my You're going to do video game. right? I don't know. I don't know. But. Okay, well, this is going to, like, hang They're coming in town this weekend. I see my friends. Might have a drink That's allowed. out because. I just. I really never have been personally. now I just find the whole thing no way I'm when I find, well, friends, time, I feel burned the last couple of And I and I do feel like this has been a streaming revolution is like some of us. You got to watch Mandalorian. You got to watch Battlestar Galactica, And I'll never watch TV. And I'll go on, I'll start watching it And I'm like, I am missing something. season, there's that episode that and I No, I don't. I'm like, Oh, well, you know what? They really tried. You're wasting my time. So you're the one. that this is the streaming revolution is and just destroying the art of the of Even though I'm irrational about. about season two. And one of and two, as soon as I feel completely betrayed. in love with something. and you're screwing with my heart. I have, like, a short fuse, and that's And then I don't watch TV for three more That's. You know, like, it's funny because I streaming services is they cancel shows Shows never like there's no streaming season ten or 12 or anything like that. feel like streaming has distorted? streaming or like I just the and this So, you know, what am I talking about? You know, but, like, it's just when I I just, I feel like that that is part of gotten screwed up in the 20 tens from Well. This. And there's this much butter in the We're gonna do this much bread. Just not. out there. And if you and because the technology and everything, everything looks glossy feels good. And then episode seven, you realize being and then I get really mad. Do you worry that AI makes that worse? make stuff? Yeah, I mean, maybe because on the other it's have become the technology has made of cool stuff happening. grouch I'm a pretty big grouch when But if you know there has been a lot of people online, what am I saying? The, the tools of to make films are so started. That's cool that people can make stuff. this is maybe going in the other You're just saying like, how much does now versus when you started? Yeah, because Trey and I make so much. You know, and couches when we, you know, we were when we first started making the show, You know, now it's quite a bit more. You get out of bed, it's, you know, it's like, you know. you got 50% of your digital rights. Yeah. in the know. Yeah. I mean, since the sound of South Park's year. What were you guys thinking during the Are you like reading the stories that my Are you talking to people? Oh, no, of course. You know, what happened between those to the Book of Mormon with our friend And just the way Broadway works is we money and, you know, having a little bit we're owners now. mean? We we got above that look above those You know what I mean? to be okay with whoever is going to be Paramount and slice it up. software back from them, like we're That said, I'm pretty I'm pretty excited Why is that? couple of times. comes from like I think did you meet We met once or twice before, and then thing. You know, the Grouch is like, you know, kid of a tech billionaire does feel like show, I have to say. not. Not this one. Um, but yeah, no, but he c listen, he He's not n he's not. I actually like the, the current people I really like but it's been a bumpy ride Well you've had the Phillipe the monitor Philadelphia era where this quarter to what it is every quarter. do. dedicated and the team is dedicated to a have to do. time and the quantity or quality sorry, really believes in will, is lines up Right. We hope that what we do is not a waste tried, you know what I mean? Hey, look, we could we could make a butter out. That's all I wanted. analogy today. Okay, so you're not. I did. show? We'll be making fun of him either. Yeah. other than other than owners of You guys are pretty much willing to make Is there anyone or anything you're not I don't know if we'd lose. Oh, and then I will come if we come up Yeah. That's really not where we start from. just like, I don't know. It's a theme. Stuff that's interesting. that same thing. Whether it's the news or something in our sandbox. Right? empirically. didn't make fun, you know what I mean? to come at it and talk about it, you Right. The big change to our world, right? the Hollywood is pretty good right now. You know, Hollywood needs a little. Did you? process, did you guys think about trying I know. know, Viacom or Paramount, they looked selling Showtime. could have said, we'll buy Comedy We thought about it. about buying like, I'm going to write a We thought about doing a press release, we're going to make an offer just to be But like you and a few of the other really bid on the. We were just bid on just on South Park. We were. But ultimately, like, that's not I don't I mean, as I said, I'm excited about I have a little, you know, teeny I have still because I'm from the before time, still Hollywood, you know, Now it's like disorienting. anymore and what distribution is But the idea that there's a a lot and you know, it looks like a backlot and smoking a cigar and he's rich and that I like that. Yeah. compared to Northern California tech Yeah, that's. You know what I mean? to get to know kind of like tech people. I know Wall Street people, you know, and be part of the Hollywood community. I want to play that, too. Yes, I know. After living through all this stuff like the end is that big. place of all these industries. They mean You know what I mean is, is that because of a kinship with other people in that just at this point now, it's like, what You know, it's like not being a Lakers Like a bit of it's that a bit of it's watching. quite as strident. Northern California and Southern You have this mutual disrespect of what And it's like, so because I do the one I the last three, two decades and just be That's what it is to me. you do. do. of a tech company. what you know and you know, the same And now I understand why restaurateurs Mexican restaurants, like, oh, that's That's to go back to what I just said. It's hard. can it be? You're wrong. You know, for those unfamiliar to be Yeah. We we sort of I would just liken it to or ILM, where we started to try to make pandemic. basically decided we were going to do and make fun of a bunch of people. copyright nightmare or whatever I think We're going to use everybody's face and And we got the runaround from a bunch of Yeah, look at this. doing now. with the pandemic. And we kept going with it and we did videos. out next year, and it's something it company, but like the technology's here respect for. It's how hard it is to develop software It's kind of like models, but you can won't have to wear makeup looking like whatever, and you'll end up know, right in the final product. and potatoes production saves time, is Yeah. debate a little bit about is A.I. efficient or is it something that will both? the efficiency because. said put it, it's like the deepfake divorces, the input and output of the So it's like, I can be you and you could Or I'm I can be or someone like like a Trey, who's incredibly talented and better than everybody else. Instead of spending six or 8 hours in makeup and you knew or getting a getting that. little nutty professor reference, I Of course, I can go deep into Eddie Murphy mad. have you. do voice a lot of the characters. company about trying to do voice cloning We have a they've come to us and I think what everyone else. Well, I can think of 80 million things I Right. safeguards would be, but we haven't that. But you you. I mean, you know, I like it. on, I'm 60 and 65 and I'm on my yacht I can never have my assistant on my I don't know. I've got a yacht. I don't have a yacht, by the way, yet. Other than. episode, you haven't done much South Why is that? And what can you say about the movie? movie with Kendrick, with Kendrick Lamar we're working on it and hopefully come Burke, different. What's the genre? Comedy, Very funny. Funny, Yeah. Is How involved is Kendrick in it? Dave De Freeze Very, very involved. We're there every day working on it. And then we'll do South Park beginning We're coming back with one episode and 2025. Go. you're not going to touch. executive like media tech, whatever that way. before? What do you see that like? doing? time. I mean, like, you know, this is taking off like stuff like I'd do anything but podcast, I don't know. on podcasts? do do anything but go on podcasts and Well, presumably he's running a company. You actually listen to him talk. says make sense or strike you as smart? You're the one who asked me. I would say yes. I hope to meet him someday. experience. the podcast because I don't need to see The podcast. You asked me. Yeah. I couldn't decide if you go. Are you going to go to David Hasselhoff? But Sam Altman's probably a better I couldn't deal with his eyes off you. It's like, I can't I can't talk about I guess you can talk about him. Yeah, you can say whatever you want. Do you remember the Jerky Boys? Okay. There was just a character, the one. like, some little character. Dave does love her, mind you. Brothers, right? They're suing everybody. like mark of pride at this point. If you're not, you're doing something Yeah. No, no. back to work. Thank you, everybody.