-Hi. I'm Rick Steves, back with more This time, we're in Saxony -- the great cities It's eastern Germany, and you're in for some Thanks for joining us. Saxony is a proud region with a long and rich history. Its two leading cities Each had a tough and today they're coming back In this episode, we'll visit bombed and then rebuilt After visiting a beloved church we'll go further back in time and brush up with its royal palaces and their porcelain, jewels, We'll ponder from the time of Napoleon. Then, after peeking into we'll recall how people power -Chanting at the top of their -...and see how people today After World War II, Germany was divided into the free West With the fall of communism Germany was reunited. In the historic region we tour Dresden and Leipzig. We start in Dresden with fanciful and some of the best It's a city that mixes with a delightful-to-stroll At the peak of its power this wealthy capital of Saxony ruled much of eastern Germany from the banks Saxony's greatest ruler To embellish his capital, he imported artists especially from Italy. Dresden's grand architecture earned it the nickname In spite of its resurgence, Dresden is still known for American and British planes on the night The bombing was so fierce it created its own climate -- More than 25,000 people were and 75% of the historic center Memorials, while understated, This simple inscription recalls &quot;the bodies of 6,865 people were burnt on this spot.&quot; For 40 years, Dresden was part It was in what was called one of the only places that didn't get Under the Communists, Dresden restored left others in ruins, and replaced many with modern, Prager Street, a bombed-out ruins was rebuilt as a showcase Its vast, goose-step up the boulevard The design is typical from Moscow to Bucharest. Today, after a thorough update, they've become After German reunification, the rebuilding of Dresden The transformation and the city's has been reconstructed. The Frauenkirche, is the symbol and soul When completed in 1743, this was Germany's Then, in February of 1945, in the last months of the war, For a generation, it lay there, Then, Dresdeners completely and painstakingly. With the help Dresden's most beloved church and finally reopened Stepping inside, not so wide but very tall. The color scheme is pastel, to emphasize the joy of faith and enhance of the services held here. The curves help create A Lutheran church, but built at the peak it seems the artistic style trumped the Lutheran taste The church's twisted old cross, which fell 300 feet and burned in the rubble, caps an inspirational story. Climbing to the top of the you're rewarded with a commanding view The rebirth of the city This central square was once ringed by the homes It's once again alive with people and cafes. Dresden's delightful terrace was originally Today, it's a welcoming Its nickname -- And a fleet tempts visitors Getting around the city and a quick ride over the river takes us into a lively district called Neustadt, Its inviting Hauptstrasse, opened in 1979. It was a showpiece a landscaped, filled with affordable Because World War II bombs the New Town has a retro charm. This well-worn area has emerged as the city's Passages between apartment flats are enlivened by art galleries, and crazy decorations. While the New Town it's fun to explore, The Parade of Nobles is a mural painted on 24,000 tiles It was built after it was incorporated into the newly formed country in the 1870s. It celebrates and its Wettin family dynasty. The artist carefully studied accurately tracing the evolution through the centuries. Way up at the very front an announcer with a band excitedly heralds the arrival There are commoners -- from miners and farmers And ahead of them, the royals, with 35 names and dates marking 700 years At the year 1694 the most important The Saxon ruler was one of the most powerful He was one of a who elected In the 18th century, the larger-than-life kicked off Saxony's Golden Age. His royal festival complex, is an example made Dresden Here at the Nymphs' Bath, aristocrats relaxed with royals Today, the Zwinger The Mathematics features scientific gadgets Finely crafted and incorporating the instruments are displayed Imagine whipping out your or a new-fangled pocket watch with a risque painting. This calculator from 1650, claiming to be the oldest could carry the tens. European royal families aspired to have And the Wettin family at nearby Meissen. In those days, a king portrayed Augustus the Strong He liked to say Here you can enjoy under chandeliers You'll see fine table settings. He had a veritable porcelain zoo of exotic animals According to legend, Augustus traded 600 soldiers, to Prussia. And here at the Zwinger, it just makes sense comes with 40 bells The delightful chimes are far [ Chimes playing ] In the nearby Royal Palace, the official residence is Dresden's This glittering is the sightseeing highlight The collection was begun featured here surrounded on the base of an obelisk. It grew into the royal family's of ivory, silver, displayed in rooms as opulent Its purpose? as an expression of wealth The Amber Cabinet with fossilized tree sap -- for example, The Ivory Room does the same with some In this amazing ivory frigate, tiny sailors climb all supported In the aptly named amid mother-of-pearl, ostrich-egg, is the ultimate coffee service. This &quot;golden coffee service&quot; is pure gold iced with enamel, crusted with thousands and crowned by a coffee pot Coffee was exotic and this extravagant while never actually used certainly made an impression. This captivating ensemble depicts a Grand Mogul He ruled India And among earth's rulers, he was the embodiment and endless wealth. Like royal Legos the figures, made of gold were movable And the finale, is this dazzling green diamond, one of the largest The adjacent Royal Armory fills a long room The biggest space in the palace, this room was the scene Today, its exhibits recall those breathtaking Back then, jousting was when there was no war to fight. The collection to see armor but displayed in action. This ensemble -- designed for formal parades, is considered And the little princes Connecting German towns on the country's And after a relaxing hour or two we arrive in Leipzig. Leipzig once had of many other German cities. But long a leading trade center, city leaders They replaced with a grid of grand dedicated to trade and commerce. World War II bombs and the Communists followed that That left the town center But in the generation the people of Leipzig have Augustusplatz and a hub for the city's trams. Overlooking that rebuilt in a playful of the pre-war buildings Towering high above built in the 1970s. An erection like this was Locals and tourists alike to enjoy a drink As they rebuilt the city center, was the tradition that burrow Some of the galleries with venerable shops Others are playfully decorated Leipzig's with its fine arcade, Tonight the fruit have made way with music... - You can leave your hat on -...and lots of sausages, As a traveler, don't be shy. Share a table An event like this is [ Cheers and applause ] [ Organ playing Leipzig is famous It was the hometown of the great composer shown here with his favorite In the early 1700s, Bach was the organist right here at St. Thomas Church. Inside, the clean, reflects of an uncluttered church. Stained glass celebrates Martin Luther came here to perform Leipzig's and how, for nearly 30 years, Bach's tomb, is like a pilgrimage [site] Leipzig remembers with a little whimsy. This statue represents two harsh dictatorships the flat-palmed &quot;Sieg Heil!&quot; and the proletariat's raised This poor fellow, repressed by both regimes seems to represent Somehow, To learn more, step into Leipzig's which tells the 44-year story After the devastation the line between and Leipzig ended up In those the stability and security provided by East Germany's was appreciated. Out of the squalor and, if you played by the rules, Housing was a major priority, as so many were homeless Locals recall but people had what they needed. Generally what they had Children all had and cuddly stuffed pets. Western pop music, while reined in and certainly from the Beatles to Jethro Tull. But of course, people To learn more, I'm joined by Leipzig tour guide The hated secret police force was the Stasi. Its old headquarters dedicated to telling It offers a fascinating look at what it took -This is the symbol for the Ministry &quot;Staatssicherheit -- Stasi.&quot; -&quot;Stasi&quot; -- state security. Modeled after the Soviet Union's the notorious KGB, the Stasi recruited from every walk of life. It collected mountains of data The former offices a small camera that could be easy-to-hide microphones, including one hidden disguises, and forged documents. -The Stasi officers sat people and the piece of cloth when the suspects sweated And then they placed the cloth preserving the smell. And whenever something for example, a leaflet -- they brought in the dogs. The dogs smelled the item, -So the dogs And that would be enough -That would be enough. -All mail and packages coming into the country These machines enabled agents read them, then reseal them. The Stasi stole millions sent to struggling East Germans And they confiscated which contained forbidden These cassettes to record After freedom, people were free -Yes, but it was was The Stasi had hundreds so there were colleagues, spying on people, and then it was Do I want to know what information but I would also find out -So you could look at your file, but you might find your uncle and maybe you just -Exactly. -Leipzig's beloved played a pivotal role in the people's successful fight In the 1980s, hosted weekly prayer meetings These turned political, making St. Nicholas for the Peaceful Revolution that would ultimately topple A column in the church square celebrates the church's So eventually these Monday spilled out of the church -Yes, they got bigger and bigger The largest demonstration was 450,000 protesters. But they all remained peaceful, and that's That's why there was -So, what eventually happened? -Eventually, and the borders were opened, and the people had gained -The Peaceful Revolution. -Very much so. [ Tram bell dings ] -Just outside of Leipzig is a gigantic monument It commemorates that involved forces Called the it pitted France's army against a coalition of Prussian, Austrian, Russian, With half a million soldiers it was the largest battle until World War I. The Battle of the Nations in the fight against Napoleon. He was routed here Basically, it was Germans who And exactly a century later, during a surge of nationalism following the unification Leipzig inaugurated on the site The archangel Michael with the same message that accompanies &quot;God is on our side.&quot; Entering the monument, you stand under It's ringed by more soldiers, heads respectfully bowed to honor the sacrifice Above them, represent the virtues of the And high above, in the dome, hundreds of life-sized soldiers It feels religious, a powerful monument to the power of nationalism and to the fact that saddled with grief. Traveling through Saxony exquisite culture, it's an inspiration of the people Thanks for traveling with us. Until next time, &quot;Auf Wiedersehen.&quot; -In the 18th century, the larger-than-life kicked off Saxony's golden age. Yeah! [ Laughs ] It's a city with a delightful-to-stroll -[ Laughs ] Get that thing away from me!