I Said leave him alone All right, let's get started good luck you want to take his place midget Yeah, sure It's up guy I'm looking for you someone take Barry's place get out of here. I'll get a teacher Wanna go look in fights you jerk or not chicken? No Get up get up. Come on get up Gotta watch where you going man living alone a jerk never learned Dean midget It's the bus Barry Semadar scared Don't worry. I'll go easy on you this time Come on lose Chester. See what you got Come on freak freak You're not tough you're just a jerk Dirk the jerk What was that so we lost Gazoo fag How could you have lost because of me if I wasn't even there? That's why it's your fucking fuckface We could lose district who cares everybody cares? everybody All right. Yeah, whatever - Wait a minute, where's your shoes what he's wearing shoes ray you've been drinking Not those the the Nikes the fucking LeBrons or whatever the tennis shoes you begged you, you know You know what I'm talking about. I just didn't wear them You realize that tell them people are lying for a living. All right, right. Let's let's talk about this later what the Blowing your sleep. I have new shoes. There was a little thing happened last week boys What happened What happened to your shoes We've done - they took his shoes out of his gym locker and won what shit I don't they cut him up That's it. Christ me. Come on. This isn't good for him. Who was it boy? Great. Stop it. Let's talk later somewhere else see Give me a kid's name right in her. I'll pull down your pants. I'll spank you in front of the fucking cheerleading squad Don't look at him you look at me Tell me the name of that kid Chad I'm gonna count to three What? - Aspen Aspen Conroy Aspen It's a boy's name Jeff ray what the hell is the matter with you? Asshole? What could you have you talked to my son relax, it's nothing maybe I just want to ask him about some stolen property What button you want to call him out and maybe we can take care of this, you know right here You don't even have to tell the missus Yeah, great hey son Its man's with the police he says he has something to ask you You like to bully kids ass pen. Hold on. What is this you 12 years old your art. He was fuck Your dad he's doing this for you Got you off kid seeing people in pain You ever bully I hurt anybody again. I'll come back and but fuck your father with your mom's headless corpse on this goddamn lon Twelve years old my ass. Fuck you Where is he? Well, is that some parking don't worry about it we got you back he comes over here bust his ass What you want Your life Which thing about taking that right but I don't do someone in tight spaces some gonna prison worries me You shouldn't improve the face really let's have kept it the way it was keep the bitch cuz I'm doing with it There's still lots of light bullion balls friend Now, you know what I do for a living no perfect you should have waited Mind if I share your table I'm saddening. So was I last week? On a beach in Florida What's your name Jimmy Reese You don't look like a Jimmy what do I look like I Don't know but not a Jimmy So you're new in town Usually It's kind of loud in here Do you want to maybe go someplace quieter? I have a car you're old enough to drive I'm old enough to do a lot of things How about a budget sandy? what I Can't afford you I'm not a hooker. Oh, then I really can't afford you Seriously, I work at the auto parts store What I mean is the cheapest woman tends to be the one you pay for I Am NOT a hooker. Okay, get the joke. What's this? He called me a whore Is that true Nobody said horror she inferred hooker. I meant slut. Hey, that's our sister. She a good kisser Hey outside Your check first. I'll pay later You want to be able to You think all the time you should try it. It's a great joke, but I'm gonna beat your ass Do you want to do that here outside? That's I Stay here. Sandy. I don't mind the sight of blood what it means. You're not pregnant anyway You still think you're funny now creep shut your mouth sandy no one is talking to you She last chance to walk away Are you kidding it's five against one? It's three against one How do you figure once I take out the leader, which is you I'll have to contend with one or two enthusiastic wingmen Last two guys, I always run Well you've done this before It's getting late Remember you wanted this Okay Okay, now we know who's who let's get this done That's a pretty impressive response time fellas If you have enjoyed the video, please don't forget to click that subscribe button turn on notifications Bell And while we're at it why don't we throw in a comment of what we'd like to see next