- Hello, folks, today is Friday, November 22nd, 2024. As usual, my name is Jake Baldino, here to talk about all the video game news that has been going on this week. There's a bunch of stuff, so we should just jump right in. I had a lot of coffee, but the first news is regarding the next &quot;Battlefield&quot; game, and how it seems like this time, they're not gonna make the mistakes they did last time, or at least, that's what we're hoping. This comes from a surprisingly positive or at least optimistic Insider Gaming has had some scoops on the &quot;Battlefield&quot; front before, of course, they had that big interview with Vince Zampella, who was talking about how they really wanted to do player-first, and really not make the same mistakes they did last time, I said at the time that, you know, that talk is one thing, and it seems like from this new Insider Gaming report, which you can read in a all my sources and stuff, it seems like things might be moving in the right direction. This is the biggest &quot;Battlefield&quot; project with four different studios working on it, a substantial budget, but also what this report notes, is that this stage into the development, this game has had way more playtesting than any other previous And I quote, &quot;Sources say that playtests with external players are happening much more frequently than in past installments. And the amount of data is the most the franchise has seen in its history.&quot; This also says that EA is the &quot;Battlefield&quot; Community that they've done back in the day, that is promising if but yeah, small report, but again, it does suggest that they are actually trying this time. I hope that is the case, I know the last &quot;Battlefield&quot; They put the work in to make it better, but I think the damage was done, so I think we need a fresh start, and they said last time, &quot;player-first,&quot; all that stuff, &quot;player-focused,&quot; but now hopefully this time, they're actually putting Again, like I've been saying a lot lately, actions speak louder than so we'll just have to wait and see. Speaking of actions though, &quot;Star Wars Outlaws,&quot; we've talked about this in the past and how the game sold below Ubisoft's expectations, and Ubisoft said, &quot;Hey, we're gonna go in and try and update and fix some things, and hopefully the game will sell better.&quot; I don't know if that's going to work, I don't know if it's the entire game, but it seems like this stuff is now actually happening, they did what they said A big update just went live. The game is also on Steam now, but the game comes with like reduction of, like there's no forced That was a big issue with some players. I say grow up and deal with it, but I am also a stealth gamer, so you know, whatever, it's fine. So they've changed that up, but they've also added like some different little JorRaptor, who I'll link his tweet, had a really good in terms of changing up cover, and animations behind cover, a shoulder swap button, different blaster rifles feeling a little bit different, a little bit more you can do with your pistol module things, just totally tweaked shooting it's amazing how much Is this going to instantly make it Game of the Year I don't know, but as somebody who thought the game was just good, not great, not super remarkable, I don't know. These little things are Is it gonna change the fate of the game? We don't know, I mean, honestly, but at the very least, now it's on Steam, so maybe some other people But yeah, they did also launch a trailer for the &quot;Wild Card&quot; story pack. It seems like it's Sabacc-focused, which was one of my favorite and Lando Calrissian is in it, so that's cool. In other news, briefly, there was a thing that Sony is intending to possibly acquire the parent company that Yes, the parent company, Kadokawa, does own a lot of stuff. They are a pretty big company, but you know, the most significant thing for us players, is that Sony could possibly acquire the makers of &quot;Elden Ring,&quot; From Software. Who knows what that could actually mean, and whether or not that will go down, there's lots of speculation right now, and whether or not that is a good thing is up to the individual. I made a whole video on my other channel, but as of right now, nothing official, other than that Kadokawa has confirmed that they have gotten like the inquiry by Sony. So I guess we'll just &quot;Bloodborne 2&quot; confirmed? I don't know, I would say, you know, slow down on that, Tex. And in case you miss it, the Game Awards nominees There are plenty of game awards, people have their own game awards shows, websites do it, YouTube channels do it, but I'm talking about the the one that people The big one I'll just highlight, is the Game of the Year category. So the nominees are &quot;Astro Bot,&quot; &quot;Balatro,&quot; &quot;Black Myth: Wukong,&quot; &quot;Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree,&quot; and &quot;Final Fantasy 7: Rebirth,&quot; and &quot;Metaphor: ReFantazio.&quot; A good lineup, nice to see &quot;Black Myth: Wukong&quot; in there, and &quot;Astro Bot,&quot; but a lot of people are really questioning whether or not a DLC should be considered for a category, essentially, a DLC for a game that's already confirmed as good butting out another game potentially getting in there. I wanna hear from you guys. I definitely wanna know what you guys think about this. There's also, of course, a &quot;community choice&quot; vote thing on the Game Awards website. So jump in there, and Or you can just wait for the one Gameranx does where I go in front of a camera, and I read all the Game of the Year picks from everybody else that works here, and then you guys all yell at me in the comments. (chuckles) Next up, this video is sponsored by Vessi. If you don't know, Vessi has been a longtime and they are known for one thing. Simple, dependable footwear that is also waterproof. That's right, they may look like regular old-fashioned, cool shoes with different shapes, colors, and sizes for every person and every situation, but the fact that they're waterproof really steps it up a notch. They don't feel like a waterproof shoe. They feel comfy, breathable, dependable, but the fact that they are waterproof means you can get a little It's a game-changer, whether you're in the city, caught in some rain, or you're out on a hike. Fall is here with its challenges, but winter is coming soon, but luckily, I've been They offer them in both high and low. I have the lows right here, they have the thicker sole, but also just like a I've said it before, but these are the ones I Be sure to check out the and everything else they got. Now is a good time, thanks to a Black Friday sale. Step into waterproof comfort, and enjoy up to 40% off select waterproof Vessi styles. All you gotta do is click the link into description down below, or head to vessi.com for up to 40% off. That's a really good deal, it's like the best I've seen. Stay dry, save big, and be sure to jump in before the best deals slip away. Again, vessi.com, and big thanks to Vessi Next up, some positive gaming news, I think we spend a lot of time arguing about things in the gaming world, but the stuff that still matters to me at the end of the day is consumer rights, and consumer advocacy, And Steam has done a good move here. Valve announced this new policy for season pass stuff for games being offered on Steam. The Steamworks post is this, and I quote. &quot;By offering a season pass, you are promising future content. In the process of launching a season pass, you will be asked to commit to a launch timing for each content release That launch timing is a commitment to both customers and Steam. If you aren't ready to clearly communicate about the content included in each DLC, and when each DLC will you shouldn't offer a You have to commit to completing that content on time. If customers don't like that content you're releasing in the season pass or the timing of that content release, that will be reflected So essentially, Steam is just asking for more seller transparency here, a breakdown, a roadmap expected release, what that content will entail, and this is good, in terms of changes, or in terms of like enforcement the developers do have a leeway to delay things and push things, but after a certain point, they need to work with Valve directly to change that listing, and you know, essentially sort it out. Rock Paper Shotgun reports, and I quote, &quot;In the event of DLC cancellations, Valve mandate that customers will be offered a refund in the value of unreleased DLC. 'For the purposes of refunds, The value of unreleased DLC will be decided in So there you have it, I think that's pretty good. There are people in the past who have plunked down but never really got what they promised, or it just wasn't really as good as they were hoping, or it was endlessly delayed, so I think this is just a good move. If you want to read up more about it, like I said, all of the sources and stuff linked in the description down there. Next up, happy &quot;S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2&quot; release, if you're playing that this weekend, I'd love to know, but I did do the &quot;Before You Buy&quot; for this video, first impressions after I really am enjoying the game. It's definitely still messy, it's definitely released and I think some people will not be happy about that, but I think underneath, there's a really damn good, kind of old-school-feeling game here. It feels like &quot;S.T.A.L.K.E.R.&quot; did not lose its identity, or sell out, or anything like that, and I'm happy about that. I'm happy to live in the Zone for a while as a nice distraction from life. That's all I wanted with this game. So I'm glad that the Again, it needs some but I'm still just glad the game exists. Now in other news, &quot;Avowed&quot; did get a big deep-dive trailer, if you want to check that out, all the trailers and stuff, I'll link in the description down below. &quot;Avowed&quot; also got a bunch from press and influencers, and stuff like that. Seems like there's a lot I got to see this couple months back, I wasn't really sure what to think. I don't know yet, the jury's still kind of out on it, for me personally, but I'm glad there's some Now, in terms of new game trailers, we have &quot;Empyreal,&quot; which is kind of like coming by way of Asia. Also, &quot;Dynasty Warriors: We've gotten a lot of but it's always good to see more, Koei Tecmo has been pretty and they also did announce that they are doubling for the next couple of years. Also, a story trailer for &quot;Alien: Rogue Incursion.&quot; I am really excited to jump into this one. VR has been hitting for I talked about it with &quot;Batman: Arkham Shadow,&quot; so I'm definitely jumping into this. I also just like &quot;Alien.&quot; Also, we haven't talked but &quot;Path of Exile 2,&quot; got a big new trailer revealing all the endgame content. So if you wanna see that, that is linked. Also cool surprise, we talked about a &quot;Virtua Fighter&quot; comeback possibly, and what we have gotten, at the very least right now, is a &quot;Virtua Fighter 5&quot; PC version. The game finally has and it's gonna be on Steam. &quot;Virtua Fighter 5&quot; has been a thing for a very long time, so I mean, if they're doing this, maybe it's a test for a six, or I don't know. but also, in case you missed it too, &quot;Stellar Blade&quot; got &quot;Nier&quot; DLC dropping this week. It seems like so far, the reactions are pretty good for it, so I just wanted to give that a heads-up in case you forgot for you &quot;Nier&quot; fans. But also in terms of small I did wanna talk about this leak, rumor suggesting that Godzilla is coming to &quot;Fortnite.&quot; I don't talk about &quot;Fortnite&quot; a lot, but I like talking about it when weird, crazy characters get put in the game. So if they're putting cool, is it going to be a big world event where Godzilla is on the map? Or can I play as Godzilla? 'Cause I want to see Godzilla holding a gun, please. And lastly, if you just I really appreciate this. A couple of weeks back, a guy took to social media, who must have just been like pissed off playing &quot;Call of Duty&quot; or something, maybe he had lag, maybe he had connection problems for &quot;Black Ops 6.&quot; This is a French guy and tweeted the owner of that guy's internet service provider. Yes, the billionaire owner of the internet service provider. This guy tweeted him and said, and I quote, translated from French, &quot;Hey, I hate you. I propose a 1v1 in front of the Lidl on Sainte Street in Marseille.&quot; And sure enough, like it was like a month later, but the billionaire guy that owns this telecommunications company just posted on social media like a tweet, a video of him in front of the Lidl store being like, &quot;Hey, what's up? Come get me, where are you at?&quot; And I just think that's really funny. I'm not one to root for billionaires, but it's just unhinged behavior that I do kind of appreciate. Not condoning it, don't fight anyone, don't challenge anyone to Don't meet anybody at a Lidl, or a Stop &amp; Shop, or an Aldi, or a wherever, man, just be safe. But anyway, I thought to end the week on. So I do wanna know what you guys think in the comments about From the Game Awards nominees, are you mad? Are you happy? Was your game picked? To, are you playing &quot;S.T.A.L.K.E.R. 2&quot;? But also your expectations, your hopes and dreams for a new &quot;Battlefield&quot; game, hopefully actually being good. Are those changes enough to get you back into &quot;Star Wars Outlaws&quot;? Let's talk about any of this stuff down in a comments. I definitely want to hear from you. I'm gonna be on all the social media now, I'm on Threads, Twitter, I'm on all that shit now. Also, my YouTube channel, Jake Baldino, if you wanna find me Just one of those places. But thank you for being here, you know, I got you caught up on the news every single Friday real quick. And I never miss, I'm always here. I've never missed a week, so if you appreciate that, clicking the Like button helps us, but all I ask of you now is to have a good weekend, be safe, pizza's on me.