[ INTRO] When you imagine the energy of the future, is probably in the picture. After all, it's reliable, it is powerful, and it fuels the vast majority of life on In recent years, less than two percent of has come from solar power--but new inventions are likely to change that. So here are five ways solar energy could help You might think that vast, arid deserts are to install solar farms. After all, desert sunlight is intense, and have to worry about clouds. Plus, there's plenty of wide-open space. But there is one problem: Solar panels aren't Solar panels work by converting light directly When they absorb sunlight, that energy knocks --and those loose electrons create an electrical which can be captured and transferred to a The thing is, solar panels do that most efficiently at temperatures under 25 degrees Celsius. That's because, when the solar panels get the electrons pick up that extra energy from which puts them in a more excited state. And when they're already excited, they have to absorb energy from the Sun. So, they actually work best in moderate climates--where, unfortunately, it can sometimes be hard to to set up a giant field of solar panels. But since the 2000s, countries around the what seems to be a win-win solution: a system In agrivoltaics, solar panels get installed That way, there's no need to clear extra and, on top of that, the crops help keep things as they release water through their leaves. That release of water works just like sweating: Evaporating water removes heat from a plant, the plant's temperature and also cools the So it can help keep things nice and balmy And it makes them noticeably more efficient! Researchers centered at the University of between May and July of 2019, solar panels were three percent more efficient than solar in the same region that were not over croplands. That might not sound like a lot, but over those small gains add up. For a house or building operating on solar it would amount to close to three days' over those three months. Engineers have also extended a similar concept called floatovoltaics, in which floating solar are placed on bodies of water, which are also than the air and help keep the panels cool As an added bonus, agrivoltaics and floatovoltaics lots of new possibilities when it comes to for huge arrays of panels. Setups like these already exist all around and they're becoming more popular. If that continues, agrivoltaics and floatovoltaics produce a significant fraction of the world's Engineers are always trying to get as much as they possibly can. And one of the things they have to think about what direction a panel should be facing. See, solar panels produce the most energy rays are hitting them head-on, rather than So, traditionally, people have installed these at a fixed angle that gets the most direct at their specific latitude. But that's not a perfect solution, because of the Sun's light is always changing depending and the season. That's why engineers invented something or PV trackers. PV trackers move solar panels along tracks The trackers make sure that the Sun's rays hitting the panels head-on, so they're always at their peak. To run, these systems do use about 5 to 10 they produce, but the energy gained outweighs In fact, these mounts can boost the amount a solar panel generates by up to 45 percent, depending on the geographic location. In places far from the equator, where the significantly between summer and winter, PV can be especially useful. They're generally still too heavy to be which have to be structurally reinforced to but they are being used in other settings. Today, most solar panels have a pretty conspicuous and they don't just naturally blend into or the architecture they're attached to. But there's only so much you can do about the most common solar panels are made of silicon, which is just naturally bulky and heavy. Silicon is great for turning light energy --since its electrons are arranged in a way for sunlight to knock them loose--but it's Some engineers are exploring alternatives, including solar cells that could be embedded Like, the idea is that you could be sitting on a sunny day, and there's light and warmth But some of that sunlight could also be converted into electrical energy... right in the glass. But for that to happen, solar cells would of something way lighter than silicon and also something partially transparent. Scientists actually found a way to do that--by a new type of solar cell made of organic compounds. These organic solar cells are made of thin like polymers and dyes that absorb light and a lot like silicon solar cells. But they can be made by printing the dyes like rolls of plastic--or glass, in the case Now, by definition, a material that's absorbing is usually pretty opaque, but organic solar to absorb mainly infrared light, letting visible So, these days, organic solar cells are They let through about 43 percent of light--which compared to the windows in your home, but a nice tinted window for an office building. What's great is that cells like these are and easier to produce than silicon cells, they're so lightweight, they could eventually for phone screens, camping equipment, or car There is a small catch: They're not nearly They only convert about 13 percent of the into electricity, whereas silicon cells typically about 18 to 22 percent. Still, the fact that they're so easy to could be installed in a greater number of --including places that don't currently In the future, buildings might not be the in solar cells--because now, researchers textiles that would have solar cells integrated The end goal is to generate electricity just One method researchers are experimenting with super-tiny solar panels that can be embedded In 2018, researchers in the U.K. created solar 3 millimeters by 1.5 millimeters--basically Then, the tiny panels were embedded into yarn that was woven into clothing. The idea was for the panels to be small enough that the person wearing the clothing shouldn't To test their invention, the researchers embedded in a prototype--and they were able to generate to charge a Fitbit. So we're not talking like a huge amount but with just 2000 cells, you could hook up with a wire and make enough electricity to Believe it or not, the design is actually Other fashion designers have incorporated in the past, but they're usually pretty which tends to turn people off. Unless you want to put on like a cool mask and then like rollerblade like it's cyberpunk Not all solar fabric has to be wearable, though. Other companies have successfully embedded into heavy textiles used for things like awnings which have the benefit of actually sitting all day long, too. Finally, most recent inventions related to have focused on creating electrical energy, have taken a different approach: They're the Sun's energy for thermal power, the that heats our homes. The goal is to create a rechargeable battery called solar thermal fuels. Solar thermal fuels absorb the Sun's energy, in chemical bonds, and then release it as And they can do that on command. When these fuels absorb sunlight, that new disrupts the chemical bonds in the molecules to rearrange into a new configuration. Now it always takes energy for molecules to with each other, and this new configuration --so it traps all the energy the fuel has and just holds onto it. Like, researchers in Sweden developed a fuel that can store solar energy for nearly two But, as soon as you want that energy back, those molecules through a physical filter to rearrange those molecules back into their configuration--and release all that pent-up In fact, the team in Sweden got the fuel to of its immediate surroundings by 63 degrees And the team is hoping to get that number So the idea is to develop a fuel that can to heat a home. And if the technology can get there, it sounds a pretty great deal: The fuel would start on the roof of your home, where it would absorb sunlight. Then, when it was time to turn on the heat, the fuel would pass through that filter, and would release all the heat they'd stored. The whole process is emissions-free, and the fuel can be reused over and over. These days, solar technology is about way and while these inventions take time to develop into our lives, they show a lot of promise Thank you for watching this episode of SciShow! And a special thanks to this month's President Matthew Brant, for helping make this episode If you're interested in joining our amazing helping us make science education free on you can find out more at patreon.com/SciShow. [ OUTRO]