I don't want to be his Queen. the Shadowlands Beyond Asshai the ages have turned Thank you maesta. I am the Khaleesi of the I carry his son inside me. The next time you raise Khaleesi? you're hurt. Khaleesi? He was no dragon I am Daenerys Stormborn of House I am the Dragon's daughter and I swear to you Mirri Maz: You will not hear me scream screams I want, only your life. Jorah: Blood of my Blood Daenerys: Thirteen. when my dragons stolen from me and destroy those who armies and burn cities to the ground Dracarys He'll be able to feed himself from now on. Do you understand I'm no ordinary woman my dreams come I'm sorry little princess Daenerys: I am not your little princess I am Daenerys Stormborn of the and I will take take what is mine with Fire and Blood I will take it yes my lady but not with my ships. Jorah: it's not the only thing they're quite good at killing the Daenerys: it's not the kind of queen I'm going to be Welcome home, Daenerys Stormborn Daenerys: This is not my home my home is across the sea where my people are waiting for me. they 'll be waiting a long time. Dracarys. Khaleesi please. He said you'd never leave Qarth alive Daenerys: come thank you! Xaro Xhoan Daxos Thank you for teaching me this lesson. I am king of Qarth, I can help you now truly help you we can take the Iron Throne I'll bring you a thousand ships. Khaleesi I beg you all that you dream is within your reach I beg you please. Khaleesi, Please! KHALEESI!!! Jorah: Growing fast Daenerys: Not fast enough Jorrah: Some say the unsullied are the The greatest slave soldiers in the world the distinction means you're both here to advise me I value your advice but if you ever advising someone else. is that understood? Missandei: Valar Morghulis. Daenerys: Yes, all men must die but we are not men Unsullied! Forward Match! Halt! Missandei: Razdal mo Eraz of that ancient and honourable house, master of men and speaker to Savages to offer terms Noble Lord, you are in the presence of Daenerys Stormborn of House Targaryen, Queen of the Andals and the first men, Khaleesi of the Great Grass sea Breaker of Chains and Mother of Dragons. Daenerys: you may approach A dragon is not a slave. You speak Valyrian? I am Daenerys Stormborn of the House Targaryen of the blood of old Valyria Valyrian is my mother tongue. Unsullied! Slay the masters, slay the soldiers, slay every man who holds a whip but harm no child. Strike the chain off every slave you see! You do not owe my your freedom. I cannot give it to you. Your freedom is not mine to give. it belongs to you and you alone. if you want it back, you must take it yourselves. Each and every one of you. Mhysa (Mother) what does it mean? Missandei: it is old Ghis Cari, Khaleesi. it means Mother. Mhysa! Mhysa! It's all right. easy coquest here Khaleesi. Good my Unsullied need practice. I was told to blood them early. Dracarys. Ser Barriston, if it comes to battle gladly Your Grace. I have a gift for you as well, your life. My life? and the lives of your wise masters but I also want something in return. you will release every slave in Yunkai Every man woman and child to be given as much food clothing and years of servitude. reject this gift, and I shall show you no mercy a slave of you as well. you swore me safe conduct. I but my dragons made no promises and you threatened their mother. He will. A man who fights can't afford to lose to a girl and I may give you my second sons. give me your second sons and I may not have you gilded take the gold! My gold, you gave it to and I shall put it to good use you'd be wise to do the same with my gift to you. Fly. Mhysa is [Music] [Music] are proud people they will not bend what happens to things that don't bend? [Music] And? they say a thousand slaves died and now an army of former gates Shhhhh! they're dragons, Khaleesi. they could mother. I have something to say to the first. I will need this one to be quiet do I have a champion? any of them Khaleesi. let me stand for you today you're my most trusted advisor my most valued General and my dearest friend I will not gamble with your life I am Daenerys Stormborn. Your Masters may have told you about me, or they may have told you nothing. it does not matter. I have nothing to say to them. I speak only to you. First, I went to Astapor. Those who were slaves in Astapor now stand behind me, free. Next, I went to Yunkai Those who were slaves in Yunkai, now stand behind me, free. Now I have come to Meereen. I am not your enemy. Your enemy is beside you. Your enemy steals and murders your children. Your enemy has nothing for you, but chains and suffering. and commands. sometimes it is better to answer Injustice with mercy I will answer in injustice with justice. I do not bring you commands. I bring you choice. And I bring your enemies what they deserve. Forward! Fire! I will not let those I have freed slide back into chains I will not sail for Westoros. what then? I will do what Queens do, I will rule. take off your clothes you told them I was carrying Drago's child yes or no? don't call me that did you tell them I was carrying Drago's child? yes that wine merchant tried to poison me I stopped you from drinking his wine because you knew it was poisoned. I suspected. you betrayed me from the first forgive me! another man, please Khaleesi go foriv- you sold my secrets to the man who killed my father and stole my you want me to for forgive you? I have loved you, love? love? how can you say that to me? Any other man I would have you executed but you I do not want you in my city dead or alive go back to your master's in King's Landing collect your pardon if you can please! don't ever presume to touch speak my name. you have until dusk to collect your things and leave this city if you're found in Meereen past break of day I'll have your head thrown into slaver's you begged the same I did not take this city to preside over the Injustice I fought but freedom means making your own choices I will allow you to sign a contract with your former Master it may not cover a period lasting longer than a year thank you your grace.