The Sacred Band of Thebes is one of Often the first ones in and the last ones out record against formidable foes like the Spartans, prowess was reportedly derived not only from their unit was actually composed of paired male lovers Today let us dive deeper into the fascinating i wanted to thank the audience for selecting as our wonderful narrator i also wanted to thank and serving as my go-to source for ancient history lecture videos put together by top professors from like national geographic and the smithsonian you 11 000 videos which cover topics from history being added every month their history playlist 48 part series called the other side of history on on the units of history definitely check out for me i found it best to download the app on audio mode so i can listen to the series as a right now the great courses plus is offering the link in the description below invicta i highly recommend that you and dive into the material that you are most Thebes is an ancient city whose origin stretches It stood on a rise in the plain of Boeotia fortified communities of the region. Legends and men born from dragon's teeth. In addition, which was the birthplace of figures like the god In the bronze age a Mycenaean palace which played a key role in cementing While Boeotia had no good natural harbors, it had of all its neighbors with agricultural riches that The region was also famous for its plentiful wheat Thus Thebes, the city of Seven Gates, began its polis, it was at least larger than and could easily dominate its neighbors For much of Greek history, this relationship was League. The smaller states technically had a to their share of the army; but in practice, When united, Boeotia was a formidable that of Athens in numbers of both hoplites and the Boetians would clash frequently with their in the 5th century BC, some northern Greeks were forced to submit and join them. Eventually Thebes would be punished. However this as the ensuing Peloponnesian war saw them actually Yet this alliance too would prove ephemeral. When the Thebans would find themselves joining the For example during the devastating Corinthian War had been powerful members of the anti-Spartan When the war ended in a stalemate, the to kneecap their opponents and break Theban power. state could be subject to another; every polis the treaty, Sparta went around dismantling many threat. One of these was the Boeotian League, the King's Peace, since the smaller states of In 381 BC, a Spartan army moved north On its way however it suddenly detoured to seize The invaders helped raise an oligarchic faction to Now Thebes would be ruled by a group favorable to But this Spartan-instigated coup was widely Athens, still stinging from their previous loss, was no fan of Sparta and gave Two years later, a group of these exiles led way back home. They infiltrated a party, murdered under a truce. Thus democracy was restored over the surrounding lands. The Spartans were vengeance would be swift and merciless. The It is from this moment of crisis that the Sacred was born. Its founding was meant to provide a and its militia army. It was therefore composed who were most loyal to the returning best and toughest young warriors of Unfortunately the unit only existed in a period of Greek history Most of our information, including the unit name, of the Sacred Band's most famous commander, was writing nearly 500 years later, and we're For instance it is Plutarch who tells us that lovers, claiming that their strength in battle die than let their lover down. However we're not since sources from the time don't actually say explanations. The first is that Plutarch After all there was a rather widespread practice every army would have contained at least some Sacred Band simply had a higher proportion of its formation as a unit of mature elite The second explanation is that Plutarch's as it is in cultural ideas and myths. For instance had many male lovers and that in the author's swear oaths of loyalty at the tomb of one of between Thebes and Heracles, it would make sense as having similar sexual tastes as their mythic something entirely alien as the idea was actually some philosophical dialogues. But either way, being said, let's move on to discussing something As far as we can tell, the Sacred Band were defense this most likely meant donning a simple The legs may have sported a pair of greaves conical pilos helmet or an Attic helmet. As a large aspis shield which covered These would have sported a variety of different uniform. However many probably had the club the hero's status as the patron of Thebes and the slight preference for the use of white; Xenophon In terms of offense, things Their main weapon would have been a 2-2.5 m long end and a bronze butt spike on the other. Backup In terms of training, the Theban state paid for in barracks on the acropolis of Kadmeia, where exactly did this entail? Unfortunately our sources without bothering to specify any more details. references we have to hoplite training. From this was more valued than any specific weapons have involved lots of running, wrestling, and be able to endure both the hardship of campaigns resilient, selfless, restrained, and brave. It's up some basic formation drill like the Spartans, In terms of tactics on the battlefield, they were is a modification on the deployment of other elite own separate formation. These were hardened, the Theban militia would rally and stand their many Greek hoplites fled at the mere sight of the pride of their city, would not flee, and However the intended purpose of the Sacred just how powerful the unit could be. Since around quickly on the battlefield to respond a defensive or offensive capacity. This As a permanent standing unit, the Sacred Band anywhere in Boeotia. It quickly that could serve as anything from a fire force at home and abroad. Let's now turn As we mentioned at the start, the Sacred Band of of the Boeotian War in 378 BC. The unit's who had actually helped found the group and of the Boeotian league. However, command soon of the exiles who had restored the autonomy of When war broke out with Sparta, the Sacred local farmland against enemy incursions and However in 375 BC they would get their first Pelopidas was leading the Sacred Band and a unit During these maneuvers however they ran into by the town of Tegyra. When one of the into our enemies' hands", Pelopidas is said With that he commanded his cavalry to disrupt form up into a tight formation This bold strategy killed the Spartan commanders, Apparently the Sacred Band then managed opened up in their lines, destroying The result was a bloody carnage. The Spartan the first recorded instance of their defeat by a This achievement would only be out-shined four Here, a full Boeotian army of about 8,000 larger army of around 11,000. From Plutarch and that they were first into the fray. have resumed their old role of acting However seeing that the Spartan king the commander Epaminondas shifted his best troops additional soldiers such that they were now 50 Joining them were massed cavalry forces while formation off to the right. This echeloned battle the enemy's best forces while delaying the When battle began, the concentration of forces the Spartan right, dealing heavy losses. Hundreds Cleombrotus, his highest ranking officers, this implosion of the command structure led to The triumph shattered the streak of Spartan For the next few decades however the role of in 369 BC as the vanguard of a Theban assault by light troops at the wall. Beyond that, we in the Peloponnese and Thessaly, nor in the the only other action of the Sacred Band In 338 BC, Philip II of Macedon led his army south a Theban-Athenian alliance gathered to stop him at on the right of the army's battle line. However young, 18-year-old prince named Alexander. When on the pikes of enemy infantry, but many scholars with a unit of cavalry. A feat that would become The Sacred Band fought to the last man but were only time they were defeated in open battle. 300 bodies of the Sacred Band heaped together. cried out, "a miserable death to those who think We hope you've appreciated this deep A huge thanks is owed to our supporters on Patreon and artists who made this video possible. Please and let us know what units of history you