Translator: Robert Tucker What's really going on when you want and it's just not showing up? I mean, sure, it can be due to lack but, in my work, which is getting people to their physical, I found very often it's something so much more protective, which I'll explain using three clients Let's start with Claire, CEO, She's been climbing eats, lives, breathes her work. And, one day, she feels a restlessness. She can't quite put her finger on it, so she decides to relieve some stress After a few weeks, lots more clarity, and this is when it hits her how unfulfilling it's been to climb the corporate ladder in a field She starts dreading going to work. Questions come up, like: This is all I've ever known, Now what? Too confronting, it's too overwhelming. She doesn't even realize she's doing it, but she stops going to the gym, Next, take Margo, who, for the last 10 years, her marriage, her kids. She's exhausted. She gets up early to go to work, goes to work, comes home, and passes by her husband to crash in bed, as he's just sitting there watching TV She feels so empty, overweight, overwhelmed, so she decides to start eating to get her energy back up, She cuts out the sugar After a couple of weeks, she's got lots more energy. And this is when it hits her: that the lack of confidence she had had her play small. She settled for a job she never liked; she also realizes she's grown apart She's feeling things like: Is this all there is? I feel so unloved, She's worried if she keeps will she want to leave her job, It's too big of a risk, it's too scary. So she doesn't even realize She goes back to the sugar and the lattes, and sabotages her success. And finally, take Greg, who for the last 20 years has been where they get together, grab a beer, and complain about their jobs And one day it hits him: &quot;You know, there's got to be So Greg decides to do He starts watching a few TED Talks. (Laughter) After a couple weeks, He's learning how he's growing, and he realizes it's not fun especially without a plan When he sees his friends, of course, He's all lit up, he wants to share secretly he's hoping to inspire them too. Instead, they just make fun of him As they do, this is when Greg realizes He has less and less in common with them, and he feels torn. He'd have to explain way too much if he stops meeting up So he doesn't even realize But he stops with all the personal And when he meets up with them now, he's drinking more than he was before, sabotaging his success. So why do we sabotage ourselves, Change is scary, creates a new awareness, new perspective, poses a huge threat to what's been even if what's been You know, it can almost feel No matter which way you turn, you either face the death or you face the death of who you've been, now that you're ready As if this weren't bad enough, with all this stress, creating this cascade of stress-related symptoms You know, it's so much easier and just go numb through either drugs, alcohol, You just want to keep the feelings down, Going back to what you know, feels like and seems like I mean, yes, it keeps you small, but you also feel it keeps you safe because your head Will these changes lead me Will you hear how selfish Will you have to deal at the same time you're dealing about what you're up to? These are good questions. Thinking is hard. Being honest about what you want is hard. Change, that's even harder. You heard change could be great But all you can picture Because these changes create such a snowball, you'd do everything you can Until you can't. It's as if you've been taking holding on to a pebble, because if that pebble dislodges, And then there's that moment where the pain of where you are becomes greater You're standing on the edge ready to jump without the security of knowing And even with that, in a sacred and deeply personal moment, The risks are great. But the rewards, It hits you in a moment like this, and then you get to work. I mean, sure, the self-doubt you still want to sabotage yourself, but you push through it anyway, because you realize you're meant Maybe you realize you've been You have a message, and you can't It's like you're on a trapeze. You see your partner on the other swing, you know what you're supposed to do, you're terrified, and you swing anyway. Your heart's pounding, you're a mess. And you know, you know, unless you let go of where you are. You're right there. That's decision, that's the moment. And when you do ... you feel like a rock star. Now you're inspired. Motivation and momentum got it going, and inspiration is taking over. You realize you just burst where life begins. It's the ultimate drug. Because you're high on your own growth, the impact it's having on you, and it fuels you even further. See, now you're not afraid Now looking good Now you sound different, sounding more confident, Now you have more energy because you're being fueled by your own mission, You realize you could do great things, you realize you have you realize you can make a difference, and you love whom you're becoming, once you learn to kick And if you ask me, Thank you. (Applause)