Transcriber: Joseph Geni It used to be that if you wanted you would have to program it. Now, programming, for those of you here requires laying out in excruciating detail every single step that you want in order to achieve your goal. Now, if you want to do something then this is going to be So this was the challenge faced In 1956, he wanted to get this computer How can you write a program, lay out in excruciating detail, So he came up with an idea: he had the computer play and learn how to play checkers. And indeed it worked, this computer had beaten So Arthur Samuel was and I have a great debt to him, because I am I was the president of Kaggle, a community of over 200,000 Kaggle puts up competitions to try and get them to solve and it's been successful So from this vantage point, a lot about what machine learning and what it could do in the future. Perhaps the first big success of machine learning commercially Google showed that it is possible by using a computer algorithm, and this algorithm is based Since that time, there have been many Companies like Amazon and Netflix use machine learning to suggest movies that you might like to watch. Sometimes, it's almost creepy. Companies like LinkedIn and Facebook sometimes will tell you about and you have no idea how it did it, and this is because it's using These are algorithms that have learned rather than being programmed by hand. This is also how IBM was successful in getting Watson to beat answering incredibly subtle [The ancient &quot;Lion of Nimrud&quot; went missing This is also why we are now able If you want to be able to tell a tree and a pedestrian, We don't know how to write but with machine learning, And in fact, this car has driven without any accidents on regular roads. So we now know that computers can learn, and computers can learn to do things that we actually sometimes or maybe can do them better than us. One of the most amazing examples happened on a project that I ran at Kaggle where a team run by a guy from the University of Toronto won a competition Now, what was extraordinary here all of the algorithms developed by Merck but nobody on the team had any background and they did it in two weeks. How did they do this? They used an extraordinary algorithm So important was this that in fact in The New York Times This is Geoffrey Hinton Deep learning is an algorithm and as a result it's an algorithm which has no theoretical limitations The more data you give it and the more the better it gets. The New York Times another extraordinary result which I'm going to show you now. It shows that computers (Video) Richard Rashid: Now, the last step that I want to be able is to actually speak to you in Chinese. Now the key thing there is, we've been able to take a large amount and produce a text-to-speech system that takes Chinese text and then we've taken and we've used that to modulate the standard text-to-speech system Again, the result's not perfect. There are in fact quite a few errors. (In Chinese) (Applause) There's much work to be done in this area. (In Chinese) (Applause) Jeremy Howard: Well, that was It's not often, actually, that you do hear spontaneous applause, although of course sometimes Everything you saw there (Applause) Thank you. The transcription in English The translation to Chinese and the text and the construction of the voice So deep learning It's a single algorithm and I discovered that a year earlier, In this obscure competition from Germany called the German Traffic Sign deep learning had learned Not only could it recognize better than any other algorithm, the leaderboard actually showed about twice as good as people. So by 2011, we had the first example of computers that can see Since that time, a lot has happened. In 2012, Google announced that they had watch YouTube videos and crunched the data and the computer independently learned just by watching the videos. This is much like the way Humans don't learn but by learning for themselves Also in 2012, Geoffrey Hinton, won the very popular ImageNet competition, looking to try to figure out what they're pictures of. As of 2014, we're now in image recognition. This is better than people, again. So machines really are doing and it is now being used in industry. For example, Google announced last year that they had mapped every single location and the way they did it into a deep learning algorithm Imagine how long dozens of people, many years. This is also happening in China. Baidu is kind of and what you see here in the top left is an example of a picture that I uploaded and underneath you can see that the system and found similar images. The similar images similar directions of the faces, This is not clearly looking All I uploaded was an image. So we now have computers and can therefore search databases of hundreds of millions So what does it mean Well, it's not just In fact, deep learning Complex, nuanced sentences like this one are now understandable As you can see here, this Stanford-based system has figured out that this sentence Deep learning now in fact at understanding what sentences are about Also, deep learning again at about This algorithm developed by people, none of whom speak As I say, using deep learning is about the best system even compared This is a system that we put together which shows putting These are pictures which have and as I'm typing in here sentences, in real time it's understanding and figuring out what they're about and finding pictures that are similar So you can see, it's actually and actually understanding these pictures. I know that you've seen where you can type in things but actually what it's doing is it's This is very different from This is something that computers for the first time in the last few months. So we can see now that computers and, of course, we've shown that they Perhaps not surprising now Here is some text that I generated And here is some text that an algorithm Each of these sentences was generated by a deep learning algorithm This algorithm before has never seen It's seen a man before, it's seen a guitar before, but it has independently generated We're still not quite at human performance In tests, humans prefer one out of four times. Now this system is now only two weeks old, so probably within the next year, the computer algorithm will be at the rate things are going. So computers can also write. So we put all this together and it leads For example, in medicine, a team in Boston announced dozens of new clinically relevant features of tumors which help doctors Very similarly, in Stanford, a group there announced that, they've developed which in fact is better at predicting survival rates In both of these cases, not only but they generated new insightful science. In the radiology case, they were new clinical indicators In this pathology case, the computer system actually discovered are as important in making a diagnosis. This is the opposite of what pathologists In each of those two cases, by a combination of medical experts but as of last year, This is an example of human tissue under a microscope. The system being shown here or about as accurately, but was built entirely with deep learning by people who have Similarly, here, this neuron segmentation. We can now segment neurons but this system was developed using people with no previous background So myself, as somebody with I seem to be entirely well qualified which I did. I was kind of terrified of doing it, but the theory seemed to suggest to do very useful medicine And thankfully, the feedback not just from the media who have been very supportive. The theory is that we can take and turn that into data analysis leaving doctors to do I want to give you an example. It now takes us about 15 minutes and I'll show you that in real time now, but I've compressed it down by cutting some pieces out. Rather than showing you I'm going to show you because that's something So here we're starting and I want to create something of the photo that's being taken. So these images are entirely unlabeled, With our deep learning algorithm, it can automatically identify So the nice thing is that the human So the human, as you can see here, is telling the computer which it wants the computer then Now, these deep learning systems actually so you can see here the computer trying to find new areas of structure. And when it does so successfully, the human who is driving it can then So here, the computer for example, angles. So as we go through this process, we're gradually telling about the kinds of structures You can imagine in a diagnostic test this would be a pathologist identifying or a radiologist indicating And sometimes it can be difficult In this case, it got kind of confused. The fronts and the backs So here we have to be a bit more careful, manually selecting these fronts then telling the computer that we're interested in. So we do that for a while, and then we train based on these couple of hundred things, and we hope that it's gotten a lot better. You can see, it's now started to fade showing us that it already is recognizing We can then use this concept and using similar images, you can now see, the computer at this point is able So at this point, the human okay, yes, you've done a good job of that. Sometimes, of course, even at this point it's still difficult In this case, even after we let the computer we still find that the left side are all mixed up together. So we can again give and we say, okay, try and find the left sides and the right sides using this deep learning algorithm. And giving it that hint -- It's managed to find a way that's separated out these together. So you get the idea here. This is a case not where the human but where they're working together. What we're doing here is we're replacing of five or six people about seven years and replacing it with something for one person acting alone. So this process takes You can see we now have 62 percent of our 1.5 million images And at this point, grab whole big sections, check through them to make sure Where there are mistakes, we can let And using this kind of process we are now up to an 80 percent in classifying the 1.5 million images. And at this point, it's just a case of finding the small number and trying to understand why. And using that approach, by 15 minutes we get So this kind of technique which is that there's a lack The World Economic Forum says shortage of physicians and it would take about 300 years to train enough people So imagine if we can help using these deep learning approaches? So I'm very excited I'm also concerned about the problems. The problem here is somewhere where services What are services? These are services. These are also the exact things that computers So 80 percent of the world's employment is stuff that computers What does that mean? Well, it'll be fine. For example, there will be Well, not really. It doesn't take data scientists For example, these four algorithms So if you think, oh, we've seen the results in the past and they get replaced by new jobs, what are these new jobs going to be? It's very hard for us to estimate this, because human performance but we now have a system, deep learning, that we know actually grows And we're here. So currently, we see the things around us and we say, &quot;Oh, computers But in five years' time, So we need to be starting to think We have seen this once before, of course. In the Industrial Revolution, we saw a step change The thing is, though, There was social disruption, but once engines were used things really settled down. The Machine Learning Revolution is going to be very different because the Machine Learning Revolution, The better computers get the more they can build better computers so this is going to be a kind of change that the world has actually so your previous understanding This is already impacting us. In the last 25 years, labor productivity has been flat, So I want us to start I know that when I often tell people people can be quite dismissive. Well, computers can't really think, they don't emote, we don't really understand how they work. So what? Computers right now can do the things that humans spend so now's the time to start thinking our social structures to be aware of this new reality. Thank you. (Applause)