[MUSIC PLAYING] Black holes are one of in our universe. To make one, we need and quantum mechanics. Today, I'm gonna show you how. [MUSIC PLAYING] In a previous episode, we of black holes. We talked about them as as space time regions whose removes the interior from Now, it'd be a great idea if you haven't already. Now, these are some And really, black holes a strange construction And just because something does not mean it has So are black holes real? The answer is yes. Black holes are that we have ample evidence for. Yet, to actually Einstein's descriptions of are not enough. We need quantum mechanics. If you're up for it, First step-- find a very Let it cook-- not for long very short lives. Just wait a few million If you get impatient, you can by bombarding it with It'll be done quicker. The details of the are pretty awesome. But they can be found So we'll just gloss In the last throes of a increasingly frantic produces one periodic after another, in of increasingly finally surround an iron core. The formation of the end of exothermic fusion. Fusing two iron nuclei It doesn't release it. So starved of an energy collapses on itself. Electrons are slammed into forging a neutron star. The collapsing outer this impossibly dense nugget enriching the galaxy The leftover core, is a very weird beast-- a ball with a mass of at least of an atomic nucleus. We see them, when we Now, beneath the thin a neutron star is a And it's a quantum phenomenon from final collapse. It's also a different that will let us push creating a black hole. To understand how space works we need to think not in regular but, rather, in six dimensional For a neutron star, of both 3D position And it defines the be occupied by the strange Now, the exact way that the fills this 6D depends on two of quantum theory, principle and the Heisenberg These govern the between stability and collapse. The Pauli exclusion says that two things can't at the same time. And by thing, I mean comprising all regular matter. For example, electrons, Now, by place, I mean location So two fermions can occupy just fine, as long as their property is different. Now, this rule is in their separate stable is part of what allows solid In the case of a neutron star, is completely full of neutrons. Every spatial location and connected to those spatial OK. Jargon alert. This weird state of is completely full-- we And the degeneracy pressure, not having anywhere is incredibly to initially resist the of a neutron star. As far as we know, to overcome Pauli exclusion-- See, it's not a matter of force. Two fermions just can't ever And that's that. So the neutron star is safe. But come on. We want to build a black hole. Fortunately, there's that lets us get around the The Heisenberg tells us that the properties are fundamentally uncertain. The details may be a but in short, quantum as a distribution Certain numerical can assign to a of varying degrees of maybe. Location is one such property. A neutron, for instance, but exists as a cloud that might be or may be very spread out. Location remains a until the neutron interacts at which point, its This is the weirdest, coolest And we'll try to get back But for now, we have The Heisenberg tells us that particular position and momentum must, when taken together, of uncertainty. If one is tightly must be uncertain and span a So a neutron star is comprised in the universe. Its constituent neutrons in position as you can get. Therefore, the Heisenberg tells us that they must have Very, very large become part of the To put it another are packed so close that their momentum Phase space expands. And here's the the neutron star becomes, the So Heisenberg lets us circumvent If we can somehow add more throw another star won't get spatially larger. The extra matter certainly The star must expand. But it doesn't expand The star expands In position space, it The more massive of the neutron This is a quantum effect, on the scale of a star. Until now, the neutron star has The space time curvature at is pretty extreme. Clocks run noticeably slower. And the densities produce some very However, despite this, the a thing in this universe. And yet, below the there lurks the potential of infinite time dilation. Now, the event horizon exist as long as the than the would-be horizon. However, if we can increase the actual star shrinks, and You can see where There's a mass where the and the event horizon overlap. It's three times At this point, the event horizon And the neutron star We've finally created But what happens slips below its event horizon? Everything inside is Space time is radically with all geodesics, space towards the center. When the black hole inside must resemble the stuff But there's no stopping All paths lead to the central the singularity. From the point of view the inward cascade happens. All position space collapses While momentum space with the corresponding enormous Neutrons are certainly and gluons. But what happens to these an infinitesimal point, Physics cannot yet tell us. From the point of view of us-- this never happens. The black hole forms. The stellar core goes dark. But on our timeline, happens beyond the We can't meaningfully think beneath the event horizon The material of the star and all are no longer a part of the external universe. On our clock, the singularity in the future. To us, there is only So this is how a real is made. The mass of the stellar core of the black hole. And very few other properties are remembered. The black hole retains mass, And these continue to influence in very important ways. Of course, a real black hole that we sometimes They grow. They leak. They change. We'll get to what this and for the universe, in In a previous episode, we talked Well, our friends over just made a video attempting to build his own You should check this out. They interview some about the drive's plausibility. Now, &quot;The Good smack about the lack of And sure, they have some But I challenge you guys to in between single frames. Now, in the last talked about how to from hitting the earth. You guys had some Jonathan Sny and others of the gravitational land a spacecraft and push it with its rockets. Well, actually, it's going to to pull by a as it would to push a rocket on it, assuming push with perfect efficiency. Now, that's tricky because be rotating. And you can only push when in the right direction. Also, as we've when we landed Philae on irregularly shaped bodies, is extremely tricky. The gravitational tractor moxshyfter asked about the a killer asteroid into the sun. So even the largest would barely make a splash. The problem is that changing its or even to fall into was another suggestion-- than just nudging it off course. Sam Gilfellan wants we'd need to destroy system around the earth. So if we want a ring system like of planet mass to ring mass-- then we'd need an as the one that killed the trillion tons. We'd also need to nudge it off But totally worth it. A ring system around the A lot of people point out that destroy a killer asteroid. I agree. NASA, this is &quot;Space Time.&quot; Tell Mr. Willis to stand down. Yeah. We have a new guy. [MUSIC PLAYING]