At just 26 years old, Alexander was the most from Macedonia to the edges of the Persian Empire, death of Darius, the campaign seemed to be at operations: Alexander had fulfilled his promise the Persian Wars more than a century ago, ending great Persian Empire. It was a turning point in a distinction between the first half of his and the subsequent second half. This period of most brilliant military achievements, but also Cracks began to develop in Alexander's ranks due to his growing adoption of Eastern customs. to be entirely united, assassination, murder, become more and more regular occurrences. When that could be defeated in pitched battles, they and more nebulous foes that could not be so easily army continued, driven on by the relentless a seemingly unstoppable force that would It wasn't the last time an army would alter the weapons of war would be far more powerful. To the military vehicles of the modern age, and where This game lets you pilot military machinery in intense PvP combat. There are over on land and sea and in the air, fighting Piloting all vehicles is easy, even with keyboard But visually the realism and detail is all there, and you'll enjoy the beautiful audio-visual 4k Join the fight now on PC, PS5 or Xbox Series but make sure to do it via our link below to get boosters, discounts, and free premium account haven't played for at least six months. It comes but is only available for a limited Following the pursuit and death of Darius, Hecatompylos. With the aims of the League of majority of his forces from the Greek city-states, They were all paid handsomely, and those that even more generously. Alexander's numbers were 2,600 infantry reinforcements from Lydia and reinforcements that had arrived the previous year of 30,000 heavy infantry, 7,000 light infantry of 43,500. The departure of the Greek forces, to think that they would also be returning home, journey. Alexander, though, had already begun Hellene had gone before and made an impassioned they had successfully conquered much of the subdued, and that there were many other nations back now. In Alexander's view, "we must either we do not yet hold." It would not be the last time order to convince his army to continue fighting. even more generous payments to his soldiers, Alexander also introduced a number of reforms previously been composed on a geographical basis, area. Alexander did not break up the existing throughout his ranks and laying the basis for in recruits from across the Empire. Moreover, retaining their battalion-level organization, were for these were picked from the ranks based on dissimilar from modern NCOs. Overall command of tried and tested generals, such as Antigonus, made it possible for Alexander's army to be more that would be crucial in the years to come. began a slow pursuit aiming to subjugate starting with Hyrcania. Here, Alexander had to yet to be fully subdued by the Persians and fought according to Plutarch, Diodorus and Rufus, one of horse, Bucephalus. Furious, Alexander ordered and threatened to eradicate the tribe entirely terrified by the destruction of their land and the along with other tributes. Soon after this event, including Nabarzanes, the satrap of Hyrcania had been hastily carried out and, since he had almost deserted with Alexander's army on their and surrendered. The remaining Greek mercenaries fled to Hyrcania, and they too sent envoys to which Alexander accepted, adding another 1,500 he also gave a number of gifts to Alexander, one we are told, had previously been a favourite of lover of Alexander. Such relationships were by no and Philip II both also had younger male lovers. and gifted Bagoas to Alexander with instructions in order to make the surrender as smooth then it was successful, as Nabarzanes Alexander next subjugated the Mardians, process. The Mardians were renowned horsemen and to replace the thousands that had so far been Alexander's growing Persianisation was starting elements of Persian dress, including the Persian gave Persian cloaks to his companions to wear, and even ordered that 30,000 Persian boys be For the ancient authors, this Persianisation was a even during Alexander's lifetime, it was divisive. like Hephaestion and Ptolemy, were welcoming but the older officers in Alexander's army who his son Philotas, and Cleitus the Black, were more Following his conquests of Hyrcania and Mardia, The Parthian satrap quickly submitted Satibarzanes. Shortly after Alexander had left garrison stationed there and tried to incite back to protect his rear. Just two days after scene. Satibarzanes himself managed to escape he left behind were quickly surrounded by taking Drangiana and preparing to spend the winter between Philip's older officers and Alexander's events known as the "Philotas Affair". a conspiracy to assassinate Alexander. one of Alexander's seven personal bodyguards, and told his brother Cebalinus about the plot, who commander of Alexander's Companions. Philotas's the hypaspists, had recently died of an illness, but for whatever reason, Philotas decided to not went to a different officer, who arranged for who told him about the plot. Alexander immediately killing himself before he could be captured, but seized. Philotas defended himself, saying that but also recognised that he had been mistaken.[2] Philotas, but later consulted his most trusted was a talented cavalry commander, he was not often considered him arrogant and obnoxious They all turned on him, convincing Alexander suggesting that if Philotas was involved, The following day, Philotas, and by extension defended himself well, pointing out that neither that there was no evidence against him, that he made no attempt to silence him, and that he made an admittedly bad mistake. Nevertheless, already been decided. In a council following convinced Alexander and the other officers that Craterus, Hephaestion and Coenus had all fought even his brother-in-law. Nevertheless, it was some sources also claiming that Alexander listened After many hours of brutal torture, Philotas in the plot, also naming his father Parmenion as a Philotas, were executed and two of Alexander's race back to Ecbatana to kill Parmenion. When they his son's crimes before assassinating him. soldiers at Ecbatana almost immediately erupted the letter detailing the crimes of Philotas. Parmenion be given a funeral with full military The obvious question is was there any was involved? The most probable scenarios are but was not involved in the planning, or that not a serious threat and made a fatal error in the affair gave Alexander and his officers Parmenion had been one of the most experienced, command and was crucial to the victories at Issus important role in Alexander's victories at Thebes, months earlier. Nevertheless, they were both part Both had criticised Alexander, Philotas even father deserved more of the credit than Alexander. Macedonian army, and Alexander may have thought it without being able to entirely trust them. In the case of Coenus in particular, it appears to Philotas, he was quick to distance himself from of the first to condemn his brother-in-law. and Philotas and Parmenion were both barriers however, be directly replaced. Rather than risk portion of the army, Alexander instead seems numerous other officers, command of the Companions Hephaestion, merging the old guard with the new. was replaced with Ptolemy Lagus, the later The Philotas affair and subsequent reorganisation despite it being winter, Alexander left Kush and catch Bessus. The satrap of Aria was who had entered the province with 2,000 cavalry. delays, pushing onwards and sending Erigyius, which he did after a difficult battle in which Alexander quickly subdued Arachosia, founding a the Hindu Kush, probably sometime in April 329. difficult, Alexander and his men trudging through frostbite, some went snow-blind, while the others had chosen to take this particularly dangerous outflank Bessus in Aornus. His plan worked. abandoned the province, taking what army he destroying any resources he could in the process set about subduing the area, easily storming In June, before leaving for the River Oxus, or whose time of service had been completed, remnants of the famed Thessalian cavalry, the Alexander's victories at the Granicus, Issus and previous year, some had died, leaving only a small too were now dismissed with good pay. He and his and burning desert. It was a long march, and cost did finally find water many of his soldiers, troubles continued when they reached the Oxus he had used to cross the river and the area had no boats or bridges Undeterred, Alexander ordered his skins that the soldiers used for their tents, This move proved the final straw for Bessus' Bessus' nobles led in part by a man called guard and sending word to Alexander informing of 4,000 infantry and 1,600 cavalry, possibly Bessus was captured he was, on Alexander's a wooden collar. Alexander handed Bessus to Darius a traditional Persian punishment, before Alexander marched through Sogdiana, easily including Cyropolis, a city founded by Cyrus the the capital of the province. He also founded yet Alexandria Eschate - the Furthest Alexandria. It king of Persia. However, things were not as simple numbering as many as 20,000 according to some were foraging before retreating to high ground. storm the position and win the battle but To make matters worse, the recently conquered in rebellion, led by Spitamenes the same noble power. Seven of the cities that Alexander had massacred by local tribes, while Spitamenes his army into three, a few thousand under more under Craterus besieging Cyropolis where most focused on storming five of the smaller cities. In damaging the morale of those in Cyropolis. his targets. He attacked Gaza first, using his enemy from the walls, before using siege ladders the sword. The next two cities suffered the same quickly scale the walls, once again slaughtering cities, seeing smoke and refugees flowing from the many later being cut down by Alexander's 5 cities had taken Alexander just two days. Craterus at Cyropolis. Filled with 15,000 initially planned to construct siege rams to that the river channel leading into Cyropolis had a diversionary attack on the main fortifications, and archers up the channel and into the city. With Alexander's force was able to open the gates from back to the marketplace. The rebels abandoned the fighting broke out during which Alexander was which knocked him unconscious. Nevertheless, the rest of his army to pour into the city, rebels dying in the process. The seventh and Sometime around October, Alexander moved to the city and settling prisoners taken from the troops there. However, on the other side of the to stir. They were simultaneously frustrated by opinion was in their sphere of influence, and were own benefit. A strong cavalry force under the gathered on the north bank of the river. With Alexander had to choose to either expose or allow the revolt to continue but secure his the Scythian threat before it grew in size. and his voice ragged from the wound at Cyropolis to the northeast of Alexandria Eschate. He once the river, in the same manner as they had at a Sakan ambassador arrived, insisting that "Beware lest, while you strive to reach the top, Even the lion has sometimes been the food of the dismissed the ambassador and prepared his army on either side are unknown. However, due to there the battle, we can presume that he only took his of the former, and 6,000 of the latter. We can given the fact that no source mentions it being of comparable size, composed purely of cavalry. possible to the river on the other bank, hoping on their side. Alexander, however, set up siege a tactic he had pioneered during his Illyrian withdraw out of range, and Alexander then gave the the front of the makeshift rafts knelt, providing who were rowing from the hail of arrows as reached the other side, Alexander's Agrianians providing covering fire for the cavalry and secure victory, Alexander would have to find a way Just as he had done previously at the Granicus, to gain an advantage. About 1,000 footmen and a to attack. The Saka deftly avoided their charge, and firing arrows into their midst. This was cavalry, hypaspists, Agrianians, and other light a detachment of the Companions and light cavalry surrounded men, while he led the light infantry their center. Alexander had now successfully many were killed in the ensuing fight. It had been tactics. The entire Saka force quickly began to Eventually, though, a mixture of nightfall, forced Alexander to call off the pursuit. and a further 150 captured, while, by Rufus' 1,000 wounded. A peace offering was soon sent in no position to continue a Alexander had now secured his borders. there was still trouble. Bactria and Sogdiana Spitamenes was still at large seiging Pharnuches, the men that Alexander had was only a translator though, not a military man. thought that Pharnuches' knowledge of the local with the rebels and help bring the revolt to a experience, he had also been assigned several of When Pharnuches' force of more than 2,000 Spitamenes pulled back. Pharnuches pursued into a trap. On the edge of the Sogdian desert reinforced by 600 Massagetae cavalry and turned to the Macedonian infantry with missile fire and flanks. The Macedonian cavalry, outnumbered off and it was soon clear that the army was in a and retreated to nearby woods, aiming to cross the the officers assigned to Pharnuches communicated and the infantry following without having been and Spitamenes force kept harassing the force as the river at other fords and attack Pharnuches' now surrounded, and the entire force of 2000 or captured. It was the largest military loss Alexander, returning from the Jaxartes and Maracanda, where Spitamenes had returned Spitamenes again retreated westwards towards the began to withdraw further into the desert. lured and turned his army back to Maracanda, could. Unable to catch Spitamenes, Alexander the Sogdians. It was during these reprisals claim that Alexander came upon a town inhabited with the Persians during Persian Wars and had as a rewards for their loyalty. The Branchidae that they all be massacred, likely in a brutal objective of the campaign, avenging the Greek for this particular event are vague, and some but all agree that even if the massacre of the Sogdiana are not. For the rest of the Summer fields of crops and, according to Rufus, Alexander total number killed during this period cannot such as Vacante and Worthington, suggest that Despite this, the revolt continued and Alexander unable to defeat his enemies in one decisive army into parts under the commands of Hephaestion, be considered one of the earliest examples of a so successfully to his advantage 2 millenia later. suppressing any resistance they could. At the in the area to try and bring the province even after he received reinforcements of 20,000 satrapies and Greece, the revolt persisted. Maracanda. The current governor of the province and Alexander accepted, appointing Cleitus the Alexander and his officers performed a later developed into a drinking party. The but as the evening progressed and all the men to praise Alexander, comparing him to Herakles, to Alexander himself even began to claim that he point Cleitus, who had fought under Philip spoke up saying: "Alexander's deeds were neither them by himself, but for the most part they even began praising Parmenion and criticising and embracing more Persian customs, at which coward. Cleitus retorted "It was this cowardice you are", referencing when he had saved Alexander was held back by his personal bodyguards who also situation. Alexander called for his other guards out of the room by other officers. With Cleitus begging him to leave the matter for tomorrow. As the room, quoting a line of Euripides "Alas! Alexander grabbed a spear from one of the Alexander immediately regretted his about to kill himself but was restrained by his where Alexander remained for the next few crying out Cleitus' name. It is important to a friend killing a friend. By killing Cleitus at Alexander had broken the rules of xenia, the rules Alexander had been proclaimed the son of. Numerous historian and philosopher Callisthenes, failed. pointed out to Alexander that as the King of Kings him in the same way, that Alexander was pulled did regret his actions, the death of Cleitus a leading Alexander historian, has argued that been motivated in part by the justification that as the unquestionable King of Kings, in contrast like Cleitus, would often feel free to criticise view of the matter, arguing that the episode shows came to comparisons between him and his father.[2] Alexander's bodyguards had apparently taken possibly suggesting that it was not the first While all this had been going on, Spitamenes having avoided Alexander's forces, and were from some, and defeating at least one garrison decided to split his force, sending part of the towards the Massagetae border. Craterus, in and moved his force to try and catch Spitamenes force on the edge of a desert. In the ensuing but the majority of Spitamenes agile force was this setback Spitamenes had, nevertheless, campaign and was rewarded with even more men When Spitamenes and this army arrived back in of 327, they found the province well defended with strong garrisons. Coenus, stationed in the 4,000 infantry, 400 cavalry and an unknown number Alexander's army, set out in pursuit. Spitamenes, province to attack, finally decided to meet the details of the battle are unknown, but the result as being just 32 while Spitamenes lost 800. are likely inaccurate, but it is clear that it himself survived the battle, but was soon head and sent it to Alexander to make peace. opponents Alexander had faced, using guerrilla smaller force, consistently avoiding being pinned defeat on Alexander's army. His death meant was almost in sight, with only a few local to defy Alexander. The taking of these creative tactics in Alexander's career. the so-called Sogdian Rock, a mountain fortress rebellious tribal leaders, and their families left his winter quarters of Nautaca and advanced a colossal blizzard swept in, and temperatures forest be cut down and burnt to keep the men warm, on, but nonetheless, the cold took its toll on against trees to take a short rest. The storm of Alexander's men had died, possibly more than In time, Alexander finally reached the was garrisoned by as many as 30,000 soldiers. it is possible that Rufus has mistakenly included was widely considered to be unconquerable: it was at least two years, and was located in a strong and made even more secure by the winter snow that a result of these factors, when Alexander demanding Ariamazes' surrender, he was strongly Alexander would need winged soldiers to conquer however, Alexander was not one to be intimidated Ariamazes had stationed his men on the walls man the cliff at his rear, confident that such an this opportunity. He requested 300 volunteers offered prizes to all who completed the climb, first man to reach the top of the cliff. In order the climb would have to be done under the cover of more dangerous. Nonetheless, Alexander got his tent pegs and ropes, they began the climb. It was their deaths, Alexander anxiously watching the signal from his men that they had succeeded. waving white sheets as had been prearranged. main force forward and again requested Ariamazes' pointed to the top of the cliffs behind Ariamazes' soldiers. Ariamazes, unable to tell just how many a fight. Alexander's force marched in unopposed, captured or executed for their part in the revolt. resistance to Alexander: the Rock of Chorienes, incredibly well-defended position, surrounded with the only path leading to the Rock being Alexander sent emissaries demanding the rebuffed. Undeterred, Alexander prepared to He first constructed ladders, allowing his men process of hammering stakes into both sides. building a bridge and packing earth on top. construct a land bridge across the ravine so ground. His army was split into three rotating but progress was nonetheless slow thanks to Sisimithres men. Wooden screens were soon created continued the construction slowly closing in on Alexander also brought up his siege engines in Before any attack began, however, Alexander sent stressed to Sisimithres how dire his situation was complete and the siege engines began firing, Sisimithres also surrendered without a fight.[3] of the Bactrian-Sogdian revolt. Soon after a local princess named Roxana. She and her the Sogdian Rock or Rock of Chorienes, depending he is supposed to have fallen in love beautiful woman in Asia. The marriage also served him closely to the local nobility and helping It had taken Alexander approximately two years the same amount of time that it had taken him to without a doubt, the most difficult period of largest number of casualties. Approximately 5,000 guerrilla tactics throughout the course of the The revolt had shown that Alexander was of psychological warfare, taking two supposedly it also highlighted some of the darkest aspects of his enemies, his brutal tactics in Sogdiana and force as a means of control. Similarly, the and reasonable Alexander could be, he could His marriage to Roxana, though beneficial in the who now had, what they considered, a barbarian the long run. With the revolt crushed, Alexander Alexander would spare no time to revel in this his next campaign, which would take him into moved from Maracanda to Bactra, the Persianisation climax. It was customary in the Persian court for perform proskynesis - prostrating oneself on the king. The Persians were now dutifully performing suggesting that his officers should follow suit. of his Hellenic officers and advisors were firmly philosopher, and nephew of Aristotle, Companions were discussing the topic outside "Divinity sometimes overtakes a man, but it never nor do I desire to learn from the vanquished how I accept from them the laws under which we live". felt, but were swiftly reported to Alexander, While in Bactra, Alexander led a Royal Hunt with right of the king to have the first kill, but on first, killing a boar that Alexander was aiming man publicly beaten. Infuriated and humiliated, recruiting several other Pages to partake in the guard the king while he slept, and so they planned them 32 days to arrange their guard duties to interfere with their plans, but finally, the and the conspirators were all on guard duty, However, through sheer chance, Alexander or went to leave, but was convinced to stay out by it was morning and new guards had arrived his comrades. They had, nonetheless, hung around to strike. A drunk Alexander approached and guard throughout the night and even longer than reward in gratitude and sent the would-be of the most incredible lucky escapes in history. had a change of heart and the details were two of Alexander's personal bodyguards. they immediately woke Alexander and told but Hermolaus and other conspirators were but part of his duties was to educate the The following account of the trial is based It is important, therefore, to note that Rufus Roman Empire, and that the speeches he puts in views. Nevertheless, his account certainly the extant histories of Alexander, and are thus people at the time felt. Furthermore, just because and later Roman Emperors, it does not negate the The Pages were brought in front of Alexander to for the time being. Their parents and relatives the fate of Parmenion when Philotas had and Alexander demanded to know what he had done it was because he treated his subjects as slaves or killed them, like Philotas, Parmenion and to silence his son, at one point even snatching up was restrained and Hermolaus ordered to continue. against Alexander, saying that Alexander only scared about what the historian would have to to do with the attempted assassination. through his adoption of Persian dress, Persian king of Persia. Hermolaus had not, he therefore he had planned to kill a deserter and the King of acted like a god, treated his men like slaves, his relatives to be spared, but requested that that they could, at the very least, die showing damning list of accusations and surely echoed Alexander, however, had his own, equally eloquent, largely by the beating Alexander had ordered he of Macedonian kings and that part of the role of saying "Orders are made mild by obedience". He the men he led had reaped thanks to him and that but to conquer it, arguing that the only way that accepted them. With regards to the accusation responded "True, for I see in many nations Alexander continued, pointing out that he had not been proclaimed as the son of one. He had embraced stating that war depends on reputation and that He concluded by saying that the relatives would them, and that the reason Callisthenes was not Alexander had done Hermolaus and the Pages, all Hermolaus and his fellow Pages were executed soon after, executed without a trial, however, kept imprisoned for the rest of his life and died attempt that, so far, had come closest to killing or not Callisthenes was involved. Rufus and was not, while Arrian notes that Aristobolus said Callisthenes was named as a conspirator, this is the same consensus as modern historians. had previously told Hermolaus that he was or that if he wanted glory he could easily it is unclear how true these claims are, or Alexander. Most modern historians, such as as yet another occasion where Alexander used the the Roman writer Seneca's words, the execution of which no virtue or felicity of his in Alexander's preparations for the Indian campaign numerous: parts of the subcontinent had been soldiers to the Persian war effort, even as giving Alexander justification for his invasion. the modern Indian Ocean, to have it form the strong personal motivations, such as Alexander's Cyrus the Great, Herakles and Dionysus, all Alexander and had links to the area. mainly with the kingdoms and tribes along the of Taxila, had already paid tribute and sworn toehold in the area. Alexander also, according infantry and 15,000 cavalry, though modern this number is, often preferring a number closer approximately 10,000 men to keep Bactria in check, Alexander decided to split his army into two consisting of approximately 5,000 infantry, 2,000 Hephaestion and Perdiccas would secure Alexander's Kabul River and march through the Khyber Pass, ensuring loyalty and eventually reaching the pontoon bridge for crossing. Alexander, meanwhile, rear by marching along the Kunar River, through received any embassies from, before reuniting For the most part, Hephaestion and Perdiccas made majority of the locals in the area affirming one city, Peucelaotis, that offered significant and the force pushed on to the Indus to prepare to be far more difficult. The Aspasians[4] , one to their cities and to the mountains, forcing one of these sieges, Alexander was once again Ptolemy and Leonnatus both also being wounded. the prisoners were killed. Soon after, Alexander force along with their king and defeated Alexander next faced a large force of Guraeans, who had taken up a strong defensive position into battle. Alexander split his army into of approximately 6,000 infantry, including 1,000 3,000 of the phalanx, the Agrianians, and Both of these divisions were placed on the flanks meanwhile, commanded the rest of the army only seeing Alexander's outnumbered part of the Alexander's center. As they did so, Leonnatus flanks. Ptolemy's flank faced particularly were having much greater success and eventually, Arrian claiming that 40,000 were taken prisoner, Alexander pushed on into the lands of the instead falling back to their cities, Alexander capital, Massaga. The Massaga, however, had hired assist them, and when Alexander drew near, they ordering his men to withdraw to a nearby hill, walls. The Assaceni, thinking Alexander was they closed in, however, Alexander ordered his them with his light cavalry. The Assaceni were initial skirmish, before falling back to their and preparing siege works for an assault. The was repulsed by the defender, Alexander receiving building a large siege tower to attack the rolled forward with archers and slingers on try and clear them from the walls. The tower's the hypaspists forward to the attack. However, and it crumbled many hypaspists crashing to the defenders unleashed a barrage of arrows and stones to recover as many of the wounded as possible. The following day, which was once again repulsed. Massaga was killed, and his wife, Cleophis, began spare the city, so long as the Assaceni pledged army. These terms were agreed to, the mercenaries on a hill near Alexander's force. However, ordered his army to surround them and attack. circle with their families in the centre, and breaking the peace agreement. The attack continued of the women took up the weapons of their fallen mercenaries and their families had been either cut claims that the mercenaries had been planning provoked Alexander's actions. He is, however, the case, however, it would not change the fact act of treachery that both Plutarch and Diodorus The result of Alexander's actions was that the most taking refuge in a fortress atop the Aornos place, like the Sogdian and Cheronese the mountain surrounded by a river and various Alexander's strategy in order for him to have to progress to the Indus with his rear secure. 10,000 men, leaving the rest with Craterus was located on the mountain's Eastern summit, A local offered, for a reward, to show Alexander Alexander gladly accepted, offering 80 talents. light infantry, and a few hundred hypaspists along the enemy, until they were in position on the his position with a barricade, and used fires to Alexander was attempting to use the same tactics attack the Assaceni from two sides. He advanced but the terrain proved too difficult, and he the opportunity and instead attacked the force. Ptolemy's group was outnumbered, but well continuing throughout the day and only ending with the attackers, but the Assaceni do seem to have the mountain path Ptolemy had taken. Alexander changed tactics. A part of the army to maintain the siege, while he led the rest rejoined him. As they marched up this path, they with many men being wounded, and progress being but eventually, Alexander's army gained the ravines still made an approach to the fortress at the Rock of Cheronese, Alexander ordered the weapons into position. Working day and night, wooden screens being used to protect them as much troops to hold off sallies from them Assaceni. engines were brought into position. The Assaceni, happened next is not entirely clear. According to attempted to slip away the following night. Rufus, Assaceni loudly beat drums and kept torches lit lit all the torches as usual, and then tried Alexander discovered the attempt and ordered allowing the Assaceni to begin their retreat. falling upon the Assaceni rear as they retreated, simultaneously attacked. A significant number and enslaved. Due to the contradictory clear if this was yet another case of Alexander through the ruse and predicted the withdrawal. subdued and Alexander marched to the Indus, and crossed his whole army across the Indus using he marched to the allied Taxila, receiving while doing so. At Taxila, he rested his men for a At the time, much of North India, where consisted of the powerful Nanda Empire, ruled by the East to the Hyphasis River in the West thousands of soldiers. Before confronting this numerous kingdoms that lay between the Taxila and had already been sent to the local kings, notably they meet Alexander on the borders of their but Porus, king of the Pauravas, was more it is clear from Greek sources that he was a brave, strong, and standing an intimidating 7 feet his intelligence, Porus being described as response to Alexander's request, Porus replied but that he would bring an army with him. amid the monsoon season, marched to the Hydaspes 7,000 cavalry, and 5,000 Taxilian allies. On 35,000 infantry, 4,000 cavalry, 300 chariots, riding a large elephant, was Porus himself. Porus wide and fast flowing, meaning that any contested would be near impossible. He had further his elephants in front of his battle line, Alexander's horses and make any crossing even more though he had previously submitted to Porus. Alexander needed a quick victory but, a more cunning strategy would be needed. Porus' men and sent out foraging parties. At up and down the river, ensuring that they made kept the majority of his force drawn up opposite mirror Alexander's scouts along the riverbank. bringing supplies into their camp and his scouting mirroring their movements. Eventually, Porus the monsoon season to end, and was only scouting men to parallel Alexander's movements. This was Alexander had already identified his crossing camp and densely wooded. The thick foliage men to assemble rafts and boats in the area in scouting missions hiding their movements. With false sense of security, Alexander made his move. his usual guard stationed outside his tent, and and then, during the night, slipped away towards phalangites, silver shields, hypaspsists, Alexander's numerous feints, any movement seen by was left in command of the majority of the army stationed between the camp and the crossing would maintain the facade of the full army being distraction by threatening a crossing, while and surprise Porus' force, hoping to lure the cross and catch Porus' army in a pincer, Meleagar With his plans in place, Alexander's force threatening to derail the mission, but it soon cover for Alexander. His men crossed the Hydaspes the crossing, however, Alexander realised that the opposite bank was, in fact, a large island, the river. As quickly as they could, Alexander's to cross this channel, but by the time they dawn and they were spotted by Porus' scouts before Alexander's previous maneuvers had allowed him to having the element of surprise, and that advantage force head-on with only a quarter of his army. under the command of his son to engage Alexander's time for his infantry, Alexander sent his horse cavalry into numerous squadrons to surround the the heavy rain had made much of the terrain almost his men quickly gained the upper hand, killing to the main force. They had, nonetheless, delayed preparations. Leaving a small force to contest majority of his army to Alexander, cavalry, and and with his elephants in front, intending to With Porus' army drawn up for battle and Porus shattered, he recalled his cavalry, waited new strategy. Alexander knew that the elephants rather than attack Porus' center immediately, first. In order to do so, Alexander split his more under his personal command, would attack Porus' side of the battle, which would allow the second and attack the Pauravas cavalry from the rear. but with strict orders not to engage until they After giving his men time enough to recover their his attack, launching 1,000 horse archers at thrown into disarray by the storm of arrows, his cavalry around to hit their flank. Just cavalry from the right to reinforce his left. right and circling around to hit Porus' cavalry in sides, soon broke under the pressure, retreating Porus began to move his elephants to attack but Alexander's horses were easily able to pull them. Meanwhile, Alexander's phalanx had now mass of infantry, elephants, and scattered but Alexander had already prepared his men for gave ground to absorb their charge, thrusting the elephants' eyes. Agrianians and light infantry javelins, some chopping at the elephants' trunks elephants caused heavy casualties, trampling many, and impaling others on their tusks. It was a many of whom were wounded and terrified, soon rampaging back through Porus' infantry and causing meanwhile, kept attacking the sides and rear of surrounded, the phalanx pushing from the and the panicking elephants running amok Porus' men gradually started to break fleeing By this point in the battle, Craterus and Meleagar army pursuing the routing forces. Though some of Porus among them. Surrounded by his personal of his men did, throwing javelins from atop in the fighting though, at one point almost eventually compelled by his men to retreat, the had been impressed by Porus' determination and to surrender. Wounded as badly as he was, it nevertheless, he gave himself up and was brought be treated, Porus famously replied: "Treat me treated by Alexander's best physicians and was The battle had been one of Alexander's of psychological warfare, as well as feints and more than 10,000 men in the night undetected. Alexander also demonstrated his ability to devise Arrian claims Alexander and Porus' losses as suggests over 1,000 dead for Alexander, Porus the chaotic nature described in all the sources, modern historians tend to agree that Diodorus' casualties was his horse, Bucephalus, who was after, possibly from wounds he sustained there. through numerous campaigns and battles, and his founding a city, Bucephala, in his honour. myth that Alexander, in fact, lost the Battle point to the fact that Bucephalus died, that only Greek sources for the battle as evidence Justin and the Alexander Romance, both of which on the battlefield, Porus killing Bucephalus in reliability leaves much to be desired as his work and varies wildly in its accuracy. The Alexander parts of it are rooted in historical sources, eventually becoming more like a myth or history. The Alexander Romance, for instance, that Alexander used 24,000 metal elephants at the in the battle. To no surprise, the text is however, that even though both Justin and the Porus, both sources record the battle as a but often overlooked, detail that Alexander is that those who cite the sources that claim though they often do not realize it, citing Porus on the battlefield, all of which are disproved. While Greek and Roman sources are they are unanimous in recording that Alexander sources for the Battle of Granicus, but such a the battle was lost. Moreover, almost all of Roman recorded in Roman sources but it would be utterly think that Hannibal won at Zama or Vercingetorix with Alexander's prior treatment of captured Phrataphernes, and Oxyartes are all examples but later surrendered and were either appointed the death of Bucephalus, though it highlights steed says nothing of the fate of the rider, nor Campaign did not stop after the Hydaspes, and he further evidencing his victory. Porus was, by worthy of respect and admiration for the feats he Claims that Alexander lost the battle are classicist and should be labeled what they are: Following the battle, Alexander advanced beyond kings in the area, including Abisares, giving vassal or satrap. The majority of the local notably the Catheans, Oxydracians, and Mallians, Alexander marched on the Cathean capital of After 3 days' march, Alexander arrived near the stationed outside the city on a hill, surrounded the first wave of the attack, dismounted, and to overcome the first line of defences relatively Eventually, though, Alexander's army was able to to retreat into their city. The city proved to be instead deciding to assault the walls with siege difficult, with Alexander losing as many ultimately successful. Alexander reportedly Sangala to the ground, possibly as revenge for For weeks, Alexander's army continued their march snake bites, and other dangers, heading Alexander had heard reports of nations, such as large populations, and were to be the target had been warned that these nations had colossal as well as thousands of elephants, but to press on, confident that he and his Alexander, however, had made a mistake: he Hyphasis River, they mutinied, refusing to march men had shown signs of fatigue, similar concerns but this was the first time that they had appealed to them, assuring them that the rumours surely exaggerations. He listed the nations that press on further to complete his grand strategy of deeds of those who undergo labour and run the risk valour and to die leaving behind immortal glory!" encouraged any man to speak their mind, feel free to say so. Still, there was silence. but the fate of Cleitus and Callisthenes who had still too close a memory. Alexander grew angry going on. Expose me to the rivers, the beasts, I shall find men to follow me, deserted though triumph after having abandoned your king. Here or the opportunity for an honourable death". upon hearing this, but still, no one said a generals who had recently distinguished himself assured Alexander that he and the men would, to incur danger, at the price of our blood to hand we even unarmed, naked, and worn out, will follow however, that after years of campaigning, their that many were now past their fighting prime. They some to battles, some to disease, some to the Coenus argued, had earned the right to return home brought them. Coenus continued, pointing out and that he risked losing it all if he pushed on be wiser, he reasoned, for Alexander to return subcontinent for a new campaign with a fresh army. cheers from the men. Furious, Alexander dismissed there for two days, hoping that the men's attitude apparent that they would not relent, Alexander sacrifices. He proclaimed them to be unfavourable, that, as a result, he would lead the men home. designed to give him an excuse to agree to but none cared. His men were overjoyed, greeting reconciled with the army. To mark the extent of of 12 large altars, one for each of the Olympian 10 years earlier, finally reached its limit at in Arrian's opinion, finally allowed himself own men. Alexander turned his army around and Shortly after this, Coenus died. Most sources say makes any implication that Alexander was involved. do however consider it suspicious that Coenus died and suggest that Alexander may have him killed, as the army soon reached the Hydaspes where a large army down the river in preparation for the journey reached its greatest Eastern extent, it was who had previously resisted Alexander and so long as Alexander had an army, After the mutiny, Alexander marched his force had been left behind with a portion of the that Alexander had been away, Craterus and his to construct 38 galleys [1] as well as hundreds two thousand according to some ancient sources. At likely from Greece, Babylon and Thrace, along with 25,000 new suits of armor and medical army refreshed and resupplied, Alexander began would command the armada which would also and Companions. Craterus meanwhile was given left bank, while Hephaestion commanded the rest along the river in tandem with the fleet, acting Alexander's division of his forces like this also campaigns, court politics had become a bigger and feud with one another. Hephaestion and Craterus this. Hephaestion enjoyed a particularly close continued, he was entrusted with more and more himself to be a loyal and competent subordinate also greatly prized by Alexander and throughout to be his primary defensive general, often as the camp at the Hydaspes. The rivalry between one point they had actually drawn swords against Persianisation[2], forcing Alexander to intervene while sailing the Hydaspes was therefore not move to separate the two feuding commanders. sail making for the lands of the Oxydracians and tribute to him and were rumored to be preparing Acesines rivers, they received the submission or such as the Sibians, the majority not putting up would disembark and gather his forces to Agalasseis who put up a fierce resistance, their city either accidentally or on Alexander's dangers besides these pockets of resistance. the fast-flowing waters wreaked havoc amongst Alexander losing two of the larger ones. Alexander's own ship almost succumbed to the dive into the water in order to swim to safety. fleet and the army successfully reached Mallian and Oxydracians were traditionally enemies but, they had formed an alliance in order to stop the the river meant that his enemies had not been able Alexander decided on a blitzkrieg-esque strategy forces could unite. To achieve this, he split with approximately 6,500 infantry, including 2,000 cavalry of companions and horse archers was down the West of the river, while Hephaestion Ptolemy was given another detachment and ordered would sail down the river to the borders of planned to take the Mallians by surprise, them to either retreat deeper into their territory or Nearchus' fleet, or forced to flee North excellent example of how Alexander was not only a Nevertheless, his men were initially, and them that they would be returning home, but rather diverted the campaign in a different direction. Alexander was, on this occasion, able to quickly this campaign would be swift and straightforward, plunder, and that the Ocean, the current aim grievances handled, the campaign began. It was a under 2 days, and subduing all the Mallian towns was also as ruthless as it was quick, Alexander's Brahmans. Perdiccas, with cavalry and light and sent to subdue other cities and chase down spreading. The other portions of Alexander's army many Mallians to retreat to their capital. Leading Albert Bosworth, described it as a "conquest explain Alexander's tactics as a grim necessity in motivated by the men's recent talks of mutiny impossible to avoid the reality that the Mallian The strategy had nevertheless been successful Alexander now gathered his force to march on their as quickly as many other places had to Alexander's the attack stalled when the men tried to to continue the attack and keep up the momentum, the battlements. His men were envigored by this ladders behind him, however, under the weight Alexander stranded on the battlements with only and Peucestas and Abreas, two officers who had Alexander quickly realised that they would be easy battlements and were in mortal danger. Determined battlements into the citadel, closely followed by of the Mallians realised that they had Alexander It was a desperate affair, Alexander fighting with fend off any attackers that came close. Abreas was and Peucestas, carrying the Shield of Achilles, a Mallian archer managed to shoot Alexander, the lung. Alexander was forced to his knees coughing over Alexander to protect his body, and together The rest of Alexander's army had, fortunately, king jump from the battlements, they had launching themselves at the citadel's gates. way through the defenders to search for Alexander. all control massacring any Mallians left in the With the city taken, Alexander was taken from Due to the arrow being barbed, it required and the combined blood loss of the initial wound however, survive, but spent days almost completely completely recovered from the wound. It had been fool-hardiness, depending on opinion. While the individuals involved, Peucestas' involvement is recognition for his bravery, Alexander expanded in order to incorporate him and he would one of the richest provinces of the Empire. spread that Alexander had died. Some were worried others doubting whether they would be able to the generals tried to reassure the men, and among his men, but they refused to believe any of ship past the camp, at such a distance that they could see how weak he currently was. A wave from however, are said to have been relieved about his reprimanding him for being so reckless, lamenting scheme of things, a rather non-descript city and urging him to stay out of the fighting more concern, but claimed that he measured saying "I am bound to desire an abundant life the hazards of war and Ares." after spending weeks recovering, Alexander was time that he had spent recovering, word of the quickly submitted without fighting as a result: a complete success. With the two peoples subdued, the Acesines and Indus, aiming for the Ocean. Alexander only facing light resistance for the did submit the Brahmans, who were advisors as and rebellions behind Alexander, forcing him to the Brahman. It would not be the last time that Upon reaching Patala, Alexander sent many of the with Craterus to Carmania through Arachosia, journey home to Macedonia. After resting the Alexander planned the final stage of his voyage. Alexander choosing to sail down the West. Strong return. He was undaunted however, and when better passage and, having spent roughly 7 months sailing dream of reaching the Ocean. Barely 10 years ago, and contesting with rival claimants to the throne Indian Ocean with all the lands between him and Alexander sailed, briefly, in the waters of the a small island that would mark the furthest to lay plans for a massive exploratory effort, the Persian Gulf and mapping the coast before meanwhile, took his force to the Arabius River once more into three parts to quickly capture of his army to control the area. In the Autumn baggage train into the territory of the Gedrosians supples for Nearchus' fleet.It would prove to Scouting parties soon reported to Alexander that forcing Alexander to take a shorter, more aiming for the city of Pura. The result was temperatures in the day forced the army slowing progress down massively. When their roots of palm trees and killed what pack animals they were unable to carry their sick or wounded die of thirst, starvation, or exposure. On the many men, unable to restrain themselves, drank On one particular r occasion, when the army was carrying away men, baggage, and camp followers. to always encamp a certain distance away from strain on the already deteriorating force. desert before finally reaching the safety of There are a few points regarding Alexander's worth discussing. Firstly, Nearchus would later the desert to try and outdo the Assyrian Queen who had supposedly crossed the desert emerging is quick to note, however, that it is Nearchus been the first time that Alexander had seemingly rulers and this could well have been a factor in did also have, at least initially, a strategic based on Alexander's need to send scouting he was ignorant of the territory, and that his than being a result of purely selfish motivations. to punish his men for mutinying at the Hyphasis by This is a particularly cynical interpretation that happened months earlier and though Alexander he waited so long to punish the men. We also have and he did so by executing ringleaders, rather Alexander himself, as well as close friends and army. He personally led scouting missions and, in 's men had gone to great difficulty to bring him refusing to drink unless all his men could. not can be debated, but what can not be debated danger as his men. Lastly, the sources are clear him. Part of the force had been left in Ora with notably with many veterans, had been sent an was the veterans who had been the core these movements make no sense if one assumes The final point to address is the number of men provide any kind of figure, claims that Alexander by his own admission, however, was not a of the most exaggerated in the available sources. his full force into Gedrosia, he took a portion, modern estimates. Much of the rest of Alexander's or left as garrison forces in conquered regions, discern how many deaths were sustained by were camp followers. Modern historians continue as of yet, there is no consensus on the matter. more men marching through the desert than in his losses were likely in their thousands. decision to march through the desert is widely Alexander's arrival at Pura effectively marked series of low and high points in his career. On morale almost to breaking point at the Hyphasis, resulted in the deaths of potentially thousands and had resulted in a wound that had almost killed factor to his early death. Furthermore, the continued to lead revolts throughout territories many of them being abandoned by Hellenic beforebeing absorbed into the Mauryan Empire Alexander achieved arguably, his most impressive strategic talent during the Mallian campaign, completed his lifelong dream of reaching the to the Hellenic world, an achievement that Nearing the end of 325 BC, after having Alexander allowed his men to rest awhile in the performance of many of his satraps. To his prolonged campaign in the Indian subcontinent, some had taken to looting local temples and tombs, local women. Alexander, eager to be considered had such men executed, satrap and rank-and-file necessary. More worryingly still, Alexander had divisions had begun to form between Antipater, and Olympias and Cleopatra, Alexander's mother have no way of knowing it, this rift would, in the Around the same time, Alexander proclaimed his mercenaries his satraps and generals hired worry that corruption and disobedience may but the Decree would soon prove to have been were shipped to Greece, many were also left a problem Alexander would later have to address. Carmania. According to some sources, he turned the his men drinking and dancing as they marched, makeshift chariot. Arrian, who often takes a more of this story, while Rufus, who rarely missed "a mere 1,000 men, if sober, could have captured the tale can be debated, however, the story does continued, Alexander more and more closely linked regarding this particular episode, there were dressed or styled himself as a deity. For some and his Persian subjects, who had always viewed it. However, the others in the army, likely the were growing increasingly frustrated with it, Alexander and his force reached Salamus, the of 325. While there, Nearchus joined Alexander, along the Makran coast. Yet another celebration Alexander with tales of his journey and the people expedition had been largely exploratory, it had exercise. Alexander was already developing plans managing to sustain themselves without needing an in these strategies. After resting in Salamus, this time towards the Euphrates and Tigris for the next phase of Alexander's conquests. capital of Persis, Pasargadae, where he once Great. To Alexander's fury, he found the tomb the floor. Alexander had long considered Cyrus outright inspiration. Outraged, Alexander had the perpetrator but learnt nothing and had the satrap his replacement, Alexander appointed Peucestas, him in Malia. He also ordered that the tomb be that Cyrus' body be restored with full honours. capital of Persepolis. Here, they once again to ancient sources, the Macedonians drank alcohol poisoning. The reports of such excessive more regular as Alexander's campaign progressed, in general, were known to be heavy binge drinkers, men seemed to have been drinking particularly drinking may have been the result of Alexander or simply the massive stress and pressure that he in all likelihood, prove to be yet another Shortly after, Alexander marched his important administrative tasks. As mentioned many mercenaries roaming his Empire and causing a pragmatic solution to a complicated problem. He exiles, including mercenaries, to return to their Many Greek cities protested this decree, but authority to use force on any that refused mercenary problem, Alexander also had other dissent among the Greek city-states had concerned Alexander ensured that the poleis would have an politicians exiled by their opponents, who would While in Susa, Alexander once again heard reports who had abused the citizens they were governing, rewarding those who were. Around this same time, Polygamy was an accepted practice in Macedonian Roxanna, Alexander married once again, this while Hephaestion was wedded to another of always been close, and this marriage ensured their may also reveal that Alexander was concerned that in discontent among the Persian populace and These were not the only marriages, however. Many were married to powerful Persian women, the Achaemenid family, all given handsome 10,000 of the rank-and-file who had married presents by the king. The marriages of Alexander, on the same day in a mass wedding done in the debts of his soldiers, costing him approximately worth as much as a staggering 28 billion dollars paid and marriages registered, some, particularly effectively forced to marry Persian women. Alexander who were married on this occasion, only Alexander's motive for these marriages has been some historians, such as Tarn from the 1930s, attempting to unify the two people of brotherhood of mankind. In this interpretation, so it was essentially a humanist act. Conversely, view these marriages as a purely pragmatic act. they argue that Alexander was more concerned that none could proclaim themself as a Persian hoping that the unions would result in a ruling would not be seen as foreign conquerors, making of how coerced some of these marriages were. While their wives who were happy with the marriage, The Persian women, in particular, though may have been none too pleased with the idea no matter how Alexander wished to portray things, wedding and Exile Decree are important reminders as a military man. In many ways, though, his he preferred bold, decisive and high-risk actions. decisions appear to show a particular cunning Marriages arguably show him as being rather naive. undertook the most significant steps towards Arachosia, Bactria and Sogdiana were incorporated 30,000 young Persians trained in the Macedonian the question of Alexander's motive is debated. of nations, while others view it as yet another of a new army to replace the many men who had too old to fight. Although some of Alexander's many were frustrated. Alexander's Persianistion for years, and this increase of Persians into Alexander marched his army from Susa into Opis River, he announced that as many as 10,000 with full pay and rich rewards. This seemed a mutiny at the Hyphasis. To Alexander's surprise, with Alexander's personal Persianisation, his being replaced by Persians, the Macedonians continue with his father Zeus-Ammon and his this was far more dramatic than at the Hyphasis. the main agitators and had his hypaspists execute listing Philip's achievements, his own, Arrian has Alexander saying: "The wealth of the riches of the Indians are yours as is the Outer have I reserved for myself after all these labours wounds, let him strip and show them, and I will my body, at least on the front, free from wounds... you deserted your king and went away, handing him As with almost all speeches recorded in ancient was Arrian's creation or Alexander's actual giving slightly different speeches, all touch on truly did feel these sentiments. It is possible as he lauded his and his father's achievements and such feats by lauding their accomplishments be made that Alexander was justified in arrogant. Alexander was a significant factor in his men and rewarded them generously. Alexander's is as understandable as his men's frustration As at the Hyphasis, however, his words and Alexander stormed into his tent, remaining of reconciliation as he had done previously, replaced senior Macedonian officers with the most honoured units, including the Companions his vision of the new Persian-Hellenic army up with it or leave. Shamed, his men begged him them tearfully. Alexander's epic speech has since but while the speech is inspiring, powerful and It was Alexander's understanding of what kind of and crediting the speech alone with Alexander's of years later and likely inspired by similar tactic against one of his mutinying would go on without them, with similar success. reconciliation, sitting the Macedonians with the the two people. He continued with his original and wounded back to Macedonia under the command Antipater as regent of Europe, while the aging further 10,000 reinforcements. This move would, general in Europe while bringing Antipater, who to Alexander for him to keep an eye on. Neither Alexander marched to Ecbatana, where he, once Dionysus with much drinking and partying. At this a fever. Glaucus, his doctor, cared for him, and, However, one day while feeling better, he once severely ill once again. Alexander was summoned but by the time he got there, Hephaestion of Alexander's closest friends, and the two some speculate, had even been lovers. The but it is undoubtedly true that the two men were Alexander for years, mainly as the commander of most dependable subordinates He was often as well as his military duties, and eventually Hephaesation, because of his closeness to other commands somewhat jealous, so it is unlikely on the other hand, was devastated. There are many aftermath. Some say that he immediately had that Alexander lay crying on Hephaestion's should be honoured as a hero with sacrifices, and admits he is unsure which are true and which are in ancient times were moralists who used some may have exaggerated Alexander's grief to lack of restraint. Nevertheless, Arrian does Alexander refused to eat for three days, and costing thousands of talents. The exact manner in but the extent of that grief can After weeks of depression, his Companions Alexander conducted a brief expedition against the overwhelmed. This brief footnote in his career marched his army to Babylon, where he planned to sources of Alexander report a number of mysterious city A group of Chaldean philosophers begged would die if he did. Crows had fallen dead at his marshes around Babylon, a branch caught his of all for Alexander and his Companions, after to the throne room, he found a strange man When the man was questioned, he simply replied him. Omens like this obviously lack historical into the mentality of ancient peoples: the gods All the relevant sources broadly agree upon May 323 BC. Having been hounded by ominous he would finalize preparations for an invasion new harbour to hold the newly made colossal fleet days overseeing these preparations, touring the with his Companions. However, as the sources near surviving sources that used the Royal Diaries The Royal Diaries give a day-by-day account reported by Arrian and Plutarch. On the 31st of eating with friends and drinking late into but one of his companions, Medius, convinced house. Alexander and the guests all drank on the 1st of June, Alexander had a raging fever bathed and spent the day playing dice and drinking the night. On the 3rd of June, he was carried gave instructions to his officers about the to a cooler palace where he bathed and rested. The giving some instructions, bathing and resting, but He continued this routine from the 5th to the 8th, Alexander was terribly weak, unable to speak, Some of his Companions were sent to the Temple and they were told to leave Alexander as he was. seriously worried about him, demanding Alexander's generals and bodyguards tried soldiers grew increasingly angry, threatening to The men and Alexander had feuded, but they had each other. Alexander owed everything to them soldiers would have served under Philip and would commanded the flank at Chaeronea and watched he would have been the only king they knew, them against countless enemies and always proved and the men were allowed to see him. As they charges at Granicus, Issus and Gaugamela, who could do little more than weakly raise a hand his last words supposedly leaving his Empire, who report this version of events, both refer clear that they consider this to be only a The account of Alexander's death in the Pamphlet, is markedly different, going into detail about Plutarch. According to this account, Antipater, had become fearful of Alexander, due partly and Alexander's mother, Olympias, and partially Alexander. Fearing that he was to be punished Cassander, smuggle poison to Babylon. who was also Alexander's cup-bearer, As in the Royal Diaries, Alexander celebrates but is convinced to stay out drinking by 20 other people at this drinking party. They Cassander, Peucestas, Ptolemy, Lysismachus, engineer, Stasanor, Olcias, Heracleides, Philotas, source also adds that Proteas, a cousin of Cleitus that only Perdiccas, Ptolemy, Olcias, Lysismachus, the rest knew what was going to happen next. the others talking amongst themselves while it had severe abdominal pains but soon managed continue drinking. He, in the meantime, requested one coated with more of the poison. This caused and he suffered throughout the night. He spent began writing his will with the help of Ptolemy, both wary of each other, pledged that if they would split Alexander's possessions between threatened to kill Alexander's bodyguards and they were allowed to file past and see The Pamphlet then gives a supposed Alexander entrusts his body and the preparation named the guardian of it. Alexander then requested to the city to help it prosper again and names the governor of Egypt, and Asia to Perdiccas and is then named King of Macedonia until Alexander's then he shall be king. If it's a girl, then to keep Philip or appoint someone else as king. soon after: Ptolemy is named the satrap of Libya, Antigonus. A number of other assigned satraps are to Leonnatus, Paphlagonia and Cappadocia to to Seleucus, Phoenicia and Syria to Meleagar. signet ring, and Alexander is asked who he his brother or child, and instead replies, "to the will as given by the Pamphlet clearly show that it While there are some similarities between the two declined shortly after a drinking party hosted far more differences. The Royal Diaries make no drinking party, poison, abdominal pains, spasms naming any subsequent satraps. Similarly, Alexander's bathing, his conferences with his we are left with two conflicting narratives, Alexander's last days. Moreover, through source determined to have originated shortly after the two narratives emerged soon after Alexander's that he died of natural causes, and the version Furthermore, both versions have signs that mind. The Royal Diaries, for instance, are therefore, surprising that this is one of the only some modern historians have speculated that they official narrative of Alexander's last days. On how definitively it names those who were guilty contradictions in Alexander's Will. Both these written by someone who wanted to advance their with Alexander's death and legitimizing It is firstly important to discuss the primary which are recounted in both Plutarch and Arrian Romance. The Royal Diaries were written sometime months following it or no more than 25 years historians in the years following Alexander's from there, were used by Arrian and Plutarch. Both Eumenes of Caria, Alexander's royal secretary, and in the case of Eumenes, would have been a direct question the authorship of the Diaries, but all was in Babylon with Alexander when he died. When the original text was written is unknown, others suggesting the 4th century AD. What is it was widely read, translated, and amended. Much time, incorporating different themes and an unreliable source, bordering on historical Alexander had sharp fangs and that Bucephalus just as even the most reliable ancient histories the most unreliable sources can contain of the Alexander Romance that covers Alexander's to be one such example. This section is often 'The Pamphlet'. Its tone and content are markedly and passages from this section have been found in section then would likely have been available one of the many embellishments added centuries it clear that this portion was written in the Therefore, many modern scholars conclude that written detailing the events surrounding it. for Roman historians to use it, and eventually Some details are given in other works, but the main sources used by the surviving Alexander Justin, either directly or indirectly. These, regarding the death of Alexander are built upon. natural causes, whatever those precise causes On the face of it, the Diaries seem to be an that they were written by an eye-witness, shortly after his death. Moreover, they are giving a day-by-day account of Alexander's bath and meal he took. They are also written in a upon events with little emotive language. Lastly, natural causes after drinking a large amount that Alexander, and aristocratic Macedonians in sessions to scales that can be fatal. Moreover, even in ancient times, to have been around Babylon. Couple these points with the fact throughout his lifetime, most recently including a and death by natural causes is well within reason. point to several inconsistencies or perceived detailed, day-by-day account of the Diaries may in fact, shows the very opposite and that the intended to leave no possibility for they may be a cover-up. It is also worth pointing any other part of Arrian and Plutarch. If the cited more often by these later authors? It is Arrian would not have been using the Diaries in turn, relying upon the Diaries. However, to the diaries throughout their texts. The fact that the Royal Diaries were explicitly created to Regarding anachronistic errors, the most obvious Serapis in Babylonia. To date, no such temple has thought to have originated in Ptolemaic Egypt god Osiris Aspis, who the Greeks referred to as Serparis is mentioned in the Royal Diaries when has led some historians, such as Paul Doherty, proving that the Royal Diaries were doctored. The argues, imply that Ptolemy specifically had a hand if the Diaries are a fabrication, the only to cover up the assassination of Alexander. in the Royal Diaries. Both Arrian and Plutarch having been so weak in his final days that he gesture with his right hand to his soldiers who to utter his famous final words of leaving his death, his generals would spend decades fighting their best interests for Alexander to have been even to justify their wars. It is, therefore, managed a few final words to give legitimacy may suggest that the Diaries were constructed Lastly, at no point do the Royal Diaries Alexander's army had good medical knowledge for including Philip the Doctor, who was likely had fallen ill with a fever, he had been but no such care was recorded for Alexander. because Alexander had the doctor who failed to other medics. However, Alexander was the King Is it truly believable that nobody would have There are, however, equally strong arguments detail of the Diaries suggests that Alexander was level of detail makes its veracity doubtful, but suspicious.[1] Moreover, it is entirely possible narrative of Alexander's death, but this does the diaries may have been deliberately death by natural causes was irrefutable. a leading Alexander historian, has instead may have been misidentified as Oserapis, in bull iconography, and that later writers who Serapis. Others suggest that the name Serapis was god. Mistakes and errors in copying such as theory is believable. The apparent contradiction to speak is also explainable if we are slightly possible that Alexander was unable to speak for single word in his dying moments. The absence of oversight. It is possible that the various baths were all done on the advice of his doctor, but Those who would say that Alexander was poisoned earlier, while the 'Alexander Romance' in which viewed as an accurate source of information, this that the Pamphlet also dates to shortly after veracity of the Pamphlet are that whoever wrote last days of Alexander, including the names of which suggest that it was originally written by officers were involved in the plot, who was Alexander ingested it. All of these details the overall claim that Alexander was assassinated common fate for many Macedonian kings, and there from Alexander's death. Antipater in particular, had apparently been arguing with Alexander's by Alexander to Babylon, may have been fearful of officer corps benefited from his death, many Moreover, the death of Cleitus, Callisthenes, planned campaign all may have cost Alexander Lastly, it is perfectly possible to align poisons which we know were available at the time. has several questionable details. It is, firstly, mastermind behind the alleged assassination, and simultaneously explicitly names the generals the author knew this information. In theory, it but the fact that almost all the men in the does not inspire confidence in an honest account. took the opportunity to label themselves as The Pamphlet also gives an account of Alexander's incomprehensible. In it, Alexander describes Craterus is named the regent of Macedonia, Ptolemy are named governors of Asia. While Craterus may during Alexander's lifetime, Ptolemy had certainly held by a man called Cleomenes. Similarly, and we have no record of Perdiccas being a satrap broadly reflect the situation that emerged after by the Pamphlet was fabricated to legitimise Later, the Will records who Alexander appoints as with the division of his Empire made by his It may be thought therefore, that Alexander simply followed his wishes at the Partition of Babylon. Eastern satrap is named. Alexander used many local life assimilating Persians into his court; have followed a similar policy in his will. The Alexander's Empire that his officers decided upon is that Ptolemy, previously listed as the apparent comparatively poorer province of Libya. All these if not completely fabricated. If the Will Pamphlet, and so the claim that Alexander was Perhaps the most curious aspect of the He firstly says that his brother, Philip, will if his own unborn child is a son, he will the Macedonians can choose their own King. Craterus will rule over Macedonia. Later he gives could be marking him as the successor. Finally, the strongest." In short, the wording is ambiguous interpreted as being either Philip, Alexander's Perdiccas, or simply the strongest. One can not altered in order to obfuscate who Alexander's true to those who would later try to claim his legacy. Pamphlet is an accurate record of Alexander's poisoned, but that the Will should be treated propaganda purposes. This would bypass many of have discussed, but the most pertinent one still by one of the officers who was with Alexander consider it as a source when these same officers legitimising themselves. If it was not written by information, such as who was with Alexander We are thus faced with a conundrum. Our two main soon after his death, and both seem to have been of the events. Both also have serious flaws, or at least heavily edited. Lastly, the aftermath many of his successors had clear motives for We are left with two main interpretations. The the Royal Diaries recorded this honestly, but a fabricated by some of his successors and spread division of his Empire and in order to damage was assassinated by some of his generals, who then but the truth was circulated by an eye-witness "What killed Alexander the Great" is the sources simply contradict each other too Whichever tradition is believed, Alexander died on the 11th of June, 323 BC. At and he may have already had an illegitimate Alexander's Empire.[1] Almost immediately after who should manage the Empire until his child was These disagreements grew quickly, and within a into various successor kingdoms, each ruled by to be the legitimate heir to his legacy. In his mother, half-sisters and brother, his were hunted down and wiped out. legacy and a multitude of unanswered questions. there ever have been a point where Alexander a blend of Hellenic and Eastern cultures? Did he and more have puzzled historians for millennia and most famous figures in human history. Arrian was approved of the timing of his death while he frequently made conscious parallels between and he did this once again in his death. Homeric immortal, but were instead driven by the need for become immortal in memory. So it was for Achilles, Alexander became the de facto measure of quality whether it be Hannibal, Caesar, or Napoleon, eternal memory. Many criticisms can, and modern views of Alexander are varied, some judgements are made of Alexander as a man, all can truly remarkable. He had defeated Illyrians, conquered hundreds of tribes and cities, taken an spread Hellenic culture across 3 continents and all before his 33rd birthday. At the time of his undefeated on the battlefield and with a Thanks again to War Thunder for sponsoring in this massive vehicle combat game on PC free bonus pack with premium features - get We have already started working on our Diadochi Consider subscribing and pressing the bell 10 episodes on the successors of Alexander. so consider liking, sharing, commenting. patron and YouTube member exclusive content, the description or button under the learn about our schedule, get early access and much more. This is the Kings and Generals