On 24 May 1565 the Ottoman artillery opened fire Knights hospitaller. This was the beginning of an army of 40,000 soldiers was sent there by Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent, Ottoman Empire in the struggle for wipe out the Order of St. John, also known But the Knights together with Maltese militia and Europe was trembling as the siege developed The possibility of an Ottoman bridgehead Before we dive straight into the video, a quick account hacking happens nowadays. If you have used not properly maintained or got compromised, it have one password for more than one login somebody easy fix is enabling two-factor-authentication sponsor NordVPN to get alerted. Be sure to use a unique passwords and always have them at your NordVPN now also comes with a threat-protection trackers and irritating advertisements at bay. Get by clicking on the link in the description below. 30-day money back guarantee. Sworn Enemies soon as Sultan Suleiman I, known as he pushed the expansion of the Ottoman Empire. eastern Mediterranean (1522-1540). In 1522, which was then home to the knights hospitaller Jerusalem after the first crusade. After the a domain on Rhodes, where they thrived Charles V granted them Malta as a perpetual However, according to Kenneth M. Setton, an expert the Mediterranean, the island was &quot;a defenseless, Knight's new home, and they immediately began At the same time, the Ottomans were expanding Mediterranean. The barbary corsairs, privateers ever-greater threat, especially a certain Dragut Islam&quot;. He was constantly at odds with the Maltese Ottoman Admiral Sinan Pasha attacked Malta 10,000 men but left only a few days later to Dragut then sailed to Tripoli, which was also short siege and took control of the area. Tripoli Shocked by this direct blow the Knights They expected Dragut to return soon. in the Mediterranean remained tense. By 1559, was safe from Dragut's corsairs. Among other which prompted Philip II, together with his them out of Tripoli. The Knights Hospitaller also an Ottoman fleet under the experienced Admiral the Tunisian island of Djerba and defeated them. Jean Parisot de la Valette, expected the had his men prepare. He was sure that the observers in Constantinople had reported that Malta was an obvious target because the island was of the Sultan's enemies, but also very significant from where the way to the western Mediterranean When one of the most notorious sailors of the attacked several merchant ships and captured this was the straw that broke the camel's annihilate the Knights Hospitaller. When the Ottoman fleet was spotted off the coast Grandmaster had made sure that plenty of supplies The Knights' new home was situated ideally for peninsulas of Birgu and Senglea, accessible only by a moat and massive walls. For some years, the headquarters, and built two new fortifications: These two fortresses had been raised in less than St. Elmo towered over the entrance to the from the south. Between Senglea and which was blocked by a heavy iron chain. So, into the grand harbor was going to be met and a chain blocking access to the heart of the When de la Valette learnt that the invasion was from all over Europe. But it was clear that the island without allies. For this reason, the Grand for help, first and foremost to Pope Pius IV and interest in Malta because of his possessions in to help because the knights were his fiefs. While more members of the order and financial aid those who were already there prepared the walls by demolishing many of the buildings south ordered all grain - ripe or not - to be harvested The Ottomans should not find any food on wells which were not vital for the defenders This scorched earth policy would shape The Ottomans were facing a set of formidable Seward were defended by some 500-600 knights, These professionals were supported by and civilians. Although the Maltese population had they regarded as occupiers, need prompted a large All in all, the Ottomans would have to wrestle the And the clock was ticking, for relief could arrive any time. On 19 May, 1565, the first 500 Ottomans set foot six kilometers south of the grand harbor. The 300 arquebusiers to welcome them, but after a retreat. Their mission had been futile to begin landed on the island the next day. The invaders of the grand harbor (near Marsa). There were so question. And yet even further reinforcements were especially the Corsairs under Dragut. was to assume supreme command. This was quite were men of high rank as well: The fleet was and the land forces by the experienced Lala between these two because Mustafa Pasha had Because of that, they had a hard time to agree held after a reconnaissance expedition had led had not arrived yet, so they had to talk it out St. Elmo to give his fleet access to the port of was not too fond of this and instead wanted to first, so that they could avoid attacking St. Elmo some discussion, Lala Mustafa gave in. He thought That same day, Ottoman workers set up a near present-day Valetta and soon the first digging trenches to cut St. Elmo off from the land Because of the rocky ground this was hard work only slowly. The Ottoman's slow progress allowed the fort. On 28 May the last large bombards were earnest. When on 2 June, Dragut finally arrived &quot;the drawn sword of Islam&quot; set up camp in St. agree with the chosen plan of attack, because he However, it was too late to change plans now. So, the Knights Hospitaller a lot of time. Because Jean de la Valette was well aware that he devoted much of his energy to get assistance of coordinating the Spanish support, Don to hurry up. The latter, however, hesitated only if he could do so without endangering the Also very actively beating the drum on urged the Catholic princes to send men, money to be raised for this purpose from his own and the general concern raised across Europe by little was happening for the time being. Elmo from Dragut Point. The resulting artillery only noticed the attacking Janissaries when it ravelin INF , and in spite of five hours of fierce was decisive because the Ottomans now held an They finished a new artillery platfo rm on the the walls from close range. Over time, constant defenders. After another assault on 8 June, the consent to withdraw. But the Grand Master ordered losing battle, but every day they resisted Soon the walls of St. Elmo were crumbling. Two pushed back. But in the Ottoman camp, Dragut was far too much time. To speed things up, he ordered and personally visited the trenches to and thus bring down the walls more quickly. sources disagree as to whether he was struck or whether one of the gunners he was correcting or bullet hit him in the head. Five days later, Regardless of this setback, Mustafa Pasha who was by establishing another battery on Gallows point. so that the conditions of both the defenses When further assaults branded against the defenses the janissaries from lodging themselves in on the knights' resistance on the following morning was Ottomans entered the fort and killed all defenders swim to safety. The events following the fall of the archivist Catherine Desportes reports that mutilated and thrown into the sea and the heads De la Valette allegedly responded by having all shot from the cannons of St. Angelo. However, actually occurred because the primary sources is certain is that the battle for St. Elmo cost about 1,500 defenders and 6,000 attackers died hurt the Ottomans more than the loss of their After investing so much time, all they had St. Elmo. It was a Pyrrhic victory. The day after the fall of St. Elmo the Ottomans moved their fleet to Marsamuscetto and transported where they built four new batteries on the heights at St. Michael and the Borgo, the residential Before the attack began, Mustafa Pasha with a message to ask if he would receive an men and artillery if he surrendered. But the and replied that he would hang anyone Contrary to Don Garcia de Toledo's promise, of June. The Spanish viceroy took so much time that he was actually assembling a large armada fleet was trapped in Malta. In catholic Europe so that De Toledo came under increasing his reputation to take damage. In late July The defenders sighed in relief when a messenger under Melchior de Robles, including 40 knights northern end of the island. This so-called piccolo next day. Under the cover of a foggy night, they and slipped past the Ottomans to Kalkara bay Borgo. When the sun rose over Malta, the guns of ranks of the defenders were filled with rested men This boost was sorely needed, because the more tense by the hour. The Ottomans completed July 5, 112 cannons opened fire on the Borgo the barrage of this extensive artillery, the Slowly they dug their way towards the walls. on Mount Salvador (northeast of Kalkara Bay) to rained down on the defenders from all sides. Chapter 6: General Assault Mustafa Pasha didn't content himself the time to mount a first general assault. seemingly the weakest point in the Because St. Angelo was still a formidable threat preferred stealthy preparations, the Ottomans the Marsa Scirocco. It was laborious work, but grand harbor, hidden behind the Corradino. it did not go undetected. To strengthen the weak men to drive stakes into the ground along the west and connect them with a heavy chain to prevent the knights built a bridge of barrels and planks so that they could send reinforcements and When the Ottomans opened a dense barrage on St. crystal clear that something was going on. Early The best Ottoman fighters, according to the 100 boats and rowed towards Senglea. At the The defenders were awaiting the approaching boats chains held. The barrage forced the Ottomans to As they were slowly wading to shore, the and fended them off with their spears. Ottomans made it to the beach. The battle raged to retreat. At St. Michael's, Melchior de Robles but when a powder magazine exploded and tore down But now the newly built pontoon bridge rushed over it to join de Robles men. Still, the Pashas were not done yet: they 1,000 Janissaries to the tip of the peninsula to failed because of a low-lying battery near The Ottomans only noticed it Within a short time, the close-range fire sent the grand harbor. With this the tide turned. and the corsairs at Fort St. Michael had a After about five hours, the fighting petered out they allegedly lost about four thousand into a battle of attrition. The unfolding events shocked not only Pope Pius the defenders was getting worse and worse, the hands of the Ottomans became ever more they could invade mainland Europe from the south prevent this nightmare from becoming reality. But In an attempt to help in whatever ways possible, who gave their lives defending Malta. If he could he at least wanted to raise the morale Back on Malta, the Ottomans refrained from direct was less risky and cost fewer lives. Mustafa Pasha to establish a full encirclement. His artillery a breach large enough for the Janissaries to A hail of bullets, exhaustion and The defenders were already next to exhaustion, night to repair and improve the defenses. He knew St. Michael seemed to hold for now, so he turned of the Borgo. He had the bastions of Castile and more difficult and ordered to block Kalkara Bay this, his men sank ships loaded with stones in chains and anchors. This made approaching On 24 July, the Ottomans finally managed to close Malta were cut off. Communication with the outside who risked their lives in order to secretly swim the defenders were not the only ones operating The Ottoman trenches nearly reached the walls noticed movement under the Fort. It didn't take Ottomans were notorious for their use of mines, the defenders dug a countermine and indeed, they walls and ready to be filled with explosives. When ensued. Eye in eye the miners of the two sides Finally, the defenders gained the upper they brought heavy stones and bricked disaster by the skin of their teeth. The defenders were not the only ones suffering running out of supplies as well, suffered from pressure because they had to expect a relief another breach in the bastions of St. Michael another assault. Within five hours, five waves of where Melchior de Robles and his men awaited them. made it onto the wall where a bloody struggle desperate back and forth, the defenders eventually were mere heaps of rubble, their numbers shrunk When a Spanish soldier defected to the As expected, the defector informed Lala Mustafa was. The Pasha immediately planned a second 8,000 Ottoman soldiers charged the fortifications stop them, but by now the walls had several large only hastily. The battle was fought as much on even worse at the Bastion of Castile, where 4'000 Jean de la Valette himself had to intervene. a last reserve, the Grandmaster climbed the wall Despite these last reserves It was a question of time until it would break. fighting, the Ottomans retreated suddenly. miracle. The explanation, however, was mundane: (100 horse + infantry) had noticed that the wounded and sick remained in the camp, guarded by The reconnaissance unit quickly set to work and and set fire to tents and huts. Then they shouted The Ottomans in St. Elmo noticed the disaster dreaded relief army. Soon rumor spread in thousandfold superior in numbers, had landed. This were joining in the roars of victory and plumes The Ottomans were fully convinced that they relief army and hastily retreated. When they furious. He swore to give no quarter. Everybody within the walls knew that sheer some of the Knights of the order of Malta abandon St. Michael and the Borgo. The did not want to abandon the inhabitants of the too well that the fort could not withstand To make his stance very clear, he ordered that to St. Angelo and that then the bridge over the made sure the Knights of Malta would not retreat no help would arrive very soon. What he didn't finally assembling a fleet in Syracuse. But still, viceroy reached De la Valette two weeks later, Meanwhile, Mustafa Pasha prepared yet This time he wanted to overrun the weakened According to Kenneth Setton, this was to be the Unfortunately, not much about this climactic give conflicting information and scholars There are some accounts, modern and historical, huge mines blowing up half of the borgo but according to pretty much all modern Regardless of the details, the attack would A tremendous barrage heralded the assault. It any before and it was followed by several aimed mainly at tiring the defenders in For this last assault, Mustafa Pasha once Meanwhile, the Grandmaster mobilized every hand defense but now he called anybody to arms who Hospitaller fought a desperate last stand but were soon reduced to rubble. The defenders' line. But somehow, the Ottomans did still not The grandmaster came to understand the reasons from the Ottomans' camp and brought news that the one of the defenders and that they had been In addition, they were running out of gunpowder. to keep up the pressure for now. But Mustafa Pasha first autumn storms were expected, which would a fleet like his. As chances of conquering the he conferred with Piyale Pasha again. They When the governor of the city learned that an he knew all too well that his small garrison he resorted to a ruse. He equipped and armed as positioned them on the rampart in order to make When the Ottomans closed in, the guns of Soon, they had used almost all of their powder Ottomans. Anxiously, they then waited for the to hope actually happened: the attackers turned strength to attack another seemingly well-defended returning to camp, he was close to despair. On 7 September, the guards on St. Michael's But something was different this had ships patrol in front of the Marsamuscetto The defenders were afraid of whatever Mustafa the sails of a fleet on the horizon. It was relief. Just before driving by the defenders, De 8,000 men under the command of Ascanio at Mellieha Bay and then went on to Sicily to get joy of the defenders faded. For some reason, the but remained in their camp near Mdina, despite As De la Valette should learn later, this was Garcia de Toledo. He had ordered Ascanio della a show of force. The viceroy wanted to protect His plan seemed to work. When he received the news to abandon the siege. By 8 September, the Ottomans embarking their ships. But Mustafa Pasha was no of the relief army and soon brought news that council of war, Mustafa cancelled the retreat and relief army before further help arrived, he When della Corgna spotted the Ottomans on 11 of a hill east of Mdina. Even though the Spanish But soon their confidence waned, because della After initial skirmishes, parts of the Ottomans to keep the bulk of his men together and battle invaders gave in. Half fleeing, half retreating, was waiting with the fleet. While the cannons of the defeated boarded hastily. When the the ships of the Corsairs set out for Algiers and for the Morea. Malta was saved. On 14 September, Jean de la Valette welcomed harbor. They brought food and other supplies for 1,000 of the originally 6,000-9,000 men were too. Estimates vary widely, but most are in Some days after the relief, De la Valette wrote thank them for their help, but clearly there was appreciation. By delaying the departure of the fall of Malta but had also sacrificed the lives of The siege of Malta was one of the greatest events the French historian Alain Bondy calls it &quot;the Philosopher Voltaire was sure that "Nothing is had followed it with excitement, fear and terror. a happy ending for the Europeans. The Knights of and stopped the enemy on the threshold to Europe. next year the frustrated Sultan would direct his Szigetvar would bring fatal consequences both