Hi, I'm Rick Steves, back This time we're exploring magnificent and, thanks To me, Paris is the capital It's the city I can return to with grand monuments and it hides a lifetime Everything in this episode by foot or Metro. We'll see some icons the Industrial-Age iron and the medieval stonework Then we'll see stark realism in the Orsay Gallery. Escargot. We'll join a friend So you stab it? Yes. After lurking with bones we'll see how helped create this grand city. The Seine River into the Right Bank Its two islands mark the center of the old town. Most of the essential sights lie near the Notre-Dame, between the Eiffel Tower, the Latin Quarter and Montmartre, the city's highest point. The Eiffel Tower was built the 100th anniversary and to show off It was a muscular symbol To a generation it was the marvel of its day, trumpeting progress This 900-foot-tall tower The higher you go, For me, the middle level Thousands of iron bars all assembled Today, it stands tall, symbolizing the proud, of the French. The Trocadero Square, is the place and to check out Parisians own their city. In fact, twice a week and thousands turn out in an exuberant celebration Paris was born right here an island in the middle The Romans conquered the local Today, the Notre-Dame Cathedral where a Roman temple The city's first bishop, holds his head in his hands. When Christianity the pagan Romans beheaded him. But, according to legend, and kept on going. Inspired by this miracle, and the temple was replaced Imagine the faith of the people breaking ground in 1163 which wouldn't be finished Gothic architects incorporated flying buttresses to support Its ghoulish gargoyles they serve as fancy rainspouts and scare away The church is dedicated Mary cradles the baby Jesus; the rose window provides The Virgin Mary throughout the Middle Ages. The faithful petitioned her for both comfort and, through As worshippers headed for mass, they'd walk under a relief Christ sits on his throne. The trumpet sounds. All are judged: peasants, knights, nobles, An angel weighs while cheating demons The saved stand happily ...the damned, a sorry Carvings like that, and like this scene of Eve remind us that this art These images reinforced the stories people While the church the rest of Paris seems The old center, in the middle of the Seine, The Ile de la Cite is laden But the little Ile St. Louis, connected is laden only with the delights Arnaud. Oh, Rick. &quot;Ca va.&quot; &quot;Ca va bien, oui.&quot; I'm rendezvousing and fellow tour guide, Great island. Yeah, this is I love this place. You know, all around in this everything dating and the beautiful very expensive, the most and I wish I could have if I could afford it. This is very trendy Oh my God, wonderful. And all along the streets quaint little boutiques, and just down the street where you have the best Really? Yeah. Yes, the island but the whole city In fact, it faces and the River Seine has &quot;the mirror of the city.&quot; It's a great Yeah, you know, Yeah, it's a promenade... Wandering around... Festivals here? Yes, indeed. On the Bastille Day big dancing organized. Dancing! Dancing all And today it's So what is the French word &quot;Bouquinistes,&quot; It comes from the name Okay, so &quot;old books&quot; Old books, yes. And they sell And it goes back Oh, back to the There were, you know, which were all along the And they had to be regulated because they were so wild. It's just a classic It has, you know, kind I'm taking Arnaud to lunch. Against his advice, I'm eating all the Parisian This is a &quot;kir,&quot; you know, a good So it's an aperitif? Mm-hmm. Tell me about Aperitif is to Escargot. Escargot! Oh, Rick, look at that. It looks fabulous. This looks very nice. &quot;Merci.&quot; &quot;Soupe al'oignon.&quot; So, this is the Yes, this is And actually, you guys call when the entree is That makes sense, Okay, I have And I just use this? &quot;Allors,&quot; yes. So you stab it? Yes. Then you twist it out. It comes out eventually. Very chewy, you will see. Oh, that's good. Good, huh? Garlic, parsley. A lot of tourists don't want What is the history Ah, onion soup is something because, you know, it was of the central market I eat onion soup I know, you guys, Americans, all year round. [ laughter ] &quot;Merci,&quot; I think. This is actually &quot;plate principal&quot; in French. &quot;Plate principal.&quot; &quot;Plate principal.&quot; Okay, the &quot;principal Absolutely, yes. Okay, steak tartare. Steak tartare, yes. Very famous. Do you know what No. It's fresh raw beef. This is raw beef? Raw beef. Very fresh. The spice comes from the ketchup, the mustard, and the yolk of an egg, and then you just mix it Do you like it? Yes, I love it. You've introduced me This one is so good. I can't believe it. I'm eating raw beef It is good, huh? Wow! Especially with M-hmm. So we are, you know, having which is very important. You don't end a meal And basically, you know, you and then you order more It's a nice cycle. Oh, it's a vicious circle. A vicious cycle. Ah, this is dessert You're having and I have This is sacred, you to stop at least We don't work. Look at these people -- Yes, it's sacred. Enjoy. Okay. So the coffee always comes After the dessert, always. What if you ask for your They would say, but it would come They don't want Okay. What a meal. Excellent, wasn't it? I'm heading for Oh, go ahead. I'm finishing &quot;Au revoir.&quot; Bye-bye, Rick. Getting around Paris The original stations This new one celebrates And the latest generation to ever-more-efficient The train allowing passengers to watch Faster than a taxi can take us, we hurtle beneath the city The Orsay Gallery, famous of Impressionist masterpieces, The building itself Train tracks used to go The art of the Orsay takes you This is the time when the old It's conservative and Before the Impressionists, 19th-century artists This was conservative art, popular throughout the 1800s Simply beautiful. Cabanel's &quot;Birth of Venus&quot; The love queen just born from the foam At the time, and could be exalted only But whIle mainstream artists these ideal beauties, of artist was painting Cross the tracks and you find In &quot;The Painter's Studio,&quot; behind the scene The model, not a goddess takes a break from posing Ordinary people mill about. The little boy seems already notorious No one would show so he put on his own art show. He built a little shack and hung his paintings, at the shocked public Edouard Manet rubbed realism and they hated it. Manet's nude doesn't The pose is classic, but the are new and shocking. Her hand is a clamp; her stare, defiant. Ignoring the flowers from her last customer, this prostitute looks out &quot;next.&quot; It's around 1880, of conservatively dressed pushing the creative envelope. It's time for the revolution Impressionism initiated since the Renaissance. Now, artists were free of colors, light They featured easygoing, candid spontaneity and, Impressionists made by an innovative technique. Rather than mixing colors they applied the colors in dabs and let these mix Up close, it doesn't work; but move back, and &quot;voila!&quot; Claude Monet is called For him, the physical subject upon which to hang August Renoir caught Parisians in the afternoon sun. Dappled light In this painting, you can and smell the powder Even the shadows Everything's dancing. Renoir paints a waltzing blur not the physical details, of a restaurant Montmartre, by the dramatic neo-byzantine was famous for the ambiance A block away, with artists...and tourists. If you really try, Renoir, Van Gogh, and Picasso, poor, carefree, Back then, life was a working-class commotion of cafes, bistros, Painters came here for the low To get away simply walk the back streets, where a bit of Montmartre's Ah, the steps of Sacre-Coeur. This is a place where congregate to marvel at Paris, From here, the &quot;City of Light&quot; Your Parisian experience fine food, and characteristic The Latin Quarter is the core as the south side This has long been the city's In fact, a leading university was founded here Back then, like French and German, good enough to handle But for higher learning, spoke and corresponded Until the 1800s, Latin was the language And Parisians called the &quot;Latin Quarter&quot; because on the streets. Today, any remnant by a touristy tabouli Still, it remains a great place for the tangled city, were replaced by wide, modern The scholarly and artsy people brewed up a new rage: By the time of the Revolution, were the haunt of politicians who plotted a better future And the cafe society really as the world's literary converged on Paris. In now-famous cafes and Boulevard St. Michel, Lenin, and Jean-Paul Sartre these hangouts engendered. With its cafe Paris had long been a launch pad In the 18th century, and social thinking like Voltaire and Rousseau the &quot;Age of Enlightenment.&quot; Later, this enlightenment with a philosophical basis, and it gave many of its basic principles. Paris honors its intellectual with tombs and memorials It looks like but it's only from the time During the Enlightenment and the Age of Revolution everything was subjected the &quot;test of reason.&quot; If it wasn't logical, Nothing was sacred. The very notion of royalty and churches were turned Even the use of city land at the catacombs of Paris, The sign reads, &quot;Halt! It kicks off a one-mile hike The anonymous bones of six line former limestone quarries In 1785, Paris decided to make more spacious and sanitary which traditionally into this labyrinthine ossuary. For decades, priests led of black-veiled, bone-laden where the bones were carefully as much as 80 feet deep. Each transfer was finished from which church and the date they arrived. WhIle there is history in dem filling a lavish is the best place to sort Pre-Revolutionary France by, for, and of the wealthy. And as the rich got people who lived in fabulous became blind to the growing gap in their country. Louis XIV, a.k.a. the &quot;Sun King,&quot; back when people that a few were born to rule while most were born to be Room after room shows the in the age leading up Louis XIV, who enjoyed the said, &quot;Apres moi, le deluge&quot;; The heart of the museum which hit when this man, The French Revolution with the storming Supporting the angry masses, the liberal wing took matters declaring it wouldn't quit until the people It was &quot;vive la Nation, liberte, egalite, until the people literally The &quot;Place de la Revolution,&quot; It was here that considered a humane form was set up. And it was here that Marie and over 2,000 others were made According to this painting, it took three to run one to manage the blade, one to catch the blood and one to hold the head -- in this case, up to the crowd. Today, Paris's vast &quot;Place de la Concorde&quot; -- The guillotine is long gone and its centerpiece The king and queen by a stark But the French love of fine The 19th century was The entire city was beautified with grand new boulevards It was an exuberant If you had it, you flaunted it. From the Place de la Concorde, once a royal carriageway, now leads to the Arc de Triomphe. The arch was dedicated and their republic, the triumph A glimpse of the decadence or &quot;belle epoque,&quot; is enjoyed Paris's old opera house, the grand palace of this gilded The real show was when the elite of Paris, strutted their elegant stuff Think of the grand marble filled with Paris's The actual theater is a palace Above it all, painted by Marc Chagall frolics around an eight-ton Nearby, the Jacquemart-Andre fills a 19th-century mansion a rare, aristocratic Edouard Andre and his wife, spent their lives and fortune designing, building, this incredible mansion. I'm enjoying a tour by one Ciara. Because, you know, they had a lot of money and and then they'd bring So these are souvenirs? Exactly. What's this? That's the music room. You can almost imagine mixing with the chamber music as Edouard and Nelie This is Exactly, because They loved Italian art of Bellini, Botticelli, And Tiepolo, whose fresco And this is the bedroom. So the monsieur and Yes, but this was the room So they had two Exactly, that's And this was complete with a deluxe For more of the decadence check out the ritzy shops. It's ritzy in the true sense, since they cluster Enjoy the luxury by window shopping, &quot;faire du leche-vitrines,&quot; Actually, today's Paris thrives The good life and in the spirit the government truly While the stunning holds one of the world's most Parisians are happy And apart from all its millions of people Neighborhoods enjoy and if a train line's it's put to good use with its and the elevated track made The Promenade Plantee for jogging or strolling or just a peaceful break There's a time-honored finesse a comfortable rhythm neighborhood street markets and familiar faces Whether you visit its captivating history or the simple delights Paris just might Thanks for joining us. I'm Rick Steves. Until next time, &quot;Au revoir.&quot; Wow! How do you like I love it! With layers of it's wonderful! Oh, come on. Tell me the I just don't [ laughing ] Hey, wanna buy it? [ laughing ] You wanna buy it? Snort, snort.