Did you want that? Maybe you can take turns. This is a suggestion from me. Completely normal everyday life for the Theis family. What do you have now? The door doesn't stay open. With a total of five children, there is always action. For me, Isabell, this is completely new territory. I don't have any children of my own yet. Nevertheless, I want to try to get involved in this adventure. I'm spending 7 days with a large family. My first morning in Melsungen in northern Hesse. I don't know the Theis family yet. The children have never seen me before. I'm curious to see how they will react to me. Hi! - Hi. I am Isabell. Full reception committee, hi. Come in. -Hi. N/a? Hi, I'm Isabell. -Diana. - I'm pleased. Who are you? - Kuno. And you? -Hilda. Hilda, oh! Hi, I'm Hubertus. - Hubertus! You really dressed up. Can you open this already? The 3-year-old shows me around the whole house. 130 sqm, one floor just for the children. You show me your room. The children are surprisingly open-minded. What great toys you have. I didn't expect that I would be so warmly welcomed . By midday the gang is complete. Hi. I am Isa. Super cool. Did you just come from school? Yes. - And how was it? Good. You're grinning well. I'm impressed because your kitchen looks neater than some of mine. I'll tell you honestly, I'm home alone. I try to have as few things as possible. You can't put up any decorations either. I like a lot of great things about decoration. But I know that within a few hours they will become projectiles. That's why I'll just leave it out. Yes, upside down. Hubertus and Hilda, the youngest ones here, of course still demand a lot of attention. Her three brothers, on the other hand, are already looking after themselves. They naturally prepare their lunch snack after school on their own. Oh, baby! Now let's see where the Hubi is. Hubby? I actually wanted to make myself useful here. It's going to work itself out for you. I grew up as an only child and at the age of 10 was certainly far less independent than the boys. Maybe also because my parents only had to look after me alone and therefore cared for me constantly. Diana, on the other hand, has to be everywhere all the time. At least that's how it seems to me. You're lucky your grandpa is an electrician, right? But I think it's crazy how independent your boys are. So prepare it like that, put away the trash straight away and so on. Or is it now because we are here? No, there are days when things go really well. They're bigger now too. Karl is 10, Kurt is 9. They've seen me do it countless times. That I, if this... They make themselves pasta. Afterwards it looks like the battlefield. Then of course they get an announcement from me. Because I cleaned it up in the morning. Then I don't want it to look like I haven't done anything for a whole morning within two seconds . Especially with the three older ones, if they don't learn this now, I've lost. Hey, we're just talking. You can have the most fun with me. I really make everything possible. I'm taking Kurt to Schwalmstadt to get my hair done. I'll go along with any nonsense. But when they disrespect me, I'm very sensitive. I'm really really sensitive about that. I just don't want them to treat me like that. And I don't want them to treat other people like that either. When they grow up, they might have daughters-in-law or sons. If they always take that for granted, I think that would be shit for them too. Yeah of course. We are a small company. Not everyone can do what they want here. That's just how it is. I have to back off too. We all have to make small compromises every day. Mom, I want to lie in the bed. You have to lie in bed, are you tired? Yes, then do that. A small society with many different needs and obligations. Karl, Kuno and Kurt have to do their homework. (all) Hi Dad. Hi Dad. *laugh* Dad! Dad comes from the early shift and has been up since 5 a.m. I'm Isa, hi. - Andre. -Hi, Andrew. Andre works in production at a large pharmaceutical manufacturer and now needs time for himself. Diana understands this. She consciously decided to take on a large part of the care work. How important is school to you personally? Do you attach great importance to ensuring that everything is done properly? I really value it. This is where the fact that there are many comes into play. I think I always have this pressure that I don't want teachers or anyone else to think: &quot;They have five, she can't cope.&quot; I feel that and I just want it to be done and done properly. Then it really annoys me even more when they are so sloppy and tell me things too late that they need something. It always comes back to the mother. If you have one or two, you can forget about it. And at five: &quot;Well, that's five too.&quot; I don't know what people imagine what it's like to have 5 children. There's a lot of pressure on me. Do you have that feeling or has someone ever said it? Or maybe it's something you say to yourself... I think when you talk to people it's said through the flower. Likewise, if they have a piece of paper with them, "Make a transfer or pay 7 euros for a trip to the theater." Then I try to do it really quickly, very promptly. Because we both go to work, I'm just on parental leave now. But I don't want it to seem like that. I think you feel a lot more pressure because you want to prove, hey, we have 5 children, but we still have it under control. The children make it really easy for me to arrive. * calm music * Do you want to play with us, Hilda? Yes, look here. Now I can whisper something in here and you can still hear me, right? Yes. It's so big. Yes, it's a bit big for you, right? Every day is scheduled. The little ones are inevitably there when the big ones are taken away. Diana is actually an elementary school teacher. But now she works in the same company as Andre. Now something is coming from above. Now, attack. Uah! - Uah! &quot;We're spending the night in kindergarten tonight.&quot; Cool, there's a sign hanging for you. Hello. That leaves four out of five who are making themselves comfortable at home today. While Diana once again uses the time effectively. We definitely need cheese because Kurt only eats cheese. Hubertus gets salami. That's amazing what you conjure up for lunch boxes. Other mothers might read a book in the evening, and that's what I do. You relax while making bread boxes. I mean, it's past nine now. If you're really honest with yourself, do you sometimes wish you had more time for yourself? But I don't really question it. Because I know it goes by so quickly that they need you so much. Karl is 10, so you're often just a taxi. And... that's becoming less and less. That's why I don't question it that often. Or don't complain about me time like that. Because I know it's really only a very short time when they need you so intensely or you can participate so intensively in life. Don't you think there's something meditative about it? - Yes totally. And just knowing that they might be happy when they open the lunch box. Yes, sometimes I sit here and think, are they going to open it now? And also ask when they get home. And what did you think of it? The truth is, if something is packaged cutely, you're more likely to try things. Then it tastes better. That's correct. * Child cries * I have the key. Then you have everything. - Yes. - Good. The next morning we plan to go shopping. Hilda is only almost a year old and is therefore always there. Diana does her big weekly shopping at the discount store. We get a few little things at the supermarket. This one, I recommend it. - In what situations? The best time to come is at two in the morning. - Because you can't get to it during the day? For me, it's like someone patting me on the shoulder and saying, &quot;You've had a great day.&quot; We now have half an hour left. We can do it? We going to make that. And patience is slowly running out. You can take the chopped stuff out of there. Which one do you use and how much do we need? Minced pork, about 300 or 400 grams. Diana and her husband spend around 1,000 euros a month on food. The children shouldn't have to go without anything. Diana still compares prices. It's for the mother. It's actually on offer too. They are in a very good financial position, says the 40-year-old. How badly has inflation affected you? This is noticeable in a family of 7. We definitely noticed this while grocery shopping. Just like everyone who shops for themselves, we noticed this when we did our weekly shopping. Where we thought at the checkout, something changed in the price. I think Mr. Theis and I are stuck behind. Mr. Theis, Andre's nickname. Nothing works anymore. We are hurrying. Hilda, are you coming with us? No, good. Milk porridge! Have you. Another thing I can think of are wet wipes. wet wipes. Off to the checkout. -Here we go. While I'm already slightly stressed... Maybe a little tired too. And wondering what I can do... Party is over now. ...Diana still remains somewhat calm. Your emergency solution: breastfeeding. That always helps. I don't care where I am, what I'm doing. You notice that at some point nothing else will help. Except the mom, the closeness. And that calms you down. Then it will be easier for me. - I think it's crazy. People are already watching. Even though it is the most natural thing in the world. When you had your first child, were you so relaxed that you said, my God, think what you want. No, absolutely not. I've been relaxed since my third child. You say the third child gives the necessary routine. You don't see anything here. In every shower gel commercial you see more of a naked woman than me. Without me, Diana would be managing this all by herself. Thanks to their secure jobs, the family can afford a very good standard of living. Diana's parental leave ends in the fall. Then she will take up her job again, initially part-time. That sounds like an incredible challenge to me. After all, the family business is now more than a full-time job. Why are you looking so critically? Do I have cold hands? So, what now? Just open and go. - Just open it and off you go. Oh, look, it was worth it. How you do that? Leave it at the bottom for now. Then I try to maneuver the wet wipes in there like this. And always beautiful from front to back. - Exactly. Whoosh. Look, now mom has just left us alone. Oh, darling, now you're tired of it. Oh you. Was that exciting for both of us? Come here, darling. Wait, come here. Do we want to go to mom's? I'm slowly growing into the task. Nevertheless, I wonder how Diana manages this everyday life more or less alone. That's only possible because sometimes she just lets her children do what they do. And they seem very happy and balanced to me. I feel like they are not only siblings but also real friends. What do you think your life would be like if your siblings weren't there? One time I was at home. I came from school. Then there was a note. They were in the school store. Then I was all alone there. That was completely stupid. I had to do everything by myself, homework and stuff, by myself. But then dad came too. I also like it when everyone does something for themselves, when it's quiet and mom is asleep. And Hilda, because Hilda is always screaming when she's not with mom. It would be boring without my brothers. Then you would have to play for yourself all the time. And the advantage of having brothers is that you just have to ask someone to play with them. I think it's good that we all love each other together. Inseparable together and yet everyone has their own interests. 10-year-old Karl is now going to football with his dad. Coconut costume? From the dragon coconut? I try to make myself useful and put Hubertus to bed so that Diana's day doesn't get any longer. &quot;The snake wonders what the three of them are up to.&quot; I would love to just go to sleep now. Here is a tiger. - A leopard? - That's a tiger. He goes like this: Woaaaa! Aren't you tired yet? Not yet, but just a little bit. Okay, just a little bit. Shall we continue reading? Yes. - Okay. Can you touch that? - Have a look. - Is that made of gold? No, but it shines. Look, it glitters too. So, snuggle up nicely. Is that comfortable? - Yes. - Yes, okay. Would I have been able to bring myself to clean now? Hardly likely. I'm just exhausted. But Diana wants it to be clean and beautiful for everyone. That's why it has to be. The three-story terraced house needs to be cleaned once a week. Unfortunately, the next day starts at 6:30 a.m. The girls in the house have been awake for a long time. Good morning Nah, it was a wild night. Was a wild ride. Diana got the children's bags ready yesterday after cleaning . There's no time for that in the morning. In order for everything to go according to plan, solid structures are needed. The boys have to get up shortly before seven. Good morning You're still tired? There is no time for a hearty breakfast with everyone. Would you like some toast? - That's kind of you. Thank you very much. Have you eaten one yet? - Yes, downstairs. - Below? You haven't even gotten up yet, have you? - But. Yes? Shall we eat one together? - Yes. Okay, do you want one too? Come here and we'll have breakfast together here. Bon appetit. This situation touches me very much. Today Andre has a late shift and doesn't have to leave the house until midday. He can help out and also take the little ones to kindergarten. One less task for Diana. But even when almost everyone is out of the house, she hardly allows herself a free minute. Can I take anything from you? Do you want me to take something from you? Gladly. If you want, you can make the children's beds. Do you have a specific system? - No, you can do it yourself. I'll do it. Actually, every morning is the same here. So, Hildi, I'll just suck now, okay? It's like a never-ending to-do list. Just sitting somewhere relaxing, I hardly ever see Diana during my entire time here. Where do you get your energy from? When can you take time for yourself to recharge your batteries? In the evening, when everyone is in bed. Everyone is sleeping. I know we made it through the day. Everything is done. When I go to bed, I do what so many mothers do. I chill there for another two hours, watch TV. I also check my cell phone. I'll give myself that too. I have a lot of respect for that because I always ask myself when I have my children: How are you supposed to do all this? Now you have 5 and you can do it all. It seems to me like you pull it off with such ease. I didn't have five all at once. That has grown. This is how you grow into this role. At the beginning there was only Karl there. You only have laundry from one child. Then it becomes more and more. You grow with your tasks. That's the case here too. I love doing this passionately. This is a job where sometimes in the evening I think, oh my God, I can't do this another day. This is a job that makes me really happy. Because I see... You see what you've accomplished every night. If everyone is healthy and we all had a nice day. When everyone is happy with how the day went. When everyone is lying in their bed and sleeping. And then I can go up like that again. Then that makes me happy. That's happiness. For me. That doesn't mean that others feel the same way. But for me it's happiness. Diana and Andre have been a couple for 13 years. It was never planned that they would one day have five children. The desire for a large family gradually emerged. They love this life. But something also falls by the wayside. At 28, other people have the desire to travel the world. to live your life. (Andre) Career. Have you ever felt like you had to do without? Or is it more like you choose a different life? No, give it up, I never thought of it. You start living with it. - In a positive sense. Naturally. How did your own family, your own circle of friends react to this? When another child came or you said: &quot;Maybe a fifth.&quot; Unfortunately, things with friends have declined. The time with my best friend became less and less. I didn't bother anymore. Because you don't have the time anymore. You become so focused on your family. Unfortunately, with friends it has become less so. Do you regret that? - Partly, yes. But... ...again I see how nice it is here with our family. That consoles me about it. Andre never took parental leave. This was the only way he and his wife could finance the renovation of the house. * dynamic music * That would be the t-shirt you wear. Hubertus, can we agree on this? You have to wear this. But just for the photo, okay? - I don't want to take a photo. That's bad, that's a set deadline. How do you want to sit with me? Come here. It is not bad, is it? Do you want me to help you put this on? Exactly, you two can do that. A photo shoot is coming up. Hubertus doesn't agree with his outfit. But we have to go now. It's okay now, have you had a good cry? We are well on time. We wanted to leave at 8 p.m. We're two minutes late. - That's good. I'll get that in. But you do so much alone. Inevitably because Andre is at work. Do you sometimes feel like you get special looks? When you're alone as a woman with so many children? When you are in the flow and everything is working, no one is watching. People only ever see it and notice it when things aren't going well. When someone has a crying fit or something. If it works, you're inconspicuous. Should I pick you up? Would you like to touch Isa's hand? She doesn't even know where it's going. She's never been here before. You were already in there. Great, then you can show me everything. You have to look forward. Be ready! As far forward as possible! Excellent! Hilda, look there! * Shouting at once * Somehow I can understand more and more what Diana means when she talks about this happiness. I have long since taken the children into my heart. Even if everyday life is usually quite loud and challenging. Yes, great! Do you have the feeling that having more than two children quickly puts you in a box? Yes. What are things that are presented to you? We'll take a look first. Are the children all from the same mother and father? Or is it a patchwork family? Do the siblings look similar? What does the father look like? Do they all look like their father? Then it's also: &quot;Do they live on child benefit?&quot; Sometimes I want to say: &quot;We both go to work. We both have a good job.&quot; We still decided to have five children. I want to say that sometimes. But I know it would be a never-ending story if I wanted to tell everyone who has a prejudice in their head. Please. With a mozzarella ball like that. Lots of balls. - Lots of balls. Certainly not all large families run as well as this one, where values and manners play an important role. And certainly not all parents are up to this challenge or ready to scale back their own needs like they are here. How do you handle cooking for so many people, Diana? Either the stove is full of pots because one person prefers scrambled eggs, another prefers fried eggs. Or I cook something and whoever doesn't want it gets a loaf of bread smeared with something. Then that's just how it is. You have to take it easy too, right? You can't really get into it because then you won't do anything else all day. Today: trip with the whole family. Angel, angel, fly! In my opinion, an incredible challenge. Should I carry you? It frustrates me when I imagine it beautifully. &quot;Today we're going on a wonderful trip.&quot; Then imagine what you can do and that there is an activity for every child. When they are dissatisfied and grumpy, you think to yourself, wow, how ungrateful. That makes me sad too. But you look quite happy, Karl, right? - Yes. For a week I was part of a family that really impressed me with their openness and warmth. Of course there is sometimes unrest and anger, but also a lot of love and connection. It brings luck. Now you can make a wish. That's perhaps asking a bit too much. But I hope that when they grow up they know that there is someone who cares about me. And who is there for me, even when Mr. Theis and I may no longer be there. In other words, would you choose this extended family adventure again if you had the choice again? In any case. I love this. There are days when I think, oh God, this is killing me. But most of the time I love being many. I can even understand that now. That pleases me. Have we convinced you? Maybe not five, but like one, two...three. You can take it easy, right? - I think so. Copyright subtitles: hr 2024