Never before in the history of ours have we been presented of viable vehicle choices for cool dudes also never before have boy aesthetics of conversation and content generation in the entire history of the internet. It is our time to be cool fellas. I'm fascinated by the concept of effort into all the and then just blowing it with his car. A lot of guys are like, oh, It's an appliance, it's a tool for me. What? Of all of the things that to be the coolest one. It's the only thing you own that can go a hundred miles an hour but with so many cars to choose from, which one do you get? That's We're gonna look at 9 cars points that represent wildly and figure out the best one for you using math Cool, or C = style plus uniqueness plus popularity plus function. So I'm going to solve of these 9 cars coming up. Or you can play along, play along with me. You write this down in, maybe by the end of it you'll have a car that First up, Jesse picked this one. 1979 to 1993 Saab 900. The Saab 900 classic first to 1993. It's a funky little Swedish before other cars was turbocharged. The engine is mounted backwards and the windshield cost a lot to replace because it's extra curved 'cause the guys who designed the coolest vehicle possible it goes cars, horses, fighter jets. Saabs were also big rally cars back in the day and I'm letting you guys in these things are still cheap. I'm starting out cheap here and then we're gonna work our way up. Eventually we're gonna get so I'm gonna be right there with you. I've also tried to pick cars and aren't gonna be a huge Functionality definitely came into play when choosing this list. So who is this car for? Well a lot of people have or a professor car, both of which I think are I think it's like a car for a really good dj. This car would be 100% at home in Tyler the Creator's garage. It's very affordable, it was pretty safe at the time. There's a lot of examples that go for like a cajillion miles. They're weird but they're very simple. It's got a huge hatch so you or if you go camping in it, As with any older car, you It's worth paying a little more for one that's been well kept. All of these cars are under nice example. So is the Saab 900 cool? I think so, but let's go to 100% unique? You bet your acid is popular. Do people like it? If you point out a Saab and say, do you like this car? Nine out of 11 people would say, yes I do. Functional, very functional car So yes, Saab 900 is cool. Alright, next car E 39 BMW 5-series. Prestige, business, timelessness, refined, all of those things are cool. The E 39 5 series was It's got the legendary S 62 V8 making 390 HRSPRS and 369 foot pounds to 60 in 4.8 seconds. These things are like bad guy cars. If you were gonna do a this is what car you drive. I think this car makes a who wants a big fun car that you can comfortably So if you have the money and you care about owning It's one of the best cars ever. Unfortunately they are very expensive. Now some might say too expensive, especially because there is a cheaper E 39 5-series that also has a V with a manual transmission. I'm talking about one of the weirdest little I don't even know why this car exists. The 540i, you can get these things for under $10,000. It doesn't have the S 62, around 282 horsepower and The interiors are quality, even talking about leather of the best looking it's about 80% of the 28% of the money. And if you don't care about then you get the 528, which is a dead reliable straight six that is totally capable, Six cylinder, very reliable, very fun. V8, expensive, insane V8. Those are the three options you got and I know what you're saying, but James, I can't afford any of those. I don't even know how to I'm just a boy. What am I gonna do? Well today's sponsor, rocket Money is here to help. Rocket Money is the personal finance app that helps you cancel and manage your money better. I'm using Rocket Money to that I don't use anymore. I mean, let's be honest guys, you have too many subscriptions. Rocket Money helps to and cancel unwanted subscriptions for you. You can even cancel from within of taps so you don't even have to worry about customer service calls. And if you're anything like me, there's nothing scarier I'm also using Rocket Literally upload a photo of and they'll negotiate I like to imagine it Yeah, is this the bill department? Just called to let you know paying less from now on. Alright, just leave tight. Love you too man. This job is pretty sick. So cool. Rocket Money has to $740 a year when they with over $500 million in canceled subscriptions. To save more and spend less, join the over 5 million members Go to rocket money.com/speed or click the link in the subscription to get started for free. You can also unlock even That's rocket money.com/speed All right, now that we've to figuring out a car to Alright, so stylish, 100% unique depending on which one you get. M5 is super unique. 540i is still pretty unique. Too popular. This is a car that you that it's a cool car to think it's cool, but you're definitely not gonna think that it's a crappy functionality. I think they're very functional. These are coolest dude, forget if I might buy a five for you. Half of you guys are You might as well drive a truck Ninth Generation Ford pickup, F-150 specifically this is of cars. Everyone wants a boxy truck. There's also other ones to get, but this is a good one to get. We picked this one because it's still boxy but it's about as new as you because driving really old and it's kind of a pain in the ass. Around the late eighties, early nineties is when cars and like comfortable ish. These trucks came with a but you probably want a with a five liter V8 or a 7.3 liter power stroke diesel. These things are durable. A lot of 'em came with four to go off road they can. My dad used to tell me if you Elon Musk was talking about how those driverless cars Well guess what? Elon Musk, we already got a car that can do that. It's called a truck. You You I'd say the biggest con to these things is fuel efficiency. That's your pay to play with these things. You will spend hundreds of dollars in gas a month. You can find these for under $10,000, but the one that you want or $30,000. And like I said, you of dollars a month on gas. So is it cool style? Yes. 100% uniqueness, probably not at all. They made millions and millions and millions of these popularity. I'd say most people truck functionality. 100%. This is in a lot of ways the most functional So yes, one very, very cool vehicle. But I do just wanna reiterate, Speaking of bad gas mileage, experienced battle hearted ready for whatever wisdom of age that is the 80 series Toyota Land Cruiser, full-time, four wheel great ground clearance, an 4.5 liter in line six. The one FZFE. This thing is big, spacious interior can comfortably and equipment and if you need more luxury, you can also get the first which is basically, ah, I love these things. They're boxy. I if there's one thing I These things are legendarily reliable as in like Al-Qaeda drives Toyotas. I don't think that's cool but those guys need their cars to be reliable, super durable. They last forever. Like it's almost a cliche and they still hold their value. So whatever you buy one for right now, it's like sitting on a bank. I would, I got one ask though and harder to find and if you want to cut the fenders up on cut up a Jeep Cherokee or something. Don't ruin these 'cause You can find these for under 20 grand. Check for rust, like with every car. And these have bad head gaskets, so if it's shooting blue tell the guy that you want money off. So stylish. Yeah, boy. Unique. I think this one is like more of a rare land cruiser popular. There is not a smart person on the planet who doesn't think this That's what I say about any Well, if they're smart then they think so. Functionality super functional. So jury says land cruiser is cool. Alright, this next one is a of a curve ball. Talking about fox body Mustangs with a 5.0 in them. Fox body mustangs are one of those cars that pretty much everybody to say that they don't like It isn't fast, but it The interior is tweed like a sport coat and the notch back looks like crayon and said draw a car of ironically, but actually sincerely or if you're driving it, if I met a dude and for the of these, I'd have to I respect the hell outta you. Now let's go play pickleball. It's not great at any one thing, but it is kind of good at a lot of things. There is not a thing that that somebody else hadn't already done. You wanna make it go straight fast. There's people who tell you how to do it. You wanna make it go around corners fast. There's people who will So there's research there, They do suck though. 100%. Just I picked a lot of cars with bad gas money. You can get these for pretty cheap under $20,000 all day long. Notch backs are harder to find so part of the fun is finding one and when you find one, These cars are cool as hell. Yeah, popular dude. Whether they want it, admit it or not, everyone loves a fox body. Mustang functional. If the function is looking tough and like, like a redneck drug dealer, then yeah, it's functional. I think it does that pretty good. They're cool, they're cool, they're cool. Mitsubishi EVO eight or EVO nine, the Mitsubishi EVO eight is a car for guys who are done around. If you drive one of these, I and have incredible hand-eye to do that ruler thing that There's literally nothing driving an Evo with and nothing else. Subaru wishes. I can't even Subaru guys are unserious people. Evo guys are serious Legendary. Absolutely legendary. 4G 63 engine all wheel drive, both of which were developed championships back to back to back. These things are dialed. They are serious, they because they're so good at what they do. You can get these for under $30,000 but you're probably looking Buy a nice one, buy the nicest If you can't afford a to a cheaper car and buy because nothing makes a car Broken cars suck, dude. Yeah, 'cause they all broke. They do explode. Popular. Yeah, it's got four Yeah, they're sick. 100% One of the coolest cars ever. This next car has the potential and very classy and way It also has the potential to be the biggest F boy The F 80 M three. Okay. This car comes with one caveat. If you modify it like a and it is very easy to modify this car like It took some thought to because so many of them are not cool, but I think they are very cool. From the factory, straight out of the box. It's a very, very cool car. It's got a twin turbo in line six, got 425 Hearst pers really great handling, really good brakes. The competition package is but is even better. You can get 'em with a six speed manual. They made a ton of them with six speeds. It's one of the coolest things about BMWs. They continue to make But if I were gonna get I would get a DCT, which with the paddle shifters. It's really fast and really good and it's an actual paddle shifted manual, not just like an automatic This is a very good car. The suspension is pretty stiff. They can be kind of especially with the competition. Package parts are pretty because a lot of hot it is very important that you make sure that you find the right one. Very, very good car. Popular. Very functional. Yes. Okay, enough with the boy cars. This next car is for an The ultimate choice for the Family practicality with dare I say excruciating performance. It's got understated This wagon screams sophistication and power without being overly flashy. I honestly think this is to come out in the last 20 Monstrous twin Turbocharged that cranks out 603 hearse purse allowing for blistering acceleration that rivals many sports cars space for all the kids and all of their various Gears the interior is interior on this list. Insane materials, really great technology, tons of room. When you want a vehicle that effortlessly balances with the thrill of driving. There are few options that as this thing a MGE 63 wagon. And I know I said all that stuff about not modifying the M three. Guess what you can have Boys dump it on. Big old I don't care. This thing is to be a little trashy with it. You can get 'em from anywhere from like 35 to 60 grand depending on the dish. These are very, very cool. They're gonna cost you a lot of money to maintain potentially. And it's also a wagon that to drive stylish. You know it is unique. Yes, very much functional, and you can put a bunch of people in it. This thing absolutely It's the last car on the list and it's the most expensive and probably slow one 1970s. Alpha Romeo, GTV. Are you a rich guy and you want a second car to and go to cars and coffee and But like all of your and you want to be different. Maybe you got less of a German vibe and more of an adian in the, for the discerning enthusiast that exudes style and individuality. The 1970s Alpha Romeo choice with its timeless Italian design by renowned bertone design house. The GTV boasts elegant lines and a distinctive silhouette Meat Alpha Romeo are not cheap, but they are the new cool guy car. And if you can't afford a GTV, because GTVs are super expensive, may I suggest a Julia of the same vintage. A cheaper boxier cuter. Not quite as a badass, I'm calling it right now. Alpha Romeo are the new cool second weekend car for the well-dressed well off. Well-to-do guy. The coolest car that you Don't get mad at me, It's math. It's math style. Yeah, it's Italian Popular not yet, but it will be. And if you point at it, so everyone will be like, That guy rules functional. Depends on what you want it to do. If you want it to look around the city, it's very cool. I think everyone should drive a cool car and there's so many more that I included on this list. I think we should all of thought into everything that we do. You could sleep on a you could wear sweatpants. You can keep to yourself You could drive a car that you don't look back at grocery store and you would survive. But I, I would go as far as to say that that's not even living. Jack. Get your hair cut. Eat healthy food. Keep your home in order. Put some thought into how you dress. Be of service to other people. Make things appreciate things Keep an open mind. Drive a cool car. Thanks for watching guys. I love you.