My parents just got scammed here in Budapest, and I'm going to confront the scammer right now because I'm ******. I'm angry. What happened was they kicked out of a fancy hotel, and once they were on the train on the way back to Vienna, they got an email saying, "we've charged you a EUR50 cleaning fee for a dirty shower." There's no way that's real. And that they left the shower dirty. And you know what? Maybe it's retaliation. Maybe it's retaliation because they had already complained on TripAdvisor and on Google Maps about this hotel, because my dad found that the mattress was disgustingly dirty and had stains all over it. They don't know what the stains up to this morning had already laid a public complaint because he'd already complained to the hotel directly. So yeah, maybe it's retaliation for that too. From the front of house staff. Anyway, let's go and let's get my parents a refund, try anyway. I'm going to confront them. Isn't that the greatest scam? When you've left the city and then someone tries to charge you extra money. But anyway, I'm here. I'm here to stick up for them. So we're going to the hotel right now. Hi there. My parents stayed here last night. And they've just left to Vienna. Okay. And then they go to an email from you guys with an invoice for EUR51, for a cleaning fee for the bathroom and shower. But, they didn't make anything dirty, They're not like that I've got the receipt here from you guys. This might.. Will that tell you? Okay. Thank you. The, Yeah, please. No, see it's my parents. They they didn't leave the bathroom dirty. This is some kind of scam that you guys are running. Your cleaners are putting on extra fees. When they didn't, my parents didn't do anything. Do you have photos or anything. Like any proof? Yeah. How am I going to know it's their room though? Will there be a way I can tell? What would you do in this situation? Is it really necessary to make video evidence of our rooms before we check out every time? On what? 12:53. I mean... it still doesn't... See, na, and earlier today my parents came and complained about their bed being dirty, and, and then all of a sudden, these people are also trying to say that they've done a... See, I'll show you the photos of their bed. They came down and complained about this, but not nothing was done. This is the state of their mattress in their hotel room up there. And they came down and complained about this earlier in the morning. And maybe these people are doing it in retaliation. You know what I mean? To say, screw this person. That that photo was of a fresh, glistening turd in the shower. So here's the plan. Let's try and get a refund. Then we'll call my parents and get their reaction. And at the end of this video, please drop your best memes in the comments because I need a laugh after all of this crap. I think, I'll just check. The mattress. Yeah. Yeah, they must've been checking if it's clean or not. And, I mean, that wasn't clean. And now they're saying and now the cleaners are saying there's something dirty in their bathroom. Well that's funny, aye? That's funny. Hey, when did you guys complain about the mattress? Like, this morning or yesterday? So my parents came down this morning to complain, and the person at the counter said he'd tell the house cleaning. I'm not sure. The guy who was here in the morning, Okay, let me find out. Anyway, so that the guy they told told the housekeeping, he said, he'll let the housekeeping know. So he let the housekeeping know. The housekeeping got annoyed, and they've done this in retaliation and put this extra charge on. It's just like, you know, petty behavior because they complain this morning. It all makes sense now, na? It doesn't make any other sense. It's petty. I know, and it's silly, I know, but this is the only explanation we have, man. Yeah, you don't know. I know you don't know, but, we look at it from our side. You should just refund this and reverse it. Okay, well, who do I have to talk to? Can I talk to him? He's not in the house. I can call him. Okay. Yeah, this guy gets to decide who's right or wrong. Yeah. Okay. I know, I get it, it's not your fault personally, and you're just doing what you can, but, I mean, it's your house cleaning stuff, man. That's my opinion on it. It's been a bit silly. This type of thing happens, man. Which is why I think you guys should just refund it and just let it be. We're wasting so much time on this now. Na? See I'm going to waste more time emailing and coming back on Monday. Yeah. It sucks, man. It sucks I have to come here and represent my parents like this. I'll see you guys on Monday. Thank you. Such a disgusting accusation. And it's so embarrassing. That's the other thing. How many people would actually fight this and put it online like I am? Because it is just. It's embarrassing. Even though they didn't do it, it's still embarrassing. Anyway, I'm going to call my dad now because let's get his take on this. Oh man. What is it was scammers and poop? Because I filmed another scam, this time in India where the guys squirts dog poop on your shoe. When you're walking around. You can go watch that next. But let's just call my dad and get his take on this. Hi Karl, thanks for that. Yeah. What do you think about all that? I just think it's horrible to be honest because we wouldn't do something like that. I think it's unbelievable. Yeah, it is right. Mate, you'd never, yeah. It's disgusting. So I wonder if we should ring the hotel's head office when we get to Vienna? Yeah, I think I think you should. I'm going to contact them anyway. Okay? Yeah. Okay. So just just let me do it. I'll do it for you guys. It's just him taking revenge on you guys for complaining this morning. The house cleaning staff, because they got they got in trouble probably. I've never stayed in a place that would do something like that. All over the world. It's unbelievable, isn't it? That's what I said to the guy. My parents wouldn't do it. I wouldn't, you know? - Yeah. Yeah. Oh well, thanks Karl. Come, we're going to go do all that and try and get it sorted and get them a refund, Or else I'll just refund them myself.