Imagine that you could create your own any musical expertise. With Udio AI, it's can pull together all types of tracks like these. one of the most popular AI music generators, and dive in. To get Udio, head to Udio.com. You can and I've also included a link in the description we can create any music, we have to create right-hand corner to the sign up button. Click on other side. During the sign-up process, you'll see you can choose from free standard to pro. For this plan allows you to have 10 songs per day. Later the standard plan. Now that you've selected the you can create your songs. Up above is where you Try to be as descriptive as you can. That usually to write a jingle for my business, Steven Studio you can click on this pink button down here. Now that you get two songs in the upper right-hand Look at that. You made your first AI song. of yours. As we listen to the songs, you might In my description, I didn't include a genre, so make sure you include that in your description. might have noticed that the songs have click on the title of your song and the I'm going to go back to my creations I thought they were pretty good, but so this time around, I'm going to add a Here, I start out with the genre and then I completed my description, we're going to look at we have upload audio, and next to it, we of the standard plan. We'll look at that later. it's currently set to auto-generated, which means we can write our own lyrics. And next option without any lyrics. I'm going to go with AI is going to ask us what our song is it'll generate a sample for us. If we don't And down below that, we can write in our own Now that I pasted in my lyrics, I've included song lyrics to clearly organize the sections of the In addition, by pressing the forward slash structural components. For example, the bridge, we could even see spoken word. But for my song, just going to stick with verse and chorus. So we also have some advanced controls. When I open example, two minutes or just 32 seconds. You but I'll stick with the most advanced model so let's click on create. Now that the songs have each one to see which one I like better. That has You know what? I think that one has a lot of... go with euphoria awaits, but I think it needs an the mouse over to this button that says extend and in this part of the page, we have four options. we can add a section after, or we can add an said before, so I'll click right here on this so I'm going to scroll down a little bit and here you can have them auto-generated, or instrumental. so I'm going to click right here. At the and that will generate some new tracks for you'll see in the titles that you see EXTV1, and been extended. Also, notice that the time has been you've extended the song, you can download it as and then going over here to download. Along with such as remixing, editing, trimming, and if can even delete it right down here. You might have but I need some way of staying organized, and to do that. Go over to new folder right up here. that in and hit submit. You'll notice that the the Euphoria Waits folder, but I need to get out and that'll take me to the main area where to that folder, let's say here, like Euphoria And once I've selected all the songs a window will pop up down here, and I can either I want to move to a folder, so I'll click on this and that'll send the folders to the tracks. Now let's take a look at what you can do with the to bring my own melodies into Udio. So, if I have I could just drag it into Udio, and then Udio show you how to do that now. And if you're own melodies in mp3 and wav formats, but you my FL Studio Beginners tutorial. So just click Once you have your wav file, there are two ways Upload Audio, or you could just simply drag it You'll notice that a screen comes up, drop an They have a variety of formats. They even have you have another screen that says confirmation you have the right to use and distribute this since this is a melody that I have created. the extend page, and that's because we're Right up here, we can see that the song has all we have to do is add a description. I'm going Now, all I have to do is click this extend button. Now the songs are ready. So, I'm going to show So that was my melody. And now if I forward a Now that I've listened to it, I don't really think options I could see what the next one sounds like, find one that I like. One feature I really like which you can later bring into your FL Studio these three dots and click on download. In but we want to get the stems. So, it's number four you have your drum stem, bass stem, other stems. you can just click on this download you can make your own songs. Try it out in the comments. See you in the next one, or