Atlantis, the mythical island, has captivated the collective imagination for millennia. According to Plato, this island and its civilization were destroyed in one night and one day. An unprecedented natural disaster destroyed the entire Atlantean Empire and its capital. From ancient times until today, it has been debated whether the story was fiction or if it was just a myth. In this documentary we will analyze if Atlantis could have existed and the various theories about its possible location. We will show other historical civilizations that collapsed, whose wonders still persist. We will explore cities that were believed to be mythical but that ended up being discovered. In addition, we will talk about legendary lost cities, like El Dorado, that have been searched for centuries. 1. Atlantis according to Plato Plato, a Greek philosopher who lived between 427 and 347 BC, is the main source of information about Atlantis. This is a mythical island that, according to the philosopher, sheltered a powerful and very advanced civilization and army. He talks about her in two of his Dialogues, Timaeus and Critias. In these texts, Plato touches on philosophical themes about the ideal society, power and politics, and uses Atlantis as a kind of metaphor. In the Dialogues he presents the history of Atlantis, and he does so through Critias, who recounts what was supposedly told to his grandfather. The story would have reached Ancient Greece through the Athenian Solon, who in turn heard it in Egypt. Atlantis would have existed 9 thousand years before Ancient Athens. According to Plato, it was an island much larger than Libya and Asia Minor combined. It was located beyond the Pillars of Hercules, the name that the Greeks gave to two promontories that flank the Strait of Gibraltar, at the entrance to the Mediterranean Sea. Furthermore, the island had a society whose political, cultural and technological organization was very advanced. It had lush vegetation, fertile lands, numerous animals and great natural wealth. On the other hand, Plato mentions a metal, orichalcum, which current scientists and historians believe was a copper alloy, very valuable to them. Its capital would be a splendid city, with majestic palaces and temples, surrounded by concentric rings of water and land, forming a defense between natural and artificial. There was a temple dedicated to Poseidon, who was the sea god revered by the Atlanteans. A huge golden statue of the god was displayed in the temple. According to Plato, the inhabitants of Atlantis were descendants of Poseidon and Cleitus, a mortal woman who would be the mother of the Atlantean race. These inhabitants were noble and generous, with great power. For many generations, they maintained ethics and respect for the laws and their gods, which allowed them to prosper. But over time, the Atlanteans began to experience moral decline, as their greed and ambition became their ideals. Precisely this moral decadence is the most important thing for Plato, who uses it to explain that ethics is fundamental to maintaining a just society. The ambition of the Atlanteans led them to want to conquer the world, including Athens, and in this war the Greek city would emerge victorious. Thus, Plato explained that Athenian moral and military superiority was the indispensable factor in victory. The philosopher idealized Athens, because for him it was an ethically impeccable and superior city. In this way, the gods punished Atlantis with its absolute destruction. Plato says that he disappeared "in a day and a night of horror." With this, he wanted to exemplify that arrogance, moral corruption and uncontrolled power are punished with complete destruction. From then on, Atlantis became the symbol of the dangers of ambition that threaten humanity, susceptible to disappearing from one day to the next. And although there is no physical proof of its existence, many have tried to search for it. Most historians and scientists agree that this island was an invention of Plato, who used it as a fable to illustrate his philosophical proposals. However, as will be shown later, ruins that have been associated with Atlantis have been found in various parts of the world. And also archaeological remains of surprising civilizations, which have aroused the same fascination as the Atlanteans. 2. Description of Atlantis according to Plato Plato described that island in detail. It was mountainous, and emerged from the sea. Its fertile fields were surrounded by rings of water and earth that Poseidon created to defend it. It was not just an island, Plato said, it was an empire of great wealth and abundance of resources. In the middle of the enormous mountains, an immense esplanade opened up: two thousand by three thousand stadiums, an ancient measure of length used in Greece. A stadium was the size of an Olympic stadium, which measured about 100 feet, or 185 meters. In the middle of the plain, about 50 stadia from the sea, a small mountain stood, and there lived Cleitus, a mortal woman, daughter of Evenor and Leucippe. Poseidon, the master of those lands, fell in love with Cleitus, and to protect her, he surrounded the small mountain with three rings of water. They had 10 children, and Poseidon divided Atlantis into 10 kingdoms, corresponding to each of them. The eldest was Atlas, or Atlante, who was the first king, in whose honor the island and the sea that surrounded it, the Atlantic, were named. Great works were built in Atlantis, a product of the enormous prosperity that the place enjoyed. In its capital there was a temple dedicated to Poseidon, with a statue, all of gold, of colossal proportions, representing the god pulling his chariot and six winged horses. In addition, its urban structure was also impressive. The rings that surrounded the mountain were part of the organization of the city. They functioned as transportation routes and as defense. In this way, there were three rings of water and two of earth, each separated by a wall. The rings were connected by bridges, and were navigable, which greatly facilitated the movement of people and goods. They also built a long canal that connected the acropolis with the sea, crossing all the rings of water and land. Although there was a lot of mobility, each ship was watched from strategically placed towers and gates, and each ring of water was walled. These walls were built of white, red and black stone, and were covered with brass, tin and orichalcum. That powerful island empire managed to cover vast territories in Europe and Africa. 3. Atlantean technology Plato comments in Timaeus and Critias that Atlantis had an advanced culture and technology. Based on what was written by the Greek philosopher, various technical aspects of that civilization capable of managing its natural resources can be mentioned. The first thing that jumps out is water management. Atlantis was structured by walled concentric rings of land and water. It is logical to think that they had advanced hydraulic technology. They had complex systems of aqueducts and canals connected to each other and to the sea. Not only did they serve as transportation routes for people and goods, they also allowed the irrigation and maintenance of extensive agricultural areas. They had great knowledge about mining and metallurgy. The repeated mention of orichalcum suggests that the Atlanteans used advanced extraction techniques. Orichalcum was a mythical metal, much more valuable to them than gold. Plato expressly says in Critias that "it was extracted from the earth in many places on the island." With it they decorated buildings and made various pieces. Plato also mentions the extraordinary fertility of the Atlantean lands, which could indicate that they developed agricultural technologies to maximize resources. On the other hand, the same urban layout highlights the capacity of Atlantis to defend itself militarily. The water rings functioned as barriers, and towers and checkpoints were built on the land rings. So it was not possible for a boat to wander through the canals without being seen. All this, according to Plato, allowed the Atlanteans develop a politically and culturally advanced society. The most speculative theories suggest that the Atlanteans possessed advanced technology for energy generation. It has been theorized that they used crystals in advanced ways, perhaps as energy sources or for other technological purposes. However, there is no archaeological evidence to support the existence of these latter theories. 4. The fall of Atlantis This enormous and advanced civilization functioned politically under a confederation system. This means that the Atlantean kingdoms were to a certain extent autonomous, but were governed by common laws. The main rules referred to certain behaviors that the kings had to follow. For example, not attacking each other, supporting each other or making decisions by consensus, especially those related to war. Thus, every 5 or 6 years a meeting of all the Atlantean kings was held, and it was judged who had failed to fulfill their commitments. These decisions included punishments, often imprisonment, for those who had broken the established rules. In this way, peace and harmony was maintained throughout Atlantis. However, over time, the idea of the divine origin of kings began to be lost. The inhabitants no longer believed that their legislators were direct descendants of Poseidon. According to the Platonic story, this made it easier for the pride and ambition of the Atlanteans to have no ethical barrier. Justice and virtue, characteristics of Atlantis, were replaced by the desire for dominance. Therefore, they began to expand and want to conquer other lands. According to the Timaeus, they wanted to control the towns from Libya to Egypt, and in Europe, to Tirrenia, in central Italy. But when they directed their efforts towards Greece, the only ones who managed to defeat them were the Athenians. In the Critias it is reported that the gods decided to punish the arrogance of the Atlanteans. They then sent a cataclysm in the form of earthquakes and floods. The waves, one after another, engulfed the island, and between storms, lightning and earthquakes, it disappeared forever. Plato says it was "on a terrible day and night." There were no survivors, and everything was left at the bottom of the sea. In this way, Plato explained that Athens' ethical superiority had promoted its victory over Atlantis, even despite its advanced culture. There are historians and archaeologists who attribute this story to the destruction of real cities of Antiquity. They were populations that lived on islands and were devastated by natural disasters. Therefore, it is possible that Plato based his story of Atlantis on these stories of disappeared civilizations. 5. Theories about the location of Atlantis Where is Atlantis? It is a question that many historians have asked for centuries. You can start with the location that Plato himself gives: "beyond the Pillars of Hercules." That is, beyond the Strait of Gibraltar, which for the people of the time was equivalent to saying "beyond the known." This non-specific data gave rise to the emergence of numerous theories and various hypotheses that have attempted to locate this island on our planet. Over the centuries, various interpretations of Plato's story have taken place and vary greatly from one another. This has meant that the idea of Atlantis still exists in the thoughts of humanity. From contemporary thinkers of Plato, through some from the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, and reaching authors from the 19th and 20th centuries. Many believe that Atlantis existed, but others rely on historical, geological and archaeological records to deny its existence. . The most modern and scientific hypotheses propose that Plato took aspects and elements from some ancient myths, related to real cities and sites. To, in this way, create your story between myth and reality. 6. Akrotiri: The basis of the story of Atlantis? Certain archaeologists, historians and explorers relate the history of Atlantis with the destruction of Akrotiri. Among these scientists we can mention the archaeologist Spyridon Marinatos, one of the most important in Greece in the 20th century. He carried out excavations in Akrotiri in the 60s, a site located on the island of Santorini. It is known that this site dates back to the Minoan civilization, due to the style of ceramics and wall paintings found at the site. Santorini, ancient Thera, is an island in a small circular archipelago in the Aegean Sea, a highly volcanic area. Between 1640 and 1630 BC there was an eruption of catastrophic proportions, which sank much of the island. It produced a gigantic tsunami that dramatically affected neighboring islands and continental coasts. And he covered Akrotiri with a thick layer of ashes, which allowed the site to remain very well preserved over the centuries. This hypothesis suggests that the eruption of Tera, or Santorini, may have inspired the story of Atlantis. The Minoan eruption, as it is also known, would have left time for the inhabitants to leave the place. This was concluded because no human remains were found at the Akrotiri site, although there were houses, temples and numerous objects. And it could be the indirect cause of the destruction of the island of Crete, located south of Santorini, and the end of its advanced civilization. 7. Hypothesis about the Majuan or Espartel bank This hypothesis states that Atlantis was located southwest of Morocco, in the Atlantic Ocean, near the Strait of Gibraltar. The Majuan or Espartel bank is an island submerged in the Atlantic, in front of Cape Spartel. The island is 183 feet under the sea (which is 56 meters). This island was submerged approximately twelve thousand years ago, when the last ice age ended and the level of the oceans rose. Precisely, the Majuan bank is one of the places that has fueled the theory that Atlantis really existed. Well, its geographical location is quite close to where the mythical island is supposed to be. This hypothesis arose thanks to the fact that a French geologist, Jacques Collina-Girard, argued in 2001 that the sea rose 135 meters, or 443 feet, to the current level. It flooded the Strait of Gibraltar and created a small semi-enclosed sea between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean. Thus, the Majuan bank formed a small archipelago. As the sea began to rise again, this island slowly sank. And nine thousand four hundred years before Christ an earthquake of magnitude 9 occurred. This terrible earthquake produced enormous tidal waves and floods that ended up taking the island to the bottom of the sea. Geologist Collina-Girard suggested that the memory of that tsunami remained in the cultural imagination of ancient Egypt for at least five thousand years. 8. Azores Islands Hypothesis Another possible location for Atlantis is the Azores Islands, an archipelago of 9 volcanic islands belonging to Portugal. It is located west of Lisbon, in the Atlantic Ocean. Many think that these islands are, in reality, the summits of Atlantis. The North American Ignatius L. Donnelly, in his book Atlantis: the antediluvian world, from 1882, was perhaps the first person to propose the Azores islands as a possible location. Donnelly was joined by French geologist Pierre-Marie Termier, who in the first decade of the 20th century postulated that the Azores could, in effect, be the remains of Atlantis. However, the American paleontologist Charles Schuchert refuted the argument. According to Schuchert, the Azores are volcanic islands, not remnants of continental mass, and there is no geological data to confirm the historical existence of Atlantis. To do this, it was based on the fact that the Azores are volcanic seamounts whose slopes descend rapidly into the sea, until reaching a plateau. Various samples have been taken from this plateau, which confirm that the area has remained the same for millions of years. According to Plato's story, the island of Atlantis was sunk. So, according to these data, Atlantis does not correspond to the Azores islands. 9. Hypothesis of the Canary Islands, Madeira and Cape Verde Other authors have identified the Canary Islands with the remains of Atlantis. Mention may be made, for example, of the 18th century French naturalist Jean-Baptiste Bory de Saint-Vincent, or of the 19th and early 20th century Scottish journalist Lewis Spence. As happened with the Azores, the Canary Islands, Madeira and Cape Verde were also seen as remnants of the mythical island. Perhaps because of its proximity to the Strait of Gibraltar and its location in the Atlantic Ocean. However, geological studies have shown that in the last 4 million years the Canary Islands have been rising constantly. Which means that none of these islands have sunk in millions of years. The same thing happens with the Madeira and Cape Verde formations. Therefore, this hypothesis also has no scientific basis. 10. Structures of Yonaguni, Japan On the other side of the world, the structures of Yonaguni, in Japan, amaze with their appearance. They are immense blocks of stone submerged in the Pacific Ocean. They were discovered by the Japanese submariner Kihachiro Aratake in 1985. Since their discovery there has been speculation about their origin. It is a rock formation on the seabed that was probably out of the sea during the ice ages. At first glance, they appear to be stairs, terraces and platforms carved into the rock, which has led some to believe they are remains of an ancient submerged civilization. Some called the place the Japanese Atlantis. But not all oceanographers, marine geologists or archaeologists agree with that opinion. Many think that it is a completely natural formation, that at some point, being out of the water, was used by humans. One of the things that stands out the most is the arrangement of these enormous blocks of rock, which appear to have been cut and stacked one on top of the other. It has been thought that they are the remains of the ancient Mu civilization, and if so, it would become one of the oldest buildings in the world. The structures would be at least ten thousand years old. One of the reasons why various scientists point to its human origin is that the blocks have symmetries and 90 degree angles. This was established by marine geologist from Ryukyu University, MIsaki Kimura, who has investigated the site for more than a decade. Another aspect, no less important, is that there are indications that certain parts of the stone were carved, although they have no idea what tools they could have used. These carvings appear as parallel vertical and horizontal lines, which points to human intervention to many specialists. However, as the structure is on a telluric fault, it is susceptible to numerous earthquakes. Precisely, these earthquakes tend to fracture the stones in a regular manner, and have drawn these parallel and vertical lines on them. Thus, almost all scientists refute the idea that the Yonaguni structures are artificial. There is much geological evidence that points to erosion processes over millions of years, resulting in these incredible blocks. Nor have remains of tools, artifacts or any object that indicate human presence in the remote past been found at the site . 11. Richat Structure This is another place proposed as the location of Atlantis, due to its rare physical characteristics. It is a curious geological structure located in the Sahara Desert, in Mauritania. The unique structure is 50 kilometers in diameter, or 31 miles, and from space you can see an immense rock formation arranged in a spiral. That is why it is also known as the "Eye of the Sahara", because it looks like a gigantic eye that can only be seen from above. The truly curious thing is that this geological formation has concentric circles inside. This has led to the belief that it was the crater of a meteorite impact. However, this theory was discarded due to the absence of materials characteristic of meteorite impacts. The most accepted theory is that the structure was formed by natural volcanic and erosive processes, over thousands of years. Although it is mainly a geological formation, archaeological remains have also been found. These are remains of pottery, stone tools and temporary camp sites from prehistoric times. However, there are no remains of a large city or ruins of large buildings. A compelling reason to reject the idea that the "Eye of the Sahara" was Atlantis. 12. Bimini Road The Bimini Road, also known as the Bimini Wall or Highway, has been raised as a possible location of the missing Atlantis. This rock formation resting on the shallow seabed near the island of Bimini in the Bahamas has been the subject of much speculation. Due to its apparently orderly layout, many believe that it was built by an advanced civilization, already lost in time. However, most scientists, geologists and archaeologists agree that this rock structure is natural. Research has shown that the blocks are what is known as beach rock, a type of rock formed by natural processes. Over millions of years, the deposited material hardened and was then eroded by water and underwater currents. This process is called lithification, and it is common in marine environments rich in calcium carbonate, such as the waters of Bimini. Proponents of the human-made theory argue that the blocks are cut at 90-degree angles, just like the Yonaguni structures. They claim that this type of geometric formation does not exist in nature. But it is enough to take a look at the various natural shapes to understand that in reality nature does present geometric shapes. From the simplest to the most surprising, such as the crystals in snowflakes seen under a microscope. Geology can explain these angles: the pressures of the environment on the rock cause it to contract, cooling or drying, which leads to a fracture. The cracks produced in this way form angles, especially 90 or 120 degrees. On the other hand, no remains of artifacts or tools left by any civilization have been found in Bimini . 13. Tartessos and Atlantis Tartessos, the mythical city on the banks of the Guadalquivir River, on the Iberian Peninsula, is another of the possible locations associated with Atlantis. For the Greeks, Tharsis was the river that passed through a large region south of the peninsula, and Tartessos, the rich culture that flourished there, the first civilization of the West. According to the descriptions of the Greek Herodotus and the Roman Avienus, it had a very prosperous market where the great river carried "tin, gold and copper from Celtica." It was an advanced civilization that prospered between 1,000 and 500 BC, and that would disappear at any moment. This enigmatic city was an important and active trading point associated with the Phoenicians and the Greeks. And it was located in a geographical triangle, between the current provinces of Huelva, Seville and Cadiz. After the conquest of the Carthaginians, around five hundred BC, communication between Greeks, Phoenicians and Tartessians was interrupted. Historians think this may have been one of the reasons that civilization lost its power. In fact, nothing more is known about her, as if silence had swallowed her. From that year on, its history is interwoven with myth, as Hercules would have traveled to the area to carry out his tenth job: kill the giant Geryon. For this reason, the southern end of the Tartessian domain was called the Pillars of Hercules, the Strait of Gibraltar, which marks the westernmost part of the Mediterranean Sea. Some centuries later, travelers associated Tartessos with Atlantis: for its location, for its riches and for its advanced civilization. However, archaeological evidence only indicates that an extraordinary culture was born and died on the banks of the Guadalquivir. 14. Other hypotheses to locate Atlantis Throughout the centuries that separate Plato from the current era, many hypotheses have arisen to locate the mythical Atlantis. Doguerland, for example, is a submerged landmass south of the North Sea in Europe, which for many is the Atlantean location. The Irish Sea, or Great Britain, has also been proposed. As well as Scandinavia, or Izmir, in Turkey, but also the Great Rift Valley, in the area where Israel and the Sinai are currently located. The incredible thing is that Atlantis would not be restricted to the Old World, since there are explorers who claim that its remains could be found in the Bolivian Altiplano. 15. Real lost cities and civilizations In history there have been many cities disappeared due to natural disasters, wars or famines. These cities had a real and proven existence, and occupied large areas of land. They had prosperity, activities related to trade and were generally densely populated. But certain events ended them, such as devastating wars, catastrophic earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or floods. In this way, they disappeared forever. Some, without leaving a trace, and others, leaving behind ruins and mysteries. There are cities that completely disappeared, and were only known when they were rediscovered. Others are only remembered in myths and legends, and their location has been lost. And there are those that have always been known, but were abandoned for centuries. Precisely the active search for these cities by adventurers and explorers starting in the 15th century gave rise to the discipline of archeology. 16. The eruption of Pompeii This ancient Roman city was located near Naples, in Italy, on the shores of the Gulf of Naples. It is, perhaps, one of the best known and best preserved cities of Antiquity. Its geographical location, a volcanic and seismic area, meant that it suffered several natural disasters throughout its history. On August 24, 79, Vesuvius had a violent eruption that produced a series of pyroclastic avalanches. This type of avalanche is made up of a lethal combination of hot volcanic gases and solid materials. At 1 a.m., the first pyroclastic wave destroyed the city of Herculaneum, killing all residents. The first three waves did not reach Pompeii, but the fourth wave, which arrived shortly after dawn, was devastating. He killed everyone still in Pompeii, many bodies being found trying to escape the rain of pumice. Thus, Pompeii ended up buried under many layers of ash and other volcanic materials. This was precisely what allowed the city to be preserved, until centuries later it was rediscovered. Its discovery would occur in the 16th century, when the architect Fontana was excavating looking for a new course for the Sarno River. But it was the Spanish engineer Roque Joaquin de Alcubierre who was the true discoverer of the deposits, in 1738, and who would do a more systematic work. A few years later, excavations began with a clearly scientific nature, and little by little they unearthed houses, streets, temples, baths, the forum and gardens. In many houses, frescoes were found on the walls, which demonstrated the great artistic level of the painters. All this has maintained an impressive good state of conservation, which has allowed the study of Roman daily life in the 1st century. 17. Angkor, the city of abandoned temples In Angkor, a region of Cambodia, the capital of the Khmer Empire was located in its time of splendor, between the 9th and 15th centuries. This ancient city is famous for its extraordinary temples, such as Angkor Vat, the largest and best preserved of all. Despite being a great empire, it experienced a period of decline and decline that ended with the abandonment of the city in the 16th century. Historians and archaeologists point out that this decline was due to several factors of a diverse nature. On the one hand, the kings' changes in religion influenced the development of the city. First, they were Hindus, then Buddhists, and again they returned to Hinduism. That meant important social and cultural changes. For example, old temples were demolished and new ones were built. On the other hand, since the 12th century they began to suffer invasions by the Mongols of Kublai Khan from the north. And from the east, the Siamese invaded them. Beginning in the 14th century, Angkor fell into a serious period of recession, from which it would not recover. Already into the 15th century, the inhabitants and their legislators abandoned the city, although it was occupied again in the mid-16th century. At the end of that same century, the Khmer Empire was conquered by the Siamese, and that was when, definitively, the city was abandoned. Among the natural factors, it is necessary to highlight that there were serious climatic alterations that included severe droughts followed by torrential rains. During droughts water was scarce and there were not enough crops to feed the population. During the rains, the canals and hydraulic structures were damaged, making its inhabitants even more vulnerable. Eventually, all of these factors together contributed to the decline of Angkor, until the capital moved to Phnom Pem, abandoning the once thriving city. The jungle claimed its spaces and little by little invaded the region, hiding its impressive temples for centuries. Currently, Angkor is a World Heritage Site, and is home to 910 monuments. 18. Petra, the capital of the ancient Nabataean kingdom Petra, which means "stone" in Greek, is an archaeological site in Jordan. Its name comes from the fact that its buildings are sculpted in living rock. The buildings Al-Khazneh, "The Treasure", in Spanish, and El Deir, or "The Monastery", are world famous . They appeared in the movie Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, which spread these spectacular constructions massively. It was founded at the end of the 8th century BC by the Semitic Edomite people, and was later conquered by the Nabataeans, in the 7th century BC. The Nabataeans were an ancient Arab people, and it was they who brought Petra to its greatness and splendor. They took advantage of its geographical location on the caravan route that traded spices, incense and other products between Syria, Egypt, Arabia and the Mediterranean. All this commercial activity generated an important market, from which the city obtained many benefits. At its peak, it housed between 20 and 40 thousand inhabitants. At the end of the 1st century AD, Petra fell into the hands of the Roman Empire. However, despite its ingenious system for managing the abundant water resource, and its advanced technology, this beautiful city suffered a slow decline and abandonment. The change in trade routes, developed by the Romans, caused Petra to lose some of its importance. Added to this were several natural disasters, since Petra was built in a highly seismic area: right where the Arabian plate separates from the African plate. There were large and destructive earthquakes in the years 363, 419, 551, 561 and 747, which irreparably damaged the infrastructure. Additionally, salt water from Petra's water table rose and further deteriorated the foundations of countless monuments. The population began to leave the city little by little. In the Byzantine period some Christian communities could be found scattered throughout the city. But by the 12th century its splendor had passed and it was practically in ruins, falling into oblivion. Until in the 19th century it was rediscovered and some facades of the most emblematic monuments were recovered. Currently, Petra is one of the new seven wonders of the modern world and a World Heritage Site. 19. Teotihuacan, the city of the gods In Nahuatl, Teotihuacan means "place where men become gods." Located near present-day Mexico City, it was and remains one of the most enigmatic cases of ancient Mesoamerica. The Mexica, or Aztecs, were the ones who gave the name to this city, which was already in ruins when they arrived. Even today it is not known why it was abandoned, or the origin of the people who founded it, or who built its impressive pyramids and other monuments. At the time, it was the cultural and religious center that had a great influence on the area. It reached its maximum splendor between 200 and 650 AD. Excavations of the Pyramid of the Moon show that it was erected around the 2nd century BC. And its decline began around the 7th century. It is not known with certainty what the reasons were for this great city being empty, but experts point to environmental, social and even political factors. Among the environmental ones, there is evidence that points to major droughts that would have affected the population, which once had between 100,000 and 200,000 inhabitants. This has placed it as the most important urban site in pre-Columbian America, and number 6 in the world, for that time. They managed agriculture, but it depended on regular rains. Without water for crops, agricultural production was reduced. This led to serious problems of famine and malnutrition in the population, a situation that would have led to social unrest and political destabilization. Archaeological evidence suggests that Teotihuacan may have faced internal and external threats, quickly depleting the city's resources to defend itself. Other theories indicate that there was possibly commercial rivalry with other emerging urban centers, such as Tikal or Monte Alban. The interruption or decrease in trade could have been another reason for its decline, since income had to be drastically reduced. The population abandoned the city and dispersed throughout the basin of Mexico, without leaving concrete traces of their identity. Teotihuacan would be explored by later civilizations, such as the Toltec or the Aztec, on which it had an undoubted influence. In fact, Teotihuacan objects have been obtained in the Templo Mayor of Mexico-Tenochtitlan. Its influence is also confirmed in the fundamental myths of the Mexica, such as the legend of the suns or that of the Feathered Serpent, the god Quetzalcoatl. "The place of the gods" is today one of the most interesting tourist attractions in Mexico, where visitors can climb the pyramids of the Sun and the Moon. Walk the Causeway of the Dead and admire the temples of the Citadel. 20. The disappeared cities of the Mayan civilization Chichen Itza, Calakmul, Palenque or Tikal are just some of the large cities that this advanced pre-Columbian civilization developed. Its territories included parts of the current countries of Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras and El Salvador. The Mayan civilization stood out, over 2 thousand years, for factors such as its writing, its architecture, its mythology, its notable numbering system, its mathematics and astronomy. This culture flourished between 2000 BC until the 16th century, when the Spanish conquistadors arrived in the New World. They built impressive city-states that served as cultural, economic, religious, and power centers. These urban centers were strategically located to make the most of all resources. They included access to water, trade routes and fertile land for agriculture. The main crops were chili, corn, pumpkin and beans. In these cities, complex religious rituals were celebrated, fundamental to their culture. For this reason, spectacular pyramidal temples, palaces, very wide squares and fields for playing ball were built . That is, monumental buildings. All of this reflected a very hierarchical society organized according to rigorous religious and social parameters. They were closely linked by a complex commercial network and They were organized as city-states. But in the 9th century AD there was a political collapse that pitted all the cities in internal wars. This generated a massive emigration of the population and the abandonment of many of these urban centers. Certain environmental factors could also influence this emigration, such as prolonged droughts. Consequently, water was lacking to irrigate crops and for human consumption. There came a time when the situation was unsustainable. The internal conflicts worsened, and the kings, who were considered divine people due to their relationship with the gods, could no longer justify their position. Especially when there was a lack of food for the population or when the city was besieged by neighboring enemies. On the other hand, intensive agriculture began to wreak environmental havoc, resulting in serious deforestation. This in turn generated soil erosion and depletion of its nutrients. Not only was there less food, biodiversity was also reduced, and the health of ecosystems was irremediably compromised. The inhabitants gradually abandoned the large cities and settled in smaller, more manageable places. Currently, many of the Mayan cities are hidden in the Central American jungle, left at the mercy of nature. Every so often a monument is discovered and new clues are obtained about what the daily life of the ancient Mayans might have been like. Feeding the knowledge of these advanced peoples disappeared in history. 21. Lost cities of the Amazon The valley of the Upano River, east of Ecuador, is home to some Amazonian cities that were discovered in the 90s of the 20th century. It would be a very important discovery for the understanding of ancient Amazonian cultures. These settlements caught the attention of French archaeologist Stephen Rostein, from the French National Center for Scientific Research. Thanks to his dedication, the team led by him discovered many settlements in the area. They believe that they were inhabited since 500 BC. This date is unprecedented for Amazonian societies, because it precedes any other complex society settled in the area by more than a thousand years. It was thought that the communities that lived in this jungle area were nomadic and small, with a very simple social organization. These constructions have been discovered thanks to Lidar technology installed on airplanes, which allows ruins to be recognized under the dense vegetation of the jungle. These are settlements with buildings, gardens and squares connected by a network of roads. They could be compared to the networks that the Mayans built in their magnificent cities. However, most of these lost jungle cities remain unexcavated, hidden by the jungle. And why did they disappear? Why were these cities in the Amazon abandoned? Professor Rostein has a theory. These cities were probably subject to the repeated eruptions of the Sangay volcano, which in the Kichwa language means "burning mountain." This volcano is the most active in Ecuador, and has had numerous and violent explosions, so many that subsequent cultures have always respected it as a dangerous god. 22. Legendary cities discovered Just as legends have fueled the human imagination for thousands of years, science has helped reveal the mysteries of some cities. For millennia, it had been thought that certain ancient cities belonged to the territory of the unreal, such as Troy, Babylon or Mycenae. Scenes of incredible battles, or stories that have not been verified, these places were thought legendary, which never existed. However, current science and technology have been able to discover that some of them were actually real. Perhaps fueling the hope that Atlantis also existed. 23. Troy Without a doubt, one of the most famous ancient and legendary cities, since it is named in the two epic poems that began Western literature, the Iliad and the Odyssey. Homer captured in the Iliad some moments of the Trojan War, or Ilion, from which the name of the poem would come, and he also mentions it in the Odyssey. Through his poetry, he immortalized the place forever. It was located next to the Dardanelles Strait, in modern-day Turkey, occupying a strategic location to access the Black Sea. Its foundation dates back to 3000 BC, and as a city it was active until the 13th century BC. Historical facts indicate that it was actually a city founded by the Hittites, called Wilusa. And its privileged situation would be the cause of the numerous wars that occurred in the area. The Greeks took the city and incorporated into their mythology the war that would have destroyed it, that is, the famous Trojan War. After its mythical destruction, it fell into oblivion for many centuries. In 1870, the German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann , guided by the Homeric Iliad, discovered the ruins of Troy. He discovered the base of a wall, some weapons and vessels. But they seemed like little to him, and he ordered the excavations to continue. Thus he was able to discover an impressive treasure, which he baptized "Priam's treasure," mistakenly assuming that it was the legendary Trojan king. However, later dating confirmed that the pieces were much older, dating back at least 3 centuries before when Priam supposedly existed. Archaeological studies have brought to light up to 9 overlapping cities, confirming the theory of successive destructions and reconstructions. Of all these levels, the stratum called Troy 7 would correspond to the Homeric Ilium, that of the Trojan War. Thus, it was demonstrated that a mythological story was based on historical facts to describe one of the most famous cities in Western tradition. 24. Mycenae Greek mythology attributes the foundation of this powerful acropolis to the demigod Perseus, which would occupy a prominent place in Greek history. During the Trojan War, Mycenae was the city of King Agamemnon, leader of the Achaeans, who would send a fleet of ships against the Trojan city. In ancient times it was considered a place full of riches. This acropolis was located on the Peloponnese peninsula, in Greece. Historically, it was founded between 1600 and 1500 BC, reaching its peak between 1350 and 1200 BC. Its main archaeological ruins date from this period, such as the monumental Lion Gates, the royal palace and some tomb complexes. Records indicate that the palace suffered severe damage, as a result of great destruction, in 1200 or 1150 BC, which would end Mycenaean domination in the area. These damages would have been due to invasions by the Dorians, earthquakes or internal revolts and between neighboring kingdoms. In 1100 BC, the city suffered another destruction and was definitively abandoned and forgotten. Although it was considered a lost city for millennia, its ruins were rediscovered in the mid-19th century. The rediscovery was due to the same amateur archaeologist who discovered Troy, the German Heinrich Schliemann. Today, many of the rescued objects are in the National Archaeological Museum of Athens and the Archaeological Museum of Mycenae. 25. Babylon, the Arrogant Certainly, the largest city in ancient Mesopotamia was Babylon, which was home to the famous Tower of Babel and the legendary Hanging Gardens. It was located south of present-day Baghdad, the capital of Iraq, very close to the Euphrates River. The first legal code in history also emerged there, the Code of Hammurabi, a legislator who made it the capital of his vast empire, around 2000 BC. They used cuneiform writing, there were great mathematicians, astronomers, architects and artists, and in general they made important advances in the sciences. Furthermore, there was also relative freedom in society, even for women, something that was not seen well by other cultures, such as the Greek or the Hebrew. Its power was undeniable, and its history spanned millennia. Under the reign of Nebuchadnezzar II, Babylon reached its maximum splendor. This happened between 604 and 562 BC. The arts flourished in this ancient city, proof of which is the Ishtar Gate, the impressive structure that was one of the 8 entrances to the urban area. They were specialists in brick enamel, which covered all the facades of temples and homes. Within its double walls there were numerous sanctuaries and temples, and hundreds of chapels scattered throughout its streets. The hydraulic structures were also amazing, where the numerous canals for irrigating crops stood out. The so-called tower of Babel was a ziggurat, a truncated pyramid typical of Mesopotamia. According to the Bible, it was the symbol of the arrogance of the Babylonians, who wanted to reach heaven. In ancient times, this city was a true center of cultural exchange, beliefs, languages and wealth, what today would be called a megalopolis. That is why, perhaps, many kingdoms wanted to take over it. Over time, the Assyrians, the Persians or Alexander the Great would control it. The fall of this imposing city occurred during the time of King Nabonidus against Cyrus the Great, the king of the Persians, in the 6th century BC. After defeating the Persians, Alexander the Great entered Babylon. It was he who ordered the destruction of the ziggurat, the so-called Etemenanki, dedicated to the god Marduk, and to rebuild it again. But his death in 331 BC prevented its reconstruction, and today only remains of three wide stairs and their floor plan remain. Babylon fell into oblivion after the Muslims conquered it and then abandoned it. Its wonderful temples, its beautiful enamelled bricks, its imposing Ishtar Gate and its riches were ruthlessly plundered throughout history. Its name would henceforth be associated with human corruption, ambition and arrogance, when in truth it was an impressive and very advanced city. Only at the beginning of the 20th century, when archaeologists began searching for it in excavations, did the ancient city come to life again. 26. Other legendary cities and continents Atlantis could certainly be the best-known mythical city, which has been searched for everywhere and has never been found. But there are others that have emerged throughout history, the product of legends passed down from generation to generation. And that, although there is no evidence of their existence, they are believed to be something possible. Examples are the cities of El Dorado, Tule, Aztlan, the lost city of Z or the continent Mu, which have fueled the human imagination for centuries. 27. El Dorado This legend was born as a result of the Spanish conquest of America. It says that there was a city entirely made of gold, where impressive ceremonies for the Spanish were held. The chiefs immersed themselves in a sacred lagoon and then sprinkled gold dust on their bodies. This indigenous town, where they supposedly bathed in gold, was that of the Muiscas, from Colombia. And the lagoon where they submerged was, according to the stories, the Guatavita lagoon, also in Colombia. El Dorado would be located in the regions of abundant gold mines, in the territory of the former viceroyalty of New Granada. That is, parts of the current countries of Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama, Costa Rica, the northern region of Peru and Brazil and western Guyana Esequiba. This promoted numerous expeditions, which, although they never located the city, allowed for various discoveries. For example, Vasco Nunez de Balboa would find the Pacific Ocean, which he baptized "South Sea", in the 16th century and it was the first time they heard about the powerful Inca Empire. As the territory was explored, the location of El Dorado moved from Colombia to Venezuela, somewhere in the Guianas, in the east of the country. The immense riches of the South American subcontinent amazed the conquerors, awakening their ambition, which gave rise to legends of unimaginable places. The exuberance of the Amazon and the difficulty of the expeditions brought with them failures, illnesses and death, in search of a city of gold that they never found. Some of the most famous expeditionaries who searched for El Dorado were Francisco Pizarro, Francisco de Orellana, Lope de Aguirre and Walter Raleigh. This legend has remained in the Western imagination, and can be seen in films and video games. For example, films like El Dorado in Costa Rica, by Carlos Saura, or Aguirre, the Wrath of God, by Werner Herzog. Also in National Treasure: The Book of Secrets, starring Nicolas Cage, and Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull there are references to El Dorado. In the video games Uncharted: Drake's Treasure, for PlayStation 3 and 4, Pitfall: The Great Adventure, or Zombies vs. Plants, 2, this mythical city is searched for. In Japanese animes, novels, songs, movies and many other cultural manifestations, El Dorado is present with all its power of seduction. 28. Aztlan It's North America's turn, with the legendary Aztlan, the original home of the Aztecs. Aztlan means "place of the herons." This would be an island that its natives, the Mexica or Aztecs, abandoned at the end of the 13th century, fleeing the dominion of the lords of those places. According to a Mexica legend, the god Huitzilopochtli told them that where they saw an eagle on a cactus devouring a snake, they should settle. In this way, the Mexica began their emigration from this mythical Aztlan until they reached Lake Texcoco, current Mexico City. There, according to myths, they saw the eagle and the cactus, and settled in 1325, after 200 years of wandering the country. They would found Tenochtitlan, a large and powerful empire that lasted until the arrival of the Spanish conquistadors. Despite many details given by both the Aztecs and the conquistadors, archaeologists have not been able to locate the mysterious city. The same thing has happened with Aztlan as with Atlantis: there are experts who believe that it did not exist, and others who do, and have dedicated themselves to locating it. Most descriptions say that Aztlan was located on a lake, and researchers believe that they built Tenochtitlan in the image and likeness of their home. Some sources speak of northern Mexico, in a region between the current states of Zacatecas and New Mexico. Others, based on historical texts, indicate that Aztlan could have been in what is now Mexcaltitan, in the state of Nayarit. If anything, they suggest a distant north. They call the route that the Mexica followed on their pilgrimage "the road to Aztlan." 29. The Lost City of Z At the beginning of the 20th century, a British surveyor named Percy Fawcett explored the Brazilian Mato Grosso. After walking through the Amazon River basin, he theorized that an advanced technological civilization must have existed there and that there would surely be ruins to prove it. Fawcett, in his diaries, called this place "lost city of Z." It was based on a manuscript by the Portuguese Joao da Silva Guimaraes, from 1753, which spoke of an ancient city, full of statues and temples with hieroglyphs. That text is known as Manuscript 512, and corresponds to the history of colonial Brazil. This hidden city sparked his interest, and one could even say that he became obsessed with it. He would dedicate much of his life to locating her. Fawcett was preparing an expedition to Z when the First World War broke out, which prevented him from continuing. He had to join the army. Furthermore, it had lost funding from the British government because of the war. After the conflict ended, in 1920 he began another expedition, this time with his own money, but he had tropical fever and could not finish it. 5 years later, he and his son Jack, along with Raleigh Rimell, decided to embark on another exploration, which would end in tragedy. Well, when the three entered the Mato Grosso jungle, they were never heard from again. Historians hypothesize that Fawcett could have relied on testimonies from indigenous people, who told him about an extraordinary place at the headwaters of the Xingu River. In 1925, the archaeological site of Kuhikugu was discovered, which is believed to have been what Fawcett was looking for. Kuhikugu is home to around 20 pre-Columbian cities and towns, where, according to researchers, up to 50 thousand people may have lived. This site is full of ruins, with quite elaborate bridges, causeways, moats, and irrigation systems. Fawcett died trying to locate Z, and it is still not known with certainty whether the records that exist correspond to this mysterious city. 30. The lost continent of Mu The desire to find lost lands does not abandon human beings. Or to think that there are still hidden places on this beautiful planet. Hence, in the 19th century, a British traveler and explorer, Augustus Le Plongeon, proposed that there was a lost continent. Where there was an ancient and advanced civilization that would have created the pyramids of Egypt and those of Mesoamerica. In other words, refugees would have left the lost continent of Mu and landed in the Near East and America, and in other parts of the world. This continent would be located in the Pacific Ocean, and would have sunk around 12,000 years ago, during the last ice age. Le Plongeon was based on his own Spanish translation of the Mayan codex, called the Tro-Cortesian Codex, or Madrid Codex. This translation was inaccurate and highly imaginative, and was later discarded. But it was enough for Le Plongeon to affirm that world civilization came from the Mayans, and they, in turn, from Mu. And that Mesoamerican and Egyptian civilizations had points in common. This theory of a supposed lost continent, already at the time of the British explorer, had strong criticism. Archaeologists rejected the relationship between the two aforementioned civilizations. It was already known by then that the Egyptian culture was long before the Mayan culture. And today we know, thanks to plate tectonics, that it is virtually impossible for a land mass to sink or disappear in such a short period. The legend of the lost continent of Mu probably arose to explain similarities between the extraordinary pyramid monuments of various civilizations. 31. Tule For the ancient Greeks, Tule was a distant island, possibly corresponding to Scandinavia. It was also a way of referring to a place extremely far away. The first record comes from the Greek explorer Pytheas, in the 4th century BC. According to him, Tule was a land located six days' sail north of Great Britain, and was characterized by the fact that the sun shone even at midnight during the summer. Supposedly, 25 tribes lived there and in the waters around it there were enormous sea monsters. Some think it was Iceland or Greenland, but also Norway, or some island in the Baltic Sea. The Roman poet Virgil coined the expression "the last Tule" to refer to any place located beyond the limits of the known world. In the Middle Ages, Tule was incorporated into geography and maps, and became a geographical term, rather than a specific place. Following the meaning of Virgil's expression. And Tule symbolized everything that was unknown or unexplored, outside family boundaries. The idea of a distant and unlocatable earth has also penetrated space explorations. NASA, for example, provisionally named the celestial object 2014 MU69 in the Kuiper Belt "Ultima Tule." And an asteroid, from the asteroid belt, is called (279) Tule. 32. Lemuria Another continent that supposedly existed was Lemuria. It was an idea proposed by the British zoologist and biologist Philip Sclater, in 1864. This scientist claimed that Lemuria had sunk in the Indian Ocean. Despite never presenting evidence, many people believed in this supposed lost continent. Originally, Sclater wanted to explain the presence of lemur fossils in places as far away as Madagascar and India, and that did not exist in Africa or the Middle East. Lemuria, then, would have been a continental land that would have served as a bridge, and allowed or prevented some animals from staying in one place and not moving to another. A few years later, the German naturalist and philosopher Ernst Haeckel noted that Lemuria could actually have been the cradle of humanity. However, in light of plate tectonics and continental drift, the idea of a sunken or missing bridge or continent would be completely unthinkable. Plate tectonics explains how continental masses move and have changed over millions of years, transforming the Earth's and oceanic crust. There are no sunken formations in the Indian Ocean that could connect Madagascar to India, as Sclater had originally thought. Today, the scientific community agrees that Lemuria is a modern myth, a fiction. It is just proof of human concerns about what is considered a mystery. All this led occultism, esotericism and theosophy to include this supposed continent as the place and origin of the first humans. For the followers of these spiritual currents, Lemuria was not only a physical bridge, it was also an advanced civilization that achieved immense achievements before being destroyed. The destruction of Lemuria would have occurred during the last ice age, when the ice melted and sea level rose. 33. Trapalanda Trapalanda is also known as City of the Caesars, Enchanted City of Patagonia, Trapalandia, Lin Lin or Elelin. It is a mythical city in South America, in a lost valley in Patagonia, between Argentina and Chile. Some versions assume that it was founded by Spanish castaways. In others, the foundation would have occurred at the hands of Inca mitimaes, that is, groups of indigenous people relocated by the Inca Empire. In any case, it was a city full of riches, where gold and silver abounded and was enough for everyone. The date of the first record of this supposed city is 1528, when Captain Francisco Cesar and 14 men headed west, towards the Andes mountain range. Upon returning, 3 months later, they would say that they came across a rich city, where there were many llamas (the American camelids) and a large amount of precious metals. Over time, the place became known as "Lo de Cesar", and then "Los Cesares". Like Tule, Trapalanda came to refer to any place whose location was unknown. Also like El Dorado, or Atlantis, the City of the Caesars promoted many expeditions in search of those riches. However, in the Patagonian location there were never important settlements or a large city, although there were considerable gold deposits. The legend is a combination of several stories intertwined with details about various expeditions of the conquistadors, especially that of Francis Caesar. At that time, the indigenous people devastated the Spanish and they had to retreat or return to Spain. However, a rumor had already been born that somewhere in Patagonia there was a city called City of the Caesars. Thus we have reached the end of this journey to the enigmatic Atlantis, an island sunk in the sea and time. More than a place, it is a symbol of what can still be learned from myths. It is a reminder of human curiosity, a current topic that still inspires new generations and amazes those who dare to delve into the unknown.