Translator: Timothy Covell The story starts: and she had on her shelf which is the manual of mental disorders. It lists every known mental disorder. And it used to be, back in the '50s, And then it got bigger and now it's 886 pages long. And it lists currently So I was leafing through it, wondering if I had any mental disorders, and it turns out I've got 12. (Laughter) I've got generalized anxiety disorder, which is a given. I've got nightmare disorder, which is categorized if you have recurrent dreams of being and all my dreams involve people going, &quot;You're a failure!&quot; (Laughter) I've got parent-child relational problems, which I blame my parents for. (Laughter) I'm kidding. I'm not kidding. I'm kidding. And I've got malingering. And I think it's actually quite rare to have both malingering because malingering tends Anyway, I was looking through this book, wondering if I was much crazier or maybe it's not a good idea to diagnose if you're not a trained professional, or maybe the psychiatry profession to label what's essentially normal I didn't know which of these was true, and I thought maybe I should to get their view, which is how I ended up having (Laughter) It was a man called Brian, who are determined to destroy They're called the CCHR. And I said to him, &quot;Can you prove to me that psychiatry is a pseudo-science And he said, &quot;Yes, And I said, &quot;How?&quot; And he said, &quot;We're going And I said, &quot;Who's Tony?&quot; And he said, &quot;Tony's in Broadmoor.&quot; Now, Broadmoor is Broadmoor Hospital. It used to be known as the Broadmoor It's where they send the serial killers, and the people who can't help themselves. And I said to Brian, And he said, &quot;Hardly anything. He beat someone up or something, and he decided to fake madness But he faked it too well, and nobody will believe he's sane. Do you want us to try and get you So I said, &quot;Yes, please.&quot; So I got the train to Broadmoor. I began to yawn uncontrollably which apparently is what dogs they yawn uncontrollably. And we got to Broadmoor. And I got taken through gate into the wellness center, which is where It looks like a giant Hampton Inn. It's all peach and pine And the only bold colors And the patients started drifting in. And they were quite overweight and quite docile-looking. And Brian the Scientologist &quot;They're medicated,&quot; which, to the Scientologists, but I'm thinking (Laughter) And then Brian said, &quot;Here's Tony.&quot; And a man was walking in. And he wasn't overweight, And he wasn't wearing sweatpants, he was wearing a pinstripe suit. And he had his arm outstretched like someone out of The Apprentice. He looked like a man that would convince me And he sat down. And I said, &quot;So is it true And he said, &quot;Yep. Yep. Absolutely. And I was in prison awaiting trial, and my cellmate said to me, 'You know what you have to do? Fake madness. Tell them you're mad, you'll get Nurses will bring you pizzas, I said, &quot;Well, how did you do it?&quot; He said, &quot;Well, I asked to see And I'd just seen a film called 'Crash,' in which people get sexual pleasure So I said to the psychiatrist, 'I get sexual pleasure And I said, &quot;What else?&quot; He said, &quot;Oh, yeah. that I wanted to watch women as they died, because it would make I said, &quot;Where'd you get that from?&quot; He said, &quot;Oh, from a biography at the prison library.&quot; Anyway, he faked madness And they didn't send him They sent him to Broadmoor. And the minute he got there, said he took one look at the place, said, &quot;There's been I'm not mentally ill.&quot; I said, &quot;How long have you been here for?&quot; He said, &quot;Well, if I'd just for the original crime, I've been in Broadmoor for 12 years.&quot; Tony said that it's a lot harder than it is to convince them you're crazy. He said, &quot;I thought would be to talk to people like football or what's on TV. I subscribe to New Scientist, and recently they had an article about how the U.S. Army was training So I said to a nurse, 'Did you know that the U.S. Army to sniff out explosives?' When I read my medical notes, 'Believes bees can sniff out explosives.'&quot; (Laughter) He said, &quot;You know, they're always to my mental state. But how do you sit in a sane way? How do you cross your legs in a sane way? It's just impossible.&quot; When Tony said that to me, I thought to myself, Am I crossing my legs like a journalist?&quot; He said, &quot;You know, I've got and I've got the 'Tiptoe on the other side of me. So I tend to stay in my room a lot And they take that as a sign of madness. They say it proves So, only in Broadmoor would not wanting be a sign of madness. Anyway, he seemed completely normal And when I got home I emailed I said, &quot;What's the story?&quot; And he said, &quot;Yep. to get out of a prison sentence, that had seemed just vanished the minute However, we have assessed him, and we've determined that what he is is a psychopath.&quot; And in fact, faking madness is exactly the kind of cunning It's on the checklist: So, faking your brain going wrong is evidence that your brain And I spoke to other experts, and they said the pinstripe speaks to items one glibness, superficial charm And I said, &quot;Well, but why didn't Classic psychopath -- it speaks So all the things that had seemed was evidence, according to his clinician, that he was mad in this new way. He was a psychopath. And his clinician said to me, &quot;If you you can go on a psychopath-spotting course run by Robert Hare, who invented So I did. I went on a psychopath-spotting course, and I am now a certified -- and I have to say, extremely adept -- So, here's the statistics: One in a hundred regular people So there's 1,500 people in his room. Fifteen of you are psychopaths. Although that figure rises to four percent so I think there's a very good chance there's about 30 or 40 It could be carnage (Laughter) Hare said the reason why rewards psychopathic behavior -- the lack of empathy, the glibness, cunning, manipulative. In fact, capitalism, perhaps is a physical manifestation It's like a form of psychopathy Hare said, &quot;You know what? who may or may not have faked madness. Who cares? That's not a big story. The big story,&quot; he said, You want to go and interview yourself So I gave it a try. I said, &quot;Could I come to find out it you're psychopaths?&quot; (Laughter) And they didn't reply. (Laughter) So I changed tack. I emailed &quot;Chainsaw Al&quot; Dunlap, the asset stripper from the 1990s. He would come into failing businesses and close down 30 percent just turn American towns into ghost towns. And I emailed him and I said, &quot;I believe you may have that makes you ... special, and interested in the predatory Can I come and interview you And he said, &quot;Come on over!&quot; (Laughter) So I went to Al Dunlap's It was filled with sculptures There were lions and tigers -- there were falcons and eagles, he was saying, &quot;Over there he was saying this &quot;You've got more sharks It was like Narnia. (Laughter) And then we went into his kitchen. Now, Al Dunlap would be brought in he'd close down 30 percent And he'd quite often Like, for instance, somebody came up to him and said, And he said, &quot;Well, but I'll tell you what you So in his kitchen -- he was in there with his wife, Judy, and I said, &quot;You know that you might have a special brain He said, &quot;Yeah, it's an amazing You're going where And I said, &quot;Well --&quot; (Clears throat) (Laughter) Some psychologists might say that this makes you --&quot; (Laughter) And he said, &quot;What?&quot; And I said, &quot;A psychopath.&quot; And I said, &quot;I've got a list Can I go through them with you?&quot; And he looked intrigued despite himself, and he said, &quot;Okay, go on.&quot; And I said, &quot;Okay. Which I have to say, would because he was standing (Laughter) He said, &quot;Well, you've And I said, &quot;Manipulative.&quot; He said, &quot;That's leadership.&quot; (Laughter) And I said, &quot;Shallow affect, an inability to experience He said, &quot;Who wants to be weighed So he was going down basically turning it (Laughter) But I did notice something happening Whenever he said anything to me like he said &quot;no&quot; to juvenile delinquency, he said he got accepted into West Point, and they don't let He said &quot;no&quot; to many short-term He's only ever been married twice. Admittedly, his first wife that he once threatened her with a knife and said he always wondered but people say stupid things to each other in bad marriages and his second marriage So whenever he said anything to me I thought to myself, well I'm not And then I realized that had kind of turned me Because I was desperate to shove him I was desperate to define him And I realized, my God -- this is what I've been doing for 20 years. It's what all journalists do. We travel across the world and we wait for the gems. And the gems are always of our interviewee's personality. And we stitch them together and we leave the normal And you know, this is a country certain mental disorders hugely. Childhood bipolar -- children as young as four because they have temper tantrums, which scores them high When I got back to London, Tony phoned me. He said, &quot;Why haven't you I said, &quot;Well, they say And he said, &quot;I'm not a psychopath.&quot; He said, &quot;You know what? One of the items on the checklist but another item on the checklist So when you say you feel they say, 'Typical of the psychopath to cunningly say he feels It's like witchcraft, they turn He said, &quot;I've got a tribunal coming up. Will you come to it?&quot; So I said okay. So I went to his tribunal. And after 14 years They decided that he shouldn't because he scores high that he would have a greater So they let him go. And outside in the corridor he said to me, &quot;You know what, Jon? Everyone's a bit psychopathic.&quot; He said, &quot;You are, I am. I said, &quot;What are you going to do now?&quot; He said, &quot;I'm going to go to Belgium. There's a woman there that I fancy. But she's married, so I'm going to have (Laughter) Anyway, that was two years ago, and that's where my book ended. And for the last 20 months, Nothing bad happened. He was living with a girl outside London. He was, according making up for lost time, but isn't necessarily ominous. Unfortunately, after 20 months, he did go back to jail for a month. He got into a &quot;fracas&quot; Ended up going to jail for a month, but at least a month implies it wasn't too bad. And then he phoned me. And you know what, I think Because you shouldn't define And what Tony is, He's a gray area in a world But the gray areas It's where you find the humanity, and it's where you find the truth. And Tony said to me, &quot;Jon, could I buy you a drink in a bar? I just want to thank you And I didn't go. What would you have done? Thank you. (Applause)