(mellow music begins) - Hey everyone, We have a very special tour ahead of us, a trophy estate that features with unobstructed views Right in your backyard, you can hear the waves, watch the sunsets, and it's a very unique and I can't wait to share it with all of you. Let's go have a look. (upbeat music begins) Welcome to San Clemente, We are beyond excited for this tour, property is stunning, and off of the entry we to this wide driveway that takes you all the way to your motor court. Even from the motor court, you get a peek of the Pacific Ocean, and 450 feet of ocean frontage, To my right we have beautiful You have all these plants and trees. And to my left, this section super private. And this pathway actually takes you to the backside of the the ocean views a little bit more. Now coming back to the motor court, obviously it's super spacious, and the house itself features with exquisite details. We have stacked stone, stucco, and all these brick arch openings. Then you have the tile roof. I really like that. Property features so so many different sections. So it's packed with character. And then you have these beautiful walkways. I love this second floor You have your exposed roof rafters, seriously packed with character, and it gets better, if you it goes to the side of the property where we have the garage. The garage features six garage doors and you can easily park But even more importantly, the way they staged this and we'll see that later in the video. And again, the property is so impressive. 2.6 acres and 450 feet of ocean frontage. Now James Glover, the did a phenomenal job positioning the house and taking advantage of this land. And the current owners and over $10 million The interior looks phenomenal, for all of you to see it. And on top of that, this in this amazing gated community. You go through two guarded gates and then your property gates open up. So it's triple gated, super And one more fun fact, two doors down used to be Richard Nixon's old house. So you're surrounded by a lot to take in, Pacific Ocean. In fact, let's go inside. (whimsical music continues) Foyer of this property is so impressive. We have plaster walls and right in the center we Above that you can see these and I love how they kept and decorated with art. You also have a small seating area here. Definitely sets that as you walk into the home. Now we're gonna flow straight which is another exquisite But before I cover the details here, let's talk about the specs We have 6 bedrooms, 11 bathrooms, 12,854 square feet of interior space, situated on 2.6 acres, on the market for $55 million. And I want to give big Sean Stanfield, for making and as always can find more in the description of this video. And we are beyond excited to be here, one of the most expensive And this frontage, you can't beat it. Now let's talk about this living room. Obviously we have the seating area here, beautiful coffee table, But what I love about the room is the fact that the double You have the beams, you and then this wall features that we saw on the exterior. So it ties these architectural But at the same time, we arched window assembly French doors on each side, and it just immerses you to the exterior. You have your pool, Pacific You get to enjoy this every single day from your living room. - [Cody] It's honestly spectacular. Every single window has of your backyard and Pacific Ocean. And you don't get a view Like you said in the beginning, which is unheard of in Orange County. - And there's something No matter where you are, you get to hear the ocean. - [Cody] Yep. - Backyard is so vast. I mean, I love it. This is a phenomenal - [Cody] I agree. - Now before we leave this section, I also wanna showcase this That way you can let the It's just a really nice touch Now that's pretty much it We have some arch openings, And now I want to bring because we have a staircase landing here. First detail I want to We got this gorgeous pattern with inlays, it's a nice pop of color And to my left, there's a small hallway, it's almost like a mud room and an exterior access. And then to my right, we to the second floor of this section where we have a really and it gets better. There's also an exterior door that we saw on the exterior. And that bridge takes and specifically to the second where we have a small seating and a really nice office. Now unfortunately we're because this property but I wanted everybody to see that space, and we'll check out the guest house, or the first floor of the But yeah, beautiful landing. Let's continue our tour. Now I wanna take everybody of the formal living room where we have the formal dining area, which is another grand two small windows for and you have your beautiful that sits eight, chandelier, and I have to point out these chairs. And the arms of the chairs are wrapped with beautiful leather, stitching work, everything And I also love how open this space is where you have your easy connection to the kitchen, or you just flow to the other side, go underneath these arch openings to this beautiful hallway. In fact, Cody, I need you right here, because what a beautiful frame this is. Look what's behind me. You have groin vaulted ceilings, French doors are just you have this stone pattern on the floor. What a beautiful moment. And we're gonna talk more but I'm gonna flow everybody to the bar. We have this beautiful and Cody was really stoked And tell me if I'm wrong, Cody, but these pianos start around - [Cody] Yeah, this model specifically, the Spirio starts at a because it can record inside the piano. - That's crazy. - [Cody] Right. - It looks so beautiful, and it looks great against And continuing this way, we and it really takes You can see the uppers and I really like the textured glass that they use on the cabinetry. And you have your ice pretty much everything you need, and it faces the front of the home. Really cool space. Now let's go back to this hallway, again, I love the ceiling detail here, and the plaster work in this And I wanna talk about because I feel like more popular over the last few years. It's a great option, when you design big homes, you have a lot of wall spaces. And when you just make them drywall or just flat walls, you feel the need to constantly fill them or other things just because But when you go with you have different shades of color, and it gives instant where you don't feel the need because the walls speak for themselves. So I want to point that out. That's really one of of going with plaster. You get the instant warmth, and you can actually decorate - [Cody] I didn't know that. - It it makes sense, right? - [Cody] It does, total sense. - And it works perfect for this house. - [Cody] Definitely. - Now we have a wine cellar here. Unfortunately it's currently locked, but based on what I'm it is nicely designed, but I love the ceiling, how and they left the mortar so you have that additional But it looks cool, hopefully so we can get some of the shots there. Back to the hallway, French doors open up to the back courtyard. But now we're gonna open up this door so we can check out the space that we have on this side of the house, Now this chef's kitchen I can tell that it was designed by someone who has experience because you have a nice sized island here. All the countertop space so it's very durable. On this side, we have some and a freezer. And then you go to the other side, you have this massive fabricated sink. In fact, Cody, let's get a close up. It is within the countertop. So they use the same surface So it's easy to clean, easy to maintain, and a space like this, or a sink like this can accommodate you We also have the dishwasher and the island features the and you have more Miele and two regular fridges. Definitely a great sized chef's kitchen. Now the tour gets really interesting, because behind this Now as promised, it's a really cool space. I love that we have this and you have all these and the homeowners here I must say one of the most I think we've ever seen on this channel. There's so much equipment here, and it'll be cool to just let that ocean breeze in - [Cody] Totally, especially with the You have a lot of space bring in your trainer. - Bring your buddies. - [Cody] Yeah, if I lived in this house, I would definitely use this a lot. And I know you would too. - Yes I would, and I used to not work out, so I never really valued these gyms as much as I should have. And now that I'm working out, to have this within your property. - And it and it just keeps going. Again, super cool space. If you were to just leave it open, you can probably park let's say maybe four cars ATVs, really good use of space. And now let's jump back to the hallway so we can continue our tour. Again, we have all these with beautiful lighting, open up to the courtyard that And over on this side going up to the second floor. I love the details here, beautiful wrought iron railing. And then right in the center you have this gorgeous chandelier that cove lighting above, all these windows bringing natural light. This is a pretty impressive staircase. And landing of the staircase where we have the seating area to our left and this gorgeous kitchen to our right. I mean look at the scale here, we have shaker cabinets throughout, stunning marble countertop. And of course, let's not giving that warmth and character. A lot to take in. Now the kitchen itself features We have the island here with bar seating, and if you continue this way, small desk/office area, and then you have your this looks really cool, and I like that they didn't panel it in. So you have a nice pop of color, And this is a beautiful fridge. So I wanted to point that out. I just realized it also Continuing this way, is used also here as You have your 48 inch Wolf gas stove. Above that is your vent. And I believe they wrapped And I'm particularly mentioning it because we saw this in Beverly Hills that was designed by Max Nobel and his team, It ties to the rustic elements and coming to this side more And Cody, I need you to get a closeup. So we have a dishwasher here, because a lot of times and when you try to find the dishwashers, they're generally right next to the sink, because dishwashers need hot water and they also need drain lines. And when you have a sink, so it's easy to tie the But in this case, there's no sinks here. So they ran a specific drain line, specific hot water line just and gets better, if you follow me this way they could have placed a second because we have the second one here. But they wanted to have so they ended up putting Nice detail. I don't know, maybe I might but I thought it was a clever touch. - [Cody] I think that's okay, - And it's close to the sink, right? So you can fill up your and on top of that you have Picture window in the straight from your sink. This is beautiful. - [Cody] It's stunning. - It's stunning. All right, let's continue this way. Your second sink, another window here. Let's see, easy access to So you can just serve your guests. And over on this side there's with additional cabinetry. Another subzero fridge. It's a nice touch. And going back out, I want to I tried my best to cover all the details. It's a very spacious section. And going this way, we have you have your windows facing and continuing this way we go It's another cozy space. But I gotta point out the ceiling height. That's what makes this room so special. You have the volume, you have the opening, beautiful light fixture. I particularly love the because besides the rustic beams, you also have wood clad in between. So you have this dark your walls are beautiful plaster, and to tie the exterior to the interior, they brought the stacked stone. And something about this you have these small and then you have this beautiful brickwork around these arched openings. I love this. I know that so many man and this character lives with you forever. It's something special, And now let's pan to the other side where we can really see from another angle. Again, your beautiful light fixture, and that's your second floor landing. They left it open, brought the and it's just a cool space to You have your fireplace, TV. I think I covered all the details. Another impressive space. This house keeps giving. Now we're gonna quickly step outside, because we have these to this quaint courtyard that is facing the side of the property. We have flagstone floors, massive dining area right in the center, and to our left we have another Then we have the outdoor Concrete countertop, and this section is also You have these palm trees, arch openings, stone and brick work of this home is something to be admired. I mean when you face the property you get these beautiful arch the stucco finish, that second Darker tones. I love this house. - [Cody] I do too, but I'm still stuck on I'm pretty sure that's the - Outdoor dining - [Cody] I've ever seen. - Yeah, I mean it can definitely but it's a cool spot. This section also protects you from wind. Let's say. - [Cody] Definitely. - You have that strong ocean breeze, you can just come out here, gorgeous property. Hope you guys are enjoying the tour. And if you do, make If you haven't already, 'cause we are really bad to subscribe to our channel. But if you're enjoying our content, make sure to give us a like and subscribe. Now moving on back to the living room so we can continue our tour. There's a hallway here that takes us to the left wing of the property, and this door here opens up to where we have the water vanity right off the entry and beautiful light fixtures. Now coming back to the hallway, we're gonna go see the room at the end, but before we do that, I really like these light switches. I don't know the brand, They walk that line but modern, you know? And they complement the house really well and they have it throughout the property. - [Cody] I love them. - They're really cool. Now let's walk in to the bedroom suite that we have on this wing. We have the king size bed on this side, small desk gets great natural light, opens up to the side of the property so you have access to that side walkway. And over on this side we which is good size. And then on the other side that comes with a walk-in Definitely a good size room. Now I'm gonna keep some of these bedrooms, or some of these room's because we still have a lot more to see. Coming to this hallway, we Two storage closets. Going to the other side, we have the spa section of this house where we have a massage table. If you go in this way, we have a bathroom, or a powder bathroom to In fact, Cody can you go right in. It is clad with beautiful natural stone. You have your steam outlets, Definitely good size. And then at the end you another storage closet, and now let's go back to the landing. We've still got more to see. Now another storage closet. I don't know how many times but they have a lot of This staircase takes you of the primary bedroom. Going in, we have a good with a stacked washer and I'm excited for the space They have a dog run here. Astro turf, this beautiful this section is nicely What a cool space. - [Cody] It's definitely a cool space and it's super practical. - Perfect for pets. Now let's go back in so The last room we're gonna which might be one of my favorite spaces. I love that the stone that is also brought to this section. So you have this beautiful continuity. Sliding glass doors open up you have your comfortable sectional couch, padded walls, massive TV. So you can just kick back, And when you wanna play some cards, you can certainly utilize this section. Again, even from here It's a nice open room. You can do a lot with it. It's also sound insulated, so I'm sure in the future into a movie theater, you can. There's also a powder That way when you're enjoying the space, you don't have to go to and when you're ready you just open up the sliding glass doors to the outdoors. (whimsical music begins) The house itself is stunning, but it's really the land You have 2.6 acres, that's flat, with 450 feet of ocean frontage, and this backyard is so lush, It's almost hard for me to and enjoy this stunning property. Now on this section we and to my back you can with a 55 foot pool that But regardless, weather is fantastic. This backyard is amazing. You can hear the ocean, and I'm really excited Now I wanna bring everybody to this side so we can actually talk Again, it features a massive footprint, and you can see the all the way to the end, you can actually see that that's arched, that's the And we'll tour that last. And in between you have all casement windows, a lot to cover. Now Cody, follow me this way, because we gotta cover some spaces here. This is the formal And again, it looks beautiful. I love the brick details, stacked stone. And then you come over to outdoor seating area. Again, even this section's We have these two tall palm trees, and this is the detached, or semi-detached guest house, Now on the top floor you have the office. That's why we have this bridge that connects the main Off of the entry, we have with a small kitchenette, and then it goes into a and it also has a full bathroom Guest home like this can come in so handy. It is still part of the main estate, but it has a nice little perfect space for your guests, and I love that it also has its own little outdoor seating area. Now let's take everybody because I want to talk about Over on this side we have the formal dining room And Cody, can we get a close up? We have two details here. Let's start with this French door. If you get really close, this copper trim around That's a really nice flashing detail to seal off the exposed and the structure. You'll not see it that often. It's actually super but it is the perfect touch to do when it comes to sealing or the openings around them. So that's a nice exquisite Number two, Cody, we need another closeup. Instead of having they've actually tapered off the stucco and created this slope design, which gives the exterior Simplifies the architecture, It's a really cool detail. - [Cody] I agree, It's super cool, and I didn't realize that the first time - It really gives the unique depth and look. Now, let's go to this side We have more flagstone on the floors. Again, the backyard, ocean views. The size of this property You have most of the spaces To our left, we now have the living room. Again, Steelcase doors and windows. And now let's talk about Take it all in, 55 feet long. It has this spacious deck And if you look closely features this really that resembles a tree. And to be specific, it because throughout this property and throughout this neighborhood, they have these beautiful And what a clever way to tie to your outdoor space. It has an automatic cover, On the other side you the hot tub itself, you can hear the ocean. Look at my backdrop, look at It feels amazing to be here. I mean, when I think of one of a kind property, that I imagine. You have the land, you have the frontage, and on top of that you get Can you imagine like spending your days, weeks here looking at these walking outside barefoot That's all I gotta say. - [Cody] It's honestly spectacular, and I couldn't agree more. And also one more thing, that there's actually an that you did a couple years ago, right? - [Enes] We were actually We shot a walkthrough of this property, and a few weeks after they ended up selling the property. So out of respect, we've never edited and released the episode. And the property at the The grounds were amazing. And obviously the current to the next level. They really elevated and It is so well maintained And when we were talking about I told them, this It's a special home, it's And now that we're back I'm so glad that we got and finally share it with the world. And I can't get over it, And you get to see this every single day, and that's really, really special. Now follow me this way, We have this section of the patio, same flagstone continues. To our left, we have a few There's also a really nice with a fireplace. Your outdoor kitchenette/bar, that we toured earlier. And if you go this way, we also have a really with beamed ceiling, really cool space. Now we're gonna do. - [Cody] Hold on, Let's change this path and let's go around the other direction. I got something I don't think you noticed. - Really, okay. - [Cody] I noticed this There's actually a little - Oh wow, I did not see this. Okay, good one, Cody. Yes, oh, this is such a cool space. With a urinal on the other side. - This is cool, what a good use of space. - [Cody] Right under the stairs, - I had no idea that this was here. It's a cool touch. But I'm actually gonna because I wanna show everyone the grounds. Good find. - I like it and, the grounds of this and being able to walk all the way to the edge of this That's the Pacific Ocean. We are about 50 to 60 feet And look at the pathway that's behind me, connecting all those little And we're gonna walk This is amazing, this is so special. And I'm sorry if I brought up the frontage and the ocean views so many it's hard for me to not do that, because everywhere you go, that's all you wanna see, Now we're gonna cut because we have a lot to cover. To my left, again, we have We have this section Now let's talk about the There's also walkway here that takes you all the way to the motor court and all the way to the that I talked about. You can see the dog run right there. And they also have a massive I really like the way between the concrete frame, the sand, outdoor seating areas, all these trees. And even around this section, they landscaped it beautifully. And now we're gonna continue our tour. I feel like this one of those city tour videos on YouTube. Where you watch someone walk for hours. - [Cody] Yep. - But we are covering Now, to my left, they outdoor seating area. And I want to say this is where you can get the What's in front of us is and we had some really big waves, but later in the afternoon wind kicks in so the waves flatten out a little bit. But it is still beautiful to look at. People have their surf shacks, everybody's enjoying their time. You have this little for you to just sit down watch people surf. I mean this is incredible. And I wanna point out one more thing, Cody, can we actually Down below us there's a railroad track. So a handful of times during the day, there's a train that passes by here, which is kind of iconic. It's super quiet, and it so you have to be very quick to catch it. But I wanted to point that out. Like I said earlier, I above sea level. We get to enjoy these views, and honestly these views might be my favorite part of this home. (whimsical music begins) (waves churn) (upbeat music begins) All right, now let's go check out the second floor of this property where we have four spacious guest suites. Off of the staircase landing, you can see this beautiful chandelier, cove lighting above with mood lighting, wall and the first door in front of us opens up to the junior primary bedroom suite. Comes with a canopy king sized bed, beautiful vaulted ceilings. Again, so much character with these beams. We have a small seating area, and there's actually a balcony access here that we're gonna check out in a second. But first, follow me this way. To our right we have the walk-in closet, and the door in front of us where we have dark tile floors, vanity here with onyx countertops. And this built-in tub looks so cool with brushed nickel fixtures. Look at all the casement Pacific Ocean right in front of you. Definitely a good size and a deep tub. And let's not forget the walk-in shower that's on this side, clad you have your glass Now I'm gonna take because we gotta enjoy from the second floor. And what better way to do that with stepping outside on this balcony. And there you go. Pacific Ocean right in front of you. Look at all these beams Super cool and gets better. This balcony actually where we have the seating We're just gonna flow right in. It's another cozy space. You have your couch, two Again, these dark wood clad ceilings. It's a nice cozy space. You can actually see But even more importantly, This is the second floor to your living room, which and I love the ceiling design here. And what a cool way to with the lower level. You can interact with Stacked stone, really cool property. - [Cody] It's really cool. This is like where you give your speech at your dinner parties. - That's right, you just come up here. But a really cool space, Now we have the French doors here opening up to that long off of the courtyard. So you have another outdoor access here. And following this hallway it takes us to the remaining three bedrooms. We are gonna do our tour This is bedroom number two. This is also back facing Another king size bed, with these rustic beams, you have your walk-in closet on this side. And Cody, let's go right Same tiles and same palette is You have onyx, natural stone, these mid-sized mosaic tiles on the floor. And then you have your vanity on this side with an Onyx countertop, good sized bathroom. And I also wanna point out, the furniture in this house but if somebody wants to buy it, it can be part of this sale as well. I wanted to mention that. Now let's go quickly see the I particularly like this room because the ceiling You have all these different beams coming from different sides, carries it in the center. And sorry for pointing out these beams and the wood clad ceiling But I feel like it is such a nice touch. You have all these smooth and then these beams just contrast all the different surface areas. And I personally love that. You have your king size bed, casement windows throughout, nice balcony. Definitely a good size room - [Cody] Definitely, and what's in terms of floor plan to the bedroom that was right below us as well. So you have the closet to your right, the bathroom to your left, it's just a cool little touch. - Exactly, and in total Guest suite features one of the bedrooms. Then you have the first four over on this side, and And just like the other with a full bathroom as well. Now let's go back to the hallway. We have another small seating area here. Your elevator access and laundry room. Let's go right in. You have cabinetry from floor to ceiling, raised washer and dryer. I personally like these because when you take out your clothes, you don't have to bend down that much. It's a nice touch. And you have a good size and there's even a small - [Cody] Ah. - Since we're right next - [Cody] That's cool. Now follow me this way. This was the staircase that we saw right before the TV lounge, and we're gonna flow straight which is impressive, grand. You have your seating area And it's this really cool cozy space with a massive picture window It's all about the views. You have the Pacific these mature cypress trees. This frame really does a and bringing it to the space. And then when you look around, you have the same vaulted your cozy king-sized bed So you have ton of privacy. You have a fireplace to cozy up the room. Great volume, hardwood floors, really cool space. I mean really nice home. Now let's continue our tour and we also have a Next space we're gonna check First thing I wanna It is massive. You have your free standing tub here in front of a casement window. We are about 60 to 70 feet from the ocean, which is fantastic. Can easily watch people And Cody, let's pan to this Again, you have solid wood cabinetry, onyx countertop, wall sconces. And then we have the second And then we have the I really like that they on the exterior. This onyx does a good job against the white walls. And when you go in, you have onyx details, and this You have regular shower, and the glass door that Now next we're gonna start our tour with the primary bedroom closet. First you have this section, I like that it has ton of windows so you get great natural light. And when you continue, you walk where you have your hanger LED lighting, and obviously on this side. It's actually a really good sized closet. And Cody, let's come this way. They have another section directly to your bathroom, Now we've saved the best part which is the balcony. Now this bedroom has access To our right you have access And over on this side we that's dedicated for this room. You have beautiful tile again, more of these beam ceilings. There's also an outdoor staircase here that takes you directly to the pool deck. And what you do is, when grab your coffee, walk out to enjoy the Pacific Ocean, and just enjoy your life (upbeat music begins) (waves churn) (leaves rustle) (upbeat music continues) All right everyone, And thank you all so much for House was absolutely stunning, And I wanna give big Sean Stanfield for making And as always, you can about this incredible property in the description of this video. Make sure to check it out. Now lastly, if you enjoyed our tour, give us a like, subscribe, on the next one. (upbeat music continues)