We grew up here, both me and my wife, and my children. We simply live together with the dead. But I like being here and cleaning the graves because Have you ever seen a ghost? Yes, it was that of a child. My name is Giuseppe and I have a mission to travel the world to meet and ask them a simple question: Welcome to the Happiness Project. When we think of a cemetery, a place of tranquility, desolation, Here, in the cemetery of Manila, And it's incredible because their life Today we will meet them to discover what Welcome to the cemetery of Manila. The first question to ask is: why have thousands of people decided to build their homes in a cemetery? Well, the answer is It's free, it's safe. And if it rains, you don't get wet. You have to remember that And those who can't afford a real home. Often end up living in shacks where chaos and crime reign. On the contrary, a cemetery is synonymous with peace, and living inside a mausoleum means having a cement roof over your head. A luxury that fewer and fewer And right here, in a place where these people have found an extraordinary way with ingenuity, resilience, This is definitely the most interesting area of the cemetery... there are people everywhere, this area is that of the mausoleums so people live right Hey, nice shirt! I like it! Here there's a little market, and the market is built over... Hi! How are you? All good! All good! Okay! Yeah, not bad! Where's your home? Here. This? Can I take a look? Sure. Wow, thanks! This is my home. Let's see...wow! So you live inside a tomb. Yes. And what's it like living here? Well, I'm very comfortable here. And aren't you afraid? No! Why not? Why not... That's also part of the house. Ah, okay... double... two stories! How nice. Up there, the children are. How long have you been living here? 12 years, no, eleven... yes, twelve years! And why did you decide to move here? I didn't have a house... Didn't you have another place to stay? No. How much do you pay to stay here? Not much, let's say. Zero? Is it free? Zero! Fantastic. I don't pay anything! Yes, it's free. And aren't you afraid of spirits... ghosts? Well, sometimes I'm afraid... I happen to see unsettling things. We're here to meet Joanna, a very young girl who, for love, moved into the cemetery and now lives among a million graves with her husband and their two daughters, born right here. Nowadays, more and more people are living here Not because they chose to, but mainly because they had difficulty making ends meet living in the city. When you live in an apartment in the city, So people started forming a community inside the cemetery. Poverty is the main reason we moved here. Anyway, it would be illegal to live here, but the government turns a blind eye, and people continue to live here because this is the only solution to at least have a place to sleep and a roof over your head. I've been living here for a long time now, and if you want, I can show you where I live. My house is up there, it's a small apartment. I can take you to see it, but we'll have to do some climbing to get there. It's strange to walk on the graves, it's something But here, it's quite normal. They live on top of them! Can you climb? I've never climbed on graves before, but I think I can do it. Yes, you can do it. Just like that. Okay. Here we are. It seemed easier. -From here, you can see the entire cemetery -Yes, see? All the graves From Joanna's house, we have a privileged view and you can see human settlements There are people so they're laying brick upon brick while right in front of us, there's a treehouse It's extraordinary devised ways to live inside the cemetery. Joanna's family lives together with friends he grew up with, A profitable profession here at the Manila cemetery. Given that I've just finished putting a headstone on this grave, that's my job. How much do you earn with this job? 3 euros for each headstone. These guys are about to break the tomb that says if the family after five years, they have to break them to exhume the body, They put them in a bag so then But the tomb must be cleared. Because here in Manila there's a great need for space, there are so many people living so there's always, constantly, And this is the job of the guys. Our job is to bury people. But also to exhume them and manage their remains, the bones... I've been doing this job for a long time. For about twenty years now. Every now and then, especially when I started working, I used to have bad dreams about the dead. But over time, I got used to the feelings I have when I do my job. I taught myself how to do this job. My father was also a gravedigger, so in a way, I inherited it. Then you know how things go... I didn't go to school, or rather, I didn't finish school because I worked every day. And then I don't have to commute. Working here, I'm never late. It's impossible to be late! It's really impossible to be late. It's nice because I'm never in a hurry. Another reason I love my job is... we don't have to punch in. Everyone works when they want: you wait for the bodies to arrive, when they arrive, you bury them or move them or exhume them, depending on the needs. It's like that, it's very simple! Despite all these years of work, I still haven't grown tired of living in the cemetery. Here, I've had my three children, and I still have a lot to do. Now, after so many years, I don't feel like the dead are watching me anymore or like they're talking behind my back. That's just our imagination. I'm happy to live here. I was born here, I grew up here, and I've been well. In the cemetery, time passes more slowly than outside, and it's comfortable. Instead out there, in the city, people want to control everything you do. Here there are no controls, it's comfortable, even though it's a cemetery, we simply live together with the dead. We couldn't do otherwise because we don't have enough money to buy a real house in the city. I'm content with what I can afford here. Dogdog is taking me to his house. He practically built See back there, there's the tomb. Can I climb up? Come! Climb up, climb up. Let's go up. An attic. We sleep here. You sleep here? We built this house ourselves. All four of us sleep here together. Here are my wife, my children, and we all fit. Aren't you afraid to sleep right above a tomb? No, we're used to it, we're not afraid. We grew up here, both me and my wife, and my children. The children were born here, so they can't be afraid. It's the dead who should be afraid of us. They can't do anything anymore, we can... This one here is practically another niche just a bit It's absurd. He built a little room over these graves Do you know the family of this deceased? Of course! We're the caretakers. Ah okay, you take care of them and they're okay with you living above them. Exactly, exactly. It's practically an exchange; he built a little house and the family allows it Interesting. Is this the grave of a puppy? There are even graves of little dogs. This is the well we use to get water. Ah... the well. Yes, the well. Okay. This is the cemetery's well. If you want to get some water, you do it like this. It's drinking water. No, you can't drink it. This is water we use for cleaning the house or washing clothes. But you can't drink it. So, not being able to drink this water comes in handy, I'm using AirUp, I always bring it with me I can't drink the water that's around, but on top of that, I treat myself And today I chose lemon. Now let me explain how it works better. Practically, by using one of these pods with the water bottle, I can drink plain water, but I have a sensation of flavor, thanks to the sense of smell. It feels like I'm drinking &quot;something&quot; with the taste of the fruit I've chosen, while in reality, it's just water. Moreover, these pods are made of only natural ingredients and last about five liters of water. So at least eight refills for 600 ml bottles. With these tricks, I drink more during my travels or when I work on the computer, avoiding sugary drinks. And now the new Gen Two bottles have just come out which are extremely light And as always, I leave links in the description to try AirUp and get an exclusive discount But now let's get back to immersing ourselves There's a little smell coming from here. There's a man cooking in the middle Brother, what are you cooking? They are... what are they called, sausages. They smell delicious. I don't want to disturb him too much, but it's incredible that his home and kitchen are in the middle of these two tombs. There's a girl practically lying on the ground She's sleeping very peacefully and if it weren't for the fact that inside the tombs it would be quite normal. She has a roof over her head, and here all the people live I still have to get used to this idea, this problem for a long time now What are you doing? We're cooking! Instant Lucky Me. Instant? Yes, Instant Lucky Me. I'm on a diet! They're making instant noodles Well... with... a piece of fan. And a metal bucket. Even children in the cemetery earn a few cents This child is cleaning Because it's his job. He cleans the tombs from dirt, from falling leaves, from trees. And the relatives of the people It's his job. Do you like your job, Russell? Yes. I only do tomb cleaning. Russell, aren't you afraid of the dead? No, I'm a little scared only when I see things moving And I get a little scared because I think they're ghosts. Have you ever seen a ghost? Yes, it was that of a child. They're bad. They scare me. But I like being here and cleaning the tombs because mom and dad are with me. Russell, what makes you happy? My happiness is God. God helps me in everything and makes me happy because he protects me. Growing up in an environment these children develop a deeper and more natural understanding of the cycle of life and death. In fact, they learn from a young age with serenity Visiting hours are over for me as well and in a few minutes, will be closed with Joanne But before I leave, For me, being happy means following the plan that God has chosen for you. You have to embrace faith and your destiny, even if you feel poor and forgotten. Because there is a plan, and God is the source of my happiness that allows me to move forward even here. And so, in this place suspended between the past, the lives of those who have come blend through faith with those who still flow Here among the gravestones that hold stories calling of the eternal mystery, And precisely in this place of silent with its fragility, continues to flow untamed like a river