(phone ringing) - Hi, it's Doug. What counts as a mountain? Would you call this a mountain? Or just a hill? For me, growing up, I thought But that's probably because I grew up in Northern Illinois, one of the flattest places in the world. And this thing, this hill I guess, is one of the tallest things around. Turns out, the only reason it's there is because it's the old landfill. It's a hill made out of garbage. Someone named Sophia has a question about actual mountains. Let's give her a call now. (phone ringing) - Hi Doug. - I have a question for you. Could a mountain turn into a volcano? - Oh, that's a great question. Could a mountain turn into a volcano? If you're thinking no way, here's a true story that Heimay is a little island the country of Iceland. A few thousand people live The island of Heimay If you were to sail up close to it, it may look more like a hill fro the side. But when you include all the part of it that's under the ocean, sticking out of the water One day, in the year 1973, got the surprise of their lives. A crack had formed on Lava was spurting out. The residents of the island were evacuated to safety on nearby Iceland. The eruption lasted for nearly six months. Finally, the lava cooled off Volcanic rock called basalt. Rock that's dark in color The island of Heimay had gotten bigger. So it seems like here's a case where a mountain did turn into a volcano. At least for a few months. Now, to be fair, I didn't tell you much about the original part of Heimay, the part people had been living on. It's made of basalt too. Technically, Heimay had It's just that it hadn't And so the people of Heimay But it does make you wonder. Could any old mountain and start erupting lava? I live in the U.S. state of California. Just a few hours south of the state of Oregon and Washington. And anytime I drive around I'm always amazed at how are actually volcanoes. Quiet, peaceful looking Mount It erupted 100 years ago back in 1915. Beautiful Mount St. Helens in Washington? It blew off half its top back in 1980, and its the same thing for in this area. Mount Rainier, which towers It's a volcano. Mount Hood in Oregon? Even little mountains like along the side of the road It's a volcano! When you see so many it gets tempting to think, well, is every mountain a volcano? How do we even find out? Like would you just have to wait for it to erupt lava to find out? But surely not. Let's say there's a mountain What do you think? How could you find out if it's a volcano? What are some clues you could look for? Okay, you ready? You might have had different ideas. Maybe you thought to feel it. See if it feels hot. Here's another possibility. Look at what kind of rock If it's volcanic rock, then that the mountain might have You can get good at learning I mentioned basalt earlier. It's one of the most common kinds of rocks that volcanoes are made of. It's always dark in This is rock that doesn't crumble easily. Some basalt even has little Those are air bubbles from If you go out and look different mountains are made of, you'll discover for yourself are made of volcanic rock. For example, check out the red rocks of Colorado's Front Range, the east edge of the Rocky Mountains. They're made of a reddish colored sand and bits of pebbles that of a river. Or even Mount Everest in in the world. Now if there's any mountain it's tempting to think this has to be it. But climbers who've made can tell you that a lot contains fossils of animals that lived along the bottom of the ocean. Up on top of Mount Everest, sand, pebbles, coral even. There's no volcanic rock at all. Mount Everest has never erupted, and there's no reason It's not volcanic. Still, you might be surprised made of volcanic rock that's not ever been known Like here in the U.S. state Thousands of miles from are the Saint Francois Mountains. The tallest peak, called Taum Sauk was a volcano that spewed out lava, which cooled off and became volcanic rock. Or, in the U.S. state of Virginia, are two small mountains. Maybe we should just call these hills. But both of them are made of basalt. Where did that come from? Not every volcano is an active volcano. All of these examples Volcanoes that erupted an and so left behind volcanic rock, but which haven't erupted since. And scientists think are really unlikely to erupt again, so in summary, most mountains won't just If they do, it's usually eruptions in the past. While not every mountain is a volcano, a lot of them are. Sometimes extinct volcanoes of the past. You can look for clues by searching for volcanic rock. That's all for this week's question. Thanks, Sophia, for asking it. Now for the next episode, I reached into my question jar, and picked out three that I'm thinking about answering next. When this video is done playing, you'll get to vote on one. You can choose from: how is steel made? Why does moss grow on rocks and trees? Or, who created the constellations? So submit your vote when the video's over. I wanna hear from all of you watching. There are mysteries all around us. Stay curious and see you next week.