You know, if you've got kids, the last couple the movie Frozen like a gazillion times. this got me to thinking. How cold is cold? if so, how close have scientists gotten to having with fascinating answers, so let's look into it. well, okay- maybe at the end. (intro music) If we're going to talk about cold, we with the Fahrenheit scale, which sets the freezing two hundred and twelve degrees, respectively. or centigrade scale and sets those points at zero unique about water as a chemical, beyond being either way to report temperatures. However, there is a scale, called the Kelvin natural. To start with, Kelvin postulated Thinking on a molecular or atomic scale, the one in which the motion of the atoms was that this temperature is when molecules inside the picture is a little different. Physicists use the Kelvin scale for most things. which is called absolute zero by Zero degrees Kelvin is equal to minus degrees Fahrenheit. And, to be complete, in the at 373.15 Kelvin. Okay, with those scales defined, how close can or is it achievable? Well, let's think of some ridiculously cold in the dead of a particularly harsh winter. The vicinity is -36 degrees Fahrenheit, which is 235.37 is way higher than zero, so we're temperature in Earth out in nature? That was back bone-chilling negative 128.5 degrees Fahrenheit, Kelvin. Still a long way to go to absolute zero. What about liquid nitrogen, which is what you is chilled until it's liquid? That's colder, minus 195.8 degrees Celsius and 77 Kelvin. the gas that fills children's balloons; however, happens at -452.2 degrees Fahrenheit, -269 degrees the temperature at which the Fermilab Tevatron So, this is great - we've gotten into single digit isn't the same as zero, so can we do better? Well, sure. 4.2 Kelvin is the temperature at The temperature at which water condenses from gas know we can cool water below that temperature. temperature at which it boils. Using the same conceptual tricks that we use we can cool helium more. At CERN, our sister huge ring of magnets that is 27 kilometers or It's hard work, but we can make big things technology, we can get things down to something temperature you can do on an industrial scale. does some funny things. For instance, normal is called helium 4 because it has four particles the other hand, there's a version of helium called Helium 4 can be extracted from natural gas, it's a byproduct of nuclear power generation. Helium 3 and helium 4 have very different under one Kelvin. If you put them in a container, and slowly, a bit of the helium 3 diffuses into that can cool the remaining helium 4 even colder. and it was proposed back in the 1950s and first Netherlands. Dilution refrigerators can cool objects quite a refrigeration is about 2 milliKelvin, enough to absolute zero that I'm not going numbers. And these dilution refrigerators can be super at Fermilab and it operates at 5.5 milliKelvin. a physical one because at about 2 milliKelvin, no longer works. Since that trick is the one that's as cold as we can go for what we might call for humans to touch and manipulate. Because of the need for super cold temperatures refrigerators are being built. IBM and others temperatures under 20 millikelvin, and my refrigerator - over two meters in diameter - big operate in the 10 to 20 millikelvin range. Now, the millikelvin range is about the lowest and do some sort of laboratory-sized thing, atoms to even lower temperatures. That is very close to absolute zero. Using magnets to align the spin of atomic it's possible to cool relatively small numbers of of a degree above absolute zero. Scientists at and other facilities routinely achieve that, a billionth of a degree above absolute zero. European scientists who in 2021 used every trick picoKelvin - that's 38 trillionths of a Kelvin. That's just ridiculously cold. So that's in the lab. What's the Well, if we look at the temperature of space 2.7 Kelvin. And even the coldest spot every which has a temperature of about 1 Kelvin. Okay, is 38 picoKelvin the limit? Well, after all. However, what about literally, and what happens then? Well, if we could reach absolute zero, that not be moving and they would settle down into quantum mechanics doesn't allow for objects to be This means that there is always some small unachievable goal. Now, you may have heard about negative but the meaning of temperature is very different fact is that all negative temperatures are hotter you have an object with negative temperatures and the energy from that negative temperature object Negative temperatures are just messed up and to just like, weird, man. So, there we go. That's how cold we can go. just a single degree Kelvin above absolute industrial scale things is a Kelvin or so. is a couple of millikelvin and if we we can achieve temperatures as low as of picokelvins. Zero is impossible, and things can get. I think what this all boils down It could be way, way, way, worse. Alright, you You do that by poking that button down there. which is what all of us want, right? And physics physics is everything. Alright, what do you think (Frozen-style music starts playing) (offscreen) Uh, yeah, we just ran out of time, sorry... Oh, no, nah, nah, nah, I tell (offscreen) Yeah, I gotta- They want it, they want to hear it- (offscreen) I gotta cut though, Don, sorry, yeah- (static) (Frozen-style outro music plays)