Two people attend a house party, where they the same beer tap, and are exposed to the They decide to share a taxi and drive home together. "That party really sucked," one person "The beer was terrible, the DJ was really Then the other person says smiling joyfully: I just had the best party in years. It was awesome." This example shows how different we see, in How come someone experiences outside events annoyed by the same circumstances? It seems that everyone has different interpretations What's gold for someone is mud to someone So, what's preferable, unpleasant, beautiful, ultimately lies in the eye of the beholder. Nevertheless, many people have difficulties subjective, based on opinion, and not the If someone believes a party inherently sucks, observation but as a fact. And as a consequence, the person believes his attitude towards it. The party itself cannot cause suffering. Just like we can't listen to music without can only be suffered if there's a sufferer. The party needs something to observe and interpret. And thus, in reality, problems cannot exist troublesome without someone or something identifying So, if there's nothing inherently problematic humans repeatedly (and on a grand scale) worry If you enjoy this video, don't forget to Before we try to answer whether or not our nature of reality in the light of Eastern After all, most (if not all) issues relate as reality. For example, according to our collectively means that we cannot pay off debts over the And since we cannot meet the norms, we consider But regardless of the discomfort that financial attach to it remains subjective. It's a consequence of a collective perception wrong, valuable or not valuable, desirable As human beings, reality as we experience These help us make sense of chaos by naming distinguishing one thing from the other, and These concepts and ideas can be collective consists of billions of 'sub-worlds' which Hence, in one person's universe, a party In another, it's lame (repeat). Also, human reality isn't the only reality Animals, and possibly even plants, have their The world of dogs primarily consists of smells, Dogs cannot reason like humans and don't or 'religion,' or 'financial problems.' And because they cannot comprehend these concepts, Dogs are concerned with food, protecting their traits we share. And so, the worlds of humans and dogs intersect The Taoist scripture Zhuangzi mentions a parable In the story, two women considered most attractive other living creatures. I quote: Mao Qiang and Li Ji were accounted by men them, they dived deep in the water from them; when deer saw them, they separated and fled End quote. Could it be that the fish, birds, and deer Or could it be that our value judgments, even aren't universally true? Looking from Zhuangzi's perspective, the of beauty is not universal, nor is the perception Attractive beauty in a dog's eyes is probably snake, in the eyes of a human being, another But none of these creatures has a monopoly Herefore, beauty is not universal but created No matter if look at the world as humans or to our unique worlds of experience. So, human problems aren't generally dog And what seem problems to one person often In Buddhism, we can find a concept called between relative truth (or conventional truth) The concept is much debated, and there isn't because it's pretty difficult to conceptualize Some argue that the absolute truth is emptiness, we can experience that, in reality, nothing And so, the actual universe goes beyond the The Taoists call this absolute truth 'Tao,' The Tao is like an empty container: Infinitely deep, it is the source of all things. It dulls the sharp, unties the knotted, with dust. It is hidden but always present. I don't know who gave birth to it. It is older than the concept of God. End quote. But we could say, with relative certainty, the universe differs from the actual universe Our senses determine our perception of the far as our senses allow us to. And from this limited perception arises our fishes. And deer. Relative truth is subjective. The notion that a party 'sucks' isn't is 'fantastic.' Isn't the same true regarding our problems? What's problematic to one isn't problematic Problems, therefore, are also subjective. They're among the layer of conventional are as illusory as everything else our minds They are a perception of reality, not reality They're mere interpretations of the circumstances, They don't exist in the 'absolute reality' encountered them as well. So, outside of our perceptions, there is no In the same way, there is no dog; at least Yet, problems appear very real to those who We tend to suffer them endlessly, so the pain And, unfortunately, we're masters at creating An investor notices that his stocks have lost day. He panics and can barely keep it together. But another investor who experiences the same now has an opportunity to purchase stocks Again, because of our subjective realities, per person. On top of that, we see that solving one problem Some people just dwell in a perpetual stream them they solve. For example, a week later, the twenty percent which means the previous problem (the twenty But the first investor then starts worrying missed out on potential profit. He's even more distressed when he discovers So, even though his portfolio increased by as problematic. And so it's with many things in life. There's always someone creating problems bad. And then, if the problems get solved, this even more problems. People with such fault-finding mindsets can it's just a matter of time until new ones No set of circumstances will end their problems There's a consensus among many that we should Therefore, problems become nails to be hammered. And if they aren't hammered, they'll be There certainly are situations that pose a safety) that require action. And some tend to be sticky and very difficult off doing something about them. However, our problems don't need to be solved After all, they are creations of a fault-finding Anything can be considered problematic. Take, for example, a situation in which people Why does this appear as a problem? Because you're worried about other people's So, there are two things you can do: the first your problem by changing your appearance, lip fillers, as an attempt for people to like The second one is to let go of the problem you accept your appearance and let go of the After all, the people disliking you aren't But a dog couldn't care less what people about yours either. So, being unattractive in the eyes of others not absolute. So, is it really a problem then? The problem vanishes by embracing the circumstances about them. So, instead of solving them by rearranging them go. In essence, it's what meditation does, as generating these problems in the first place. Buddhist scholar Gil Fronsdal stated the following, Rather than directly solving our personal us to step away from our preoccupation with can sometimes make space for new solutions on its own. Some problems are better dissolved than solved. End quote. Often, when we solve a problem, we essentially But the caveat is that our circumstances are our circumstances as problematic, we find have no say. After solving a specific problem, it can appear Problem-solving, therefore, isn't always easily undo our efforts. Changing the experience of our circumstances Changing our attitude is much more efficient Instead of changing outside occurrences to we could also free ourselves from these problems minds dissolve. Here's where the illusory nature of our don't exist outside our perception. At the same time, our thoughts are very inconsistent, often without us even realizing it. We can painfully worry about a situation but How come something that so heavily occupied today? Have the circumstances changed? Or have we changed? Many people experience an altered mindset of certain substances. Their day-to-day worries often disappear, much less gloomy. But no radical changes took place in the world. What's drastically changed, however, are Although temporarily effective, narcotics one's problems. Moreover, people often see their problems subsides, sometimes even louder and more robust. There are healthier ways to dissolve our problems, reality and the vastness of the universe. Or we could shift our focus from the situation Buddhists get to the root of the issue through of all things horrible, also known as the When the mind settles down, problems disappear, neutral outside circumstances. And so, eventually, the world gets pretty had, don't seem problems at all. Thank you for watching.