It's hard to imagine a more unnatural environment than the city of Los Angeles - a sprawling It's a testament to the human ability to See, despite the profound changes the epic saga of this area's natural history is still visible - and even striking - if This is a story about the ancient, deeply interconnected forces and It's a journey that begins millions of years and ends with the creation of the an active dig site located in the center of LA. Because, as you're about to see, developed urban environments, natural history This episode is going to be a little different. We're leaving the Eons studio to experience the Consider us your natural history tour guides - Michelle, this is where our journey begins. Welcome to California! I can't think of anyone better to Angeles than my friend and colleague and Our journey begins in Vasquez Rocks Natural If its towering, tilted rock formations seem reason for that. This area's geology has formed But tens of millions of years before this area experienced its 'biggest North American and Pacific plates, San Andreas Fault plays a very big part So take a look behind you. These And if you didn't know anything about geology, you'd see them be like &quot;Wow , that's so weird Well, I will tell you they did horizontally. It's actually one of the laws of And it's called the &quot;law Which, horizontal means flat. And original means Why? Um. Gravity. Ok. If sediment is on an incline, it's going to keep rolling down. It Eventually it's going to land, let's say, on the basin of my hand. When Now, if all of this sediment was and then the floor started moving, It can no longer have individual So if you ever see rocks that are tilted, you and then solidfied before And that's where the fault comes in. That's where the fault comes in. where two tectonic plates are meeting. I mean, we say Californians live on where on a different tectonic plate, Blake! [laughs] Literally. The rest of North America is on right now, our butts, are on the Pacific Plate. We're not on the same tectonic plate So the San Andreas Fault is where so the North American Plate, the Pacific Plate are touching like puzzle pieces and the reason we call like, pushing up against each other or moving away But the fault itself is not necessarily what's of the fault kinda like deforming To say that the San Andreas Fault like is incorrect. But did the fact that it exists other little faults are coming off of it. It A whole series of faults. That's. But this is only where our story starts. The the stage for what's to come...because tectonic Moving southwest towards the Pacific of the collision that created the San This range is a panoramic feature of the Los in length and peaking at just under 950 meters We're going on on what Michelle calls &quot;A hike&quot; We're not out of breath at all. But despite being an iconic part the story of these mountains began on the seabed. Over millions of years, the ongoing pressure of triggered volcanic activity and Ok i have questions, hold on. [Laughs] I'm fine by the way. Thanks for asking. Ok so we were just at Vasquez Rocks and now Making? You chose this. You love this! [Laughs] So we're in the Santa Monica Mountains Recreation And we have, I want to say, over Wow, really? Yes. And a majority of them are. Marine life, actually. That was going to be my guess. So, remember, we were talking about this sediment that we're standing The reason that it's now so high is because again pushing things around, moving things up. Tectonics And the immense pressure released didn't just change the height of the These mountains are part of what And so, most of the mountains in the coast. These are the mountains. Like Right. But we are in the Transverse Ranges which So they are transecting the state. I would have called them the That totally works as well but we're So the Tranverse Ranges. And the reason the San Andreas Fault actually grabbed Baha And that started dragging the mountains So while these mountains may seem like a they're actually /far/ more dynamic than that. Over millions of years, they've been complex tectonic activity beneath them The geological journey of the Santa Monica and rotation by tectonic forces. erosion by rivers and streams carried sediment And some of this sediment has been deposited in just the right place at just the right time in what's now the center of So we were at Vasquez Rocks and then we were Both beautiful and exhausting. And now we're in the more exhuasting traffic But we're also surrounded by fossils. There are fossils everywhere. there are pits all over this area. The area is famous for the sticky asphalt bubbling to the surface for This black goo is produced deep underground transform organic material into petroleum. Over time, it seeps to the surface viscous asphalt on the ground. Which So this is not construction material that was asphalt that like, you know, mastodons, And we've been talking about this is not a lake that you fall into. Most of the seeps are like, a couple inches deep. And they can be pretty easily covered. Like Not these imported grasses but our be walking through and not even realize This is really fun by the way. It's very satifying. [Laughs] I could probably do this all day. And it Exactly right Although if you were living in the From the Late Pleistocene epoch to the have trapped countless animals, big and Because I think of it as being like quicksand. Like, an animal walks into it and Yeah there's not that much to sink. It's pretty hard to get out. And like, imagine you're walking on all fours. You're trying to pull one arm out, leg. So your back legs are sinking down. Now you're in trouble. You know you're just actually pushing yourself deeper Or like let's say you're only caught for a and he's like, this is my ime to strike. I've then that gets stuck and then a vulture comes A circle of death. A circle of death, right. Where we've just got bones Slowly, these poor critters were it mixed with eroded sediment hardening and helping to preserve their But where are we, right? We are Santa Monica Mountains are Ok. So we're not at an angle. We're on the floor. of the mountains was essentially covering and So you have tar seeps, you have They're getting nice and covered by right? So that's part of what's preserving They're not going to get eroded. They're This is again like tens of thousands of And for over a hundred years, scientists unearthing a truly breathtaking have given us an unparalleled glimpse And what's really interesting is excavating here, they're like &quot;wow, &quot;wow, a dire wolf&quot;. Like all these big, But as the years have gone by, the focus We've been talking about animals oh &quot;we have a sabertooth&quot;, &quot;oh, we have a we get insects. Again, we're able to Not just there was a mammoth here but there was a this bug was eating that kind of plant and like So, asphalt is important for And fun to play with. As long With supervision. I think you're the supervisor. Oh that's a lot of pressure. While Los Angeles today is a thoroughly our journey through its natural landscape tells From the massive collision of tectonic eventually led to the tar-stained bones of the legacy of LA's natural history is And LA is far from alone. While not every city sits on top of a major fault every place on Earth does have its own unique Hope you enjoyed this natural history Let us know in the comments where you Thanks to this month's angelic Eontologists: Annie &amp; Eric Higgins, Chase Archambault, Colton, Jake Hart, John Davison Ng, Yanshuo By becoming an Eonite at patreon.com/eons you can get fun perks like submitting a joke What did the paleontologist say I'd love to stay, but I've got to split! I mean I guess? If you're working And as always thanks for joining me in the for more journeys in deep time! We are on our way to hopefully find the San going to see where North American Plate and the Alright, please be the fault. Please be it. Is that it right there? No [laughs] Oh no! That was it! [bleep] It It's so pretty. I kinda got something. I just stuck my I gotta split? Liek do you split open rocks and...