The surprisingly simple physics of a L.A.S.E.R The laser is one of the most important tools In this video, I'll show you some properties light. Then I'll use that knowledge to simulate a This video was brought to you by very generous The whole process of lasering relies on a light. For simplicity, let's just look at an atom in the center. The picture of the atom is completely wrong, two states here represents energy levels for As you know electrons can ONLY exist in a And when it switches states it will do what It's simply just a transition where it kind It will never be found in between. But this transition requires some energy. One way to get that energy is for the electron That's called Stimulated Absorption. Once the electron is in an excited state, time.. It will relax. And we call that Spontaneous Emission And will have to go somewhere, so it goes to a direction. Any photon that interacts with the electron The photon needs to have the exact same energy in order to excite the electron. So for example the energy difference could energy.. says a photon of 5 electron volts passes through the atom the it has too much state. But a 2 electron volt red photon have the After some time, the electron will relax and electron volts in a random direction. So now we are already ready to explain a concept - did you have these self-glowing stars as You know, you put them in room and then they How did that work? Well, we can use our new knowledge to explain The atoms in the plastic have been illuminated frequencies, red blue green and so on. And so when the plastic have been illuminated Because that's just the energy it needs. Then something new happens. The excited state in this plastic or these time. It's called a meta-stable state. And the reason why has to do with Quantum So the electron will just sit excited and relax and undergo spontaneous emission hours And this process is called Phosphorescence. Now back to our atom. It turns out there is one more type of interaction It's called Stimulated Emission. This interaction can happen if the electron as the energy difference between two states In the example we see an excited atom and with it. And it will kind of tickle it, or cause it So it will de-excite and send out another And now what is really important here for has some very important features: It has an and direction of the photon that interacted Because the frequency is the same, the color therefore we call these two photon monochromatic. And the identical phase is called coherence. So now that we understand of concept of atom-light a laser. And the laser is an abbreviation of Light so you can kind of tell of tell the lasers interaction. And let me show how. BUT first I'll later need to draw many atoms other, so let's just simplify the notation atoms here, I'll show the atom as a small The atom is red when it has an excited state. We can also represent stimulated emission To exploit the simulated emission process It's a cylinder with mirrors on the side. So when photons hit the mirror they will change But when the photon hits the outer wall there out of the cylinder. Inside the optical cavity will be what's called It's a simply a material that can perform In real world examples could be a ruby crystal The cavity will also contain what is called Actually there will multiple pumps all around But I'll just draw one of the top. The pump is basically just a really strong The pump can be tuned to send out 2 electron So when the flush pump there will be a lot inside the cavity. That looks way too confusing. So let's just make a rule, let's say when photons, the atoms will have a 50 % chance Approximately half of the atoms get hit and emit a photon. So we are almost ready to produce a laser. Obviously there should be many more atoms But the idea of producing laser light is: 1. We will continuously excite the atoms with 2. Then we wait for one of the atoms to send Then the photon will bounce around and we electron such that the atom can undergo stimulated Suddenly, there will be two photons orthogonal And then they hit another, then there will the way we create this coherent monochromatic So let me show you that idea by placing a some atoms with the pump. I don't know if you see but at one instance photons. But it quickly got absorbed because the atoms So that's an easy fix right? Let's just flash with the pump again and again It seems like we fixed our problem but we excited when the pump flashes again, will The light from the pump comes from a random will also be in a random direction. Not something we want. So that's a huge problem with our setup. I'll put in more atoms and let's see what Aaand that looks really confusing.. But what I wanted to show you is: no matter have more than 50% of the atoms in the cavity Why is that then? Let's say we are magically at the point where the cavity. And we want more to be excited so we flash in order to excite the atoms.Will that will Because all the atoms that weren't exited But all the atoms that were already in the from the flash pump then undergo stimulated So we are still at 50/50 percent excited. It's a huge problem, because we cant multiply down a photon in a system where there is under with excited atoms and that just eat our system. So we want nut just 50/50 because then on We want more than 50% of the atoms to be exited. By the way, when more than 50% of the atoms this &quot;population inversion. So we need to change something in order for The fix is actually quite simple - we will This atom has a higher energy state available. And could be for example the 5 electron volts not absorb. So here in this example, a 5 electron volt and at a later time the electron will undergo 2, and sent out a blue 3 electron volt photon. And of course now the energy is 2 electron And at a later time it will fall down again Which you might know from UV parties, In this with UV light rays. But your eyes cannot see that frequency so But if we have a 3-level atom material then Then it would consistently emit to state 2, We could not see the 5 electron volts with sent out a 3 electron volt photon. Blue photon. That our eyes can see. And then later, the photon felt down to state can see that as well. The picture here shows there are some body invisible light from our eyes but then undergo orange light that our eyes can actually see. So let me quickly mention one last mechanism You can also have a directionless transition. Where the electron quantum jump does not send Of course, the energy difference has to go and for example it could go to something else or rotational relaxation. But we wont care abut the process. We care about the electron can switch states And that is beneficial for the population state 3 to state 2, in a radiation-less transition. We would also like atoms to have a another from 3 to 2, should have a very short life transition 2 to 1, should be a meta stable Alright so let's just switch to the other Of course there are six possible interactions. The atom can be absorbed from state 1 to 2 The atom can be excited from state 1 to 3 There is radiationless transition from state atom. Then there can also be stimulated emission Then there there can also be stimulated emission Then we have a meta stable state at state 1.But it happens with a very long life-time. So lets put our new 3 atom level in the cavity. The pump flash energy we will now configure The energy needed to excite our atoms in the So as before, each time the pump flashes all Let's run the system. And you can see now we are able to obtain More than 50% of the atoms are excited. Since state 3 will quickly de-excite to a atoms of the atoms can easily be excited. Now the flash will not relax atoms in state and not the same 2 electron volts. Our excited photons will have a much higher emission instead of being eated by a absorption. To make a working laser now, we just need And of course if we want to get light out, photons with a 90% chance, such that 10% of And that mirrors is called the output coupler. While the other mirror will reflect 100% of reflector. So in this animation I am not showing you The cavity build up a high number of coherent So I'll stop the simulation now, but I will rune for some more time if you want. So you saw a huge number of photons was build And these photons are made from stimulated frequency is identical. And this triangular representation of photons resulting light is. So if we switch to the old wave representation are. So that's the light coming out of the laser. Nice. And of course in a real laser, photons will a second and there will be billions of atoms So cool physics, infinite scientific uses, discoveries of all times. Happy lasering. If yo want to help me make more animations, whatever you like to pay. So thank you very much I ope you found it See you.