Translator: Rhonda Jacobs Inside each one of us 100 billion neurons firing in concert, constructing this vivid reality And inside each little piece lives a little bit of what makes you, you. And after your experiences today, that activity will have shifted You are inextricably tied to your brain. When I first learned I fell in love with the brain, and I've been doing Now, one day, we were doing and I was surprised but much to all of our shock, It was a pretty big one too; it was like 30 percent (Laughter) Which, as you might imagine, because I didn't feel like anything and my experience of the world The cerebellum is one of the most It has, like, 80 percent So I got interested. Now, there's this collision between what your brain and then what it's dealt, and somehow it finds a middle ground. And I became really interested in the idea of your brain And to that end, I want to tell you Just after her third birthday, They started becoming worse and worse, and eventually, she was losing Doctors diagnosed her with something and the only real treatment for this cutting out half of her brain. And keep in mind controls and is responsible for movement and sensation So this surgery would immediately But just four weeks post-op, And she is still dealing and a bit of peripheral vision loss, but otherwise, she is able and she is cognitively quite deft - it's amazing. And I wondered, you know - consider that for a second: if I gave you half of a car, you wouldn't be going anywhere in LA, and you wouldn't be on Twitter right now tweeting about how (Laughter) Because for most devices, But somehow in this instance with Cameron, 50 percent is almost equal to 100 percent. How is that possible? Well, the remaining part sensed the massive loss of neural tissue, and it physically rewired to take over everything that That is an ability It's the ability of the brain to rewire. And so, I think it's when people say your brain It's actually just a really bad one And although the prevailing view was that the adult brain it seems like every day that says that's not the case at all. While there is structure to your brain, Let me say that again: You and your brain are static, you can change yourself. So the idea worth spreading is this: What if we were able in an entirely new way, by hacking into your brain's To show you what I mean, let's look at how Since 1952, scientists and doctors have addressed as a fixed hardware problem where there is a deficiency like serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine. And in this context, that the way to go about it which increase Enter MAOIs, tricyclics, SSRIs - but they all work And these are marvels of modern medicine. I mean, on anti-depressants, we see about two-thirds of people But that still leaves who are still struggling who are becoming disconnected It is an awful, debilitating disease. So what if we were able - if we addressed the problem So what we're doing is we're essentially that show different activation So for example, if someone with depression it is not as active we actually use electromagnetic currents to induce neural rewiring in those areas. So in the case of the area we give a pulse, we stimulate it, we do whatever we can to say, Can we upregulate that? Can we make this brain essentially one area at a time? And while this is a new technology, some of the pioneering work at the University of Toronto shows nearly a 33 percent remission rate which is depression where patients they've seen no relief and they are running out of options. And another wonderful thing is that while drugs are very specific they're quite general still often affecting a whole host of parts and leading to the laundry list that you're probably at the end of drug commercials. But neuroplasticity Instead, we're targeting but we're leaving the rest of you alone. We're now in the midst you can sequence your genome; I think neuroplasticity can fit into this can be tailored very specifically We can deliver just the right and we can give just the right There is a lot of flexibility that we're as different than we are on the outside, and any optimal treatment mechanism So, to me this seems like I mean, we are on the frontier of non-invasively to alleviate certain types While there is certainly debate What's the right sham? Where do you target? It doesn't matter. We're almost there, And once we get there, If we can rewire your brain using devices, would it at all be possible with just your own thoughts? I know it seems kind of crazy, but that's the idea of something Essentially, what we're doing, if you give the example of, In cocaine addiction, we show a subject and we induce their craving networks. So these are cocaine addicts. And then we present them of what their brain is actually doing. What is the craving network And the idea is that we're asking people and do whatever it is they need to do which essentially is exploiting and probably in most cases that you have over your own brain at just the right times, with just a little bit of biofeedback. Now, I think this has real implications because we're getting to the point where our neurochemistry - We're now able to give to change mood states. And in one case, we, as a government, And that might sound like but consider that we already do it. In California and many other states, we mandate what's called for re-offending sex offenders. So they're forced to take to reduce their libido - And I'm not here to comment but I do feel that as we look for new ways instead of warehouse them, neuroplasticity where, before we say, you have to take this drug we instead see, Is there any possibility for this person And moving beyond deficits, we actually use this to improve ourselves, where - yeah, alright, I don't know (Laughter) where we use our own to modulate and upregulate our attention, our impulse control. What if we went as much as we went to the real gym, with as much vigor I think it's a beautiful idea. And there's one more application I'd like to talk with you about, but in order to do so, Everyone look under your seats. Some of you will see a pair of earplugs; And some of you stole them (Laughter) I know who you are. Pull them out. Okay. So here's the experiment. Those of you who have earplugs, and everyone else, Okay? Open them up. Get ready. Now, I'd like you all Mimi is seven months old, When I press Play, your job, speakers, Listeners, your job Okay, put in your earplugs. And for those of you at home, go ahead and plug your ears and see if you can play along. (Cute baby noises) [Take out your earplugs] (Laughter) Yeah, like, pretty terrible, actually. And look, I kind of set you all up because lip reading But lip reading babies who, can make vocalizations and then who speak is a really, really difficult problem. This is harder than neuroscience. (Laughter) And so imagine, though, and this is every day of your life. That's the reality for deaf parents and the over 90 percent of their children And this can lead because parents are unable And it's now very clear is not the cute or annoying but instead, it is a tool to teach language And you can imagine if that was gone, So the question that Dr. Arianna Anderson If you can't get infant vocalizations is there another option? Well, when you scan brains you see that there are very specific that are devoted to processing So, for example, this morning on the TEDx we see that there's a very particular that lights up to only visual information. And independently, there's a completely separate part But here's where When you scan the brains you don't just get the touch parts you see visual areas active as well. And similarly, when you scan the brains while they're communicating you don't just see the visual areas active but you actually see Somehow, your brain isn't just plastic, it is intelligently plastic. And somehow, it's rewiring itself as much information Somehow your brain is learning So, this is called sensory substitution, and the idea, as Paul Bach-y-Rita is that you can take information translate it to a different and put it in that way. Surprisingly, your brain figures it out And this is the idea that we've taken, and we've moved forward with a small grant from UCLA And what Chatter Baby does is it turns auditory information it's a type of sensory substitution. So now Mimi's chatter You don't miss anything now. Even though her lips aren't moving, And the idea is that deaf parents to learn baby talk and to connect and we believe that eventually, once they become fluent they will be able And to me, that is just such an important And this shows for turning auditory but instead, sensory it has the ability to connect That's the power of plasticity. But that's only half the battle. The other part of this disconnect is that when deaf parents they don't know what mood they're in. And the best baby monitors they say, yes, there's sound; But that doesn't really tell me It doesn't tell me, Or instead, Are they hungry? Are they crying? Is something going on that I need Instead, I'm constantly wondering, Sound? So what we're doing with Chatter Baby is we are gathering the world's and we're then using to take that sound and predict So he's really hungry. (Applause) And the idea is that we can use in how deaf parents And I've talked to you about now and sensory impairments but that's really only the beginning. We're starting to move into diseases that you wouldn't expect would like Alzheimer's And that's really just the beginning And I don't mean neurohacking in the sense they're really well thought out ideas, and there's a lot of literature But in the sense that we're not the nuts and the bolts we're not trying to change that's going on in the brain, which is essentially But there are a hundred trillion and each one of them is like a city with a thousand It is such a difficult problem. So instead, what I think some and all of what we're doing this incredible quality to rewire and reallocate itself And if we step back for a moment the question for you I have today is, Where in your life every little nut and bolt before you decide to solve it If you're trying effect social change there's probably a couple million and they are not going to helpful to you. But instead of focusing on what's broken maybe take a lesson from neurohacking and use what does still work Thank you. (Applause)