Hi All, Welcome to this lecture introduction to networking is complex but it's really important it's a backbone of your architecture. It decides to scale. How you have implemented security at layer three to layer seven ,so if you might have where I talked about how different AWS services fb.com. Now in this lecture We are going to see not to explain each and every networking services these services serve you when you design your networking services? Because in my opinion whether a certain networking aspect you should know while know VPC basics and there are things like VPC, route cable snapped different type of IP addresses ACLs along with that you should know load which is DNS service and some of the gateways endpoint, private link and if you need to have a VPC peering .So at least this many networking DevOps I would probably expect more services to be site-to-site VPN ,client VPN and other dev-ops being a virtual network you can create all these using AWS CLI. On top of it you should also be and out of your VPC and a different components how to log this traffic and how to monitor administrator the expectation are further more connect and advanced features of VPC so you today AWS supports like up to 25 GBPS bandwidth some of the workloads running AWS and some of the to improve the network performance at different at layer 3 protecting DDoS attacks or layer 7 think many different roles should know but it's up role probably you are working at. Let's get into I'm sure you're familiar with this architecture know that most of these services are within VPC isolated private network which is set for you in and out of this network .We are going to mainly which of these components will be public facing, more AWS networking services around VPC. ok .So need to have AWS region so any of the region you while you create a region you also get multiple here two availability zones . Now you create a you create a VPC you can leverage any of the and other services .Now every VPC comes with a or classless inter-domain routing. Now how to I have explained in a very detailed in my next through that video to understand how the CIDRs comes with a default local router .Now what's the within VPC that means if you now create multiple can communicate with each other by default because within VPC ? Who takes the routing decision ? So table and this route table has one entry which local which means this local router. That means address which sits inside this address range it instances within VPC can talk to each other. should create subnets inside the VPC .In fact EC2 instances. Thing here to understand is that zone then you should create your subnets across be in only one AZ at any moment of time that means .Right. However one availability zone can have and they are into two different availability machines in both this subnets so that if one AZ another subnets and that's where you can have the subnet again you provide the CIDR or the address subnet ranges smaller here it was 16 so don't go space than this address space and how to calculate to calculate? what is VPC ,subnets and everything two subnets and I am calling those public subnet if you look at this architecture this subnet is talk to internet from these subnets because VPC this subnet to be able to communicate with the and this gateway is attached to the VPC. Now I can internet but not really as of now because again if to go to internet or say from the internet I try table of the VPC and there is no route to the Internet. Better you create a dedicated route do not follow this main route table and you add is going to or coming from internet that is 0 0 0 now traffic can flow from the Internet gateway to the corresponding route table of the subnet has Internet gateway it is called a public subnet so like a bastion host typically resides inside you will see .Now ,If I talk about databases or an they need not be exposed publicly that means directly from the outside and these instances also where we call them as a private subnet .So what is there is no route to go to the Internet directly the same entry like a main route table. Now if this subnets all these subnets will follow the dedicated route table for your subnet so that you your subnets. Similarly there would be additional a private subnet. Now if I want to talk about the was a load balancer and as you know load balancer will reside into my public subnets and it will be taken care by AWS so you don't need to really this load balancer. So when you create a load should reside in and automatically AWS provision app server as talked earlier they should be in private IP address that means these instances the way they would receive a traffic is from the a database .So master database will be in one AZ. Now as you know you can have the synchronous less than 10 milliseconds so you can actually have the replication database instance. So in case available and you are really fault tolerant to would hit the load balancer. The traffic will to your web/app servers and from there it will would look like. Make sure you take care of the explained it in more detail in my next video. Ok . I said the EC2 instances in private subnet cannot First nobody from the internet can reach to this go out to the Internet to fetch maybe some details that is required right because maybe on this EC2 internet .Now you only need an outbound internet reach directly but you want this EC2 to reach done using something called NAT (network address into the public subnet and now they can talk to whenever this EC2 wants to talk to Internet it will route to the Internet ,will take the traffic instances in private subnet. Of course you can do understand the route table of this private subnet if traffic needs to go to the Internet it should entry in your route table and then traffic will very basics of VPC and everybody should understand here as a practical but in my next video, I moving on , now we want to look at the you know everything about within the VPC. So very first a data center and some of your workloads are in so what does it mean ? It means maybe some of of your workloads are running in AWS .For example it within their data centers but non-critical of companies may run their databases locally and for having the disaster recovery so this is called maybe you have primary storage and secondary data centers and there are databases servers and the AWS VPC. Now how do you do that over a private dedicated but a private network between these two AWS .One is of course a very popular way where of your companies together using site-to-site that's the first option. So on AWS side you would a VGW and on your side you would have a router Once you have this two gateways created you can for high availability AWS supports two tunnels may still flow on the another tunnel .So this site-to-site VPN connectivity. Now one thing to the internet so blue line indicates the internet because IPSec protocol make sure that all the in terms you might have a patch internet right so want for your applications to functions properly reliable connection .But if you have a workloads private connectivity to AWS you should rather look Connect works? AWS has different regions and be a multiple Direct Connect locations. Now these owned by a Korean neutral entities like in India locations .So this direct correct locations are center for example they are connected to Mumbai locations from India and it is connected with very than up to 100 Gbps link. What you need to do is this Direct Connect location in order to get that your own or you can have Direct Connect partner Connect locations. Now once you have this link bandwidth connection to AWS from your data center. Connect rather than going over to the VPN so these to AWS. Now moving on. You also know during to connect to a different network for example from over VPN now that's not a site-to-site VPN that's of that network so that you can access all these of that network. For that also AWS has something then you can connect to any of this machine by machine you need Open VPN server client and on becomes a part of this network only. More about have for hybrid connectivity between AWS and your one machine to this network .okay. Moving on. the AWS services as I just talked about. Now let's about only one VPC but in real scenario one big not really owned by a single team or say a single side is maintained by a different department and being handled by the different teams .In that case of course for segregation and in certain cases as well. Considering that situation where you have other using a dedicated and a private network a VPC peering construct, in which say this is VPC peering now any machine from here with a private going over to the internet. All this traffic flows it and the best part is the the VPC on the other different AWS account and they could either be .So this greatly simplifies you know your network endpoint and talk over the Internet .This is VPC peering work well till you know maybe a have say hundreds of VPCs and all these VPCs needs the reason that VPC peering is non-transitive and two VPCs. That means if there is VPC-A,VPC-B and to each other then you need three connections, and B to C does not mean you can talk from A to routing. Okay. So with less number of VPCs Imagine you need to connect 100 VPCs to each it's become real problem .You can't maintain launched a new construct called a transit gateway case where all the VPCs which we call typically a transit gateway can connect to your VPC again in VPC can talk to every other VPC ,as well as they you can connect your corporate data centers over and you already have your VPCs connected so it's simplifies your network architecture .There are v/s VPC peering and that I think should have a we are talking about multiple VPCs .Now let's dig let's start with VPC endpoint services . If you need to upload and download data from the S3 .As in the same region or a different region but S3 this architecture even if your EC2 machines are actually needs to go through the internet that from NAT it will go to IGW and from there it will you are depending on the internet traffic which is traffic. Also you have to depend on NAT device down for any reason you can't really access s3 bucket or DynamoDB in the same AWS region as endpoint service .Now once you have a VPC endpoint to S3 or a DynamoDB through that VPC endpoint internet route and it is automatically this is a no bandwidth constraint .It scales automatically talk to the s3 .So I will recommend if you are region you can just add this VPC endpoint and all this communication that I am talking about you simplicity I haven't shown those route tables but either in a transit gateway or a VPC peering or have to modify corresponding route tables. Okay VPC endpoint gateway and VPC endpoint interfaces. if you want to reach to any other AWS service SNS, SES this is similar right .Your machine endpoints but with VPC endpoint interface you can VPC .But the way it differs from the Gateway something called ENI (elastic network interface) through that ENI to this VPC endpoint services you can reach privately without going over to sessions on my channel. but that's another thing of a VPC endpoint and that's a private link what that private link means. Now what happens services you might have subscribed to some SAS the company or the software provider provides you also be running their workloads in AWS and they or your resources within the VPC .Of course one of internet and you access over the internet but as to have this network connectivity .We already VPC peering where you can access resources across to really expose all the machines inside that VPC out of that which is behind this network load into the picture. Private link privately exposes VPC so any EC2 machine right which want to access interface through the private link to the network .The best part is you can expose your services to So instead of opening wide network to the other it's pointed or a service level connection between see most of the software vendors provide their covered lot of ground here. Let's move on. I have want to access your application you can directly or you can have a fb.com. A DNS points to the load That's where AWS has the Route53 service where you can create a different kind of record sets .For Route53 will return corresponding IP address of over the internet. So you don't need to really using the domain name .So that's route 53 and you can also leverage CDN services from AWS so fb.com video, talked about AWS as age location data the static content like a video or images these edge locations are already connected to the users need to connect to a nearest edge location you can introduce Cloud Front. and then you can or your load balancer could be origin so that similar ,User asked for the IP address of the the CloudFront edge IP users reach to the IP and or a load balancer so this is a CloudFront works. services .Now you can deep dive into each of these