Known for being photographed shirtless and time), Vladimir Putin has cultivated an image the world stage. He's a martial arts expert, a fearless political His resume holds a certain cachet in the West... As a former KGB agent he's automatically the old fears Americans had of the Soviet Putin has said of himself that he lived for is all he wishes to be. For decades though, he has been anything but the ranks of the Russian government, moving roots. [INTRO] Early Life He was born in St. Petersburg in 1952, in Putin had two older brothers, but both died as an only child. He was an atheist as a child, but now is an During Putin's childhood, his mother stayed War II, worked in a factory. As an interesting aside, his grandfather was prepared meals for Stalin a few times! The Putin family lived in a communal apartment says he used to hunt rats in the stairwell, with hunting (and with wild animals in general). Growing up, Putin didn't prove himself to But then, at the age of 12, he discovered It was in the midst of a competition that Martial arts was his chosen sport - particularly Though his mother did not initially approve proved himself to be a worthy and skilled At one point, his coach even showed up at how much promise he showed. Well, that did the trick, and his parents Putin now holds a black belt in Judo, and Judo, establishing himself as the first world sports. He also remains the President of the same Though he established himself as athletically during his childhood. He attended a local school for his early years, on chemistry. He didn't push himself, but his teachers to focus as much on his schoolwork as he did In the sixth grade, Putin began to push himself He was welcomed into the Young Pioneers, the This was a mark of honor, as Putin had previously to be welcomed into the organization... From 1970 to 1975, Putin continued his studies While there he studied law, and was required He later left the Party, denouncing communism "it became more and more obvious for me, than a beautiful and harmful fairy tale." At Saint Petersburg State University Putin figure in Putin's political success... Sobchak was an assistant professor at the the Constitution of the Russian Federation mayor of St. Petersburg. KGB Agent Putin graduated from Saint Petersburg State joined the KGB. The KGB was the Soviet Union's security It was created in 1954 and continued to operate dismantled. Translated to English, KGB stands for State It had a reputation for oppression and monitoring The KGB was a truly frightening organization of Communism to westerners. The organization quelled rebellions, and kept to the Soviet regime. Putin started his career with the KGB in Leningrad, Before his transfer to Germany, Putin married. To this day he keeps his home life very private guarded. He and his wife Lyudmila were married from Their divorce was seemingly amicable, with made reference to Putin's dedication to to serve as a world leader. They have two daughters together, Maria and secretive. They both used fake names to register for which country either of the Putin daughters In 2016, European newspapers even described that she had not been known to be photographed in power. For a former spy and a powerful man with many have maintained this secret life... Putin has stated: "I have a private life in which I do not It must be respected." Putin moved with his family to Dresden, where He was fluent in German, and still speaks feels more comfortable using German than English. Putin served in the Dresden post from 1985 playing the part of a translator... The work, though not all of what Putin did exciting. Much of it was simply amassing information to the Soviets and were not plotting any kind In 1989, the situation became more dicey for During one incident, as it became more clear control, Putin and his colleagues feared for in Dresden. Putin called in the Soviet military for help, them unless Moscow gave the order. Something Moscow never did. While Putin and his colleagues survived that the situation was unstable. During this time, Putin and other KGB agents and their headquarters was overtaken or abandoned, of their enemies. Post-KGB Life The Berlin Wall fell in November of 1989, to Russia. By this point Putin held the rank of Lieutenant However, the KGB was nearing the end of its at the State University of Saint Petersburg. He was no ordinary professor though... he Part of his job included keeping an eye out new KGB recruits. Through this job, Putin was also able to reconnect Sobchak was elected the Mayor of St. Petersburg He worked for Sobchak until 1996. When Sobchak lost re-election Putin could but Putin believed that taking a job with and he instead chose to move to Moscow to Politics During Boris Yeltsin's presidency, Putin as Deputy Chief Administrator for the Kremlin by 1999 he was named the Secretary of the advisor on matters of foreign relations and Then, Putin's career really got a boost... Yeltsin decided he didn't want to keep his That was in August of 1999 - Putin was the Vladimir Putin to the post. Yeltsin offered Putin the position as a "Prime the next step in Putin's career... Only months after naming Putin as Prime Minister, Putin became the Acting President of Russia Then, only three months later in March of President of Russia in his own right... Presidency Ten opponents ran against him for President, history there was a peaceful transfer of power Putin used his first term to advocate for approval of the START II arms treaty, and Putin was also initially supportive of the the 9/11 terrorist attacks, but he did not During Putin's first summer in power, tragedy in the Barents Sea in August. Putin was on vacation when the sinking occurred, address the sinking and the deaths of all Then, when asked what went wrong for the Kursk, Distraught and angry, Russians were attacking thereof, of the Kursk disaster, with some when a rescue might still be possible. Despite that, opinion polls showed that overall the tragedy. Four years later, the Kursk tragedy did not In 2004, the Russians re-elected Putin to They were apparently pleased with the job 70% of the vote. Second Term During his first term in office, Putin had Having denounced communism, he instead supported with very strict regulations and oversight. After years of economic struggle, Russia was even growing economy under Putin. Some reports put Russia's growth during He's still remembered favorably for this of industry and, in part because of the mid-2000's last. But in a country whose economy was in disarray rise to power, an era of growth in which disposable to think positively of Putin. Putin continued to work on economic policies foreign relations, including making a historic This trip was the first by a Russian leader Conversations between Putin and Israeli leaders The trip garnered much attention around the ties between Russia and Israel, though the Russian sale of missiles to Syria. The trip was also seen as a move by Putin diplomatic actor in any Mideast peace discussions Security issues were present not just abroad a major focus for Putin. Unfortunately, this is something that became at the Beslan School in 2004... In September, terrorists held over 1,000 people Nearly 800 of these hostages were children. For three days, the terrorists, demanding people hostage. The situation ended tragically when tanks, the Russian military to try to clear the school. Special forces entered the school after hearing were being kept, but their actions did not Quite the contrary... in the siege of the of whom were children. The tragedy shook the world, and while the the European Court of Human Rights later stated lacked caution, when they stormed the school... Despite anger and discontentment at the government's not affect the public's view of Putin very Quite the opposite in fact. A poll taken after the Beslan massacre stated him. The Beslan tragedy did lead to changes in though, primarily giving more power to the For instance, instead of electing governors the President would have the power to appoint In 2007, during his second term, Putin was The magazine called the final year of his and the cover photo for the issue, a portrait Photo Award. During the shoot, the two discussed their This connection helped Putin become more comfortable, his award-winning shot of the intimidating No matter how popular Putin was, though, the term. The Russian Constitution forbid it. However, Putin found a way around this rule run out... "Presidency" Presidential terms in Russia had been extended Putin. He was still beholden to the previous Constitutional So how did he get to stay in power? The man who was elected Russia's next President, and had benefitted from Putin's rise to Neither he nor Putin wanted Putin to be pushed named Putin as Russia's Prime Minister - a Yeltsin. After thirteen years in leadership, Putin government. He and his supporters were able to keep him perhaps not in line with its exact intent. During his third term as Prime Minister from economic crisis that swept the world, as well Russia's population was falling by one million country whose population is only 150 million. In 2010, the trend reversed and Russia's The reversal is in part credited to Putin's it is easier to support a larger family. One of Putin's economic reforms included Negotiations for Russia to join the WTO lasted the fall of the Soviet Union.) Russia was granted entry into the WTO after Russia permission to phase in the opening trading requirements. Now, while his political party retained dominance, in 2012, he did not escape politically unscathed the term limits law. The elections for President in 2012 were heavily election to a third term... 'The task of the government is not only to bitter medicine.' - Vladimir Putin But, despite those protests, he was inaugurated be six years. This means that Putin will be President of of his interference in United States elections, grow... Controversy Putin has continued to be re-elected and re-appointed government, but his time in office has not actions. Among the high points - or low points we should murders of Russian journalists. Deaths of journalists were a point of concern but the issue began to get a lot of international President when journalist Anna Politkovskaya Politkovskaya had been a strong critic of Even before her death, she was poisoned but Her murder remains unsolved, but there is her... Politkovskaya is far from the only Putin opponent In March 2017 the Washington Post even published Among those deaths were a former Deputy Prime the Kremlin, a tycoon whose death was initially journalist who was kidnapped and shot in the be poisoned by Russian agents, and a journalist medical records have been sealed... Certainly, plenty of intrigue... Public Image beyond doubt to be the work of Putin's government, does not like to be viewed as weak. He has done all he can to prove his strength, manly. Beyond his active participation in martial hunting, tracking, and posing with wild animals. He's caught huge fish - including a 46 pound to tranquilize it though! He also once saved a camera crew from a Siberian a tour of a wildlife sanctuary. Further, he's gotten close enough to polar to help out with a research project. Polar bears might look cute from afar, but Putin has also attached himself to an experimental He always does these things carefully making 'The more I know about people, the more I I simply like animals.' - Vladimir Putin Putin makes time for other adventurous and He dives in the Black Sea, explores shipwrecks, and has driven a Formula One race car. Once, during a visit to a Russian youth camp with him! Then, not content with arm wrestling as a pan with his bare hands. Naturally, photographers caught all of these distributed and viewed around the world. From his days at school cultivating an athletic Minister, Putin has made it known that he Putin Today with two years of a term yet to go, Putin Russia has been involved in the Syrian Civil In early July of 2017, Vladimir Putin and Syria, and weeks later Russia announced that to keep its airbase in the country for at In addition to Syria, perhaps Putin's most interference of Russia in the U.S. elections. From hacking allegations to questions of illicit inner circle, the U.S and world media have conversation topic... Vladimir Putin began his life growing up in during the Cold War, and has become an internationally He's been strong and unapologetic in his swirl around his treatment of political opponents Putin is unwilling to sit back and be a shrinking remains a world power with a great deal of He has done all that he can to cultivate an and for himself personally, showing no signs lifestyle even as he enters his sixties... Vladimir Putin has undoubtedly made a place eligible for re-election in 2018 we may still ahead of us...