Retailers have a problem. inflation or shrinkage or self return problem. Dr. Overstreet: There was about sales last year, 14.5% of those billion worth. You VO: might have heard some policies, shrinking return items that can be returned, even cases. In fact, 81% of retailers policies in some capacity and Contessa Brewer Kroening: Amazon fees, or they've shortened the purchased online. Broadcaster: Return fraud has tighten their return policies VO: Now, most people assume fraudulent returns or return Retailers expect 16 and a half fraudulent this year. That's 24 worth. The reality is returns have line. And the advent of As retailers started absorbing and lost items. It's no wonder to change their policies, making cutting down on the cost of You changed a little bit of some when you actually refund people sure you know you got the right authorize the refund. But what if I told you this is cracking down on return losses? quietly tracking your return First, let's establish what Mitul Jain: A lot of customers or try and defraud the retailer in the box. Unknown: Now, those are pretty returners know they're engaging there's also times when people policies, things like a clothing item for an event after well, you may be following Retailers viewed this as It's the people who are following the intent or policies retailers. Now, if you're still thinking, always follow the rules. This Sure, maybe not. But that flagged in the past. It isn't sort of a binary event. good returner, or bad returner. trying to do is ensure that their own. A 2018 report by the Wall Street still is it largely unspoken tracking and profiling, risky far as banning customers from Customers who seemingly have their return score. But what's track? And what do they know Say I went into my local big box last year, I take it home and going to return it. So I go back item. Within the proper time in the original packaging. But So I'm asked to show an ID. Hey, and the card I made the purchase back and leave the store. Fast flat screen TV at that same big and it isn't the right size. You order it online. So I go back to the TV within the proper it's in the packaging and wait, it. I'm following company return that tells me I need to reach find out why my return was has been sending my data out to service provider and unbeknownst building a profile on me for name, address, phone number, ID information. Basically any to this retailer. Now this is prevention companies and this most prominent being a company According to the retail with individual retailers as potentially fraudulent equation software tracks assigns a score to returners who fraudulent behavior. According software normally tracks factors specific transaction types customer has a receipt in retailer, but what does that according to the Wall Street things, bringing back several time. Returning a large portion forgot a receipt, returning an frequently stolen item, even closing time. These are just a could hurt your return score. shopper who is operating within could get penalized. For some had a score or that it was look like a warning handed out outright banned from returning customer complaints lodged with customers reported feeling of major US retailers. Several the penalize behavior and the had no way of seeing it until or the return was already these that prompted several now against the retail equation Plaintiffs in each suit alleged information wrong, and give comes to accessing or correcting CLECs. The lawsuit goes on to to the retail equation without consumers. The problem is these backup. Often these policies are print is buried in retailers it isn't something you can opt decided to outsource their party, and you're agreeing to purchase agreement, you're also the third party logistics the Wall Street Journal report. time of worked with 34,000 stores. The several retailers as defendants Best Buy and Advance Autoparts. and TJ Maxx have also been retail equation services. And question. If retailers have been policies for a while my now? Now that interest rates have also retailers thinking, look, that isn't necessary. VO: Basically, it's a lot more now. Meaning to turn a profit areas that have historically the retail equations own lost over $101 billion to return that's not counting the cost of returns. Unknown: Most of the returns of the return or the original back on the shelf, and there's for what they originally asked money on both ends.