We all want to look fresh-faced and young But keep in mind that your makeup needs to you age. Tried and true techniques from your high school years later. You might be an old hand at applying your end up looking older, too. We've compiled a list of the most common makeup hiding them. Stay tuned to find out if you're guilty of today! Foundation faux pas Foundation forms the base of any look, but As Maybelline New York artist Melissa Silver &quot;No foundation is better than bad foundation, If you skip foundation, your skin tone will But if you apply your foundation too heavily, highlighting your imperfections. Use a formula that is heavy enough to smooth Drier skin is common as you age, so you may or even a tinted moisturizer, instead of a look flaky. Even if you've been using the same shade of to find a better match or formulation out And even though some recommend using powder longer -- powder might only accentuate the Makeup artist Ariel Lewis advises, &quot;With dryer skin, powder tends to seep into Try using a setting spray instead!&quot; Blushing beauty Unless you're actually in high school, don't Also, avoid using too much blush, applying Los Angeles celebrity makeup artist Jan Ping &quot;There was a certain era when more was better those women today because they're still piling Avoid shades that are too brown or red, because Instead, pinch your cheeks and try to find results. Opt for a cream formulation instead of powder Apply a small amount to the center of your Blend well, and you'll nail that youthful Lining the bottom lash line in black Heavily lining that bottom lid ages you for it accentuates the fine lines surrounding To keep things looking youthful, you want Our first tip? Keep that bottom lash liner light. Ariel Lewis says, &quot;Use a deep brown eyeshadow kohl pencil. Keep gel liner away from the bottom. Use it only on the top of your lids.&quot; Or, even try white or nude liner on the bottom Oranj Studio's makeup artist Missy Lowe a youthful glow.&quot; Perfect for that no-makeup, makeup look." Concealer mishaps When it comes to concealer, one size does A concealer perfect for covering spots or under-eye use. Explaining ways people usually go wrong with &quot;If the concealer is too thick or not the you are concealing. Skin under the eye is seven times thinner is necessary.&quot; Use a lightweight formulation for your under-eye, If you have purplish circles, try a color it. Don't go with super-light shades, which will appearance. Apply only to the inner corner of your under-eye and downwards. Metallic eyeshadow Sorry disco divas, metallic eyeshadow can as they used to be. Yes, it's a natural part of aging, but those wrinkles and fine lines. Makeup artist Missy Lowe warns, &quot;Metallic, shimmer and glitter shadows can the eyes. The best bet to create a flawless look is Makeup artist Ariel Lewis explains that if of your lid. She says, &quot;Putting [metallics] on the corners of your lines that tend to settle in that area.&quot; Another way to rock the shimmer without aging Ilia Beauty founder Sasha Plavsic says, It's nice to use fine pearl as a base and soften the look.&quot; So, we know a pop of color in your makeup But once you get older, it's more likely to Plavsic says, &quot;It would similar to wearing a mini skirt than a teenager, but for many others it may She adds, &quot;Bright blues, purples [and] greens tend to age.&quot; Ariel Lewis also recommends staying away from She recommends opting for muted colors -- such instead of green. Lipstick that's too dark Our lips become thinner and lose definition Unless you plan on going crazy with the liner easing away from darker shades, which make Jan Ping shares, &quot;I like to start with lip liner, and use a than the person's natural lip color. I line the lips and then I fill in the rest A lot of women are really stuck on the idea that gloss gives a softer, more youthful appearance.&quot; Highlighting Bright, glowing skin equals youthful-looking But it takes the proper placement of such There are certain areas of the face where Celebrity makeup artist Suzy Gerstein says, &quot;You don't want to apply a shimmery highlighter and tends to pull down the eye." Gerstein suggests avoiding the crepey areas more taut areas, like the center of the eye, And if you're going to highlight, she recommends Wear too much mascara on the bottom lashes Suzy Gerstein explains that heavy mascara flake, creating the illusion of dark circles. She dishes, &quot;I'm really into the Tightline mascara by It allows you to get right into the roots eyeliner.&quot; If you're going to wear mascara on the bottom, Less is more So, how do you keep makeup from aging you? Less is more! Keep things light and natural. And even when you want a splash of something But as Missy Lowe tells us, &quot;Most makeup rules are meant to be broken, what works best for you!" Thanks for watching! Click the List icon to subscribe to our YouTube Plus, check out this other cool stuff we know