Explosive Day of the Russian Marine Corps in Crimea, Moscow once again puts forward conditions for Kiev, and the former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine spoke about the political end of Zelensky. NEXTA broadcasts the most important and interesting news up to this hour. Trump will not be able to conclude a deal between Ukraine and Russia and plans a meeting with Kim Jong-un. For what? Resonance and interview details. Explosions without air raid. Targets in Crimea are under attack. How did the Ukrainian Armed Forces congratulate the Russian Marines on the holiday? Lukashenko is again at the center of protests, the Internet is turned off in the country, and Putin is received in Kazakhstan with the words - Your Excellency. Hello everyone, friends. I will be glad to see your like, subscription and repost. You know very well that this is very important for us. Leave your comments. Thanks for your feedback . About current and important events right now. I'm starting. EXPLOSIVE DAY OF THE MARINE CORPS IN THE CRIMEA a series of powerful explosions occurred on the peninsula. Sevastopol was under the close attention of monitoring channels . The occupation authorities announced that they had repelled a combined attack. Smoke rose over the city. The occupiers said that this was only a means of disguise. There was a heated discussion in local public pages that the air raid warning was not sounded in the city. In addition, according to the Crimean Wind monitoring channel, explosions were heard in the area of the Belbek military airfield. How necessary are such attacks on military targets in occupied Crimea and how important is the territory of the peninsula for the Russian occupation army and the continuation of the war against Ukraine? - we discussed these issues with a military expert, a former employee of the Security Service of Ukraine, Ivan Stupak. Ivan Stupak, Military expert, former SBU employee /exclusive because if we destroy the launch vehicle, it will not be able to fire missiles. Even if the missiles are lying in the warehouse of the Russian Federation for a hundred thousand pieces, there is simply no launch vehicle, no one is shooting, everyone is smoking bamboo, picking their nose and relaxing. Thus, Ukraine is trying to protect its infrastructure from massive missile attacks, including from Crimea, using these launch vehicles. We are still guessing because we don't know how this attack ended. This is one component. The second component is that it could be some kind of headquarters, where some general commander arrived, who a priori must be destroyed, because this will demoralize the Russian army. The general was killed, that is, morality is going down. And the third component is air. On the territory of Crimea there are at least five large airfields where Russian aviation is located, including front-line aviation, which supports the Russian offensive in the south of the occupied territories. Let me remind you that on Tuesday evening , news about a UAV attack on an oil refinery in the city of SalavAt, which is located almost two thousand kilometers from Kiev , spread massively across TG channels . This is Bashkortostan. Later, according to Russian media, the alarm went away, since the drone turned out to be a corn cropper. A Russian AN-2 plane flew into a restricted industrial zone and caused panic. THE RF IS PREPARING AN OFFENSIVE intend to compromise or engage in good faith negotiations, regardless of who the mediator is. This conclusion is made by experts from the American Institute for the Study of War, who analyzed the recent statement by the head of the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service Naryshkin. He again spoke about the impossibility of freezing the war. Sergei Naryshkin, Director of the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Russian Federation that Russia categorically rejects any freezing of the conflict according to the Korean or any other option. We need lasting and long-term peace for many, many years to come. The Kremlin insists that the Ukrainian Armed Forces withdraw from four regions of Ukraine at once. And now, perhaps, a new offensive by Putin's army is being prepared for another region - Dnepropetrovsk. Also recently, the Institute for the Study of War (ISW) suggested that Russian military commanders are likely planning an attack on the southeastern part of the Dnepropetrovsk region - which, notably, is not one of the four illegally annexed regions - as part of Russia's long-standing goal of capturing the entire Donetsk region. About how far the Russian army can go and can it? And what is happening now on the battle line? We also discussed these issues with a military expert. Ivan Stupak, Military expert, former SBU employee /exclusive What we see now is that they are trying to eat the Donetsk region in parts, that is, within the Donetsk region they are eating it up from different sides. And any official statements that we are going to go and fight there in the Dnepropetrovsk region or in the Zaporozhye region further, at least I have not heard that. It is not a fact that this does not exist, but it was not mentioned in the official discourse by senior officials of the Russian Federation. Yes, from military officers, from propagandists, from some writers on Telegram it is, we will go, we will seize it. But, as for me, the Russian Federation puts this question squarely in the following way: you must give up these territories yourself, otherwise it will be worse, that is, such an ultimatum. I conclude that in the Russian army, in the Russian command, there is an understanding that they simply do not have enough forces for all areas. There simply aren't enough resources for the Zaporozhye region and the Kherson region, which is why the threat is posed in this way. Give it yourself, otherwise it will be worse. You understand that there is no resource. THE POLITICAL END OF ZELENSKY Ukraine faces the collapse of the front if the Trump administration denies Ukraine weapons, and Zelensky is politically finished. This is discussed in a long interview with former Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmitry Kuleba to Politico. Kuleba criticized the West for indecisiveness, while the North Koreans are already fighting on the side of Russia. The former minister says Ukraine and its destruction are Putin's obsession. In addition, the ex-Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke about the threats to Zelensky if he decides to sign a deal that is often talked about in the United States - this is a freeze of the war along the front line and, in fact, a gift to Russia in the form of 20 percent of Ukrainian territory. Dmitry Kuleba, Former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine The Russians hold Donbass, they hold Crimea, no NATO membership. Can Zelensky sign? He can't because of the Constitution. And because this will be the political end of Zelensky. By the way, Trump's circle is talking about the possibility of direct negotiations with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un, with whom the Republican already met several years ago. A reporter writes about this. Clarifying that negotiations can reduce the risk of armed conflict. Do you believe in the forecasts about the end of all wars after Trump's inauguration, which will take place on January 20? Write your opinion in the comments. MUSK IS DISSATISFIED WITH BIDEN who after Trump's inauguration will become head of the Department of Government Efficiency, responded very briefly but clearly to Politico's report. The publication said that Biden asked Congress to allocate another $24 billion for military assistance to Ukraine and replenishment of American weapons that were transferred to Kiev. Musk believes... further quote: this is not ok. The authors of the publication report that two-thirds of the amount requested by Biden, that is, $16 billion, will be used to replenish American reserves. The remaining $8 billion is for the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, under which the Pentagon signs contracts with American companies to arm the Ukrainian defense forces. KAZAKHSTAN MEETS A SUSPECT court for war crimes was greeted with the words Your Excellency. The meeting between Tokayev and Putin was announced in Moscow and Astana last month. A few hours before the dictator's arrival in Kazakhstan, an article appeared on the Kremlin website. Putin decided to write about strong ties with the people of Kazakhstan and stated that a multipolar world order is now being formed. In addition, the person who is the suspect suddenly remembered international law. Vladimir Putin, War Criminal the key role of international law in interstate relations and the need to take into account the interests of all countries in matters of global security, stability and sustainable development. Let me remind you that Kazakhstan has not signed or ratified the Rome Statute, which is the founding document of the International Court of Justice in The Hague. That is why Astana may not comply with the ICC decision. However, Ukraine has previously repeatedly reminded that Putin is a war criminal and therefore he should be arrested for the aggressive war against Ukraine and for the kidnapping of Ukrainian children. Subscribers from Kazakhstan, how do you feel about such close ties between Putin and Tokayev? Leave your opinion in the comments, of course, if it does not threaten your safety. LUKASHENKO AT THE CENTER OF PROTESTS Lukashenko did not expect this. At least ten people died. Pakistan was rocked by mass protests when Lukashenko arrived in Islamabad. The self-proclaimed president of Belarus has been visiting this country for the third day. His press service ignores the protests, talking about gifts and family dinners between Lukashenko and the Prime Minister of Pakistan. Let me remind you that in Islamabad, protesters are demanding the release from prison of the country's former prime minister, who was sent to jail on cases allegedly related to corruption and incitement to violence. WAR ON PAUSE The end of hostilities. A truce has been concluded between Israel and the Hezbollah group, which is based in Lebanon. The ceasefire agreement came into force on the morning of November 27 and will last at least 60 days. During this period, the armed forces of both sides are required to leave southern Lebanon. World leaders welcome this decision. And US President Biden said that the agreement was reached through the mediation of the United States and France. In Israel, the events were commented on as follows. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of Israel the same Hezbollah; we have set it back decades. We destroyed Nasrallah - the axis of the axis - we eliminated its top leaders, destroyed most of its missiles and shells. We have killed thousands of terrorists and destroyed their underground terrorist infrastructure adjacent to our border - infrastructure that they spent years building. Friends, that's all. Don't forget to leave your comment and like. My team and I continue to monitor the most important news; look for up-to-date information from NEXTA in Telegram channels or on the X platform. Thank you for your trust and for staying with us, see you again and good news!