56% of Americans say they pay too much in federal they receive valuable services from those taxes. At the same time, 57% of Americans say reducing the the President and Congress. We need to keep a very robust income tax system in An alternative to balancing the budget is cutting cuts would result in a lower standard of living, by Taxes are a big deal in the 2024 election cycle. Some people have been referring to 2025 as &quot;Tax Taxes.&quot; And that is when a bunch of provisions from Act that was enacted in 2017 will be sunsetting. If the 2017 tax cuts are allowed to expire after 2025. About 62% of taxpayers would see their tax bills go up tax cuts for the vast majority of taxpayers. This means the 2024 elections will determine which years to come. Vice President Harris views the tax code as a tool to her economic and social goals. Trump's basic tax plan is to cut tax rates increase tariffs on products that are imported. Here's what former President Trump's and Vice President The 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the TCJA, was one of defining policies. If it is allowed to expire, the vast majority of The average American saved on taxes as a result of the saving was disproportionate. A middle income taxpayer saved about $900 by 2025, the top 1% saved about $61,000, according to estimates Tax Policy Center. For example, one of the things we did in that bill was So today in America, only 9% of Americans itemize That's an amazing thing. That's a record low. That was one of the greatest tax simplification On the campaign trail. Trump has put forth additional the tcja. He's talked about exempting tip income from taxes exempting Social Security benefits from taxes. To exempt Social Security from taxation would years and Social Security's insolvency by one year. It's a pain point for seniors who are hit by that tax. And Social Security is such a key issue during this proposed that. If Trump wins the 2024 election and is able to enact will likely remain mostly unchanged since he plans to However, these tax cuts may lead to a significant The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act from the start was going to Congress budgeted itself $1.5 trillion of extra tax The Republicans pursued a strategy of borrow and In effect, they understand that cutting taxes would I think their theory is that cutting taxes pay for spurring more economic growth. I don't think we saw that. I think very few people believe tax cuts pay for But tax cuts are immensely popular. Everything we have to do should be oriented towards one country. The Congressional Budget Office, or CBO, estimates an more than $4.5 trillion over ten years, including That's about a $1.1 trillion increase from the CBO's It did cut taxes. It also stimulated new investment, a little bit more elsewhere. But even accounting for those positive and ultimately increased debt. Taxes support our spending. And in the long run, taxes and spending need to In the short run, we can borrow to spend, but need to repay that borrowing. The US borrows a lot for its spending relative to We tax relatively lightly, but spend comparably to countries. That leaves our deficit growing. When we're borrowing that money, it tends to come from So the returns that we have to pay for borrowing that to Americans. So it does decrease income somewhat. It's not entirely clear how Harris would deal with the The administration's budget this year noted that they $400,000. That's pretty much 98% of taxpayers. So in a way, you could say that Trump and Harris agree population. I believe Vice President Harris wants to advance a care That is, to provide for the help that Americans need And those basic needs and resources include a living rental assistance, housing assistance. Unfortunately, what Kamala Harris wants is not tax It's tax reform. She wants to raise the tax rates, which is like a And then she wants to create all these new loopholes accountants and lobbyists. Like Trump, Harris has pledged to do away with federal But one component of Harris's plan that differs from credit. The child tax credit was designed to help low to It's a benefit for people with kids. Republicans and Democrats differ on some basic design credit, most notably whether the credit will be A refundable tax credit gives you the ability to get tax liability for the year, so it can be really taxes. So Republicans favor the tax credit, especially for income taxpayers, whereas Democrats favor the tax down the income ladder. In 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Republican $2000 the child tax credit. And then later, as part of President Biden's American tax credit was increased even more and was made But Biden could not bring along any Republican votes. So basically, the Republicans favor more children tax Democrats favor them even more. Harris's plan also gives qualifying households with a Additionally, she proposed a tax credit worth up to buyers. Many of the housing policies are designed to boost address the fundamental issue, which is supply Providing tax credits for home buying, it sounds nice, just funnel into the price of buying a home and increase homeownership and increasing the housing You have to look at the cost of housing and really want to address housing affordability. Harris has put forth policies that will bring in corporations and the wealthy at higher rates. The campaign has said they would maintain a commitment asking the wealthiest Americans and large corporations Harris has also endorsed Biden's budget for 2025, which individuals with more than $100 million in wealth, unrealized capital gains. Harris has also put forward a plan that includes a 28% household with an annual income of $1 million or more, 39.6% rate. Vice President Harris in August proposed an increase of 28%, up from 21%, which aligns with President Biden's budget. The through line, I think, is imposing higher taxes on entrepreneurs and the wealthy, and then using that to parts of the economy, whether that's families or So really increasing the role and the scope of the for doing that. If Harris wins the 2024 election, the average American current tax rates maintained, along with the potential Lower income Americans might receive more benefits It's unclear whether Harris's revenue raisers would be In August 2024, Vice President Harris unveiled a number And that collection of proposals, the Committee for a increase the deficits by $1.7 trillion over a decade. The Harris campaign did not provide comment to CNBC in Roughly 6 in 10 Americans say it bothers them a lot another 60% say the same about wealthy people. There is, however, a significant partisan divide, with Republicans supporting higher corporate taxes. From the business side, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act sensible, actually, than the old one. The only problem, in my view, was that the Tax Cuts low. The corporate tax rate reduction was kind of one of the And we did this not because we love corporations, but And we want jobs located here in the United States. If you look at the situation before Trump was president, as Trump put it, it was like we were putting a tariff on our own goods and services. And what country does something like that? So we took that top tax rate down from about 40%, down when you include the state and local taxes, and that Another complicating factor with Harris's proposal to to 28%, the TCJA lowered it from 35% to 21%. So it might sound like a 28% is just halfway back to But the TCJA also made significant changes to the So the base is a lot broader now, meaning that when just taking back half of the rate cut. You're going further than that because you're taxing a before. In direct comparison to Harris's plan, Trump has The TCJA set them at 21%. Trump told Bloomberg Businessweek he hopes to drop The Tax Foundation estimates that cut would reduce over ten years. Another policy he has talked about that harkens back to tariffs, potentially a 10% or 20% universal tariff 60% tariff on everything we buy from China. Trump's tariffs would only replace about 8% of the $34 trillion of federal income tax that the CBO tariffs cannot replace income taxes. He wants to impose what is, in effect, a national sales on everyday products and basic necessities that we countries. That will devastate Americans. Tariffs have a similar burden as a sales tax. They apply to goods that we purchase from foreign They ultimately fall on consumers. But I think economically it has a very similar burden Having worked with Trump on the tariff issue, he really He believes in kind of tit for tat. If you're going to hit us, we're going to hit you. And I've seen him use tariffs very effectively as a tool to get other countries to do things that are It's ironic that Kamala Harris's attacking Trump on President Biden chose to maintain many of Trump's Chinese imports. But Trump implemented more wide ranging tariffs, In the end, it won't just be up to the president to The reality is is that any type of tax changes would depend on which party controls both chambers, as well see or not see happen after 2025.