- One of these burgers cost $10,000 and one of these phones cost $150,000 and one of these yachts cost $600 million. And every time Chris guesses which item is the most Let's see if Chris hates his friend. - I do not. - This is cake number one right here. That's gonna be a stack of money, I called it, I'm very smart. - We might have put it in here to make you think it's Cake number two. - Here's the thing about cake. The bigger the cake, the more expensive. 'Cause that's not usually - So you would say size matters with cake. - Size does matter with cake. - Option number one is money cake, option number two is giant cake. Which one is more expensive? - Money cake looked better, giant cake was bigger. I know I said I wanted but I think I'm gonna go with money cake. - You are correct. - Money cake cost $10,000 to make whereas the other one was only a hundred, which means Martin won this $500. Here's the $500. Thanks for coming out. All right, next clip. - Bye, Martin. - We have two pizzas here. - I know what that is, fois gras. - Yes. - We had that. Is this the pizza that we actually had? - It looks pretty close, - Oh, we did have caviar. - This is pizza number two. - Here's the thing. That company I don't think could afford that expensive of a - Bro, stop wasting time, pick. - Gold. - Yes, obviously it was the gold one. That's not $9,000. How's that nine grand? - 'Cause they're ultra-rare - Hey, I'm in Spain but without the S. - Next clip, let's see if - I do not. Ooh, watches are tough. - Which is more expensive, or the one on the right? - I was looking at Chronoscopes earlier. - Is that a Chronoscope? - No, the other one is. I think it's that one. - So you wanna lock your answer? - I'm gonna lock it in They're just buss down, that's why it makes it look like it's more expensive. Yeah, woo! - That is not the watch I was no sir-ee. You're not super wealthy? You're not Jeff Besoz? - Mm mm. - I am because I'm bald. I knew the one on the left is cheap because one time I went in a mall and I bought that gold watch there, I guess she scammed me, for 50 dollars. But I convinced everyone and people believed me. - You actually got - I did. Hold that for Martin, next clip. So we got a Lamborghini - Bugatti Chiron. - I mean come on, that's - Here's the thing, the Lamborghini, even though it's cheaper, They couldn't have gotten to film this? they spent all the money on the Bugatti. - Yeah, on the car. - If you buy a Bugatti, you don't have money left over for a camera. - That's fair, I'm locking it in, Bugatti. - I'll go and get the money ready. What? Oh, it's a fake Bugatti. You guys used low camera I've been bamboozled. - Next clip. - Hot dog. - So we got glizzy number one. - Glizzy number one's looking pretty fancy with that log as a plate. - Kinda like that log plate. - I want that hot dog so freaking bad. - Uh. - I know, I think that 'cause the caviar and the truffles. - Caviar and truffles, but multiple times we've made you think - Yeah, I know you guys like this whole reverse psychology, you're all therapists or whatever. - What are you picking? - I'm gonna go with the logless glizzy. - Logless glizzy, is he correct? Logless glizzy. - Hey! - Bro, you almost picked a 5 dollar weenie over the 169 dollar weenie. Martin can take this money and buy three of the weenies on the right. He could get each of us a weenie. - Let's go get weenies. - Let's do it. This is a phone slash? - Emulator. I personally built something - And then we got this. Is that Who's The Boss? Bro, I love this guy. Hey, Boss, come collab with us. - Here's the thing, I don't know if this is a real gold phone. - You think if that phone's 150 grand, in the intro, he'd be - I may just have to go with my gut, I'm gonna say Mario - Bro, you thought that a phone with a little Game Boy on the back beat a solid gold phone? - 'Cause he's rich. - You guys hate Mario. - 'Cause he's rich. He goes, &quot;Let me toss this - You see this face on my hat? Now it's sad and it reflects how I feel. - Skateboarding, this option number one. a glass skateboard. - That looks like the - A Louis Vuitton board or a glass board? - I know that in the he literally shatters it that same video so I'm gonna guess Louis Vuitton. - Good, if you didn't you were an idiot. - Actually it might have oh God, oh God. to change your answer? He was literally about - No, I was. - Obviously a Louis Vuitton board costs more than a glass board. - Yeah, Louis Vuitton. - I'm gonna summon Martin. Hey Martin, so so far 2000 dollars, I'll let - Why do you hate me? - I don't hate you, here's the thing. - Let's see if he changes his mind. In case you can't tell, - Yeah, I can tell. - Which hotel room is more expensive? We got the leftie and the right. Whoa, I think I've been in - Jimmy's rich, Jimmy's Ooh, that's pretty, That's so cool, I love that. Well when you look at it from that angle it kinda didn't really Oh is this the same place - This is the second one. Which one's more expensive? - I'm gonna say the second one but I feel like you're baiting me again but I would be dumb if I - If it says it's the first - All right, there we go, All right, look, I'm in a I don't know what to think anymore. You guys have bamboozled me. You know what I do think about? Martin getting 500 bands. - There's five more clips left, let's see if Chris can turn things around. We have two yachts here, both super ultra mega yachts, okay? - Got you. - Ooh, ooh. ooh. That's pretty beautiful. - I've only been on like two yachts ever and you paid for 'em but that's the nicest yacht I've seen. - And then here is the other mega yacht. This looks like some Jack Sparrow typey. - This looks like the Sydney Opera House floating down the water. That's what, this one might - What's your answer? - Here's the thing. - We don't care, what's your answer? - Hamilton. Hey! - Wow. - Yeah, giant floating sack of turd just made Martin 500 more dollars. - The white one was half a billion dollars more expensive? - Or if you had 100,000 stacks of these, here's it compared to a building and that still wouldn't of the yacht on the right. - Chess set. Ooh, the one on the left looks cooler. - This looks like it has expensive jewels, whereas the other one looks - That might be crystal. - This is making me wanna All right. - Jimmy, I'm gonna go ahead if it's not the first If somehow that thing is more expensive than gold and diamonds and Hey, wait, hey, appreciate the soft ball there, buddy. - You're good, there you go. I knew you would screw up so I had to put an easy one in. Three more left, make sure see if you can get 'em right. Which pool is more expensive? - I've been watching a and what I know is I'm If I see a grotto, ooh, there's a grotto, I already see a grotto. A little bit of a lazy river. - Wow. This person has an entire - What's this guy live in Disney World? Like what the heck? - This guy is Disney World. All right, now we're onto clip number two. - Looks like something out of a five star resort. - Five star resort. - That's because it is. Modeled after the Wynn Las Vegas. - There's a lot going on in my head. So on one hand, we got a lot of land, lot of water, on the other hand, we got really pretty water. - I'm gonna pick number - Number two. Yeah! - I need to stop helping him. Up next we have headphones. - I remember this video actually. I think these headphones were in the like 300,000 dollar range. I don't remember this video. - This looks like some some headphones in his garage. - No, they were Monster Cat, which is usually a cheaper brand. - I'm going with left one. - Left. - Yeah. - We're not even pausing it, we're jumping straight into burger, take the freaking money. - Ooh ooh ooh. - We got an exquisite mushroom burger and then we have a bald because now that I'm - - He is bald. - I was bald two weeks ago so I'm officially routing for number one. I'm team bald. - Ooh I don't know, that - Oh my God, ooh. But bro, there's no gold or caviar. It's definitely number one. Pick, pick, pick. - Scared. Right. - Oh. - I didn't even think, you scared me and I said right and I meant to say left. - Bro, why did you think a burger? - I meant to say left, - You could buy that at McDonald's. - I meant to say left, - How about you turn, walk 'cause the video's over, subscribe if you haven't already. - Wait a minute, we forgot about Martin. - Oh yeah, congratulations, Chris won you another, I don't know, whatever that is. What do you wanna tell the viewers? - Uh.