In this video, I'm going to pop, crack, or release your tuned. Hey, everyone. Dr. Rowe Saint Joseph, Michigan. So, I'm you had somebody yell at you to because it was going to cause is there's no definitive link and getting early arthritis and video's comment section and little bit more about that. your knuckles can cause an your coworkers and it can give little bit too far causing the soft tissues that support especially if you do the old show four safe alternatives to safely self pop crack or knuckles. Each method works To get the best results, go works best for you. With that So, let's start with one of my able to self pop, crack, or This one is called the Vulcan make a Vulcan sign just like knuckle that you're looking to index finger. What we're going knuckle first. So, you're going then you're going to clamp above that knuckle. Just get a movement from here is very trying to do is pull on the deep opening traction or a joint. With this one, go where it's a deep opening discomfort or doesn't feel like rip off. If that knuckle is get that satisfying pop that don't feel it, no big deal. about three seconds, release this over and over again until just feels nice and loose. From then move up to my middle If you do find that one knuckle To take this one to the next it in that original stretch and slow turning or twisting motion joint a little bit more and you release. So, give that a try knuckles. So, for the top going to do is take our thumb just going to clamp right above going to pull on it and then twisting or turning motion just over all of the knuckles. just is able to release them hands like this and it's much do throughout the day. So, able to self crack or pop a called the pop top method. So, mimic the motion of popping a finger or knuckle that you're the middle knuckle right here to do is take the hand on the right here your index finger knuckle I like to go just a from there I'm going to take my top of that knuckle the straight forward we're going to traction into the joint right there but you're just and then lift up so it's a lifting up like this to create knuckle and the odds are if it satisfying self pop cracker but don't try to force it just wants to go it will go so from this about three to five times building into it with each little bit more to take this can do is get back into that then lifting and then doing a like this. Opens up the joint a finally get it to pop but it's able to target those knuckles do this over all of the exercise, we're going to show love. If you're having a lot right through here needs to get the wrist or this bottom method a try. The first thing thumb circles. We're just like this with our thumb. I movement as much as I can I can and do this about five to then switch it up in the other locked up, you can get your movement. So, if you need a you take your thumb and you your palm trying to bring it as much as you can. You should right here at the wrist that bottom knuckle. What you want right here for three to five repeat this a couple more up, you might get that looking for but if it does and to the next level. We're going build up as much tension as we We're going to then take our thumb. The movement, what we right here is curl and pull the this. You can kind of see how and then pulling on it like up the area from here to this locked up, you can definitely feels pretty good. So, I like seconds, release it, do it a feels. If it feels pretty if you need to target a little top knuckle of the thumb. What method that we just did. So, finger and thumb on the other right here below the thumb our thumb we're just going to actually I don't know if you but my thumb just popped right lift up like this and then you twisting motion like this to little bit more but give that a lot of pain relief so here's a crack your fingers and knuckles motions whatsoever so if you hands give this one a try whole hand. What we're going to fingers. The first thing that I bit more on this top knuckle your fingertips right here and again, what we're trying to do knuckle. You're going to curl them down towards the top of is just press into your palm tension build right here into joints are locked up, you might that you're looking for but and then do it about five times into it just a little bit more. the middle knuckle, what we're but we're going to focus on knuckle and it might take a this one. So, let's bend that fingertips down towards the this again we're going to try joints hold that comfortably five times for the bottom pretty much keep your fingers moving through this bottom lower our fingers down just fingertips towards our wrist across here on this bottom going to hold that for a couple five times. So, let's take this focus on piano fingers. So, front of you and you're just thumbs and your fingers. What I exploring as many movements as you do have one finger or a they're really the biggest be released. At that point, you fingers. Just try to build into possible going up and down like fingers and do the same thing. movement that will finally get this about five seconds, relax, you really want to take this can do eccentric piano fingers want to do is contort your this. So, I'm just kind of moving my fingers in as many to kind of like tense my because it builds tension but find that one spot that just self-pop crack or release but exercise that will build a lot hands and the fingers and you day. If the exercises help, giving this video a like and have any comments or questions, get back to you as soon as I