I'm here to give the CEO of AT&amp;T Which might not seem like it makes sense, time and money to just hand this directly I want to go But first, let's go somewhere a giant stack of documents. Having a budget is important. If I want to save money on housing, If I want to save on food, I can meal But there's one big expense. I've not found a way to save money After some quick research, that seem to be saving a lot of money The ultra wealthy We've been told for decades that cutting corporate taxes the wealthy will be good for everyone, So where did the idea come from? As usual, sitting around at a fancy bar If you've seen my videos before, a secret meeting where a bunch of old guys It's 1974 and two men who would one day go on to craft Sat down with another guy and Donald Rumsfeld, and economist Arthur Laffer, met in D.C., home to classic dishes which you could, of course, only $0.15 extra. President Ford temporary 5% bump on taxation These guys hated that. And Laffer had a theory. He drew it out on a cocktail napkin. Except this one was allegedly cloth. So not even disposable, which, like. Come on, man. he wrote. if you tax a product, less results. If you subsidize a product, more results. We've been taxing work output and income and subsidizing non-work The consequences are obvious. What does that mean? Well, at 100% tax rates, no one will find They won't work and tax and zero tax rates if there are no taxes. Of course, the government's We're going to have a lot of output but there'll be no revenues. And that's this point down here. Now, this didn't work at first. Cheney and Rumsfeld left the napkin I don't want that trash. But economic journalist Jude Wanniski also at the dinner, did want that trash. He took it and spent the next year cutting taxes on corporations In 1981, the star of monkey But even a monkey brought up in the right surroundings can learn the meaning entered the White House and hired Laffer economist, Milton Friedman, Friedman, also supported corporate but mostly Reagan made these big promises working people, we must go forward I shall ask for a 10% reduction income tax rates Proposals will also be submitted allowances for business but the burden because the economic base will have been but the tax cuts were not for working The biggest cut was on income taxes a 20% cut from 7250. The tax rate on the lowest Reagan also lowered estate taxes. That's taxes on inheritances That's tax on investment earnings and, Reagan never actually used was that lowering taxes on corporations generally boost the economy It did not. This is a chart of what percentage is in the hands of the top This is when Ronald Reagan took office. But the idea that tax cuts on the rich and corporations was good But back to the giant check. They wouldn't let me give it to the CEO. And anyway, But again, and I'll get to to the billionaires So I had to try again. I went to the Duke of the giant electricity provider But no one connected to Duke But anyway, back to the main story. 36 years after the bedtime for Bonzo era, a star of erotic Enter the White House. I think you like to make mischief. He noticed that too. While history might remember being about immigration and Hillary's Specifically, tax cuts for you taxes We're going to reduce your taxes. we're lowering your taxes. Big league, Big league. in office. He passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, bills shouldn't be allowed call it HB 573 or whatever, So let's look at that. Total means the lowest income a year or 40 beats, saved an average of $50,000 a year. I'm not counting out 50,000 beans. Then there's the estate tax. Lobbyists for billionaires And if you think this is the government for your family. Trump tried to present it as something that working Now on most family will will be spared and going be spared. And it really is the word punishment of the deeply unfair estate So you can keep your farms in the family. that sounds messed up. But it almost definitely doesn't I didn't. Didn't then either. Only the extremely wealthy This only applies to like the top Look at this chart for all that Trump saved money for literally 3300 and yet he's still talking we got rid of the death tax farms and businesses. And that's a big thing. Then there's the tax on corporations, Trump's tax bill cut it from 35% to 21%. Trump insisted this would be good for jobs to lower your business New companies are going to form. People are going to get jobs. His chief And went hard on the trickle down $2,000 are going to be other economists There's going to be a public debate But there's nobody We have the benefit of hindsight now. Did you get a $4,000 This was nearly a decade ago but in those first years, did you get that I spoke with a guy My name is Bharat Ramamurti I was the deputy director work as a senior advisor at the American Well, now that it's been seven years we have a lot of data And what we can see which is basically anybody a year, saw a $0 increase in their wages know, one of the arguments it would allow corporations things like research and development At the end of the day, largely what you saw was that all of those were sent back to shareholders in one form shareholder tends to be quite wealthy, about half of the households and the top 10% of households What that really was was a direct transfer If you add in all the little tricks even more taxes, It gets worse than what's just on paper. The institute for Policy and found that despite combined billion, They paid an average effective tax 35 paid their top executives That's one guy getting a bigger salary was paying in taxes. And while that could all come off the Institute on Taxation directly to the Trump tax bill, Comcast, Lockheed Martin and Walmart There was an increase in wages, however, whose overall compensation skyrocketed after the corporate tax Are you a customer or worker Did they pass any of that on to you? I highly doubt it. Some of the corporations even got huge The government paid them and they passed Meaning, if you're an American taxpayer, was directly transferred to those CEOs. That's why I was trying to give this check Because why should I bother of filing my taxes if the money's the transfer of wealth They were constantly talking Cuts and Jobs Act. And then when it actually passed, they cut jobs, And I bet you your phone Bill Price Duke Energy got massive tax cuts consumer rates on electricity, The one option for The Tax Cuts and Jobs been called the Billionaire Money Yeah, I know. Yeah, we can cut that I still have that check not only is AT&amp;T even though it's called the AT&amp;T building, that CEO, left the company $64 million But not only does the corporate tax rate other more insidious tax law tweaks That's investment. Profits has always been lower but a loophole introduced in the Trump ProPublica reporters with ownership stakes in their companies In the year after Trump's election. But at the same time, profits were way up. that's because of how the Trump tax A dollar quoted as profit, Always save money. But the new bill tripled those savings. some of the greatest beneficiaries are some of Trump's biggest donors. And because these owners CEOs were now more invested in the value to cut wages, lay off But here's the good news. Many of Trump's That's next year. But middle class, upper class, lower class, business class, big tax cut, not to go all MSNBC on, you hear. But if Trump is elected again, President Trump The one that takes your money even more to just 15%. that's why the ultra wealthy are Billionaire Nelson Peltz, after January 6th, need a total and held a private meeting for Trump like Steve Wynn, Elon Musk and Isaac Trump also wants to cut taxes for people million a year by $70,000. That's some people's entire salary And it's not just about Extending the Trump tax cuts the Congressional Budget Office to the federal deficit. More debt United States now spends more on interest on our debt That interest goes to banks I lied to you a lot in this video. The buildings I went to to deliver with the billionaires stealing from us. I teased you with 50,000 beans And this stack of documents, it's mostly but all of the numbers and facts It's trickle down economics. So while most of us are sitting here the billionaires, executives have the extra $0.15 to upgrade to oyster stew with half and half or even cream that they're the reason you get any oyster Isn't it time we all got to put cream in our oyster stew? Thank you so much for watching. And if you want to support more quality journalism like this, And if there's something let us know in the comments.