Every Pokemon is somebody's favorite Most Pokemon are friends. Right now I'm actually preparing I actually leave tomorrow really don't want to play against. I've spent the last two weeks pretty much just complaining to my friends Jumpluff, except I realized Yes, it's annoying to play against but I don't feel any animosity Maybe we could even be friends in a couple of years, Some Pokemon and realizing made me realize that there are So let's talk about my ten Starting out with Lycanroc Midnight, Pokemon to hate. I mean, it's a Pokemon Most of the Pokemon present on this list, Normally from a time that they traumatized That's not really the case For this Pokemon, I'm afraid Lycanroc Midnight is a Rock type Pokemon that is supposed to be this cool, And my actual legal government and for a while like there were a lot of dogs, So when I heard that there was going to be a wolf Pokemon in Sun and Moon, My issue with Lycanroc Midnight is twofold. Number one, I hate the way it looks. It's like one of those Pokemon It feels like a Pokemon designed to appeal okay, listen, if you're an edgy teenager and you're watching this, But I think the things that I like in are probably pretty different which is fine, but this one's not for me. The other thing, though, Like it really is not very good. First of all, it looks like which like, okay, is probably actually maybe even worse typing but at least But it's just a pure Rock typing which And it stats are bad it gets the ability No Guard, but it doesn't really have And so it just kind of that's already pretty rare on a Pokemon So it's not like this but it just really feels like such a letdown that I wanted to The number nine Pokemon is a Pokemon People are going to be upset I think that people are going to be By number nine most hated Pokemon is I have very good reason for this, okay? Back in Sword and Shield, I was like trying to figure out And so I was trying and one of the things that I would do is on the ranked ladder, on the online ladder, The first Pokemon I ever attempted who was a Pokemon that wasn't considered Leafeon was really good. The challenge was like, I would say Like, I got there in the end So I figured after a time and this was the hardest rank I think that, like, trying and failing to get Glaceon to I think there's videos that exist somewhere of like parts of it I got crit on the only Eruption [Wolfe screams] You've gotta be kidding me! I've been hit with like 11 Hydro Pumps 15 to 20% remaining meaning all Why do I play the stupid game and lose all of my points. What did I do to deserve this? [Wolfe groans] so bad. I think what frustrated me is that like it felt like Like it really seemed like it shouldn't be that difficult it has a high special attack especially on the special side, But I just couldn't do it like I eventually did do it, but like, and I kept getting so close to losing I really developed just because I couldn't couldn't get it there. I do think if I was attempting in Scarlet and Violet would be better which is a much better weather condition So I don't know, maybe at some point Well, no, I'm not going to commit to that. Once was bad enough. Anyway. I like the design of Glaceon, But like that specific experience Coming in at number eight is Unfezant this is another Pokemon because it has never done anything to me I don't know why this is a Pokemon Like there really Like, okay, it's a Normal Flying type Pokemon from Like its stats are bad, its kind of sucks, but like there's But for whatever reason, Unfezant as the Pokemon Like, why? Why did they create this? Like to me Unfezant I think in part because there are so many and Unfezant doesn't really feel like It feels like if you fed into like an AI generator, it would be Unfezant. Except if that had happened, Like it just feels like a Pokemon where like creatively, I'm not like, Like maybe the people about like Pokemon But me who doesn't know anything that doesn't look cool, And competitively it doesn't do anything. And like, tried to use it Like there's nothing Even the Pokemon like Toucannon Normal Flying type Pokemon, like they have I think they both have a signature But are they usable? No. Okay. But like, at least Yeah, right. Like I remembered Toucannon. And I mean, who doesn't love Chatot? Come on. But Unfezant, it's like. I don't know. I don't have anything good to say I'm sorry if you're an Unfezant fan, I wanted to start this video off with that I didn't have that strong feelings That's so we kind of build. remaining is a Pokemon that I have strong those feelings are going to get stronger the further down, further up the list we get. The number I hate Kommo-o. Kommo-o is a dragon and fighting type Pokemon and it was so obnoxious Kommo-o was given a signature Z move that could hit multiple targets. And it was really strong and it boosted It was just this I don't know how it made And so there were entire strategies built around Kommo-o Z Move and then would set it up because Kommo-o isn't that good of a Pokemon its typing is really bad, like it's And so like it's quadruple weak to Fairy. And during Sun and Moon there were so many Fairy And so it wasn't like a Pokemon I hate this thing because it feels unfair. But it was just so obnoxious I felt like the teams that I built And let me tell you, it looks dumb. Maybe that's the thing but like, I don't know. I think that the concept of like, a sound making dragon is really cool, And I think the baby forms are like especially compared to other baby But it was popular enough competitively. I always had to look at it this stupid dragon everywhere that was like doing tons of damage and boosting Anyway, I thought that I'd never have to look at Kommo-o again, earlier in this season where it actually won a regional And so then I had to look at Kommo-o I will say that my feelings towards as time has gone on and we've been further Like I don't feel as strongly about Kommo-o during Sun and Moon, but it is a Pokemon Oh yeah, since I have you here anyway, just a reminder to check And also, please don't unsubscribe if I talked about your favorite Pokemon and if enough people subscribe, So you better, you better do it, ooOoOooOo... Anyway, The number six Pokemon on our list It's Lilligant. Lilligant might seem like a kind of niche because it doesn't feel like Pokemon in general seem like they're kind of overlooked especially the ones that aren't and then like Hisuian Lilligant might not seem that impactful either, It actually enabled one of the most, that we've had in, but it was really, really degenerate over the years since Sun and Moon Torkoal's ability sunlight, which doubles Lilligant's Speed basically allowing it to move And then Lilligant can do It can use the move After You, learn but can have really high impact. whatever it hits to move immediately And so basically if Lilligant Torkoal, It allows Torkoal to attack Torkoal hits really hard in the sun Sun powers up fire type moves which does more damage health is, capping out at like a really, and because Lilligant is so fast using after you on Torkoal Torkoal won't have taken any damage yet and so it can just do tons of damage. it was still fair enough that I wouldn't, you know, like really hit on Lilligant The problem is Sleep Powder is one of my least It is a 75% accurate move if it hits, it is extremely degenerate. And whereas the move Spore, like with 100% accuracy is normally given clearly were trying Sleep Powder is given to Pokemon pretty much anything else in the game. Giving a Pokemon means that you have to hit it and you're covering for after you Torkoal have really good synergy to Sleep Powder naturally are Pokemon are weak to Eruption from Torkoal. Lilligant can also do a couple of other annoying that you use to try and play around it Encore, forcing you to keep using defensive It's a really, And the thing is like it's not a strategy that I ever want to use Like Sleep Powder missing a single time can often mean a huge chunk of your Pokemon But it feels like whenever I play against one of these players, they hit every single and there's just nothing Lilligant to me is And it's gambling, except that even when I don't choose to gamble, And, Lilligant is not the only My number Listen, Like the casual fan in me loves Venusaur. I like grew up with like, Like, I don't know. I love like I love Venusaur In theory, because Venusaur is similar to Lilligant Chlorophyll user. Venusaur is a little bit different in that it doesn't get the move After You, I'm glad that it doesn't learn that move, than Lilligant. it has better typing and it actually a bit scarier as a standalone Gigantamax Venusaur was one because it could choose to not Dynamax That sucked. Or it could gigantamax and use G-Max Vine Lash, Moves in the game, which did a ton of damage up front Like like an unbalanced amount of damage. Plus it could use other strong max moves which is really strong, or Earth Power which made it bulkier. Gigantamax Venusaur was a problem. The problem with Venusaur because, well, Charizard is always in the game, right? And so they're not going to put Charizard in And so in all these different Pokemon and there's always Pokemon the strong sunlight like Groudon And so Venusaur can always be used Pokemon. I've tried to use it a couple of times but whenever I play against it, my opponent acts as if Sleep Powder is Spore, Like a theme of this list is that I hate but I didn't get to choose Like I didn't opt in to play and yet I'm still here. is super volatile and hard to plan around into you're covering for okay, What if they target this Pokemon, Like how do I play around this? But also how long your Pokemon sleeps If a Pokemon is put to sleep, two turns of sleep, or three But competitive battles And so having your Pokemon turns is really, really, really difficult, from the get go It's a Pokemon that I both hate And I feel like I'm just because Charizard's always around and Mega Evolution and so, yeah, but I do like this week's channel partner Those of you for a while might recognize Holzkern because we've been working with them It actually might be close to two years. Holzkern is an Austrian brand who make incredibly unique watches Something that I absolutely love is that they have something or your style. I love that I can match my watches to different looks, watches to family and friends as I've also really been enjoying I'm not super into jewelry generally, actually sent me a couple pieces to try out, a lot more than I would have expected. Personally, I like that they're both functional, and they can make an outfit It's like a little cheat code. And also I like knowing the time, but So they're the perfect solution And actually this is not like sponsor This is this is real. I've worn a Holzkern watch I think? Like definitely over a year If you ever see me the brand is Holzkern, they're all I feel like all my watches are Holzkern This one in particular has been my everyday watch for over a year now The wood in Holzkern meaning it was produced something that is personally Holzkern's products are made in small really high quality and last a long time, of a premium accessory I recently went to a friend's wedding Not only did it make me feel like a very handsome but I got a ton of compliments I actually just got a couple more Holzkern watches, which I'm excited to experiment with My collection is really, really growing on your Holzkern products and using code WOLFEY10 for a whopping 10% off your order. Now that's a deal that I could never hate. So now we're up to the top four four spot in our list The Pokemon I gave the honor ever is... Incineroar. I know but nope, it's all the way down here Surprise! Why is Incineroar not higher? I feel like the fact that I hate is kind of like a meme on this channel Well, there is a couple of things The answer is that it is incredibly From a game balance perspective, Incineroar is the best supporting Pokemon It might be the single best Pokemon I made a full video if you're interested The short version is that One of the best type one of the single best abilities a stupid movepool, both even though it's designed as well as having some of the best and Parting Shot, despite the fact there have been times where Incineroar at the World Championships, that's too high for any Pokemon and certainly a Pokemon You should not be buffing a Pokemon like Incineroar this is going to be awesome, That's great. I love cats guy like, But why is Incineroar I mean, you all know that I don't like it. The thing about Incineroar is that while it's also not degenerate in the way my opinion, are. Like, Incineroar even in the same way Where like I don't want because it's not a fair Pokemon, Like, you know what it does. It's like this ultimate glue Pokemon and it holds everything together But the way in which it holds is, like I would say, overall healthy, isn't. Like imagine the best Pokemon in Or like Dark Void Darkrai, right. With like 80% accuracy. So you were always That would be really bad, game. Incineroar is definitely too strong, but it's not too strong in a way that makes the game like really volatile It just kind of smooths out Incineroar does also decrease It's kind of like a bar that you have Not that every Pokemon has to match up that gets completely shut down by it, definitely have a hard time playing, I think also the thing about Incineroar is that at this point with it, with the exception of the World Championships, And so I think that maybe but but maybe my my feelings on Incineroar Okay. Before we get to the top three, I want to talk about some honorable mentions but I don't dislike them enough First up is Rellor. One time I saw a zoomed in picture of the Pokemon any issue with it before, and I decided that I hated it. Wugtrio makes me mad because it's like it's Unfezant where they designed a Pokemon in any context. I think. That being said, and Unfezant is because Wugtrio is I love Wugtrio. But I think that also makes me mad if we could actually use Wugtrio because it's just so terrible. Munkidori. I don't know why I hate this Pokemon and like maybe my feelings will soften. I just think I just. I don't know. I really don't like it. Bruxish. Bruxish is just, like, really ugly. And like. Like, But like, for some reason, Also, Bruxish has like It's called Dazzling. It's the same ability as Tsareena's Queenly Majesty and Farigiraf's Pokemon, but the fact that like Bruxish makes me mad but the base Pokemon is just awful. Unova. Simisear, Simipour, Simisage. I don't know why I don't like these guys, I think the fact that they're and also so bad, like if they were just generic But like, I don't know. These three really missed the mark for me. I think part of the issue you're given one of these monkeys depending on like what And so when I was younger for the first time, oh wow, free Pokemon must be good, right? I was just like the monkey and it didn't And yeah, I don't feel that strongly certainly not as strongly Ordering these Pokemon was really difficult, to be honest, about all of them. But in the end I settled on my third specifically Thundurus Incarnate. I don't have any real feelings about is probably the most nerfed Pokemon In fact, I don't even know who the second is because Thundurus is was so heavily, The thing about Thundurus is, about degenerate strategies Thundurus has got to be close to the king, if not the king himself. to be this offensive Pokemon, and really strong But the problem was which gives all of its and it had a lot of really annoying Thunder Wave would just paralyze whatever would hit and Swagger would confuse a Pokemon and so it was often used in combination with Thunder Hopefully a special attacker, but players But the problem with Thundurus is, its moves are always going first and so there was no way to deny it And both these moves could just stop you One of the main skills back and Y era was just to like use Like Paralysis was designed I think, of lowering the speed And then it has this secondary effect But in competitive play in those years, it was normally the opposite, just so that it would like And the fact that it lowered their speed If you think about it this way. The move Fake Out is often from moving for a single turn and then the move like doesn't have value after that. But if you hit a Pokemon with Thunder Wave, then every single turn it had a chance of not moving. You could Thunder Wave a Pokemon for the next three or four turns, And back in the day, the only time Nowadays, as part of Thundurus's nerfs, and Dark type meaning the number of targets Back in the day that wasn't true. You could Thunder Wave everything Thundurus with the move Taunt damaging moves because it would often run And so these defensive Thunduruses would often end up where like they both wanted to be really bulky, wanted to run some speed the other Thunduruses Thundurus is just ridiculous. Like it was so, so incredibly strong. I might have already mentioned this, but because of Thundurus's there was no way to stop it from Thunder Like normally for a support Pokemon, I don't know, But with Thundurus having prankster that like really wasn't an option to let it Paralyze And that meant you were always gambling on Thundurus was responsible The Prankster ability was nerfed Electric types became immune to Paralysis Swagger's Confusion's chance of activating Thunder Wave was reduced from 100% accuracy Paralysis' speed cut effect was reduced of its initial speed to only a half, And there might have even been a couple of other things Thundurus hasn't been that good Support Pokemon, but it was so annoying to play against that I still have animosity towards it but not as much animosity as I feel Smeargle. It might seem strange that I would hate because if you look at its stats it certainly doesn't stand out But don't let that fool you. Smeargle has done things that I can't The thing about Smeargle is that it including signature That's a big deal because a lot of signature with the original user in mind Smeargle was most toxic back Dark Void. Dark Void that hit both targets and put both Pokemon We talked about and this was basically Powder on both targets that you couldn't And because Smeargle could learn every move in the game, It could use Fake Out, You could use Wide Guard, Crafty Shield, which was Klefki's It was so annoying to deal with. Basically, Smeargle with a supporting move, and you never knew One of the scariest leads was Smeargle where both Pokemon could in theory set up. Where Mega Kangaskhan, could use or Tailwind or something else or Smeargle could use Fake Out Smeargle would almost always hold so you had to hit it multiple times Moody gave it a random stat boost at the end of every single turn. That meant that in front of Kangaskhan Smeargle, Smeargle could just get a random and suddenly outspeed your whole team. it could also get boosts to its Evasion Dark Void extremely like 100% accurate, Throughout Generation and in the final year of Omega Ruby it became one of the most And so it was nerfed where it can no longer learn Dark Void. And for good measure, they nerfed Dark Void to only 50%, It makes me feel kind of bad But also, Moody was changed to no longer work and I thought that was going It turns out when you can use you can have a Pokemon Smeargle was once again a support Pokemon wasn't able to use Dark Void Boosts from Moody, People were running Spore on Smeargle get that put the target to effect to make it so But then players started running and the Safety So Smeargle started running the move Lovely Kiss, which is basically just an inaccurate Every single time I think Smeargle is done for it comes back. Most recently, Smeargle has popped up on teams It uses them move Fake Out it can use Spore to put opponents to sleep and then it can use the move Decorate offensive stats. by the way. It feels like no matter changes, Smeargle remains and Smeargle I feel like I've kind of just accepted to get away from Smeargle. they never give it an evolution... my single most hated Pokemon of all time it's a Pokemon that hasn't been used pretty much When I was making this list, that's how I knew that this was the Pokemon because even though I haven't seen it just as strongly towards it It's a legendary Pokemon Xerneas. Xerneas is, in my opinion, one A lot of Pokemon on this list are here because they're degenerate Like they introduce a lot of variance. They are, they're really like luck based not very fun to play against. Xerneas is not fun to play against, just because, you know, it can double in a single move. Xerneas is a pure Fairy type Pokemon, with an ability Fairy type moves are also Moonblast doing tons of single target Gleam being a consistent option The real issue with Xerneas though, doubles its Speed, Special Attack But it's not supposed to work Except if you give as Xerneas the item activate in a single turn, Xerneas might be the single most broken It's a Pokemon that I can't even fathom how Maybe they thought that they could stop by not giving it very many coverage moves. But again, and it gets a power boost just by having an ability and it has good natural stats and great Fairy type moves are enough because that's Xerneas is a pokemon that you could build your entire team to try and stop It's a Pokemon that basically singlehandedly anti-setup moves like Haze and Roar and a couple other things as well and most of the time it didn't even work! And of course like if it was, you know, one on one, it was like a boss battle in you know, the single player mode then, There are Pokemon that Xerneas can't KO But in a double battle, like Smeargle, Mega Kangaskhan, Primal Where if you paired Primal Groudon with Xerneas the only Pokemon in the game were Fire, Steel and Poison type Pokemon, Groudon's Ground type attacks. The worst part about Xerneas for me that despite being super broken like it I was never able to use it and it wasn't it's like there was no difference and the other players using Xerneas It wasn't like, like, you know, I just didn't, you know, hit my moves because all the moves worked It's just that I was bad with Xerneas, to deal with this Pokemon It was awful. I hate this Pokemon so much, and mechanic like Dynamax the very first thing I think is and if it is, how bad is it going to be for me?&quot; I'm very grateful that Xerneas because a Xerneas that can change its type move coverage sounds really truly close Anyway, those are the ten Pokemon If your favorite was on this list, I hope some of these Pokemon And if you like this video, maybe you you watch a video where I talk instead, I made a video talking about So if you want to watch that, I'd