J. Robert Oppenheimer might be the most important physicist to have ever lived. He never won a Nobel Prize, but he changed the world more Under his leadership, the best physicists of the 20th century built the atomic bomb forever changing the course of history. - If there is another world war, this civilization may go under. - [Derek] He has affected every war waged and every peace settled since He also created a way for - Now I am become death, the destroyer of worlds. - [Derek] This video is about the life of Oppenheimer, and why serious scientists were setting fire to the atmosphere, ending all life on earth. Part of this video is When J. Robert Oppenheimer was 21, he placed an apple laced on the desk of his physics tutor. The tutor, Patrick Blackett, was an experimentalist to do more of what he thought Robert wasn't very good Oppenheimer had already been of JJ Thompson's basement laboratory, attempting to make thin which were used to study electrons. But Oppenheimer was clumsy He was soon avoiding spending his time listening to lectures and reading physics journals. It was 1925 and the 21 year fascinated by the new Despite being surrounded like Rutherford and Chadwick, Oppenheimer was deeply unhappy. He wrote, &quot;I'm having a pretty bad time. The lab work is a terrible bore, and I'm so bad at it that that I'm learning anything.&quot; A friend walked in on him, lying on the floor of his room, which he called &quot;A miserable hole&quot;, groaning and rolling from side It was in this state that Robert attempted to poison Blackett. The specifics are lost to history. There are conflicting reports or something he found in the lab, which would've just made Blackett sick. This story sounds unbelievable, but Oppenheimer himself confirmed it. Luckily, Blackett did not eat the apple, but the attempted poisoning became known to the Cambridge University authorities. Robert's parents were visiting their son from the US at the time, and Julius Oppenheimer not to press criminal charges. Robert wasn't even expelled from Cambridge on the condition that he had with a psychiatrist in London. (train horn blaring) In the summer of 1926, Robert traveled to the The chairman of the who just two years earlier &quot;Quantum Mechanics&quot;. Born was reportedly a and had nurtured the work Wolfgang Pauli, Enrico Fermi, and Eugene Wigner, basically the who's who The class that Oppenheimer including luminaries like Paul where the academic culture experimental physics. Gottingen was all about and under Max Born's mentorship, Oppenheimer thrived. His mental health improved, and he found a community as obsessed with physics as he was. On November 14th, 1926, Robert wrote to Frank, &quot;You would like Gottingen. I find the work hard, thank God, and almost pleasant.&quot; Robert was thriving and his Born later wrote, &quot;He was a man of great of his superiority in a and led to trouble.&quot; When Oppenheimer was 23, he graduated with his PhD in physics. He wrote his thesis in of continuous spectra. All in all, he published more than a dozen papers in the two years he was at Gottingen. Many of them expanded upon who was just three years The two eventually met in 1927, the same year Heisenberg on the Quantum uncertainty principle. By all accounts, the pair got along well. There was no way to know they would be deadly the first nuclear bomb. Oppenheimer for the USA and Heisenberg for Nazi Germany. At the time, it was thought that getting out of radioactive atoms was impossible. Ever since the discovery of radioactivity by Henri Becquerel, Marie Curie, and Pierre Curie in the late 1890s, it was known that radioactivity Unstable atoms would just decay at random, unpredictable times, and surely there was In 1933, Ernest Rutherford, Oppenheimer's old boss &quot;Anyone who expects a source of power from the transformations of these atoms is talking moonshine.&quot; That same year, Albert Einstein said, &quot;That there is not the that nuclear energy It would mean that the atom would have to be shattered at will.&quot; So how would you break an atomic nucleus? Well, you could take a proton and accelerate it through and then smash it into a nucleus. This is exactly what John Cockcroft and Ernest Walton did in 1932. They accelerated protons breaking them apart. The pair would later win a but a proton is positively charged, so it's repelled by all nuclei, which are also positively charged. So to give them a hope of Cockcroft and Walton to accelerate the protons. Even then, only about actually hit and split a lithium nucleus, so this would not be an But there is another way. In 1932, the neutron was discovered this subatomic particle that's about 0.1% heavier than a proton, and it has no electric charge, so a neutron would not be And in 1933, Leo Szilard was thinking about to split nuclei. &quot;It suddenly occurred to me which is split by neutrons and when it absorbed one neutron, such an element if assembled could sustain a nuclear chain reaction.&quot; But the thing is, nobody knew if there was an element that had a kind of nucleus On the 29th of January, 1939, Louise Alvarez, a was getting a haircut while reading &quot;The San Francisco Chronicle&quot;, and suddenly he got outta the chair halfway through the haircut and Alvarez read an article about Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann had successfully split an atom of uranium by bombarding it with neutrons. Oppenheimer was not impressed. &quot;That's impossible.&quot; He reportedly told the Young Alvarez proceeding to mathematically why fission could never be achieved. But the next day, Alvarez had repeated the experiment and invited Oppenheimer to see it. Alvarez later recalled that, &quot;In less than 15 minutes, he not only agreed that but also speculated that in the process, extra neutrons would boil off. That could be used to and thereby generate power or make bombs.&quot; When a single atom of it loses a little bit of mass, which is released as energy. Following Einstein's That is a tiny amount of energy, about 20 times less to raise a grain of sand, the thickness of a piece of paper. But atoms are also tiny. In a one kilogram lump of uranium, there are about a so the energy quickly adds up. Soon, almost everyone was Einstein, who just six years earlier believed that nuclear signed his name to a letter addressed to President Franklin Roosevelt. The letter actually written of the possibility of nuclear weapons. It also pointed out that from the mines in Czechoslovakia, which was recently Roosevelt began an to discuss this topic, but then for two years, nothing happened. In 1941, Roosevelt upgraded the informal uranium committee to the S-1 committee, which would report directly The explicit goal was to and in May, 1942, Oppenheimer was hired onto the committee to be the coordinator of rapid rupture. So why was he selected? (dramatic music) Well, after completing his PhD, Oppenheimer became a physics professor, first at UC Berkeley, and then at Caltech, the brilliance he had shown under Max Born's tutelage didn't fade. Indeed, it blossomed into a remarkable but strange physics career. In the 15 years after finishing his PhD, Oppenheimer made important nuclear physics to quantum field theory, and even astrophysics. He had a number of Nobel One of his students, Willis Lamb, became a Nobel laureate, but Oppenheimer himself but never actually won the Nobel Prize. When asked why he thought that Oppenheimer never won the Nobel Prize, Murray Gell-Mann said that, &quot;He didn't have Sitzfleisch&quot; A German word that The ability to sit down and do the hard work. &quot;He never wrote a long paper He didn't have the patience for that.&quot; Wolfgang Pauli also said, &quot;His ideas are very good, but his calculations are always wrong.&quot; But Oppenheimer was amazing with people. He was a natural and charismatic leader, and this combination, his charisma and his ability would serve him well in (upbeat music) On the 18th of September, 1942, general Leslie Groves was put in charge of the Manhattan Project. - I was responsible for the - [Derek] On day one, he ordered The next day, he ordered to buy the Oak Ridge site where the ore would be refined. The next month in a surprising move, he chose Oppenheimer to of the soon to be established Oppenheimer had just been of the atomic bomb. The military establishment had concerns. Oppenheimer did not have a Nobel Prize, so would the scientists respect his opinion, and follow his leadership? Oppenheimer also had no prior over a large project like this. Furthermore, he was a who according to Isidor Rabi, &quot;Was a very impractical fellow. He didn't know anything about equipment.&quot; And then there was the problem of Oppenheimer's political stance. He had links to the Communist Party, including his wife, Catherine, who was a member of that party. But Groves was impressed by Oppenheimer. He valued his overwhelming ambition. He also knew that Oppenheimer's problems not just in physics, but chemistry, engineering, and metallurgy would be invaluable. Groves thought that Oppenheimer Saying that why Oppenheimer &quot;He can talk to you about Well, not exactly. He doesn't know anything about sports.&quot; The two men couldn't Oppenheimer weighed half as much as Groves despite both of them being Ideologically, Oppenheimer Groves, a staunch conservative, but Groves was convinced that Oppenheimer would be the person that before the Nazis, and that was all that mattered. Isador Rabi later commented that, hiring Oppenheimer for this role was &quot;A real stroke of genius on the part of General Groves, who was not generally The Manhattan Project needed a location. Somewhere isolated to safe from enemy attack. And while no one wanted to admit it, somewhere that was sparsely populated, just in case there was an accident, Oppenheimer proposed He had fallen in love with the of New Mexico when he was in his twenties. In 1929, Oppenheimer wrote to a friend. &quot;My two great loves are It's a pity they can't be combined.&quot; But Oppenheimer had severely challenge ahead. (gentle music) In 1943, Oppenheimer estimated that he'd need about six scientists supported by a handful of engineers and technicians to make a bomb. He was off by two orders of magnitude. 764 scientists would end up working for the Manhattan Project. 302 of which would work Over 600,000 people in total were involved with the making of the atomic bomb. By this point, making the atom It seemed likely. On the 2nd of December, 1942, a team of physicists at led by Enrico Fermi created the world's first artificial nuclear reactor Pile-1. It consisted of 45 tons of and 330 tons of graphite blocks. Horrifyingly enough. It was located under the It generated about half a watt of power, and if you can make a nuclear power plant, you can make a bomb. The only real difference between the two is how many neutrons hit the next atom, causing it to split and If on average that number is one, there will be a stable but it won't grow. If it's less than one, the reaction will die down, and if it's more than one, the reaction will grow. This is known as the Nuclear reactions are similar The simplest way to make a nuclear bomb is to get enough fissile that it creates a runaway chain reaction. That amount is known as the critical mass. With uranium-235, you need about 52 kilograms. Forming a sphere with a If you use plutonium-239, the critical mass is much smaller, only around 10 kilograms, which would create a sphere For the first few years, the scientists worked on a Inside a gun type bomb, you have two slabs of uranium-235, both of which are below the critical mass. Then using a conventional you rapidly fire one towards the other. So the combined mass is When the uranium bullet is the nuclear chain reaction begins resulting in an atomic explosion. Despite the simple design, it is not very efficient. Only a small percentage of so the total yield of You also run into some like how do you make sure the uranium slides smoothly through the barrel? Well, you use oil to lubricate the barrel, but all the synthetic would dry up. In the end, the only oil they could was the oil from sperm whales. Only about 0.7% of naturally the fissile fuel for nuclear bombs. When U235 absorbs a neutron, it briefly becomes U236, and then it rips itself roughly in half and releases on average But when you get uranium outta the ground, most of it is U238, which doesn't undergo fission. So to make a nuclear bomb, the scientists use to separate out and concentrate the U235, and the resulting substance was uranium with a much higher concentration of U235. In other words, it was enriched. There was another option though. In early 1941, a new element was discovered When a neutron is absorbed it turns into uranium-239. U239 is unstable, so it decays into Neptunium, which then becomes plutonium. There are three things First is that plutonium-239 is a great fuel for a nuclear bomb. It has a critical mass of Second, it is cheaper to make and third, it reacts too quickly to be used in a gun type device. It would fizzle, meaning only a tiny fraction of the fuel would undergo fission. But there is a way to make Critical mass changes of the material. Under normal pressure conditions, six kilograms of But if you compress it, the atoms get closer together neutron hitting the nucleus increases. So the higher the density, So if you set off conventional explosives around a ball of plutonium, you can get it compressed enough to start a nuclear chain reaction. And this was the whole idea behind the implosion bomb design. There are a couple ways to cheat For one thing, you surround the sphere with neutrons decreasing the you need to start a chain reaction. You can also have a neutron source, something that kick For the first implosion bomb, scientists created a which was a tiny pellet and it would sit at the heart of the bomb. It was made of beryllium and polonium separated by a layer of nickel and gold. The idea was that when the shockwave would mix the and then the alpha particles from polonium would cause the beryllium to which would set off the At least that was the hope. An atomic bomb had never been made before. Oppenheimer and the rest of needed to act quickly. It was already 1945, and Truman wanted to test the weapon before the start of That's where Truman, Churchill, and Stalin would come together The conference began on the 17th of July. The earliest date that for the bomb was just one day earlier. So that is when the test was scheduled. It was Codenamed Trinity. The night before Oppenheimer was nervous. There were so many things The last test firing of the explosives without the actual plutonium To calm himself, he recited a stanza the sacred Hindu poem. He had actually translated Sanskrit in himself. In battle, in forest, at the precipice in the mountains, on the dark great sea, in the midst of javelins and arrows in sleep, in confusion, in the depths of shame, the good deeds a man has Perhaps more terrifying not working was that Around 1942, Oppenheimer a terrible possibility that a nuclear test could end the world. The worry was that the nuclear bomb would create temperatures so A tiny fraction of the atmosphere, just one part in 2 But the worry was that at and pressures that hydrogen releasing energy, this energy would fuse more hydrogen. It could also break apart the hydrogen from water vapor causing That would release even more energy causing yet more fusion until the entirety of the Earth's atmosphere would Recalling his conversations Compton said, &quot;Nor was this The nitrogen in the air is also unstable, though in less degree. Might not it, too, be set off by an atomic explosion in the atmosphere.&quot; Most of the scientists quickly realized how unlikely this scenario was, and they continued on with the project, so no one took the idea too seriously. But the thought of starting a weapon would become very (dramatic music) The Trinity test was scheduled for 4:00 AM but it was delayed due to a storm. So at 5:29 and 21 seconds, the gadget, the world's first nuclear bomb detonated, the high explosive squeezed The shockwave mixed the releasing a flood of neutrons. The urchin worked. It jump started the nuclear reaction, and now there was no way to stop it. Just six kilograms of that was equivalent to The New Mexico mountains were illuminated brighter than in daytime. The shockwave was felt from The mushroom cloud rose to It was so hot that the desert sand melted into a glassy mineral, Fortunately, the blast did not On August 6th, 1945, the Boeing B29 Flying a gun type nuclear bomb with 64 kilograms of enriched uranium. The nitro cellulose of uranium-235 together, tipping it over its critical mass. The blast from the explosion equivalent to 15,000 tons of TNT, killed nearly 70,000 people. Another 70,000 would die from in the following months. Three days later, an implosion type bomb, like the gadget, was dropped on Nagasaki killing an estimated 80,000 more people. More than 95% of the 225,000 people killed in the bombings of Hiroshima Most were women and children. In 1965, recalling the moments Oppenheimer said that he from the Ghita. - He knew the world would not be the same. Few people laughed, few people cried. Most people were silent. I remembered the line the (speaking foreign language). The Vishnu is trying that he should do his duty and to impress him takes on 'Now I am become death I suppose we all thought - [Derek] After the war, Oppenheimer was a national hero. His portrait was on the and he became a household name. In 1947, he became the director of the Institute of He also became the chairman of the General Advisory Committee, where he became an related issues. He used his position to (dramatic music) In August, 1949, the Soviet Union tested and the US military quickly decided that the best course of action was to develop a more powerful bomb. The hydrogen bomb, known as &quot;The Super&quot;, Oppenheimer was against the development of The Super on ethical grounds and the worry that it But Truman's administration and three years later, Ivy Mike, the first hydrogen bomb was It had a yield of 10.4 megatons of TNT. That's 400 times more powerful A hydrogen bomb is actually a conventional bomb, a fission bomb, and a fusion bomb. The conventional explosives which increases the enough to fuse deuterium releasing a huge amount of energy. In 1961, the Soviet Union the most powerful It was another five times around 2000 times more This kind of arms race was exactly what Oppenheimer had feared, in part, due to his opposition And due to his calls to Oppenheimer was essentially put on trial to revoke his security clearance. He had been surveilled for the Manhattan Project, but that surveillance Many of the wiretaps were Oppenheimer was questioned about his ties to the Communist Party, including his affair with Gene Tatlock, a Communist party member while he was leading the Los Alamos lab. He was essentially accused In December, 1953, Oppenheimer had his security His face now grim and in black and white was once again on the cover of time. His security hearings In 1964, German playwright wrote a play about Oppenheimer's life. Oppenheimer was sent and he hated it so much He especially despised the of Oppenheimer realizes And I quote, &quot;We have been doing To Oppenheimer, it was always - I think that it probably was assumed, it certainly was always that if the war were to be brought to a conclusion this weapon would play a part. At the time, the alternative, the campaign of invasion was for everyone concerned. I think that Hiroshima was and suffering inhumane than to have been an effective This is easy to say after the fact. - In 1965, he was asked about with the Soviet Union to of nuclear weapons, and his response was, &quot;It should have been done Later that same year, he was He was a lifelong smoker, and he died on the 18th Advances in science and tremendous power to make and nuclear war isn't the only Human caused climate change ecosystems and the most vulnerable As I record this, we are in and my folks up in Canada are suffering in the smoke from wildfires. This is where this video Their mission is to take On their website, you can which can help you identify And if you like, you can offset your carbon footprint with a simple monthly subscription. While individual action is important, Wren understands that which is why your subscription funds not only carbon removal and offsets, but also lobbying to enact climate policy and land conservation projects. I am particularly fond of their new refrigerant We actually made a video who invented Freon, which is a refrigerant to the ozone layer and a Well this project permanently destroys harmful refrigerants like CFCs, HCFCs, and HFCs to stop them from And this will reduce global destruction of the ozone layer. It's a win-win. I personally offset my and for the first a using the link in the description, I will personally pay for the first month of your subscription. This is an idea I came up with myself because I think it's so who can help, that we pool our resources together to have a greater impact. So I hope you take the I wanna thank them for sponsoring and I wanna thank you for watching.