It's one of those nights where you just deep sleep embraces you. You turn over and over, drifting in and out thoughts during your microsleeps. The day was oppressively hot and humid, so and now the curtains seem to expand and contract, It's kind of relaxing to watch... until Were those eyes peeping through the curtains? Your heart begins to race. Is this the creep you'd heard rumors about, Killer that is still on the loose? No, you must have been dreaming. You rub your eyes and take another look. Squinting through the dark you see a ghoulish, he slowly pulls himself through your opened In the morning your bed will be empty...In statistic, another missing kid, one of thousands each year. In time your family will give up hope of ever You have become one of the 115 children that recorded as a "stranger abduction". It's true that every year scores of young Sometimes they go out and don't come home...sometimes and just disappear, never to be seen again...sometimes night. There are real-life boogeymen out there, maniacs So who is Jeff the Killer? Is he responsible for those unexplained abductions? Is he even real? Moving to a new place in your teens isn't You make friends and then you have to abandon move wasn't so difficult to accept. The new house was fancy to say the least and No sooner than Jeff, Liu, and their parents came around to say hello and check out who'd or so. To break the ice, one of the neighbors invited The neighbor, Barbara, explained that her Jeff's mom, Margaret, said her husband Peter, At this point Jeff and Liu were in the background that their parents had agreed on their behalf even know. Young Jeff had always had a problem with authority, shouldn't do stuff like that. He stormed off in a huff, retreating to his bed and sulked. In that moment of teenage angst he felt something own pear of anguish...an acute pain in his He felt hypnotized by his own anger. "How dare she do that," he thought. He then came out of this enraged trance, not The same thing happened again the next morning Peanut Butter Cheerios. It was something in his stomach, this time of rage again. He didn't know if he liked it or not. Maybe it was just moving stress, anxiety about of them were bound to be jerks, that was for He realised he was gripping his spoon so hard He was trembling with anger. But Jeff's anxieties were justified that Some wise ass kid did an ollie on his skateboard Had he messed that up he could have snapped Jeff didn't know it then, but this was the The skateboarder was soon joined by two other was one cool kid, the skateboarder whose name and an obese kid whose name was Troy. These kids would become Jeff's mortal enemies, In literal French that means "black beasts". "Well, look what's been dragged into the "A couple of new freaks to kick around for The fat kid guffawed, but the skinny nerdy-looking Randy explained to Jeff and Liu that as new call it bus fare, and intimidatingly he got Liu stood his ground, pushing Randy back, kid whipped out a knife. Randy turned to his two bootlicker friends kids are gonna have to learn the hard way." The fat kid wielded the knife right in front Liu's pockets. He then passed a wallet to Randy. All the time Liu was thinking how inconceivable suburban American neighborhood to mug him Jeff just sat there, boiling, raging, on the That devilish feeling again filled his guts...he stood up and growled at Randy, "You give the teeth right out of your friggin head." Jeff was seething, and before Randy could retort, he punched Randy square in the nose, Liu hadn't seen Jeff do that before, but brother grabbed Randy's finger and snapped Jeff took Randy's knife, but soon skinny-Keith Lightweight Keith took a stabbing for the Jeff pushed Troy off him and hit him so hard on the floor. The scene was a massacre. Liu had never seen anything like that before "Man, bro, what the hell's got into you?" The two ran to school rather than get the Jeff looked behind and he could see people kids. Did he feel remorse that day as he sat in conjugation? No, he felt the opposite. He felt alive. He felt the violence in his very marrow. He loved violence. This was a new discovery for him. Part II: Jeff The Maniac him how school was, to which Jeff replied, beating and the smell of someone else's But as things tend to go, Jeff wasn't exactly system calls a serious assault...not to mention The cops turned up at Jeff's house and explained some serious injuries to three kids that lived Jeff, as stubborn as ever, explained to the been the victim of violence and he had only "Comparable!," said one of the cops, "I've and another kid that looks like he's been Jeff had to try really hard not to smile... He bit his lip. What could he do, though, the game was up. There were witnesses...there was forensic "Ok," said Jeff, "It was me...but I Those guys pulled out the knife first, I just Jeff was already thinking about spending a School" when his brother Liu came rushing With the knife in his hands, Liu shouted, Don't arrest my brother." Liu put down the knife and the cops cuffed Liu was lying, that it was he who was at fault As his brother was taken away in the cop car, What had he done... For days, Jeff stayed in his bed with the He couldn't go to school, he couldn't He just lay in bed depressed, feeling as if him. After a few days, something unbelievable happened. His mom waltzed into his bedroom as if nothing a son to a brutal penal system, possibly for She just whipped back the curtains and jovially "What the ..." thought Jeff, "Has this "It's party day," said his mom, "You the knives, we were invited to Billy's birthday Jeff was rather displeased with his mom's "C'mon Jeff," she said, "So, your that spoil an otherwise beautiful sunny day. You'll always be my beautiful son, let's go For some reason, Jeff didn't like being called He noticed she'd really gone overboard with She was dressed to impress. This bugged him even more. When the family arrived at Barbara's house, fancy clothes, all of them, it seemed, were Some of them were noticeably drunk already, and the wonderful, talented children they'd "Go in the yard and play with the other This would prove to be foolhardy, given Jeff's And then it happened, just as Jeff was starting Randy, Keith and Troy appeared, still looking round with the new kid. Randy said, "You didn't think this was Again, Jeff was reminded of countless teenage What ensued was a one-on-one with Randy and Jeff headbutted Randy, breaking his recently Blood splattered on the faces of the younger in hysterics. A small kid froze, and as a teddy bear dropped and expand on the front of his Spongebob shorts. Jeff got the better of Randy, but then the This was unheard of in that neighborhood. Even some of the parents were now running 911". Jeff couldn't do anything with guns pointed him with a knife. Troy and Keith laughed like the goofs they Jeff to a pulp. He dragged Jeff into the kitchen, whereupon it on Jeff's head. But Jeff didn't fight back. He took every punch, every kick. His face was dripping blood, a shard of glass was punctured... but he didn't fight back. "C'mon," said Randy, "Hit me...fight Jeff just took more shots to the face, but To try and light that fire again in Jeff, girl right now, and that's all because of PART III: Jeff Snaps Jeff felt that rage build up inside of him He lurched at Randy like a rabid lion. He pushed him down and smothered him with Randy was helpless. Jeff drew back his fist and punched Randy A shocked look appeared on Randy's face, He took one last breath, blood bubbled from The parents still there couldn't believe They were children...children that had become Keith and Troy now turned their guns on Jeff. They fired and missed. Jeff ran up the stairs past parents now in the new ceramic tiles on the kitchen floor. Now out of bullets, Troy and Keith pulled own weapon...a towel rack. He cracked Troy's balloon sized head with Skinny Keith realized he was probably now There was nowhere to run. They were both in the bathroom fighting, and bleach fell on them. Inexplicably, the bleach was opened, and both Keith screamed as the bleach burned his face, face in with his handy towel rack. As Keith lay on the floor, not far from death, "Funny eh," said Jeff, somewhat nonplussed "Look at you," mumbled Keith through bloodied "You've been doused in bleach and vodka." Keith's last effort to beat that new kid Jeff burst into flames, and screaming he ran He was a ball of flames, a human inferno. Parents stood back in horror. Jeff collapsed, and that's the last thing PART IV: Jeff the Killer hospital bed and he couldn't move. Almost his entire body was covered with bandages. Suddenly he heard, "He's awake." It was that familiar voice of his overbearing by his side. "Jeff," she said, "Liu is out...witnesses the knife...Your brother is free. We are going home, a family again." Jeff felt a twinge of relief, but it was hard second and first degree burns. He tried to smile, and then realized that His mother saw her son's pain. "Good news, though, eh, Jeff...every cloud She didn't finish her sentence, this time a horrible situation. Sometime later, both Jeff's parents were off. "This is going to hurt a bit," the doctor As those final bandages unfurled from Jeff's painted on his parent's faces. They were trying to suppress their disgust, wouldn't allow them to hide their terror. Jeff asked for a mirror. The doctor told him, "Just start with one part. This might come as some shock to you, but Jeff didn't take that advice, and instead For seconds, minutes, he stared into that studying every angle. His parents were waiting for him to cry, to kept on looking at his new face, a white, anything resembling normal lips, it looked his personal tragedy. "It's perfect," he said. "Just perfect." He wasn't crying, his mother noticed, he When Jeff was left alone, the doctor told it wasn't unusual for someone to act that The reality, he said, hadn't set it in. "Just take him home," said the doctor, "Of course we will," said Jeff's mother, glad about the fact that Jeff would be easier "Oh,' said the doctor as he was walking Later that night while the family was sleeping, coming from the bathroom. When she entered that bathroom she couldn't Jeff was carving a smile into his face with He'd also cut off what remained of his eyelids. "How do I look ma?" Jeff said earnestly. She couldn't even speak...she couldn't "What's up ma," said Jeff, "Don't "Yes," she said, while slowly back peddling son. You'll always be my beautiful little honey She then ran for it, got Jeff's dad, and from Jeff's hands. "What!" screamed Jeff, "You lied to You don't think I'm beautiful!" He was too powerful for them...the rage had that knife into both of them. Jeff stood over them, their lungs drowning It was a beautiful sight. He was Jeff the Killer. That's what he'd always been...a killer. He had one last stop before he left the house Jeff walked into Liu's room. Standing at the side of Liu's bed he put mouth. Liu suddenly looked at Jeff with wide open into his stomach. "Shhhhhhh," said Jeff. "Just go to sleep." Part V: Jeff The Thriller said that in the U.S. scores of young people Killer ever actually exist? We think most of you already know that this If you go back to the start of the original says, "Excerpt from a local newspaper." "OMINOUS UNKNOWN KILLER IS STILL AT LARGE. After weeks of unexplained murders, the ominous After little evidence has been found, a young attacks and bravely tells his story." Ok, so first of all, the headline of that At Large" would never be a headline in any Trust us, we have former journalists and editors The writer of Jeff the Killer seems to have gone and used it wherever he can. Secondly, the first paragraph is badly written. Listen to this: from between my curtains, were a pair of two These weren't regular eyes; they were dark, Ominous, again, but the grammar also isn't As for a "pair of two eyes", that's this Earth would allow that to go to print. So, we know at the very beginning that this If the point was to make it sound believable, at the start. As for a young boy attacking other young boys haven't been any murder sprees of this kind What about Jeff's amazing heart-stopping Well, let's just take a giant leap and say for a 13-year old kid. Ok, so there is something called "Commotio they are struck in the heart region of their can kill. You can actually find quite a few stories although baseballs were the killer, not punches. What about Jeff going up in flames after having doused with bleach. Firstly, not much vodka would have gotten Secondly, you couldn't set a person on fire It's not flammable enough. Remember that Keith somehow threw the lighter. We are guessing it was a Zippo lighter with As for the bleach which made Keith and Jeff if it's not washed off, but it wouldn't was poured into their eyes. And another thing, bleach isn't flammable. It's just not believable at all. Jeff would now be 22 years old and still on kill. He wouldn't be hard to spot, given that cut into his face. Now watch this video, "The Russian Sleep