[music] [music] &quot;You come to me and ask for something probably know this phrase by Don Corleone from with this whole mafia imagery. Guys in double-breasted holding Tommy Guns, all that wild crowd. Shooting at each other, all this is the mafia. Today, about some no-name gang, I'm talking about real organizations that have developed over talks about conspiracy theories, essentially, the activities of criminal all these conspiracies. any world government, then, them. So, the mafia. So, what is the mafia, objectively speaking? is not entirely clear. There is a common for the Sicilian slogan -- &quot;Death to France, of these Italian words into the word &quot;Mafia&quot;. for a long time, nearly two centuries, was under various states. It and in Sicily, called the national resistance, fact, these were semi-criminal guys who had their own structure, and who provided, in general, against the French, who occupied Sicily. an international term mostly thanks of the structure are with the Sicilian criminal Cosa Nostra -- &quot;Our thing,&quot; which is still the name the mid-19th century, unification, the Italian kingdom, of the king, involving them in various This can't be called a private military were militarized thugs who Italian kingdom, and were friends the Italian aristocracy, and didn't these guys gained power, and they began What kind of criminal smuggling; secondly, all kinds of though it couldn't even be called, Cosa Nostra took for protection, for protecting all of this, of course, was very local in financial terms, but The structure had strict discipline, Cosa Nostra it follows to this day, ranging from blood feuds to or discuss mafia business with anyone 19th century, the economic began Sicilians came, but also Neapolitans, in Italy who was uncomfortable, to have a fresh start, for America. They came to New York, settle in. Essentially, they the customs and lifestyle they had in Italy. there were two major gangster groups the Cosa Nostra, and the other originating from Naples. These two influence over New York. But before fighting with the thugs that were already there, have seen the movie &quot;Gangs of New York&quot;, of the 19th century sees these gentlemen with engaging in various criminal activities, who already have a clear criminal underboss, consigliere, soldiers, begin to take over New York. brothels, prostitution, illegal thanks to their, let's say, organizational talent, quickly push out made the Italians strong was mafias from Sicily and Naples, they were those weren't just some random people to one clan: brothers, nephews, cousins, blood ties. Sometimes directly, sometimes clan. Naturally, when they were arrested their relatives, and it was very hard to difficult to imprison them. This also set of the mafia in America is linked to New Orleans, Italian immigrants were going. So, New York Police Chief David Hennessy started something, and the local Italians just &quot;mafia&quot; was first heard in America, and as I'll explain later, mafia groups, each with Camorra, Sacra Corona Unita, criminal organization in Italy. Essentially, the Italians with that first make their debut, so to speak. They are not they, I repeat, hold very tightly to to prosecute. So, in 1915-1917, Bolsheviks' revolution, and in the U.S. -- The Irish are pushed out, and the Neapolitans, begin to fight over Manhattan. contract killings, and revolver and the Cosa Nostra, lasts several years, defeated. Moreover, the New York police the arrested Neapolitans talking, and reveals the entire criminal by the Sicilians are arrested by the New York police. the Sicilians, in various forms, America. Friends, summer is in full swing, which means As a long-time fan of barbecue, I always that the meat is not only tasty but also light. Indilight turkey. This season, Indilight products that you just can't get enough of. and red meat, as well as sausages. is produced very quickly, cooks flavor of the barbecue. Barbecued turkey is the new I highly recommend doing so right where do you think it is? In the description. Throughout this video, we will be jumping because the ties are unbreakable, Italians emigrated and The other part remained in their historical militants will come from Italy, American and all this will continue for will constantly move between these won, the Cosa Nostra won. At the same Italy is already unified, and the fascist regime Mussolini is very popular, he is the country, fascist ideology has triumphed, The police, the army, all state structures, there are nuances. One nuance is Mussolini, in the early 1920s, was visiting security. And the local Sicilian boss do you need guards? You are my guest here, Mussolini smiled and said, &quot;Yes, of course, it's Milan, he said that the mafia needed government functions and employ violence. Like, what does patronage, who is he anyway? He is just declares war on the mafia and, in fact, the mid-twenties, the Sicilian mafia, Gangsters are imprisoned, for any kind of fair trial, like, with Moreover, the mafia members are handled point, the family reveals the location where he is arrested. By the mid-1920s, losses, and some of them For the Mafia, Mussolini is an enemy Skipping ahead, during World War II, the war hasn't started yet, it's still the 1920s, so let's In the United States, the way it is -- incredibly wealthy. lasts a decade from the 1920s to the 1930s and, people from becoming alcoholics, let's completely without going into long this: in New York State, Prohibition was California, Prohibition was not observed 83 percent continue to drink; if there is no legal speakeasies, and all these speakeasies illegally import Canadian whiskey, anything that burns, all through illegal across the land border with Canada, everything distributed through underground casinos, America continues to drink. And all of this is truly legendary figures emerge. Meyer Lansky, and of course, Al Capone. syndicate, is probably the most as you will understand later. It's just that the media. giving interviews and, in fact, press, and later, after his numerous movies and TV series. And this There he is, the man in the hat, Al Capone, In reality, this wasn't the case. Al Capone grew up in the Chicago syndicate. Chicago border, just cross the lake, and there's and Al Capone's guys are making a killing on it. was relatively new? He started was in on that: the police chief, the deputy money was paid to everyone. the most realistic movie about this, Kevin Costner plays the main role. It's about that was sent to Chicago. Why are they recruiting people who were not tied to schemes, and only after that they managed was convicted. Not for the contract killings Al Capone was imprisoned for thing of American justice system, for tax evasion you can get from 5 In the end, Al Capone was sent to prison, that, he certainly became a legendary time, the mafia became a very large American city, there are several criminal business, but bootlegging, prohibition -- It's incredibly profitable, because they were drinking, say, for 5 dollars, now it's 15. And even for 15 bucks, America drinks. My friends, I've seen more than once that to earn money. It's even better when platform, so I recommend to you an investment platform in crowdlending. can invest in various businesses. stated return matches expectations. If years the return on stocks through 40 percent, whereas the return percent, and for bonds it was only result, isn't it? And the coolest thing is that Let's see how this on the main page, you have all the and companies you can invest in, support. Topping up your account is very easy, amount into your account. Then, based on suitable options or use necessary values and choose I will definitely tell you about my time and start investing in the description within 24 hours, you income from your first investment. [music] a large amount of free cash, lots of And it's also when, for the first time, of the American mafia, Stepping onto the scene like Meyer Lansky, whom I'll come back to actually, in my opinion, Dutch Schultz and Bugsy Siegel. These three men from New York, Lansky is not from bring a completely different vibe to the mafia, bookkeeping, because it isn't enough stash it away in basements. They need to At this point, it's not so crucial, because advanced as it will be in the 1970s. the legislation, but how people are enforce rules, how they detect in its infancy. The mafia has a huge starts investing it. And here the main story of the early 20th century. ancestors did; you can only work relatives, then with Italians. No no Latino strongmen and bouncers. You can only work with Italians. it starts getting old and annoying, a strong Jewish mafia appears. These taxes, who know how to handle money, don't allow them, don't allow cooperation into the family. They just don't allow And all these old mafia leaders, &quot;Mustache Petes&quot; among themselves, at some sit there and try to manage the criminal business is different now -- like any business, criminal begins to brew among the young guys . Lucky Luciano. &quot;Lucky&quot; is not his real name, is not yet a mafia boss, but And in fact, he is friends with gangster, with whom he is actually not allowed has already made a huge amount of money doing very well. Ultimately, the discontent in a war, and of course, the Mustache Petes had to take those seats by force, which they an event known as the Castellammarese Sicilian families, Joe Masseria's family of Salvatore Maranzano. These are two Mustache Petes, the business, over who will rule Manhattan, and actually, the mafia has grown to such an extent said, there are several families involved huge amounts of money were made, repealed in 1930. And this stream completely, so they have to somehow divide contract killings, switching from one with Tommy guns, and car bombings... a brutal two-year war. In and Salvatore Maranzano becomes &quot;Capo bosses. He builds a rigid structure, the boss of all bosses is the person who of the Italian mafia in America. A very there can be only one main family, This family answers to New York, where New York is big and wealthy. But everyone the boss of bosses. He makes decisions, person should be killed, this person should be a bribe should be given here, this policeman money should be taken out from there, and so on and so forth. we know today. An orderly criminal the boss has a consigliere -- an advisor, there is there are caporegimes, and there are soldiers structure exists in every city, this to this day. This allows disciplined, and to multiply its of the entire American mafia, but he didn't reign had already reached want to put up with the old men. They had to work with competing groups, opportunities started appearing in Cuba, that maybe casinos are wrong, and then be sold at all. Everything should be commercialized, the young say, prostitution to controlling between the young and the old Maranzano, the first American boss, Genovese, Frank Costello, At some point, they organize Maranzano is shot dead. Up mentioned that the most famous Don is Al Capone, Lucky Luciano, who becomes after the death of Maranzano -- he really an already strong vertical structure, the boss of bosses, and one of his first Luciano organizes a structure called Seven&quot; was, of course, used by journalists, I called it that among themselves, although maybe New York clans and two people. It's will hear the name constantly, he was criminal world. And this Sicilian families, plus two Jewish serious business in America. They put illegal gambling houses under control, the mafia their own casinos, and then the first appear. When we say &quot;money laundering&quot;, is a fairly simple thing, you have a lot of dirty income that you all sorts of illegal deals, but you want have some legitimate business. You can't tax laws in America are laundered. How can you launder money? Money foot traffic. Where is there high foot traffic? In come there, pay in cash, and it's hard to buy or pay. Let's say, laundering a shirt somewhere, the system works very simply, you have a chain of laundries, in which you is a huge flow of customers, but in reality, the black money, supposedly received from revenue, and now you have clean money. This in one form or another is still in use today Mafia Laundry, this is how it money laundering businesses were laundromats. is the &quot;Murder Corporation&quot;, call it. And at its head who handle contract killings. in a sense. It's no longer done as it to kill some, let's say, Paul. Who he shoots well. No, now it isn't like that, a department that handles contract They carefully plan the hit, they choose in case they are caught by the police are commercialized; they become some are responsible for for underground gambling dens, and some deal with everything was streamlined in this regard; mafia, now the American By 1935, the top leadership like this: Lucky Luciano -- the boss underboss, and Franky Costello -- trio, in one way or another, forms the top I've already mentioned, Lucky Luciano is he was actually a talented that were inefficient, were immediately Tommy guns, so everything worked very in 1936, Lucky Luciano ends up serving his sentence. deputy, Vito Genovese, becomes only for a year. In 1937, imprisonment. Consequently, Vito becomes the next mafia boss, his name anecdotal stories, but he will lead It was Frankie Costello who issued annoyed everyone, especially in the 60s and 70s. was ungodly, he strictly and harshly punished anyone in the drug trade. In 1933, became the head of the mafia, another we don't forget about for a second casinos in America. His first casino was in else, I don't remember where, but that's Cuba was like a brothel for the whole America. was always great weather, parties, it was an And so Meyer Lansky casinos. The first casino he opened bringing in incredible money. Essentially, a tremendously corrupt system, and The President of Cuba, Batista, the casino &quot;Nacional.&quot; And how does of $250,000, he extends understand, right? This is about merging On Cuba, it was very apparent. to the American mafia, at that time, and started investing business. In 1939, the Second understand, after Pearl Harbor, America take place in America itself, but one way or another, In New York, German spies and tried to disrupt weapon shipments to the to carry out sabotage on merchant to the mafia, of course, because the port is a source illegal transport of people, so naturally, And so German agents the first real and close contact The government approaches Meyer Lansky from saboteurs. Why Meyer Lansky? was a fierce anti-fascist. When semi-fascist in America, he disrupted their activists, and he did it not for money, but fascism. And during the war, he would greatly dollars for each Jew who needed to be how this paid off for him. And so Meyer the CIA and told: &quot;Mr. Lansky, we have &quot;No problem at all, we a person, and you know him too, Lucky Luciano, he we'll deal with all the saboteurs, we'll just cut off their ears New York port, there was peace and quiet immediately turned them over to the government. agreement is reached, and Lucky Luciano the war, Lucky Luciano goes to the authorities: &quot;We release you, but you go And he goes, so to speak, Italy. And the second significant moment was the landing, towards the end of World War II. Why did they land in Sicily? tip of the Italian boot, but the main reason as we remember, that Mussolini in the 1920s, and the mafiosi for that. And the Sicilians, opened the gates to Italy for Americans, so to speak, organize supply lines, where the bays were. who, like Cosa Nostra, hated Benito the second time the mafia helped to make a small digression, because Lucky Luciano and his former Genovese is also a Sicilian, and he works with as startup money, he sets up various supplies of medicines, and other things. So, Mussolini, the other person So, when we say that gangsters that they never break their word, that's what they're happy with. helps Mussolini make money. Then a very interesting story happens. Mussolini has already been hanged upside to prosecute Vito Genovese, not as a mobster, The story is unclear on how he gets out of it, in 1946, Vito Genovese ammunition, food supplies, the American army warehouses. Moreover, a letter from the Italian helping to carry out this activity. making money with Mussolini, today he is exiled gangster do? It's Lucky Luciano, you've probably the term &quot;French Connection&quot;. The French Connection is a network for supplying Lucky Luciano, who is in exile in a very cunning scheme with someone. There's opium, Where is it produced? In is needed for the pharmaceutical Most of the laboratories working for pharma the heroic city of Marseille. So they process it, pack it, and it of the opium that comes into these repackaged, and in collaboration is smuggled directly to New York. This network, built by Lucky Luciano, but it is considered a fact, that Heroin exports from to America, it operated from the 1930s to the 1970s. incredible money, and that's when began going global. the American side, bought drugs, the Sicilian Mafia, which Marseille mafia, the Corsican market. This joint venture functioned it's 1946, and we are going back The Mafia is about to start the next casinos. The casino business is very another legendary gangster, Bugsy Jewish family, earned his first money participated in contract killings. Then he 1937 he was sent to charge over illegal bookmakers, things lots of money in it, actually, and he did very the stock exchange and races was transmitted telegraph company he replaced with Hollywood is booming, and here begins gangsters and Hollywood actresses. The first He was completely enchanted by movies, a huge number of mistresses. actress, was Bugsy Siegel's mistress. was named &quot;Flamingo&quot;. Essentially, Bugsy Siegel, according to legend, was passing to create an American Monte Carlo there. was already essentially the accountant for all like you earn from the El Nacional casino like that in America&quot;. Lansky negotiated and in 1945, the first casino opens, Virginia Hill's nickname. The casino it didn't make enough money. that Bugsy Siegel had stolen He was giving out bogus contracts to his relatives And in 1946 In Havana, a legendary takes place. Luciano was there, at this meeting, Frank Sinatra haunt the great American singer after which he was photographed with almost all &quot;What can I do, they invite me to refuse them?&quot; At one point, he was caught, a suitcase of cash, he was transporting millions of dollars his own casino, where, as it later So, Sinatra was quite closely connected with why we love him. And in 1946 was issued, what is called, a death his own, so he had to be killed. He was &quot;Listen, Bugsy is my friend. Yeah, he stole from us, profit, he will return all the money, and that's wrong&quot;. And Bugsy is sort of forgiven, the casino starts making a huge profit, own house. All the casinos, all the assets the American mafia. And so in the development of Las Vegas. They started earning incredible profits. was thriving after Prohibition. They in America, on one hand in Las Vegas, and on It was the 1950s and the leader Costello, whom I already told you about. Vito Genovese is fully in charge of the American mafia. There are he had two pivotal moments probably heard of the movie &quot;Analyze This&quot;, this is essentially how the show &quot;The Sopranos&quot; a psychoanalyst; the same happens to Frankie of his power in the 1950s, starts stressed out, losing consciousness, a psychoanalyst. At some point, the psychoanalyst that one of his patients is Frankie appears in the press instantly. relations with the psychoanalyst; I nonetheless, he wasn't. Rumors start has gone crazy because how could a psychoanalyst? What, is he a woman? How is this even possible? to damage his reputation. And then, who was the boss before him, before being exiled, but Frankie Costello is not giving it up. against him, against Costello. And You see, the 1950s was not only the peak for America, and the rise of American everything was a show. That's when just rumors about the mafia, there are serious discussions, from tabloid newspapers to the U.S. Senate. initiate an investigation against the mafia, some testify, some do not. Hearings&quot;, named after the person And the show moves to television; every day, the judges appear dealers, pimps, They start giving testimonies have lawyers, and the lawyers say, the law states that no one and no one's been accused yet&quot;. But the mafia boss Frankie Costello. It's amazing, the fancy suits, the front pages by the attention, and so he attended these hearings. but an honest businessman. some questions, answer others with important thing is that it's all broadcast live. get together, and they say: &quot;The boss he goes to psychoanalyst, and then argue with judges, with lawyers, because serious people don't go on not allowed. We can't live like this, it's against in a disaster, and then Vito Genovese naturally, starts plotting against him. some Italians, part of the American he said to them: &quot;With me, everything will be but I'm not an idiot, I won't go to a psychoanalyst At some point he organizes Costello. of the shot he turns his head towards in the chin. After he survives this attempt, And Vito Genovese the absolute ruler, the entire mafia at this moment is already fragmented. In of them is trying to manage their own territory. And there is also a family in Philadelphia, and there is mafia businessmen take Therefore, everything starts to shift, that existed under Lucky Luciano is no longer there. a vain man -- by the way, vanity will You know, flashy suits, expensive paparazzi -- all this is associated of Italian origin to this day. this way nowadays, to some degree. hierarchy, and he calls all the families, the heads of all meeting. So that everyone would come, would declare to everyone his good officially and declaratively, would be cemented. This was as it was called, ends in a disaster. policeman sees that cars with California plates are all arriving hotels, all the motels around are rented tough-looking guys arrive, and he, superior, who informs the FBI. And when they start getting arrested. Special agents this whole Apalachin conference for Vito Genovese. In the end, he here begins a completely different on the scene in America, which will control periodically going to war with different the Gambino later. For now, let's The 1960s in Italy, Connection system, this heroin trade, also involved, and this an apple of discord, and in Palermo, the This is a war among the Sicilian clans, brutal war, with hostages, getting massacred. After two years, and in the end, when the police intervened, 1,500 people were detained in wasn't that significant, it would seem, arrested, although those were mostly ordinary in prison at that time, but nevertheless, consolidation, a major clash between clans And ultimately, the Cosa Nostra becoming a serious organization. until the early 1980s, Cosa Nostra came from Marseille to New York, the European continent. a completely different game begins. In the 1970s, cocaine in America appeared only it appeared in the 1920s as a bohemian everyone lost interest in it, but in and a real cocaine boom begins. the American mafia doesn't stand idly by. the cocaine business, and here globalization, the first was in the heroin because Colombian drug cartels a huge amount of cocaine. In order logistics, and to control the logistics, the US Coast Guard, the police, then the Street gangs collect money from the streets, laundered and deposited into accounts. becomes a transnational they have connections with relatives in banks in Switzerland. Meyer Lansky, he to start opening accounts in Swiss banks when a number of Swiss banks came because along with Luxembourg, for the American and Colombian mafia. or front companies, so-called of dollars went there. That is, enormous fortune from this. And the man Lansky. As I already said, the Colombians competition begins in America, cartel. The Colombian mafia Puerto Ricans, and various Latino black crime groups appear, which in the a serious force, for now they are assistants to the competing for the first time. ended approximately at the end of problem that the Sicilian mafia faced management were no longer relevant, New technologies, communication with Latin cartels were considered some kind of peasants, they're no match for us, the Italians. Everything changed and this also, in turn, what fundamentally changed the structure financial transactions. I mean, when of America and spreading around the world, Panama, the second laundering center was Switzerland, and all the other island countries, is the man who built this structure. let's say, a man with its structure and gave it the that we see used to this day. Lansky in more detail. His real Belarus, though he told everyone it was Poland. He he met Lucky Luciano. Their friendship when they both were boys, he was activities, and Lucky Luciano came up to him 10 dollars a week&quot;. Lansky was like, So, Lucky Luciano made some anti-Semitic beat up Meyer Lansky and took his money. Luciano, hit him on the head with a rock, took &quot;If you ever call me a k**e again, you Italians are the only ones who are good with knives?&quot; And their partnership worked for many years. Meyer Lansky took care of everything else. of the bootlegging business. In 1937, moved into Cuba, opened the first gambling business, thanks to Meyer Lansky, appointment as the head of Cuba for $250,000 in the whole Las Vegas thing; it was he money to open the first casinos. 1959 Fidel Castro came to power -- The only person who went and Che Guevara was a tie and hat. He came and said, wrong, we will probably have to shoot you&quot;. conversation, and everyone thought that But he left Cuba alive, though assets were lost, by the revolutionaries. Meyer Lansky's son demanded the money back the process is still ongoing, the Cubans haven't returned the money. his values was helping the American and helping with the landing in Sicily. helping Jews during the war, personally refugees fleeing Nazi Germany played a significant role a Meyer Lansky was first accused of tax evasion, involvement in gambling operations. It turned out that he Israel. And when they tried to extradite of Israel, told Lansky -- a gangster? No, we don't a philanthropist, he has helped the attends synagogue, helped us out attacked us. No, he is definitely our friend, Lansky stays in Israel for two years, so and respect he had behind him, person. His passion for casinos is related to his to buy challah once when he was little, he gambled gambling. But since he saw how easily he decided it was an excellent business, in the gambling industry. for two years, but eventually, the trial lasts six years, and as a result a unique story, that is, a man who was at the center of all its financial flows, he is acquitted, and then Meyer Lansky at the age of 81. It is believed that he had registered to proxy individuals. After his he lived like a modest old man, but rumors in a penthouse at the Waldorf Astoria. Nonetheless, unlike the Italian mafiosi, death, they found $57,000 in his account. brilliant entrepreneur, and of course, largely know today. The history of the mafia in talking about the labor union movement. Every time mafia, there will definitely be an episode a truck drivers' union, or some other union. fell under the yoke of the mafia, out of them. This is both true and not true. in America, which represents these two structures needed each other. have a large number of members -- take the truck drivers' union. organize strikes if the corporations For example, let's organize a nationwide They paid strikebreakers, who didn't participate in the strike, and continued deals with the strikebreakers, like: &quot;John, come on, come on, you should go on strike too.&quot; But you were already bought by the corporations, so there are John went out on the road during the strike, or beat him up with would reply: &quot;Why yes, certainly!&quot;. In return, like, &quot;Guys, when you'll be assigning organization in Oklahoma? Like, And this is how it worked. These were enormous amounts of money that by the union leaders, who invested semi-legal schemes, making helped union bosses become industry, like truckers, but plus aviation service workers and union conglomerates would suffered, absolutely, while the mafia together hand in hand. like when union leaders would start playing you, bandits, aren't our friends&quot;. kind of started in the 50s and and American labor unions coexist, In Italy, the mafia flourishes in the 80s. organizations, practically everyone is corrupted: and ending with corporations, in the mafia's pocket, practically everyone. Italian criminal groups international alliances, and indeed, heyday of mafia groups. And this very a payback. In the 70s again, in Sicily. The clans fighting each other. begins a war with the other members shootings, assassination attempts, and children mafia structure splits off from Cosa Nostra, of a star, and these guys, as junior partners, They join this war, the war lasts for 10 years, result in the deaths car bombings, And the prosecutors come to Sicily. that they simply shoot the prosecutors, the police pressure begins. So, next, on Sicily, but an armed unit of the Italian army. bomb the Naples-Milan train Only in the 90s did they manage to uncover in the bombing of the Naples-Rome was an American type of explosive, who flew from New York to Sicily, and taught So, all these familial and clan connections in complete lawlessness, the Sicilian that they just shoot they just shoot. To the extent that to lead an operation against the mafia, It all ends in the early 90s and tired of the mafia. In the early 90s, the &quot;Clean Hands&quot; operation. The operation and over almost 10 years, about 2,000 This is to broadly summarize how widespread corruption was in Italy. about two and a half thousand people were businessmen, officials, prosecutors -- all were corrupted in one way construction contracts, others handed out the entire campaign began uncovered a shady tender that the money was simply going The whole Italian political system, was reshaped. Four parties from just ceased to exist entirely, in corrupt deals with the mafia. of TV channels were imprisoned. In other words, And it wasn't just mafiosi who were imprisoned, This ended with a wave In Italy, a new party emerges, Silvio Berlusconi, who enters went into politics to protect himself from Because his brother Antonio was already All the dirty money from construction also from advertising deals, mergers of oil His acquisition of Italian media When Berlusconi he said that Antonio Di Pietro was &quot;He even put my brother in jail, though he wasn't But I support &quot;Clean Hands,&quot; Italy becomes Prime Minister, the first thing Everything is mobilized against the prosecutor: in a restaurant, and bam -- he is and Berlusconi takes down entire &quot;Clean Hands&quot; campaign as well. of officials, bankers, some of whom were later released under Berlusconi, To this day, the &quot;Clean Hands&quot; campaign of how a state, when united, the &quot;Clean Hands&quot; campaign, too, and ended in 1990s, while the Americans This is mostly associated with New York Mayor He said, &quot;Currently Italians are all associated with I will prove to you that And he together with the FBI began Check out Netflix to see how the FBI which led to many members of the Gambino, ending up on trial. But all this a new law. The law was called the &quot;RICO Act&quot;, you can link one crime to an entire catch someone on the street, like a end up in prison for 10 years. Now, you can reveal an entire network a murderer, but was following orders, And thanks to this law, At that time, the boss of bosses of the American mafia Gambino family, a very flamboyant man gave interviews, and said that And he has a famous quote: a good tuna sandwich&quot;. voice was recorded on tape where he when I die, tomorrow or in a hundred years, I by the code. Bring me that I'll kill him because he was disrespectful.&quot; ended up in prison. But from prison, He had a fight with a cellmate, who cracked his skull, cellmate cracked his skull. And through his lawyer, that I am offering $500,000 to anyone in prison, what difference does it make to me. I believe. Ultimately, in the 80s, to the Italian mafia. It was not completely in general. But American justice Latin American cartels emerged on the scene, African Americans came onto the scene as well, ones are Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, started in Los Angeles and now a real disaster, a new transformation international, flexible; cryptocurrency laundering money. But most importantly, globalization, it's like when a Snickers boxes are produced in Cambodia, in China, and so on. In the mafia, When cocaine comes the street-level distribution is controlled is controlled by Italians, and the money laundering flows into Latin America, and from there though to a lesser extent, and primarily completely untraceable. All of this is laundered through the Italian mafia, routes, and essentially, everything functions in America, the structure In every American city, and accordingly, in New York, the Colombo clan, the Bonanno clan, the Lucchese clan, and the Gambino era lasted from the 1960s to the 1990s. of course, the mafia is not as omnipotent it still controls In Italy, it is the same, Cosa Nostra, that I have told you about today. the Camorra, the mafia from Naples. waste management -- huge money. human trafficking, a huge number just arrive in shipping containers The third most ruthless clan You should definitely it depicts everything quite well Nearly all the cocaine that arrives and it is the most brutal group. Unlike a strict vertical hierarchy, where there is a boss, The 'Ndrangheta is more like an alliance of trade unions, Capocrimine, and there are many 'Ndrangheta territory, and the capocrimine oversees He is still elected in secret, at a chapel in a small village, The most ruthless group, shoot policemen, basically, the 'Ndrangheta hitmen are Albanians now, and And the 4th group is the Sacra Corona mainly involved and controlling prostitution. Italian clans. Their thing around the cross, everything is very but it is the weakest clan All business, from prostitution to the last exclusively by the underworld. The police, And this large part of the economy, a funny story with it during COVID. As you know, north and south. First is the north, where Milan and everything south of Rome: Bari, Naples, where people really had nothing to and according to journalists, the Camorra, giving money, feeding people for free. that the mafia boss should live in a very poor villa, and they still live in the poorest neighborhoods And when special throw garbage at the police, throw possible way, because the bond between strong. And during COVID, the Camorra feeding the population, and the Italian government abandoned but we were there to help, this is our Italians still believe that against illegal immigrants, because it to harm anyone, and so on and so forth. I will mention them now, concluding the episode. criminal group the law of Omerta applies, on the image of a saint when you are initiated of a saint and burn it in your hands. you will burn in hell. ritual vows, a mafioso cannot all this is still present, I don't know but nevertheless, the mafia is obsessed And the main ritual is, of course, give testimony against someone from your family matters with anyone except the family, observed. And the 'Ndrangheta, which and oath breakers without any hesitation. of course, not to snitch, not to give any testimony Another thing worth mentioning written by a Neapolitan journalist, have to walk with security. Because he drank with wrote a book about them without their consent. they presented the film &quot;Gomorrah&quot;, he was accompanied you know, there is something I want to say, there was &quot;The Adventures of the Italians in Russia&quot;, Rosario Agro, who shouted all sorts of nonsense: and then someone would escape from him at that &quot;The Mafia is immortal&quot;, and indeed, in all countries, in America, in Europe, in Italy, it does not exist only in for example: &quot;Who deals with criminal the guys from the 'Ndrangheta, there are What do they do there besides drugs? is bulky, so they import Chinese amphetamines Lots and lots of fruits, which are sold go, to whom? To the Italian mob. All this business is also run by Italians. there are their own, quite serious, gangs, its representatives there. That is, it is the part In the 90s, Slavic groups came in, with Russians, Ukrainians, they also started two very serious organizations due to time constraints. The Japanese Yakuza which are also connected with the Italian and most importantly, now the most is the Mexican cartels. And all this is interconnected, When we talk about the world government, by these guys, because through third of companies. You see how much, Take the drug problem, for example. of cocaine seized&quot;. Well, how? They can't be transporting in someone's stomach. They say: &quot;Well, the American toughest structure&quot;. So how do 120 tons Either this structure is not really tough, That is, all this works well, and I think because where there is black money, who control it, and since but can lease it out for exist. So, this is the story. for subscribing to the channel. Already over 700 000 come to me with respect and give a thumbs up.