I know I haven't been good to him, and I surgery too. I know, I just want to apologize for I will earn your forgiveness. You have to. That's the only way you get it I'm not sure if I can believe anything He has different personalities. It depends on which Stephen he is today. I just want you to know that I care about Steven Asante, from what I understand, is It looks really yummy. His brother Justin is over PS600 and he's also Steven's never going to change. Even before he was on the drugs, he was So it sounds like me may be facing the Try to help the Asantes. It's going to be a whole nother story in the stuck here. See? You want to go to jail? No. No, sir. Call the police department. From what I understand, Steven suffers from like a perfect storm of dysfunction is Did it, did it, did it, did it did it did. I'm in a lot of pain and I could really use Stephen is asking for pain medication and his So we are dealing with a very addictive and Yeah. Let me talk to him first. Hold on. Justin, social anxiety is very First of all, we got all the lab work back He's looking at Cinecitta. The camera. And this is something that behavior is not going to work here. Say bye to your brother. Bye bye. I just want to get as far away from him as This whole family is in a downward death I need somebody in my room immediately. I have been waiting. I want this light off. It's ridiculous what I have to do to get We're starting to develop some issues with A lot of his pathological behavior has You're done here. Unless you have an emergency, you will not Please. Wonderful. Stephen will cry and he'll beg. But the reality is he doesn't care about Steven is abusing the system to get unacceptable because right now his addiction before his overeating does. Steven, you lying about everything you're So here's what we're going to do. I'm suspending you from the weight loss addiction program. I'm really excited today because we are This is a big deal for Justin, and with day long, he's leaving his room more and They're a bit of spray paint. You should be It feels really good to start a career in a Since Stephen left, things have been better I don't really like him much because he's a I'm happy with how things are. Except for my weight. I know I'm getting a lot, and I am getting Stephen. If Stephen thinks he can come here and try to adjust his perspective on things. Your days of manipulating the system and Get that through your head, because if you in jail. I'm at Dr. Niles, and I'm about to find out so I'm just hoping for a really good weight Stephen is the most dysfunctional patient I The only option you got left right now. Do a sleeve gastrectomy on you, and habit. I'm here to see Dr. Nile for my first official post surgery Wow. Like that. I know I haven't been good to him, and I surgery too. I know, I just want to apologize for I will earn your forgiveness. You have to. That's the only way you get it I'm not sure if I can believe anything He has different personalities. It depends on which Stephen he is today. I just want you to know that I care about I think when you come down here, we're going And hopefully when I see you, you'll be Okay. Okay. I've adjusted my diet a good bit, so And I'm hoping that I get approved for my You gained PS43 in the last year? Yeah. Justin hasn't been honest with me or habits. I think it was a mistake for me to come down, what I'm doing now. Since I got back from drastic changes to my diet, and I'm not Now's program. So, Justin, you lost PS47 in a month. You see the difference in what you can do if Yes. All right. We're going to improve you for weight loss Okay. Awesome. I'm definitely not going. What is the big deal? You want to. Know the truth? I don't want to be in the You know why? Because he beat the out of me I beat the. Out of you for 18 years. Yeah, you did try to draw me out of a car. You slammed my hand on the door. You punched me every single day. You grabbed. Me. I can't stand being in the same. Room every single day. Justin. I get why Justin is upset. I would be, too, if someone took my But they both cannot continue to behave like And Jesse get this so I can pick up that dog. And I don't think anybody saw it. I'm not staying in the same city as Stephen weight and get on my own, there'll be no one I wanted to say to see what happens with But justice already made up his mind. So for right now, we're going to go back and It's been two months since I had my weight foods. How are you guys doing today? You guys want to get the event going? Yeah, sure. Let's take a seat and I'll give Okay. I had a follow up doctor's appointment I'm really proud of myself. Because I was down to 573 then, and I can't I haven't even talked to Dr. Now since I left, but at this point, even Nell's help, I know that I'm losing weight, hard. I run Hobby Haven and I've just been thriving. The store has been wonders for me. It's really helping me with my social with people. And when people come in, you So I talk back to them and people bring store and they build them while talking to same issues with their social anxiety. And I think it helps them. I mean, it helps me. These kids are very simple. They're under 30 pieces. You just snap them together and they should I've been trying to maintain a healthy life. I've been controlling what I'm eating, Going that way. So this. You just let it sit there? Yeah. And then you line up the peg. That's on the bottom of that one. Yep. My dad's going back down to Houston And he wants me to go back down there. But I don't want to see Steven again. And now I'm doing better without Stephen, life, because now it's no longer anything I'm really excited about everything right The last couple of weeks have been good. Really good things happen in life we can't I guess it just things just happen. I'm still working on getting my life painkillers, especially since I really don't But I've been learning to take care of So that means cleaning up after myself and too. So right now I'm just cleaning up a relaxing and smell a little better, because girlfriend now, and she's coming to pick me Really amazing, right? Her name is Stephanie, and I'm going to be So I'm going to be relocating 14 something And some things, a few things I want to And I'm I'm just mostly in shock about it in the next few days. But hopefully this is a pivotal moment in my future because I think we make a good team. Basically, how it went down is I was doing an you from a social media page. She was one of the people that were in And then I noticed in The Messenger, she And I noticed that clicked on it. And that's when we began to chat and it just We've only been talking for a couple of and she sent a car out to pick me up, and I Started a new chapter and move in is never been in a steady, serious relationship woman that has a child. Her daughter is 13 and she's looking forward yet. Me giving parental guidance to a go with the flow. I don't want to overthink to lose weight. And I would love to have And Stephanie wants to help me. She really, really does. She does not believe in frozen food. She believes in home cooked meals and only So I feel extremely blessed that I have of my goals. It's going to be a positive It's also going to help me lose weight focused on food. I'm going to be focused on I feel like the light at the end of the Ever since I got a girlfriend. My dad and bro are both jealous. They started calling her things like a because she's so beautiful, I guess. And so they think she has to be a porn star But she's not. She's a total opposite. She's a massage therapist. They're just saying all those things because or not accept it. I really don't care good. I talk to my dad occasionally, but I understand each other. He will never understand me. We are two different people. But I've definitely spoken to them and is. She's not, you know, porn stars take gifts, and they don't buy a beautiful house of you. Porn star prostitutes don't do that. I definitely want to keep in contact with Nazar and via webcam or something like that. And when he feels I'm ready to come back for be my surgeon, and I want to show them I'm And I think it would be shocked at the what she looks like. Jeez, no one believes But the scale says it all and the scale So I'm sticking to the diet no matter what, So that's what I'm going to try to do, to have a future ahead of me and the life I And I'm not letting this one slip through my Even if you want to get married to Stephanie. Yes. And you want to get married to Steven? Yes. Okay. Even get a ring for Stephanie. All right. Take your ring. Place it on the third finger of your left With this ring. With this ring, I thee wed. I feel very good. And, Stephanie, do you ever remember seeing finger of his left hand? And repeat after me. With this ring, I thee wed. Very good. So, pursuant to the express authority vested in me as a judge of the pronounce the two of you married. Stephen, you may kiss the bride. Wow. I've been back in Rhode Island for about four lot of weight. And I've been working hard to I've been doing doctor now is 1200 calorie And sticking with that and trying to do as And I really want to keep this momentum Today, me and Tony are going to look at if I could find a place that I can afford, I spent the last couple of months learning of myself, and I feel like I'm ready. Hey. How are you doing? Hey. How are you doing? All right. Ronnie fraley. Nice to meet you, Justin. All right, so y'all looking for some Correct? Yes. All right, now, I know we didn't get a Is there a specific, like, price range or One bedroom, one bedroom. All right. I could probably show you two The unit that I can show you right now, it's We rent it out ourselves. So if you want, we can just go right now and follow me to the other location. It's over near Providence College. So they're both in great areas. Okay. All right. All right. Justin, you go up in front. Take your time. I'm really excited about how making, and I'm running a successful myself, so there's no reason I shouldn't be It is a two bedroom, so it's a little bit nice unit. Washer and dryer. It's not like a small stackable. Oh, nice. These front loaders. So you got the bathroom here with a This is a. Nice size bathroom, Justin. Oh, yeah. That's nice. I'm doing really good. And I'm working really hard. And I'm going to make sure I stay on track. Yeah, she was out of my life, and I don't anything to mess with me. So I think from here on out, I'm just going make the progress I need until I get to my Okay, off to the next one. But if I do want to need skin surgery, that the sagging skin is really going to And I know I have to address them, but. So I'm not sure what I'm going to do. There's no way I can leave the store on a I have too much to do in there every day. Can't leave it into somebody's hands for But I guess I'll have to wait and see how it But I still have a lot of time to think And I'm an optimist about the future, so I Okay, so you're in a fantastic area over They're right next to Providence College. Okay, so you got your private entrance here Okay. Whatever it takes. I'll just have to figure it out. That's why I haven't put a lot of pressure Because you don't know what's going to The little steep. I know it might be a little straight up. I'll give an example to do with Steven. I can't believe this. When I left Houston, he started telling my was going to go move in with her. We thought he was just messing with us, but Who knows? I got the nice big bathroom right here. Take a peek in there. It was a big bathroom. I don't really know much about Steven other I don't know if it's a solid relationship or It's really not my place. I have no idea what Steven's plans are. If he wants to come visit. I don't really care what he does, but I just me. And I think it'll be good. Because about 6 or 7 months ago, we put to the garage just to get it out of the And now that he's moving on with his life, Steven's junk. So I'm looking forward to life. I'm just trying to focus on myself don't need Dr. No's help. I'll definitely be in touch with you guys and All right. All right. Great, I appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thank you. Have a great day. You too. All right. Right now I'm getting excited. The more I think about getting out on my own I know I have a lot of hard work ahead of It's been about five months since I talked Now, and the last time I talked to him, he Island to get my weight checked. But because of the store and how much I work Houston. And since Stephen has been gone. But now that he no longer lives in Houston, don't have to worry about being in the same So I'm headed into the doctor's appointment My doctor now asked me to do because I want I feel like my skin is starting to sag, and And the only way I can do that is if I'm Nel's program. But I have no idea if he'll I'm not sure what away right now because I a lot of weight just judging by my clothes And I hope the scale shows I weigh low I'm still very serious about all this. Dr. knows. Out and calls on the appointment for. Me. Okay. Your name? Justin Asante. Okay, great. I'm going to take you right in. All righty. Seven months ago, when I got the weight loss And doctor now told me I should be losing 20 So that means I probably need to be into the This is Justin. Awesome. Thank you. I'm going to get a weight on you. Okay? All righty. All right. I'm just going to turn this on. Fire it up here. I'll just give it a minute here. All right, Justin. Looks like PS432 today. All right, I'll have you come with me into We'll get some vitals off you. It's not as much as the way it was supposed that amount of weight loss is good enough I feel very good right now. Okay. I got to call doctor now to tell him Call him if you have to call him. Hello, dark darknell. Hi, Justin. How are you today? I'm good today. So, what's going on? Did you have your weight Yes I. Did. So what is your weight doing? My weight is. 432 right now. Okay. So far, you lost PS30 from your highest Yes. Okay. That's good. But if you stay in Texas right So even though you lost PS230 when you stay and keep you on track, you are able to lose Okay. Yep. And your goal weight is around So we get 200 more to go to get you to your extra skin that needs to come out. So this is all important that you stay with now. And that's going to be very important. Yep. Okay. Yep. All right. So are you taking your vitamins and sticking Yes. Okay. So Justin, what is your goal in your life? What do you want to see happen? Right now, I just want to lose more weight. I just want to get down to about 230 and And you think getting bad skin removal Yes, in the future. So you lose another PS100 in skin surgery will Okay. And don't forget, exercise is going to So you need to do that periodic blood test okay. All right. Okay. Yep. Justin, you're doing good with So I think I see a better future for you follow the path of getting pain medication And even though he lost some weight, he point that the surgery is going to be So your progress is much more significant Yep. Okay, so he's planning to get your life stuff. Yes. What I want to accomplish when I get to my business and make it more popular. And of course, you know, do more stuff, more Okay, that's going to be good. How was your dad doing? I'm doing very well, thank you. How are you doing? All right. Yeah. So far. Still any problem? No, not at all. And will adjust in behaving better than Well, I'll tell you right now, since Stephen lot. And that's a good start for him. But is he off of the pain medicine? He. As far as I know of, he's not doing it no down to like PS400 now. Well that's good. He needs somebody to shake Huh? Yep. No. Since he got married, he's doing very Good. That's good. Okay. And just in behavior, too. Yeah, he's all right. He gets on my nerves every now and then. Still, he can't eat that much because he And I laugh at him, you know what I mean? Why are you laughing at him? Because when he was younger, until he was 20 operation, he says, I never get sick. And now that he gets sick, I laugh about it. All right, you know. Okay. All right. Justin, if you ever decided to down, you're going to have to stay till you So this is going to be the deal, okay? Yep. Do you understand that? Right. Yes. Okay, great. So, Justin, you need to your vitamins, do your exercise because it's The success rate ten years after surgery is back to their old habit and their stomach more often and eat more high calorie food. So stick with the program and train yourself okay? And exercise is going to be very So make sure you stick with the program. You have your periodic checkup with your All right, all right. Yep. All right, Justin, I'm proud of your I'm glad you are doing well. Being lucky and leaving town doesn't make it And I'm glad you were lucky and nothing bad And overall, I'm glad you're doing well and Continue with your progress and we'll have And make sure you get your checkup routinely exercises. And we have a plan. If you lose PS100, we can consider it. Skin surgery. Okay. All right. I like to thank your doctor now for what Accepting me back into the program. So thank you. Oh you're welcome Justin. We want best for you and want you to have a And this is going to be something that is You have a long life. Live in front of you. So the health and well-being is going to be attention. Okay. Yep. And Justin, you take care and I'll be Okay. All right. All right. You take care. You too, doctor. Now take care. Okay. Bye bye. Thank you ladies. Thank you ladies. You have a good night, guys. You too. Good luck. Chelsea. You want some? He called the doctor, I think went well. The doctor told me he wanted me to lose PS100 I can try to reach that goal. And if I don't get scared and move, it's not But I do want to at least try. I'm still losing weight, but I still have a I really want to keep this momentum going, I can start providing for myself. And that really needs my attention. I know I'll lose a lot more weight. But right now I need to focus on other Hello. Hello. How are you. Steven? How are you doing? All right. How are you doing? I'm doing well. So it's been about two years since I'm Since I saw you last. I saw you have five, PS550. So how are you doing? I'm all right. I've regained a bit. I'm about in that area still. So. So what did you weight now? About what you said. It's about like 518, but it might have But yeah, it's around that area 518. So when was the last time you checked that? About. Three months ago. Maybe two months ago. So you probably gained since then. So you haven't any issues with the medical swelling in the leg? Infection or anything. Swelling in the leg? Um, I've dealt with for a while, and the feel them really anymore. So. So are you getting up and walking? How is your walking activity? Well, I live here, a townhome type place, and and down stairs. So. Okay. For, you know, I have to go upstairs and So are you. Able to walk okay. Okay. Yeah. I don't do it often though. I don't go out any. Um, honestly, sometimes I do. I like to shop for, like, collectibles and a to live in Texas. As far as going out. Okay, well, how's your health been? Can I see what your leg look like? Uh, yes. Okay. That's what you can do. This is my left leg. Just move it more on the side. That's the left leg and the right leg. Walk over there so you can see it from that This is the right one. No, no. It looks like lymphedema got much worse in Yeah. It did. It did? Yeah. How is your stomach doing? My stomach is really annoying and long. And just sitting on top of my legs and The upper part or lower part of the stomach. The extra skin is hanging. Yeah, it's like right here. Like right here. I write here like. Well, that's still a lot of fat in there. There's not a whole extra skin because you So what are be doing with your eating habit? How are you getting along with that? Mostly not good. So how many times are you eating? What are you snacking on and what are you Eating what I normally eat before. Basically my favorite pizza. Picture? Yeah. How many times we eat pizza in a day? Like five times a day. Maybe for 4 or 5 times pizza a day. Yeah. So you're going back to your old So how much you can eat before you get full? Oh, boy. Well, to be honest with you, I can eat, Do you eat every two hours? Sometimes an hour. I'll have, like a bowl of cereal, but like I mean, it all depends on if it's all in my So you can eat a whole lot at one time, Can I eat a whole lot at one time? No. Okay, so the way that surgery may not be stretch your stomach back out so you're back Everything. Yeah. What are you doing with the pain medicine? I have not been on any pain medicine in a A long while ago, so. Well, if that's true, that's positive, but Okay. I heard you made a. Yeah. Okay. And so that was a positive thing for you. Actually, it really was. She's a very, very, very, very, very good She really is. And she only tries to help I just don't listen. I never listen and I don't need to change. And if I don't change, then she'll get a She'll divorce me in a heartbeat, basically. You know, every marriage has ups and downs. Sometimes more downs than ups. Up and down, up and down, you know. So it's ups because of you or downs or No, it's because of me. Because I always caused the arguments and And I, you know, manipulative behavior that So the thing is not going as well as it No, because I'm the cause of it all the time. And I kind of heat things up here a lot with I mean, we fight a lot, but I don't want to I don't. So if you're asking me, then. No, I don't want a divorce. But how about asking your wife? What does she say? Well, she says that she does, but I don't I don't know, I mean, I don't. So if you had divorced, you come back to I'm coming back anyway. I'd like to come back for a while to fix break. If she can respect that. But if she wants a divorce, then. Then there's not really I can do. Well, you have to treat people with respect Streaming. Yeah, I know I do. I'll try. I do want to throw in the fact It's just that I choose not to eat them and So yeah. So instead of eating a healthy meal, you just And that's causing the problem? Yes. What are you going to do about that? I'd like to fix everything and that I need to I need to be. You know, this is obviously and stuff. So it just needs to be fixed 40. Yeah, and I'd like to come back to and get some help with my edema and my That's what I said. Yeah. Well, do you want to come back to our care? Is that what you're saying? What? No. You're getting divorced. Is it correct? Is it? If things don't change, then So yeah, so we fight a lot on and off. But like I said, I'm mainly the I'm the She doesn't. I'm the one that starts I mean you know I've started stuff with angry. So that's just Steven's way, right. Manipulative behaviour, you know. So. And Steven you never change I know. You should just want to eat and get pain Yeah, still wanting pain meds, but she won't Still still still still still. So yeah. And you never wear a shirt, right? Oh no I don't no, I don't wear a shirt a lot. All right. Seven but if you plan to come back point is up to you to start turning things Eating can do that. I can certainly try. Yes. Yeah. Is that your dad is still calling that pizza Yeah, sometimes he is. Yeah. Most of the time. So things haven't changed with that, huh? And as far as my brother, I haven't heard Like. At all. So I don't know how he's doing at all. He won't even tell me if I did, but I So you don't talk to him either, huh? Not once, not once. Not since I've been to Texas, to be honest Whenever we talked in Texas was the last So. All right. Well, I'm sorry to hear that, but And but there's not much more we can do for your life and willing to change. But if you have any medical emergencies and Okay, I. Will. It's great seeing you and talking to Now, it's been a while. All right. Well, I hope you will get on track. And I wish you both the best. All right. Okay. Bye. Bye bye. It's unfortunate to see that Stephen has down here, and that his health has not only the wrong direction again. My hope was he would continue making around, and that maybe the new start would But unfortunately, that doesn't appear to be most, if not all, his weight back. So he wants to potentially come back to But at this point, we have given Stephen needed. So there is nothing more we can do And I would also take resources from someone because I don't believe Stephen does. So I truly wish him and his brother Justin But at this point, we have done all we can