Good morning girls, how are you today? I am very happy. I want to arrange the warehouse in a very nice way. I will share all the details with you. In the morning, I received the shelves that I told you about to arrange the things in the warehouse. Here my husband sat installing them and preparing them. After my husband finished installing them, I remembered that I have a Quran lesson this time. I am studying the Quran, not memorizing it, but correcting it. It is the platform that conducts lessons for men and women, in addition to offering courses for children. It is the platform I told you. Before it was called Enjaz Educational Platform, you will find the link to the fair with a pinned comment and in the description box. I wanted to help you if you would like to learn. Tajweed the Qur'an. Correct your mistakes in the Qur'an. Very seriously. It is a wonderful platform here. I said to myself, Tasneem, before you work in the warehouse, prepare breakfast for your family so that they can break their fast, and then go to the warehouse with a clear conscience. The warehouse needs a good time to organize because it is small and contains many things. So I said, I will prepare breakfast recipes that I will share with you. They are very good. There will be two recipes for toast. I will let you know I am going to make pancakes with it, because the children are very craving for pancakes in a very sweet way. First of all, I cut tomatoes, green onions, and parsley, and put in boiled eggs. Then, I added mozzarella cheese and cream cheese. I also added cheddar cheese. I brought it liquid, as you can see. I put in the spices salt, black pepper, and wild thyme. I stirred them. Together, I have the filling ready. I will bring it I started rolling out the toast with a rolling pin . I have a tool for cutting in the shape of a large circle. For example, you can use a bowl and cut it in it. I cut the toast in this way. I want to make it in the form of a very nice samosa. By the way, by the way, I mean, serve it at parties, occasions, and holidays. I put the filling, wet the edges with water, and smeared it like a samosa. Here I put an egg yolk with it. I sprinkled some paprika on the top of the pies and put them in a 180 degree oven From above and below for 20 minutes, the edges of the toast that have increased do not collapse, but we can benefit from them with another recipe. I roasted them in the oven, cut them and put them in the oven immediately, and they become like toasted bread. They are placed on top of the salads, and we can eat them with labneh and hummus. Now, I will show you how it turned out. I received the gift from Timo Khafaq's website. It was good. I will give you links to everything in the description. I bought this lid so that when I used the whisk, it would not dirty the kitchen I put a jacket instead of it. When I saw it in Timo and its price is very reasonable, I bought it immediately. Many of you asked me how you can get two gifts from Timo when you want to buy anything. I told you to put my affiliation code and you will get two gifts from Timo. They told you that you must buy for 100 and a little and take these two gifts while you choose it. I chose this whisk because I don't have a whisk at home, I swear This is how it turns out to be very cute. The recipe for pancakes is very simple. It consists of two eggs, two cups of milk, four tablespoons of sugar, a little vanilla, a little baking powder. I mean, small and definitely two cups of flour. Mix them together, and if you mix them with a whisk, they will be better. Have you seen the extra toast? I put labneh and put pieces of toasted toast on top of it and we ate it instead of bread. As for the second plate, I also put toasted toast in it and put olive oil and green thyme on it. The taste turned out amazing, as you can see here. I opened all the items I bought to organize the warehouse. The links you will find in the description box for the items I used in this video. I wash them and want to dry them, and the most difficult thing is to dry them because it is not necessary Not a drop of water remains, otherwise the supplies will be ruined. I got a hairdryer and used it, dried the organizers and wiped them until they were dry. Then I got these boxes of cornflakes. I loved them a lot, and a lot of them were sweet, and a lot of them really didn't take up a lot of space. I loved them because the children were now able to take the cornflakes on their own and put it back in its place. These are the pieces when I was in Turkey. One time my neighbor said to me, "What do you think about it?" I told her it was good. I mean, if I didn't have organizers, I would have brought them. As soon as I saw them, I immediately decided to buy them. I put all the legumes in them. Notice how the legumes go down easily. They are very well organized and do not take up much space. These three organizers I put in them things that I use a lot, such as short and long rice, and sugar. They were practical and sweet. There is a gap between them, which has become widespread among these organizations. They remind me of Malaysia. Many Asians always use rice. They buy tools like this . Look, guys, this is what the warehouse looks like. It's a good space, but it needs to be organized and it looks much better. So, let's put it together and see how it turns out. After I cleaned it, I'm ready to organize it. But I would like to tell you about the shelves. When I bought them, I didn't notice that they weren't in them. A wooden shelf on which I can put things, and I discovered that we do not put anything heavy or light on it. See, I want to put light things on it, such as Tissues, bags, and other things. These shelves, as you saw, were installed by my husband. I will put them here on the chest, and you must have noticed that they have become very long because they were two, and we mounted them on top of each other. This way, they make use of the vertical and horizontal space together, and at the same time, I am able to put in light things. This video is for you to get a lot of ideas from. How do you arrange the warehouse with these wooden shelves? I put the canned goods, but you can put them It has pasta and things like that This plate is an ordinary wooden plate, but I used it as a simple organizer. I put oils and sauces on it, and we can put anything here. I wanted to add spices that have no place in the kitchen, like roses and cinnamon, for example. Underneath I put potatoes, onions, and garlic in these baskets, which are very useful, and here I put the extra oils and ghee that I cooked on. Lunch is rice and okra. I will share it with you in full on Snapchat if you like You will see it, my account will appear on the screen. You can follow me there. I did not want to share it here so that the video does not become too long for you. Also, I am there all the time on Snapchat when I do not have videos here on YouTube.. If you like, come there and we will talk a lot of nice things and have fun. A lot of good time together after this work. I had an appointment with my friend. We wanted to meet in Al Shaab Village in Sharjah. It was in this place. According to what my friend told me, there is an ice skating rink and the place was cold. Guys, take care. After you go, you may get sick. It is necessary to wear winter clothes in this place. Come on, good bravo. Come on, go play. Sweet Sham Sweet. Are you happy? Luqaimat is one of the popular dishes in the Emirates. I was really happy that when a person goes with people who have positive energy, his mood changes for the better, not like when he sits with people, but they are empty-handed and talk about so-and-so and openly backbite people. My friend made me feel optimistic and started telling me that you have not seen anything in the Emirates. Tomorrow you will see things. It's crazy that she's been in the Emirates for 30 years. She told me now that I can't get out of there I feel like it's my country, seriously. Hold on to them . I said to my friend, &quot;Let's go to the 3D cinema.&quot; I mean, you feel like you're in reality, immersed in the movie while you're watching and the chair moves under you and they might spray you with water. It's a nice experience that we enjoyed a lot about.