Prayer is so vital in the Christian life. Yet oftentimes before we go to bed before And they're all good places to pray. But a lot of the times these prayers But we hear stories of incredible answers Stories of people hearing from God not in a distant, ancient way, So this is something that you're lacking. The problem is found in a weak So if you want to grow stronger here, Step number one just start talking to God. Philippians chapter four, verses 5 to 7. The Lord is near. Don't worry about anything, but in everything, through prayer present your requests to God all understanding, will guard your hearts This passage is so inviting. Paul encourages us that God is near And he's not distant trying to escape us. And he hasn't placed requirements on us He doesn't set up police tape to prevent us from going somewhere, We are invited to pray about everything, So give it a try and talk to God about However, don't take this as pressure In fact, Jesus told his disciples when you pray, don't babble since they imagine Don't be like them because your father knows You see, prayer is simply joining Surrendering our will to his. There are no magic words and you don't need to dress up Jesus says the father knows what you need. So that means that the father is close He sees you and he doesn't skip town. If you say the wrong thing. So think about it A good friend who listens intently, Not to provide a solution for But a friend who is present. Your friendship didn't to chilling on their couch beyond, hey, let's just hang out. That friendship probably had. Some weird conversations that were strengthened by honest This is the first step in a deeper prayer Simplicity. Simple prayers that look like thanking God why it's raining on the weekend and telling God that you're nervous to talk to someone And at first it might even be difficult or But don't worry, because that's normal. Because prayer is a relationship And that leads us to step number Colossians chapter four, verse two. Devote yourselves to prayer. Stay alert in it with thanksgiving. Another way to say and make it a part of your daily life. you see when you devote yourself And if that's a relationship, it means Think about it like this. If you commit to running, It looks like making time to lace up For my friend. He sets aside mornings making time each day or hang out with friends And he says, these morning runs One stay in shape and two, to make space And this is a regular reoccurring time, which he says reorders And the reason why he's been doing this is to actively reform his focus You see, he's not running when we're outside or when we're camping, and his focus is not hearing from God He told me his aim is to simply enjoy The same way anyone would enjoy with a friend, or getting lunch My friend told me that if he hears from and that he's simply making space And in the same way people say, hey, we should grab coffee sometime, If you say you'll pray when you feel like Our lives are busy. And we're too easily distracted So in the same way, you need to spend intentional time So in order to have you must make an intentional effort And by this, for hours on end, instead look at the way Jesus's life was defined by prayer, spent with his father. Throughout the Gospels, to point out how Jesus regularly woke up and throughout the book of acts scheduled prayer meetings and on the way And we see this in acts you see regularly scheduled prayer built noon and evening is a great framework So as a set point here, Start out with the Lord's Prayer Matthew chapter six, verses 9 to 13, And then take a couple of minutes and in the evening, or before you go to bed, Allow this to be a kind of framework, on, set up to maintain Not a rigid system that stifles joy. You see the point of setting specific times to pray Every time. but to spend time with God, inviting him Allowing friendship to grow the same way Behold God every day. And this builds Remind yourself of who God is. Psalm chapter 33, verses 6 to 9. The heavens were made and all the stars he gathers He puts the depths into storehouses. Let the whole earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world For he spoke, and it came into being Well, the psalmist is doing here simply taking time to adore He's remembering and he's reminding himself enough to create everything And I want you to think about that This is the God who we're praying to. The God who created humanity from dust, the Red sea and caused the Earth to rotate axis, the right distance from the sun with This should cause you to be in awe, He's not like you and he's not like me. He's infinite And as we realize this we are seeing God as holy You see God is set And that means that he is incapable And as we grasp God's holiness, Jesus taught us to pray in Matthew chapter he says, therefore Our father in heaven, You see, he starts by recognizing He doesn't throw himself on the floor before the presence of the one He speaks to God as Father. He speaks to God Now, this might be painful for some, God is not an earthly father that fathers can carry with them. No, he is in heaven. Greater This heavenly father is holy. And this can be but when this is the foundation Because you recognize that there's nothing And he does all of this with a fatherly heart You see, this massive universe creating, the father who is the source of every good As we're told in James 117. The father who planned and death entered the world. The father who loved the world That whoever believes in him So as you pray, remember, adore God, and take the focus off of yourself Remember who he is Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, Which, when attributed correctly we are able to trust God's faithfulness Step number four. Don't hold back. Indeed. My life is consumed with grief My strength has failed And my bones waste away. Here David is brutally honest with God, as dressed up or clean. Instead, he portrays himself And not just that, for his suffering you see that's honesty right there. So when you pray, So if you feel weak or broken, and if you're angry at someone Prayer is the perfect place Look at how David prays in Psalm Answer me when I call You freed me from affliction. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer. You see, David doesn't sneak in and gently ask God, being careful David goes into prayer the same way demanding attention and action. You see, David recognizes and then he passionately calls for his audacity. So for you, Is it possible that you're doubting that Or your family member with cancer? Are you hesitating to surrender your fear The idea is to not hold anything back. Until, God, you're worried and bring to God your situation, Remember that the God you're praying to So your doubts and confusion who he is. So don't hold back when you pray to him Step number five pray boldly. Matthew chapter seven, verses 7 to 8. Ask, and it will be given to you. Seek Knock and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives. And the one who seeks, finds. And the one who knocks. Once again, this is a freeing passage Caution, no walls or gates to climb over. There is complete access Jesus, who is God, And something interesting about this section is the verb tense that it's The commands ask, seek, and knock can be Keep on seeking and keep on knocking. So know that our boldness there's no limit that we can hit You've been too bold for too long, No. Instead, So be bold in your prayers. Don't pray generic, vague, and safe Pray for specific areas in your life So think of what you need for school, And when you do that, and ask God for good friends And continue to pray for your mom, and that close friend The key is to ask for specific things and if you have questions or doubts, Knock on heaven's door and expect you see. There's a special type of closeness and it's a kind of closeness that kids share with their parents. Where they tug on their parent's pants or the kind of familiarity that allows the child to ask for toys You see, if God is our father, and persistence that we have in that knows that God, our father, Step number six pray for others. First Timothy chapter two, verse one. First of all, intercessions, as Paul points out here So intercession is simply or praying for favor or action and here Paul takes it to the extreme, And he doesn't qualify and care, but leaves it now we get to take all the things about personal prayer and apply it And this is an incredible gift, to God And we do so in an act of joining arm for God for healing and deliverance, Another aspect of intercession verse three. when Paul says, at the same time, pray that God may open a door to us To speak the mystery of Christ, So please know that we're meant to pray And we're also meant to pray so that they can have divine interactions And this can look like you as they teach on a Sunday morning, or praying for a friend who is wanting that they would have the courage to present the gospel So once again, this takes the focus off and allows us to have the heart of God about in Second And it reads, not wanting any to perish, And because there's so many people that you make a list of people And maybe you keep that list in your Bible you can lift them up in prayer. Or maybe you keep a picture of that person so that every time you see their face, So be creative with it. And may we all grow to intercede Step number seven be persistent. First Thessalonians chapter five, verse Rejoice always, pray constantly. Give thanks in everything, for this is In this passage, Paul tells the church And this is where the rubber hits you see when your prayers haven't been And when you keep bringing God But he seems to be silent. You have to keep going and keep praying. Like this passage says. And Jesus even admits that this will be And he gives us a parable and in this passage Jesus gave a parable, who didn't really care about God, And one day there was a persistent widow who kept on asking this judge And he said no. But she was persistent and kept nagging And finally the judge was fed up and said, but I'm not doing it because of you. I'm doing it And then Jesus says that people brought justice how much more will God And I should note that no one in Jesus's They were unable to work, unable to testify in court, and utterly reliant Yet it was this widow's persistence and her persistence saw So, to echo Jesus, Father desire you see, God is welcoming you, encouraging you, and desiring you And he stands there listen and to act upon your requests However, with the invitation to be persistent, look at Isaiah chapter 55, verse so my ways are higher than your ways, You see, God is beyond us. So we must understand that sometimes for the kingdom, is shortsighted So in our prayers, for God's will to be done and not our own. Okay, so looking at prayer, to develop a deeper and richer Just start talking to God. Set specific times to pray. Remind yourself of who God is. Don't hold back. Pray boldly. Pray for others and be persistent. To close, let me tell you a little story. There was a man by the name of D.L. Moody, and he is remembered as one of the And one of the things that he was known for was carrying around And there are the names And he prayed for them by name every day. And he prayed And by the time that he died, 96 got saved. you see, it was Moody's that resulted in 96 of his friends and while seeing a 96% success One of the best parts of that story occurs you see at Moody's memorial service the four friends They were so moved. So in the end, a man known saw a fruitful ministry, but by his simple and faithful So keep on praying. And as you