Hey, everybody, it's Andy back for another Today, we're going to talk about the best Tell me. Who doesn't love getting this question right process? I know it's a rough one. I get this question every week during my live I get countless comments on my blog and on I know it's frustrating. I know it makes you nervous, and I know a giving a number, and you should. You should worry about it. Today, what we're going to do is I'm going no more. I'm going to tell you why you should use this I'm going to tell you the mistakes people on how to approach this. Let's talk about this a little bit with some I know, in a number of countries, now also states and cities, who prevent employers from compensation is. While I'm sure that that will continue to and cities will adopt that law, one thing asking you what your expected salary is. Hey, how much do you want to earn? Here's what I advise. Number one, first thing, is under no circumstances number. Why? Well, number one, first thing about this is You do not know what it's like to work there, with, the training and development opportunities, all of those things. It's very difficult for you to hit the nail this early in the process. The second thing is I don't want you to worry. There is not a recruiter in the world who get paid. The hiring officials do that, I mean, unless HR person is the hiring official. I don't want you to worry about that, because what you're going to get paid, even if they pays. I don't want you to worry about that upfront. The other thing is I don't want you to actually too low, in which case you're setting their even though they might be willing to pay you went too high. The one thing that the recruiter can do in out, but the recruiter won't knock you out don't provide a number. You might be thinking, well, maybe I can give Well, that might be nice, but if I'm the hiring Andy, I'd like to earn between $80,000 I heard $80,000. What were you thinking? $100,000. You're still giving them a low number, probably ranges aren't really great either, because They're likely to anchor on your low number, high number. Ranges don't work much, either. What I would rather you do is, when you are to say, While compensation is important value of working at your company: what I get opportunities, the career advancement opportunities, other things that go along with working at I'm excited to learn about those in the interviewing to give you a much better idea of what it based on all those other factors. At the moment, to give you any kind of estimate I look forward to investigating those areas, process. and they're going to be upset if I don't actually What's actually going to happen if you don't position yourself to earn a lot of points decision at the end. What's going to happen transactionally at is if you've got the goods, if your resume's and they are ultimately going to want to hire That recruiter, if you don't provide an expected or it's a big deal to the hiring official, and say, I like this person's background. They really didn't want to advise on what and the hiring official's going to say, Get That's what they'll say. The reason I know that is I was a hiring official I would always tell the recruiters, Don't It's silly for you to ask that, because they'll of the recruiters insisted on asking the question, or not they should get you into the process. Every time that the smart candidate didn't to me and say, Andy, what do we do? on paper. Get her here, so we can interview her. It's really ... You think that they're going It's better to just talk about how you want compensation is one part. All right, if you'd like more about this particular throughout the interviewing process in one Don't Get Paid What You Deserve. Check There's much more information about how to in your first call with your boss, and as from the employer, and what to do and how deserve. If you liked this, click the thumbs up. Make sure you are subscribed to my YouTube and also be alerted when I go live on Thursdays. Every week, I go live on my YouTube channel I don't want you to miss that, if you've got It gives us a chance to engage on a deeper you better. Make sure you're subscribed. Until next week, have a great one.