Life can feel unfair at times. You work hard towards your goals, yet life unexpected curveballs Obstacles and challenges. This situation is beautifully described when he says "And once the storm is over, how you made it through, But one thing is certain the person you are is different. The person who went into that storm The storm is about your transformation, your evolution, I like to think of it as like a maze. There'll be moments where you feel like when you are in complete flow There will be days where you have to take There will be days where you feel and there'll be days It is important, something does not make you a failure. Failure is an event, not an identity, toward yourself and remind yourself You are going to have days but you must also appreciate that you are perhaps a lot further along than you once That there was points in your life where you wish When you look back, I'm sure there were challenges that you would have overcome, You overcame them. You got through them, you survived. And this is the purpose of challenges. They are there to help you grow, to show you just how strong you truly are. If you want to live the life that you desire, It almost never does. The reality is that creating around your greatest passions It is going to be tough. Too many people give up too soon just before they are about to experience Don't be like most people. When I failed I felt shame and like my future down the drain. My family had expected me to do well. I remember when I was home I was upstairs on the internet The rest of the family were downstairs. They had a bottle of champagne ready to celebrate Unfortunately, I saw that I had failed In three Those next few minutes as I decided how I was going to tell The next few weeks were incredibly tough. As I went further into my shell, the fact that I'd failed my second year I tied my self-worth to academic results and as a result, You have to be aware of the stories because perception is everything, and the most important conversation To change yourself, And this is where identity comes in because your identity is tied to the story A powerful question for you to reflect on I become to have what I want?" For me, who could not only withstand life's Once I was clear on who I had to become. I was able to operate from that identity. The identity of someone who could overcome The identity of someone who had a healthy The identity of someone When you have that clarity on the person and you can operate from that identity, who is able to handle You become somebody who can bounce back who can take on challenges Understanding that in your response lies Life is less about the stumbling, It is more about how you take events into something that can help you This is where you become both you begin to bend reality to something When you bend the reality Nassim Taleb would describe this quality Fragile things break Antifragile things, however, They become better You see, life You just get stronger and more resilient you dust yourself down, stand up and with faith in your ability When you operate you are able to see things A great example of this is the parable of the old farmer One day he lost his prized horse to offer their condolences to the farmer. "What bad luck that you've lost The farmer calmly responded to them maybe not." The next morning, along with three other wild horses. The neighbors rejoice, welcoming "What a turn of fortune but you now have three additions The farmer responds with the words, while tending to one of these wild horses, In the process. The neighbors hear about the news "What misfortune for your son while tending to one of those wild with the same words: "Maybe, for the village, recruiting all able except the farmer's son. The villagers come together, you are that your son has been saved The farmer responds with the words again, "Maybe, maybe not." Most of us, you see, are like the villagers We are quick to judge, and we focus so much on the things We get worried about things that we cannot Imagine, however, if you were to approach events To be attached to the outcome pause, to reflect to seek the lesson in the many challenges The universe will deliver to your doorstep. And one of the greatest insights is that each of these serve a lesson. If you have the humility to listen is a nice way to put it. Ego sees failure, humility sees feedback, ego seeks perfection, Ego blames humility, takes responsibility. This is also how living life You operate from this belief not against you, and that the universe Just imagine what happens when you operate That life is working for you Every situation and experience that you can take to help Some of the questions that you can reflect a setback include these following two. The first is "What And the second is "What is the opportunity to focus on what you can control because there is always something Having the wisdom to learn from you from victim to Victor to feeling hopeful As the actor Sylvester The world ain't all sunshine and rainbows. It's a very mean and nasty place. And I don't care how tough you are, and keep you there permanently You, me And nobody is going to hit But it ain't about how hard you hit. It's about how hard you can get hit How much you can take it, That's how it is done. Now, if you know what you're worth, But you've got to be willing And not pointing fingers, saying you ain't where you want to be Cowards do that. And that ain't you. Winners don't blame. They take responsibility. Winners don't give up. They come back stronger. Winners don't complain Don't let life's challenges Instead, let's act as rocket fuel towards and your extraordinary from overcoming challenges somebody that can overcome So here's to making especially if you're going Here's to coming out of that storm who walked into them. To go through your own transformation, to becoming the person to achieve all those goals and desires Thank you so much for taking the time If you enjoyed it, it would mean so much if you could subscribe, I also run a weekly newsletter where If you haven't already subscribed, below in the comments And if you haven't already made sure my bestselling book Energize via The book is all about how energy management, not time and it has been endorsed Marie Forleo and Ali Abdaal. I can't wait for you to dive into this. And in the meantime,