- [Jared] In this video, to show you the inside which is in Seattle, Washington. We'll also talk about and what to expect on your next visit. (buzzing, explosion) (bright, upbeat electronic music) Here's the United States. On the west coast is Washington state. The city of Seattle is right here, kind of in between all of this water. The Space Needle is right here. It was originally built for It took 13 months to build. The first thing they to put the foundation. We want the tower to be They poured 5600 tons of concrete. This meant that when the center of gravity Now it's time to start (bright, upbeat electronic music) Construction finished just in time for the opening of the World's Fair. You have to remember that which eventually led to the on the moon. The general public had their sights on the future and on space travel. This is why the top of to look like a flying saucer. But when you're up at the top, it's designed to make you feel like you're in the clouds While you're at the top, of the harbor, surrounding landscape, and of course, downtown Seattle. There's even a monorail (bright, upbeat electronic music) The base of the tower since it was first opened. Now there's a bit more to see and do while you're at the bottom. (bright, upbeat electronic music) Don't forget to admire the massive size of the tower when you're at the bottom. (bright, upbeat electronic music) On your trip to Seattle, make sure you visit other (bright, upbeat electronic music) The Space Needle is usually compared with the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France. Both are icons for the cities they are in. Up at the top, we have two viewing floors, three elevators, the skyline level, and the base of the tower. As a tourist, you'll want to Walk up these steps and then They also have kiosk machines Back in 1962, tickets only cost a dollar. But today, you'll have to After getting your tickets, you can begin your way In times past, you may have but now the Space Needle has timed tickets so that when you arrive the line will hopefully be a lot shorter. Once you get inside along the wall to learn Then we just keep on until we go all the way around. Notice how we're right above Down below, you'll be of the gift shop. We'll visit this at the end of the tour. When it's your turn, enter the Each elevator can fit about 25 people. It will take about 41 (bright, upbeat electronic music) We'll get out on the very top floor, which is the observation deck. This level lets you go outside and view the surrounding The glass panels are tilted outwards and actually the benches which can be a little scary at first. Before the renovation in 2017, the observation deck looked like this. The guardrail was higher and it was completely closed in by wires. I like the new look with the glass panels because it feels a lot more open. On the inside are tables and chairs when you're ready for a break. When you wanna go down below, you can head down these curved stairs. This is the service level. There's not much to do here, but there are restrooms if you need it. The lower deck is called the loupe. It features the world's I hope you're not afraid of heights. It will rotate all the way Now the center of this It's only the outer edges that rotate. This mean there's a line in the floor that shows this separation. (bright, upbeat electronic music) What's neat is that you of the gears at work along the edge here. You can also view the and watch as the elevators go up and down. Just remember that only So if you put any belongings you will slowly spin away from them. Over the years, the Space Needle has featured on the bottom deck. Currently, there's no restaurant here. But there may be food options When you're ready to come back down, you can wait in line The center of the Space for the elevators. On busy days, all three elevators will be in use with passengers. On the inside, you'll find the stairs, mostly for emergency purposes. From time to time, it's been opened up for athletic competitions Personally, I'd rather take the elevator. (bright, upbeat electronic music) At the bottom, the elevator will take you to the gift shop that you saw earlier on your way up the curved ramp. For private events like weddings or company meetings, you'll need to rent out the skyline level, which is only 100 feet off the ground. Even though it's not as high up, it still offers some amazing views. (bright, upbeat electronic music) The Space Needle was renovated in 2017. So even if you've been My name's Jared. I'll see you next time. (bright, upbeat electronic music)