Welcome friends to another edition of Economic economic dimensions of our lives. Today's program is going to be partly partly something that is coming back something that many of you have asked me overview of what the word, the concept, and the And it may be different - probably will be - So let's begin at the very beginning. What is this word and this idea have circulated, I think an ideal, a notion that the human commune/community/communism) could function in nurturing way as an idealized community. In which, loved to do, felt passionate about and both physical and material but also means of both a physical and mental life. of community would be valuable in terms of where valuable as a way to link up with other people, no in. Which is why communistic communities in this I'm going to give you just a few examples. noticing as I entered a village that it used to communes. That's partly a description of their to a notion of this mutually You might also be struck to learn that rules and commitments to that kind of People interested in communism have noticed orders of nuns, and all kinds of spiritually where they lived and where they worked Perhaps the most famous document about Manifesto, written and published in by [Karl] Marx and [Friedrich] Engels. It talked time, which they identified with capitalism. And pointed to as an alternative (that others who would be well advised to think about and to this is something that has been around, and will The Communist Manifesto with that famous line society. With the image constantly of how things I'm going to end today's program, as I'll show in the workplace are an attempt to bring that even after The Communist Manifesto for the rest of that century what we had mostly under the word communism. That socialism. Socialism became the great of the 19th century around Europe, here in as it spread. But it was always the notion of in ways that ought to make it more attractive, at World War One changed everything. Indeed, were years of growing, horrible was between European countries and the colonies or acquired in the 18th and 19th century. to shape colonies, the French against the Germans, endless wars, small and large, throughout what we And then it all came to a head when the final war because it was the worst war human society half military, half civilian. But it came after including here in the United States. For the 18th between the Europeans, who arrived here, and the Anything as cataclysmic as a world war, let millions more, shook everything. Modern society And one of the things that happened was to from the middle of the 19th century up until World into two groups. One group ended up keeping we want to do better, and we But another group was critical of this first you're not going far enough, you haven't come up to go further. And we're going to call ourselves communists. That's when the term takes on a almost all of the countries where there was into a socialist party and into a new communist Which way are you gonna go? With the One of the key issues, not the had to do with World War One. The socialists with their own country, they had to go as German socialists or British socialists or against, of course, socialists in other countries, But others said 'no this is not a war that we that's the product of capitalism, it's a war it's the fruit of their endless quest to make money by controlling all the rest of the for much of the 19th century, we don't want was those who refused to be partisan in the party in the United States Eugene Victor Debs Lenin. Both of them said this is not our war, we not to take up arms against as Mr Debs did. Lenin was exiled, Debs was jailed very clear what some of the differences Then there was the revolution in Russia. for the first time socialists came to power. And socialist? But Lenin, by having taken his position to the old socialism. So they became the Communist they won the civil war there, they solidified Russia for the next 70 years. And in every communist parties split off from the socialist among many. They were all beholden to But they went in different directions to not only what they meant vis-a-vis capitalism But a couple of key points need to be made, as program. None of these or ever said that they had established and the communists never said that. What on their way to a future idealized utopian But the notion that what failed in the communist party official ever articulated. That's transitional, they were on their way to communism, Therefore what failed, if we get to that point in (or for that matter in China, Cuba, North Korea, Because that's what all of the socialists and We've come to the end of the first part of Economic Update is produced by Democracy of producing this kind of content focused so we might one day find ourselves living in a my latest book The Sickness Is The System: When Itself. You can find it, along with other content There you can also follow us on social media, join in a variety of ways. Please stay with us, we'll Welcome back friends to the second half of today's we left off in the aftermath of World War One, which had become strong by then, split between a and a communist party (that's the people who in almost every country where there had been of the 20th century until the last decade of the between the socialist party and the communist were. The socialists came to believe that what all else, in alliance with trade unions to exert or shaping government policy to make the mass of public transport, subsidized medical care, common parts of many countries in which socialists challenge private enterprise, private capitalism, they left that in private capitalist hands. With consisted of government regulation, government socialism is sort of like capitalism except in a way that capitalism, as left to itself And how is this different from communism? enough, that the condition of workers was never because the private capitalists tolerated it. And to the workers would be taken back. They would as the undoing of the New Deal. Socialists helped of the private sector they left standing it was communists was: the government has to go further. own and operate the industries, the was done for the benefit of this society as who live off profits. Because the socialists left were not torn apart the way the communist resistance within the communist societies to the And that led to different levels of civil part of what the struggle between socialists and set aside their differences and worked together. working class. In one case saying 'this is the communist saying 'no, this is the way you should roughly from the end of World War 1 (1918/1919) With that the Communist Party of Russia and the collapsed. They had tied their well-being to communism was what they talked about. This, by the Socialist Republics, they did not call themselves Communism was where they were going. Communism the system they were still in. That was at best society. But with the end of the communist parties to the pre-World War One world in which there and most of them believed that the government somehow getting the best of what that system had that without government intervention would never health care, free education, subsidized But, you know, this accommodation to the collapse spirit that Marx wrote about, that ghost that really different from capitalism never went away. Union after 1989 all of the people who still began a process of self-criticism. What had gone it unable to survive? Let alone take us in a believed in and wanted? This community where we And they reached a conclusion: over the last 10 missing in both what the socialist parties That if we corrected that, these folks to a really different society that would embody And here was the idea: neither the socialists (the social democracies, all of that,) nor the capitalism had organized work. They had a very small group called employers/capitalists One of them was rich and powerful, and the out because you already know. The small group of and powerful, more so as time went on. In that masters in slave systems, the few lords in feudal small group dominating large groups in the communists didn't change that - the socialists in the capitalist way, the Communist Party people they did the same. They run the business, they had state officials doing making the decisions for the mass of the working capitalism. But neither was anything like the mind. Particularly after the Soviet none of these people denied that to socialism. Government control of enterprise did provide health care and transport, Nobody who paid attention denied that the Soviet Republic of China in the 21st century grew much their people much faster than anything western But they had not created communism, they had the instability that were the reasons these So what was the thing that was missing? What Those members of communist parties who wanted what went wrong so you can build on that. the organization of the workplace, the transformed. Not by the socialists, not in Sweden, not in France, They had left it, a small group of people, the owners of the enterprise, the boards individuals or government officials, made made off with most of the wealth that was of it with the mass of people, it was still And here's now the irony. The ghost of communism, that Marx writes about in The Communist Changed its outfit but still with us. whispering in their ears, 'you know the job where you work, the factory where you work, it could be run democratically, one person/one what we're going to do as a workplace, what role we're all going to have in the and maybe, maybe, just maybe if we transform the never did we will be able to achieve what they set which is the breakthrough to a new society.' It election, it may not be enough to be the powerful mobilize the people of a community to demand the into a democratic collection of individuals, on one another you will not get to that lovely We are now far enough from the Cold War behind us. Russia versus the U.S was a struggle between state once again talk about socialism and communism talk about the way they live and compare Out of that tension between what is and what could all that could be. Out of that communism may and being the active spirit that it I hope this discussion of communism has been and other ways you've let me know you'd besides thanking you, I look forward