They were called rebels by the Ron Group and survived for five years in the peerless wasteland. In 2060, engineer Ina used TNT transfection technology (nano cell repair) to convert the DNA of normal human cells and gave birth to the earth's first biological robot. Mr. Ron finally found them that night . The chip initialization was completed. There were no abnormalities. The chip was matched successfully. All data were normal. Is the chip implantation program started? The chip implantation program was started . There were no abnormalities on the battlefield. No trace of the enemy was found. The enemy has launched an attack. Our defense team suffered heavy losses. The number of casualties of the defense team continues to increase. Hurry up and activate the base defense system. Quickly, quickly. Launcher No. 4 launches eight salvos in the D3 area . Where is our air fire support ? The ghost team is expected to enter the attack position in thirty seconds. No. 2 and I will go first to suppress the anti-aircraft fire. Then No. 3 and No. 4 entered the clearing area from the 270 direction. We received the clearing from the 270 direction. The air defense forces have been completely destroyed. Only the last two troops are left . Seventy-five percent of the casualties have been destroyed. The backup transport aircraft has been destroyed. Is it necessary to activate the super weapon and activate the fire wing ? How long does the second-generation cell combination procedure take? Ten minutes. Our remaining reserves are less than 5%. We are running out of time. Do you want to terminate the procedure? Ghost three and four are here to assist and score . Be careful. You are at six o'clock. Ghost four is hit. Please help. Please step out quickly . The mecha strengthened the ground troops and obtained the Fire Wing technology at all costs. It was activated and combined with the program to protect the smooth birth of the Fire Wing Angel. The Ron Group quickly cracked the defense door and mothballed the Angel's ammunition . However, for the last hope, everyone was already ready to sacrifice the most in their lives. At the cost, gather all the teams and enter the 3C channel to close the Gate of Zeus. Warn that the Gate of Zeus has closed. The base has entered a full lockdown. Warn that the Gate of Zeus has closed. The base has entered a full lockdown. Warn that the Gate of Zeus has closed. The base has entered a full lockdown. Warn that the Gate of Zeus has entered a full lockdown. Close the base and enter a state of total lockdown. Ina, please give her a name. I hope she will be soft and free. Just like the flag of hope fluttering in the wind, just call her Yi Ni. Only by sending her away can there be hope for Ina. I can't see her learning to walk in the future. I can't hear her calling mommy Ina . We don't have time. Start the escape cabin. The escape cabin is fully charged. It's entering the launch countdown mode. It's too late. Quickly launch the escape cabin. Countdown is ready. Nineteen eight seven six five four three two one. Zeus disintegrates the angel's broken wings. The last defense. It's because they have good bodies. Let's play together. Brother, have a taste of this girl. Have you brought this product with you? It's in the bag. You pay the money first. Brother , wait , this liquid metal can only be used after I activate it. You take it back and it's trash. One-handed delivery. The money is delivered to you. Brother , this girl is very cunning. Don't believe her. What can she do to us now? Brother , chase me. Stop, don't run. Sir , we have been looking for the baby who was taken away by the escape cabin 20 years ago. Now we finally have news. Stop. Our system strictly monitors all eligible children and finally found a girl who is different from ordinary people. Her strength, speed and acuity are much higher than ordinary people. The most important thing is that our system did not detect the chip information on her. Brother , where are you going? Bring her to see me , be honest , check all physical signs, and prepare to extract the contents of the chip. The DNA extraction was successful. Mr. has successfully deciphered the special chromosome sequence in her body. The reprogrammed biomolecules have increased the cell reproduction rate at an exponential rate. The Fire Wing system can indeed achieve cell regeneration. Let's leave the repair and mutation to Chu La. From now on, the inhibitor will be doubled every two hours. Half a century ago, no one could break through the limits of the human body. Nowadays, technology not only gives everyone the opportunity to understand their own identity, but also allows us to Seeing the endless possibilities that coexist with it, and more importantly, it tells us who we can become. What the Ron Group has created is not a destiny but a trajectory , a trajectory that can lead us all from slow change to greater evolvability. The pursuit of excellence has made us never stop exploring the future. For decades, Ron Group has maximized the use of scientific and technological power to optimize human genes to resist aging, pain and death. We hope you can join us in embracing these changes that are about to become the future . Experimental Subject No. 17, yes . Thank you very much, Captain . Collecting great failures is a characteristic of a scientist's work. Mr. Ron is looking for you. Hehehe, my gift has arrived. Don't mess with it. Keep her. Maybe it can be useful. No one told you, don't mess with it. Three words will make it worse. Am I excited? Yi Ni , who is it ? My name is Di Mo. I am your mother Ina's assistant. I am imprisoned here just like you. My mother is I don't have a mother and I don't know anything about Ina. Your mother Ina developed the top-secret Fire Wing system. In order to prevent the Ron Group from using advanced technology as bait to control humans and trigger the 2060 incident, at the last moment we launched the only hope, which is you. I just activated the Fire Wing II in your body and connected your system through nerve impulse transmission . The Generation Fire Wing system can crack the act chip in the human body, activate special genes, change body functions, and free ordinary people from the slavery of the Ron Group. This is the last thing the Ron Group wants to see. The second generation of Fire Wings in your body is more advanced technology . What you said is too exaggerated to stimulate the immeasurable potential of the human body. I admit that I made them a little more money , but is this your way of punishment? What punishment is obvious ? Chatting with a madman. You have been growing up in an orphanage since you were six years old. Can decipher the binary bacon cipher and Caesar shift? Do you really think these normal people can do it? How do you know this ? I installed an image transmission system for Migu. Do you know Migu? Bye , wow, why don't you know? Does it still hurt? Don't be afraid . Just sleep and it'll be fine. Don't use your brain. Otherwise , I'll slice you into a human body. What's going on? Someone replaced the inhibitor and activated the chip . What did it replace? The catalyst fire wing has been activated. Location: Ron Group Building. This is the Fire Wing. The damage is severe. The function is overloaded. The energy is 27% . The body is waiting for repair. After 5 seconds, the system will be shut down . The Fire Wings II system was activated , causing your physical energy to overload. We found your location and brought you back. Sunburn Angel, yes, we are all witnesses of the 2060 incident and have the blood of survivors. My father is your mother. Ina's subordinate Ron Group has been hunting us. I'm curious about how you were activated. I just activated the second generation Fire Wing Di Mo in your body . Have you met Di Mo ? He was imprisoned there. What did they do to me? I know what you are most confused about now must be your various physical changes and self-healing abilities. This is the core technology of the Fire Wing II system, nano-repair and potential enhancement. The Ron Group has been using artificial intelligence technology to control and enslave humans, but they There is a bigger conspiracy behind Ina and Di Mo. In order to stop them, they transformed you. How do I know that you are not the next Mr. Ron? Migu, this is the first toy that Ina gave you. You haven't had time to upgrade the language function. It's not a toy, it's my only relative. Migu, please come to the base lobby and see if everything is okay. How is the situation? I can still hold on. Look at the seriously ill patients. You have worked hard . You must hold on. The doctor will be here soon. He will definitely be fine. The child will be fine if he wakes up soon. We will definitely find a way. What happened to them? When I rescued you, you were seriously injured when you came back. Are they all because I am you and we are our hope? Two days ago, there was a firefight in Qiao City. We learned that One of them is in the Ron Group building . Is this related to the 2060 incident? Yes, after the 2060 incident, the Ron Group increased the punishment for thugs who tried to destroy human chips. The artificial world, like the natural world, will soon have self-control and adaptability. In the process of creativity, it is inevitable that there will be some unpleasant voices that stick to what we have already seen. But I think what we need to think more calmly about is how technology should develop and how humans should rely on technology to live better and happily. The future that technology brings to us It will eventually be a utopia full of warmth, freedom and progressive development. Our Ron Group will strictly control the rate of intelligent evolution to bring you more products that meet your needs and lead you into a new era . So what will happen 20 years after the 2060 incident subsides ? The incident happened again. With the spread of panic, how will Ron Group respond next? We will choose to launch the cleanup plan just like before. Will the cleanup plan trigger humanitarian discussions after it is launched ? What I need to clarify is that this is not a massacre , just a response to opinions. Product recall by customer, nothing more . Singularity energy is ready. DNA sequence is being fused. Ultra-nano machine model matching is successful. Scavenger prototype verification is completed. Backup experimental data is started. Scavenger Corps mass production process is started. Are you busy? What's wrong? I dreamed of a familiar one. Woman, she is lying next to me , and she looks a lot like me. That is the Fire Wing second-generation neuron impulse transmission. That is your mother, Ina . Where is she now? In the 2060 incident, like all mothers, she instinctively protected you. You are the first one. For the first time and the last time, I don't understand what the meaning of my existence is. Ina is dead, Di Mo is captured, and for what purpose are these moxibustion angels sacrificing one after another. What kind of mission is more important than life? What is it that you are defending with your lives? Humanity Ron Group attempts to use the most advanced technology to deceive the public , but we always believe that human nature breeds everything and will conquer everything Yi Ni Mi Gu Mi Gu I helped it upgrade its language system and now it can carry out simple communication Mi Gu Love Yi Ni Migu The mission is to protect Yi Ni. Migu 's mission is to be with Yi Ni forever. Main station. We suffered too many casualties this time. We don't have enough liquid metal to repair mechanical prostheses. Now we need a lot of supplies. Okay, I understand. Let's go. I know where to find it. I return your love, I'm glad you're alive. Quark handed over the money and delivered the goods. Your temper is still so impatient. We haven't seen each other for so long. According to traditional etiquette, we should at least greet each other, right? I don't have that much time. Don't always say next time . Everyone in our industry knows that we have to rely on luck next time. Let me guess what you are afraid of now. Could it be those mercenaries from the Ron Group outside? This is my private matter and has nothing to do with today's transaction. Don't keep it so mysterious. After all, I have participated in your growth. Believe me, Quark, you don't want me to leave here in two minutes. The more mess you make in this world outside, the more opportunities I will have to repair it. My dear , I think you should understand. I made a fortune from the war , so it wouldn't be a good idea to sell it to me. I mean , I smell war now and it's at a premium. After all , you're worth more than all my business now. I thought you'd smell death first. The atmosphere is always busy and orderly outside , but traffic rules have no effect in the sewers. My family has been doing this business since the black market began. Whether it's a finger or a screw, I want them to be where they are . I was much smarter when I was a kid than I am now. I have the final say in everything here. So does the time. Two minutes are up. I'm sorry. Goodbye according to traditional etiquette . Why the hell sir ? Quark's liquid metal was robbed by a gang that didn't have a human body chip. I speculate that this gang is the one who kidnapped the Fire Wing II in the wasteland. They were badly damaged , so they need liquid metal. Mr. , do n't be nervous. I 've heard of what happened to Mr. Is it a miracle? The first generation TOP-X type robot . Well, everyone thought that the plan was aborted. But the plan was not only successful , but also too successful. I became the first robot to produce self-awakening. You are not Mr. Ron. In 2049, Mr. Ron's scientific research project won He made a major breakthrough and named his plan to build me Miracle. When he discovered there was something wrong with Miracle, it was already too late. Everyone in Ron Group thought I was destroyed by him. But it was him who was destroyed that night. You killed me. Sir, his mistake is that he used 100% of his own extroverted genes to create me. If he hoped that there would be another more powerful version of him in the world , then why wouldn't I replace him as he wished? It turns out that the extermination team of Ina had been destroying the Fire Wing system. It's all your purpose. It's all your conspiracy from beginning to end. I've always been controlled by your machine. One thing you're wrong about is that I don't want to destroy the Fire Wing. The appearance of the Fire Wing made me see another possibility. If I once possess the Fire Wing, Wing , then the whole world is as perfect and controllable as programming, not just Bridge City Fire Wing. I admire them very much, but there is something in them that I don't need. Human nature is engraved in your genes like a virus. It makes you sublime. The ideal has been defeated by the innate desire. It makes you unable to see yourself and others clearly . Just like you are now, Saipan raises a gun at you . Even so, the bright future is the highest civilization that humans are born with. It is also difficult for a machine like yours to reach. You really should upgrade , but you should eliminate it. I told you a long time ago that not everyone has the same consciousness as me. How is the scavenger army going? Everything is in my plan. A few scavenger experiments It will take 5 days to successfully transform a large number of legions . Don't go out for the past few days. There is a special group of Ron Group soldiers who are looking for you everywhere. We have obtained information. They have been trying to find ways to obtain your DNA sequence and Fire Wing core. The last time you taught You, we are still a step late. If my judgment is correct, these people are using your DNA sequence and the Fire Wing core to create the ultimate weapon that can conquer the world. Conquering the world , we are probably just their first target. They are no longer satisfied with just Rule Bridge City , so I helped them get closer to that wish. But it's not your fault. What's the worst possible outcome? I haven't dared to think about what the worst would be like in a world ruled by machines. So what can we do ? Should we just sit back and wait for death? Yi Ni , you don't need to be burdened. I understand . Don't worry. I just want to be alone. Recently, we have discovered that there are more and more special Ron soldiers. Right, Chief. How should we face the Ron Group ? Ron Group extracted Yi Ni's DNA sequence , but it will take some time for them to build a large number of soldiers, so we must break through Ron Group's entire system and destroy their Fire Wing core within this period of time. Once Ron Group completes this result, now that it has Now that we know their plot, we can't sit still and wait. We have to stop them before they succeed. Yes , but we don't have it yet. You have me. That's why I exist, isn't it? The energy supply is adjusted to saturation mode. All scavenger production lines are at full power. Running 50,000 scavenger airframes into production, the Ron Group is well-defended , but we captured one of their aircraft three years ago. By repainting and frequency cracking, we should be able to sneak into their airspace. In addition, the radar anti-reconnaissance cracking is ours. What the technical staff are good at will only require targeted training in the future to increase our probability of winning. Therefore, our training does not require deduction, only calculation. The group of researchers from my father's generation left a lot of information about the Fire Wing II . If you want to improve your UI system, there should be no problem. If you change, you will change. If you let go, you will win. From today on, let people have their desires and teach intelligent creation a lesson. What are you thinking about? The last time Ina dreamed about her, it was the last time I felt her nerve impulse . I wonder what kind of woman Ina is. Even if her body is annihilated, her will remains uncorrupted. What are Ina's famous sayings ? The purpose of the Fire Wings Project is to use fire to restore the grasslands. Fire is coming . Yi Ni , she is like a lighthouse. Even though it is damaged, it is still there. I took you to see further places, Fire Huhu. What about your family? My father, like many moxibustion angels, sacrificed his life in the 2060 incident to protect the Fire Wings. I grew up in the base and gradually understood my father's choice and what he defended. Maybe we have a similar fate. Do you know why I haven't looked for my parents for so many years ? Why ? Because I don't want to live the kind of life that is tormented by hope every day. If there is hope, I will place it on tomorrow. What I need is to put every Treat today as the last day. Migu love Yi Ni, are you confident tomorrow ? Of course Qiu De, you are a very good comrade. We should have known each other earlier. Didn't we know each other very early? On the day I was born, Yi Ni, from that day on, you have been our new hope. Thank you for your willingness to believe in me. We will not continue to live this kind of life of hiding in Tibet. Let this all end. Fire Wings II activation program has been loaded. DNA matching has begun. DNA matching has been successful. The body upgrade has been completed. How do you feel about this, sir ? Is there a stupider question in the world than asking how a robot feels ? Sir, the DNA sequence in your body has perfectly matched Firewing II technology. Sure enough, how long will it take for the extraordinary scavenger army to be fully activated? The scavenger is ready. Now you can start the first-level activation process . Start it immediately . Migu, I wish you a happy birthday . I wish you a happy birthday. I wish you a happy birthday . I wish you a happy birthday. My birthday is Ah, today is your birthday , but today should not be celebrated for you. Who said celebration? We are reborn in the brokenness. Let 's make a wish. Just as I thought, there are three gene fragments that overlap with yours. It is the Fire Wing technology. What is this ? If you guessed it correctly, its serial number is K49336 . The 49336th scavenger member looks like a huge legion. If activated by them, we have no hope. No, they won't even have a chance to move their toes. You said it, I am you. I have the final say whether there is any hope. Our purpose this time is to prevent the Scavenger Corps from being activated . What awaits us will be Ron Group's anti-intrusion system. There are three air defense identifiers around the Ron Group building. Fortunately, our Queen Bee transport plane is loaded. Ron Group's dedicated identification friend or foe transponder. With it, we can deceive their air defense identification system and enter the sky above the building. Next, we jump down from here and enter the building from the air. There are many searchlights below . Don't be reflected by them during the descent. The minimum altitude for the push device to be activated is 80 meters , so you need to always pay attention to the altimeter . We only have one chance, sir, to detect the intruders. Are we shushing the scavenger activation process ? It is expected that the first batch of scavenger activation will take seven minutes and twenty seconds to complete . Biological and artificial creatures in the world have formed a stable system. Our purpose of modifying the world is to cultivate a more advanced civilization. Just like you and me, Yi Ni, you should not stand opposite me. You should stand with me . Our The direction of science and technology is towards a brand-new biological civilization. I didn't see any civilization. What I saw was just a cold world of desire and power. Do you know what the biggest difference between machines and people is? You are soulless mechanical puppets talking nonsense about civilization. The light and future consciousness we create cannot be imitated or quantified. It is a gift from God to human beings. The evolutionary process of intelligence will inevitably abandon it. You have abandoned the most important thing. Migu is afraid to go . Adjust the energy distribution and prioritize the activation of body No. 3250 and No. 3251. Unit No. 3250 No. 3251 has been activated. Restore energy and distribute it to the default mode. Continue to activate all scavengers. 90% of the scavenger activation process has been completed. The energy has reached the power that can be started. Is it necessary to start the scavenger quickly? Activation process has been completed. 92% of the energy has reached the power that can be started. Is it necessary? The quick start confirmation command is not yet available. The quick start scavenger activation process is 94%. The scavenger activation process is 96%. The scavenger activation process is 98% . The new command is confirming that the scavenger activation process has been terminated . Yi Ni Yi Ni Mi Gu Mi Gu Mi Gu Mi Gu Mission Protection Yi Ni Migu protects Yi Ni