Have a plan for your next interview transcript interview tools. And today, I want to tell you why you should You should have some idea how you're going I mean, you've got a copy of the job description. You know what they're looking for. So, you should have some idea how you're going Now, most people when they go into an interview, to do that job. They're hoping that they can just get it and it out afterwards. Well, employers are a little bit smarter than to be able to do this job before they hire I mean, that makes sense; right? I mean, they're going to pay a lot of money They want to make sure that you're going to So, what I want you to do is I want you to go on the interview. So, after you get the first interview, you them, try to find out where they're struggling, I mean, if you think about it; an employer a solution to solve that problem. That's why they're hiring somebody to solve So, in your first interview, ask them what Try to dig deep into what the roots are of And then go home, think about that. Think about how you're going to do that. And then when you go back for the second interview, interview, show up with a plan that details Most people don't do this and this is how competition. I mean, you think about it; they bring in None of them are going to have a plan for None of them are going to show up with a detailed to do their job with a timeline and what resources do it, when they're going to do it. Nobody does this because nobody puts that they don't get hired. I mean, when you blend in, you look like everybody When you go in there into the interview and else is saying, you answer all the questions is doing it. If you know anything about me and my channel stand out; how to be unique. What things can you do in a job interview else? Because, I mean, you know as well as I do A company posts a job description; they might So, they have to whittle all those resumes they want to call in. So, with this 10 or 15 people, they have to who is going to be able to do that job. And they're going to feel comfortable with their company, who understand their products, And if you can understand them, and you can That's how you discover what people's problems You ask them questions and they'll tell you. They'll tell you where they're struggling. I mean, you don't want to just come off and want to be a little bit more clever than that. But through conversation, you'll find out. You'll know where they're struggling, what as a solution. Now, you don't want to just say, Yeah, Everybody says that. I mean, if they ask you, So, how are you and say, Well, I'm going to meet and exceed Well, that's great. We're glad you can meet and exceed. But we don't really feel that you understand Plus meet and exceed all the requirements say that. But you can do better; you can do so much So, let's talk about a little example here. Let's say you're a medical device sales. So, when they ask you, How are you going So, if this is for medical device sales, you to increase your medical device sales of your And I'm going to do that by reviewing past have older models. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to retarget And based on what I've seen so far, I think do that probably within a 12 month timeframe. And I'm going to do that by retargeting back So, that says a lot more than meet and exceed; It says how you're going to do it; it's by It says by how much; 12 percent. It says how long it's going to take you; you're That shows you have put some thought into So, when you go back for that second interview, paper, that documents exactly what you're you can present this back to them and show position and that you understand the product, the company, you understand the market. And this is going to put you miles above everybody just going to go in and they're just going going to say, Yes, I can do that because They're not going to go into the details. They're not going to give the specifics. They're not going to have a hard core plan And that's how you're going to separate yourself Thats how you're going to do it. And when you're more specific with your choice used to hearing, maybe you grab some of the industry words, keywords, buzz words, and during the interview, you're going to relate you're speaking the language and they're going one of them. I mean, you're talking like them, you sound This is how you're going to go farther. This is how they are going to see a confidence because you're like them. It's like you're one of them, you're just And what they're going to want to do is say, I think you would be happy here. You're going to fit in with this group of We all share the same thoughts and we have We have the same values; the same principles. This how you stand out. You can't just go into a job interview and It's not like a test in college where it's I mean, you can go in to a job interview and question they ask, you can give them the right But if you do it like this and you answer there's no feeling in it, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that you're giving the right That's what so many people do; they go in, fail the interview and then they scratch their I said everything they wanted to hear. Why didn't they hire me? Because you had understand them. And that's what I'm trying to get through You want to understand them. And when you can understand them, they're They're going to want to invite you in because You share the same thoughts, the feelings, You have a plan for how you're going to solve And who doesn't want to hire somebody who's are and has ideas and solutions to solve those That's how you're going to go farther my friend. That's how you're going to go farther in the That is how you're going to land the job. That's how you're going to stand out from That's how you're going to be unique. So, from the top. Here's what you do. The first interview you get, you act like You ask them questions and you try to find struggling. And then you can talk about how you might And then when you come back for the second out plan of how you're going to do that job. And then you can just bring it up. When you go back to the second interview, I was thinking a lot about this position and Do you mind if I share them with you? and And so, you share some ideas with them about it's going to take, the resources you'll need And it doesn't have to be sales; it can be management, programming; it doesn't matter. Just have an idea, have a plan, something It's not like you had the first interview them to call you back. No, you put some thought into this while you You can even do this; just to push them to After you get the first interview, go home, You know what? I was thinking about this position. I had some really good ideas about how you I would love to come back and share those What are you going to say? They're going to say, Yes, of course. We would love to hear more ideas about how here. They're going to love that. And that's going to nudge them to give you You're going to go farther. You might get the third interview and most job. But think about this. Everybody else that they're interviewing for They're not creating a plan. They're not thinking forward like that. They're playing a very passive role. What I like to call a passive role in back and they answer questions and then they And basically, it's like Simon says, Every they do it. What I would encourage you to do is to have Don't just sit back and let them tell you Be a forward thinker, be active, volunteer about this, challenge them, say, Hey, have Have you thought about that? to them and you're coming in and you're giving solve problems, how they can sell product You're helping them. You're helping them for free basically. What do you think they're going to want to If they like your ideas, theyre going to work on those issues that they have in this whatever it is. Alright, makes sense. So, create a plan, invite them to talk about foresight that you have and you will go so I promise you that my friend. One more thing; if you would like to go farther learning how to answer questions I've got a great guy here this is called the complete interview answer guide I've been writing this book for over 10 years just like this it's available in eBook so you can just download it it's got it's got over a hundred to 40 different questions and answers in it that are going to help you shape and articulate your experience in a way that you come across to the employer and a lot more genuine and unique way instead of sounding like everybody else like I said I've been working on this book for over 10 years and it's not like I'm releasing it now I've been offering it for 10 years now but I keep improving it and developing it and so far today it's available in eBook you can get it an audio mp3 it's available in video format and hardcopy and to my knowledge it's the only interview guide on the market that's available at all those different platforms and that just speaks a lot to the content that's in here that it has withstood the test of time mainly because it's updated I keep adding new techniques in it as I as I find out more about what interviewers are looking for I constantly reshape the content in here to make it more relevant to today so I would strongly encourage you to if you to pick up a copy of that guide that you can go to job interview tools calm you can download it it's yeah it's like 50 bucks and if you want to download the audio files to your phone you can do that it just depends on which way you like to learn if you'd like to listen with headphones that's great if you just like to read physical books you like to learn that way that works great too or if you don't mind just reading on a computer screen an e-book format you know whatever you like or if you like to watch videos you know whatever is the most helpful way conducive way for you to learn that's I have all the different formats for you there so again that's all I have for you today good luck on your next interview and make sure that you get planned before you go in the next interview bow now if you found this video helpful then give it a thumbs up and make sure you subscribe to my channel so you get notifications every time I release a new video and by subscribing you support me my message and this channel so I'd really appreciate it make sure you hit subscribe