Good morning, Shika. Today is Sunday, so I'm here at the JJ Market, which is held only on weekends. There are various regular locations in various places in Chima, but this is probably the place where most tourists come. is the most popular market. It seems to be a fairly large regular location, so I would like to enjoy it thoroughly. Let's go. Hey, today I came here on my bike, and it's about 1.5 km from the outside of 9g. If you want to walk, you'll barely be able to walk.There seem to be a lot of songthaews going around, so I guess it's pretty easy to get to.There 's a great ramen shop in the JJ Market parking lot.It 's not open yet . I guess it's only in the evening.It looks really delicious and it's crowded.It might be easier to get here if you don't have a moving car at all.This JJ market is held on both Saturdays and Sundays. It is said that there are more exhibitors on Sundays , so I came on Sunday, so this is the main entrance, and there were so many people that I was confused, so if I saw something that looked good, I would buy it on the spot. I would like to eat, drink, and take a quick look at the whole place.This kind of thing will come right in front of you.It seems like this one comes from Central.JJ Market seems to be divided into sections. As soon as you enter the entrance, it looks like a cute miscellaneous goods corner.There are a lot of accessories.There are a lot more people than I expected, so it's a bit difficult to take your time.Here's a general view.As soon as you enter the entrance, it's so spacious. There 's also a supermarket called Tops Green. This seems to be open on weekdays as well. It seems like they have organic and environmentally friendly products. It's a special version of Tops. It seems like it's quite crowded right now, so I stopped by on my way home. I think I'll buy something at JC Market.I think they sell really cute miscellaneous goods , but I'm hungry so I'd like to head towards the food section.The concept here is eco-friendly and sustainable . Since this is an organic market, there are many products with a natural atmosphere design.Many of the products have simple designs, so you can feel them yourself and the materials are very nice.It's soft and comfortable.Basically, it's only for women, but there are also men's products. The design is a little on the person who wears it, but the material is very good.It feels soft and this dress is also cute.The price is 2,490 yen, which is much more expensive than what you buy on the regular market, but the material is good. So I can't help it, it's so stylish ! Look at it, the embroidery is so beautiful and cute. If I were a child, I'd come here. If I were to come here now, I'd probably think I'm a bit of an idiot. There are a lot of cute items here. It looks like it would make a good souvenir. It's very popular and cute, and it comes in an unusual and flashy color.It 's very popular because it's reasonably priced around here.I think I'll buy something like this jacket too.It's comfortable and soft.I like the white one, but it looks like it would be good for the air conditioner, which has been stripped of white.This one is colorful. It's a wonderful shop. I think it's nice that they have a lot of natural and simple designs that Japanese women would like, but it's a shame because I'm the type of person who can't wear things with this kind of taste. I'm fine. I might like something like this more.It 's soft.Basically, everywhere you look, most of the clothes are made of 100% cotton, so they look comfortable.They also have children's clothing.They're small, and they even have items like this. There are quite a few , so it might be good for people who want to take something different from other people and want to go there.Yes , it's like this, it's really big, and there are an infinite number of products and shops, but basically it's a unified test, so you can go anywhere. It might look the same. There were too many people there, so I got drunk. I'm a little hungover, so I want to eat some food quickly. So I moved to the food section. I think women enjoy shopping all day long. But I think it might be a bit boring for men.It feels like everyone around here is getting tired of it.I think there aren't many men either.Yes , this is where the food section starts, but it's really crowded. Let 's eat.The one in the foreground is a farmer's market, so organic vegetables are lined up.It 's very beautiful.There 's also a live performance that matches the atmosphere.The food is also very cute.There are breads and cakes, too. I heard that the cakes around here are gluten-free. I wonder if it's delicious. Yes, I bought a gluten-free cheesecake. There are many stands that make amazing pizza here. Everywhere I go, there is a line of blue soft-serve ice cream. Everyone is eating it. It looks delicious. I'm worried because I have too many of them.They smell really good.This lady has a cute face.It's cheap and I bought one for 15 baht, but it was too much.I bought 4 chicken wings for 60 baht.Next, I'll buy something like this Hasa because everyone is eating it. The homemade tortillas look delicious too. Oh, I made a mistake. This looks really delicious . Let's buy this too. Let's eat it. Stewed chicken rice: 70 baht. 4 chicken winks: 60 baht. Stir-fried shark with mushrooms : 45 baht. What is this? First of all, let's start with the stewed chicken.The egg is soft and half-cooked.The sauce has already soaked into the inside of the meat.I don't know if this is a big dish or what, but it's really delicious.It's not Western food, but it's a bit ethnic. It does n't taste good, and the rice is healthy with grains.It 's delicious.I don't know if it's healthy, but it has a lot of sauce on it, so you can eat it like curry rice.Wow, it tastes good.It's really delicious if you eat it with eggs.I added eggs. But you should definitely add it. Delicious. What is this? It looks like a pomelo, but its belly is like a pickle glass. But it's beautiful. It's probably too spicy. If you eat it just like that, it'll be delicious. The vegetables are also beautiful and delicious.It's a place like this, so it's like frozen mixed vegetables, but even the vegetables are delicious.It's crunchy, and when you eat it with a little bit of this , it adds sourness and spiciness, which is the best.Hmmmm, delicious food court. The skin is already melty and the next one is the fried chicken.Wow, it's so crispy and delicious.The meat is very thick and there's no extra batter, so you can eat it easily. It tastes like salt and black pepper.The skin and bones are delicious.It 's only 15 baht, so I thought it would be small, but it turned out to be really big, so I ended up buying too much.This place is so crowded that there really aren't any seats open. But the reason I'm sitting right now is because there's a trash can next to me, so no one wants to sit here, so I could sit here, but it's a bit smelly, which is the worst possible situation . If you don't like it , it would be better to turn it on a little earlier, around 10 o'clock.I wanted to buy a drink, but there was a line, so I just grabbed some water and went . If I do it, it's okay to be eco-friendly, but if I do it, I'm just an asshole.If someone who does sustainable or eco-friendly things doesn't do it, it won't look stylish.In general, it has a bit of a fashionable image, but the people who do it are fashionable. This is a place where a lot of tourists gather, and even though they sing about being organic, everything is reasonably priced and I think it's very conscientious.I forgot about the shark.This might have been a little better value for money.Everyone bought it. It has a lot of mushrooms in it . It's delicious. I thought it would be something you would find in Japan, but it also has lemongrass and a little bit of herbs, and ginger that tastes like sea bream. It's full of delicious mushrooms and very healthy.Usually when I eat this kind of food, I immediately want to drink beer, but when I'm in a place like this, I don't feel that way.In fact, since I came to Chima, I haven't drank even more than when I was in Bangkok. I feel like it's better not to drink too much alcohol or anything like that because it's unhealthy, but it's actually a healthy city, so it's good for you, so yesterday. It's been a while since I've had so much to drink, so I'm feeling a little sick, or maybe I'm weak. It's delicious, but it's a garbage can next to me, so it's very smelly, so I can't eat it somewhere else. I want to buy some cake and coffee and eat it somewhere where I can relax. I think it's delicious, but I can't go here.It looks like it's going to be a good meal.It seems like this coffee stand is popular, so I'll buy it here.It looks like there's going to be a bit of a wait , so I'm going to try an indoor shop that I haven't seen yet. It looks like something I've seen before, but it has a high-class feel.It 's not too expensive.It costs 3,500 baht.The accessories are also simple and nice.This is a somewhat playful design.It's cute, but it doesn't seem to be very practical, but it's still cute. The indoor shops that you only want to visit at home have a bit of a luxurious feel, but the prices don't seem to be that expensive.The prices are about 1,500 to 2,000 baht, and there are no frills, so I prefer this kind of food, although it's a bit expensive. It's better to think about it and buy it, so you don't have to come back 23 times and throw it away.It seems like there are a lot of designs that aren't very trendy, so they're already doing live streaming for Chinese people.Even if you just look around, it 's basically the same taste. It's a style that appeals to people who like it , and makes it feel like there's nothing left to buy for those who don't.It's cute.I want it all.It's not cheap.I want to collect it.I hear it's handmade.It seems like this shop has been really popular for a while.Wow, it's cute. It's a brand with Zo-san as a character. They have quite a few for men too. They're cute and the material is comfortable. The material dries quickly even after washing, and can be used with just dehydration. The material is similar to that of regular tie pants. Looks good, it's about 4000 yen One piece licking It looks like this This shop has been full of customers for a while now It's cute The basket bag is also really cute I wonder how much it costs 550 baht Surprisingly cheap There are various colors available All of them have Zo-san on them, so they're very cute.It looks good as a souvenir.This one seems to be a little more expensive.I guess it's because it's sturdy.This one costs 790 baht.It's small, but it's also a little expensive, but it's really cute.I want it inside. It looks like there's a cafe in the middle.The cafe is also really cute.One of these Pochi bags costs 129 baht, so you can easily buy them as souvenirs.This small one costs 99 baht.This one seems to be the best seller.It 's cute.Tote bag shoulder This brand is well-established and can be worn as a bag.It seems like there are a lot of different kinds of 100% recycled bags.It's good to check it out.Thailand is amazing after all.It 's hard to find this type of shop in Vietnam, where it's very sophisticated. No. This place is unusual and has a lot of men's thighs, so I'm having a hard time choosing Omiya for men, but I think something like this is also good. I think it's easy to come here because Mr. I had a lot of things, but I'm not sure what would suit me, so I'd like to go back and buy some as souvenirs before I go back to Japan.I want something like this.I want to settle down.I want to live a calm life. If that happens, I'd like to enjoy these kinds of things lined up.So there were no customers, so I decided to buy some coffee.The store's signboard menu from earlier was sold out, so I came here.Yes , I ordered coffee here. There's quite a wait.There are a lot of people everywhere , so it's a long wait.It's time for dessert.New York cheesecake: 70 bahtOrange coffee: 65 bahtCheers !It's delicious.I drank it for the first time.Orange coffee, the first one you often see in Chiang Mai. The signature menu of the stand I was planning to go to was this orange coffee.Surprisingly , this orange juice and coffee go well together.If it's refreshing without sugar, I'll try the cheesecake I bought first.It's delicious and quite modest in sweetness. It's not the super heavy and moist New York cheesecake you'd imagine, but it's delicious as a homemade, healthy cake.Yes , I feel like I can eat it without feeling guilty.Yes, it's surprisingly good.When I say gluten-free, eco-friendly, organic, or vegan, everything about it tastes bad. I was a very old-fashioned person who thought things like that, so I was surprised to find so many delicious foods.There are healthy and delicious foods out there.Or maybe that's the case.I hated the taste anyway. I thought it would be thin and tasteless, but it's delicious.But if you buy this when you want a hearty cake, it might turn out a little different.It feels like a delicious home-made cake.It looks like you can eat it every day. It's a refreshing feeling.As the afternoon approaches, the number of people decreases considerably, but many of the shops are closed, so it's difficult.I guess morning is the best time to go.There were a lot of cakes like this, but the most popular shops are By the time I went there, around 12:30, some items were already sold out.After 1 o'clock, the sun was getting stronger and it was hot, so I usually went inside and left by noon. Maybe it's me who's the best. I didn't really understand what this place was like, so I brought my computer with me today, and I heard that there were a lot of cafes and stuff, so I was wondering if I could do some work there, but... I don't feel like I can do that kind of work because I have too much to do.It 's fine if you like to be busy, but it seems a little difficult to concentrate.The work I have to do today is simple and not very easy. I'm the type of person who doesn't use my brain, so since I went out , I'm thinking of leaving here again and relaxing at a cafe.Before that , I'm going to go to a temple for a while, then go to a cafe and work.I really like this place. The food is delicious and the shopping is fun, so I think it's fun to come with friends and family.However, I feel like men are a little hesitant.I think there are 10,000 girls shopping together.Mothers and daughters , and women in Japan. I feel like my friends and female family members have a lot of things they want to buy. Senmai has some sort of regular location every day, so it's like, oh, I have to go there today, I have to go there today, but it's interesting. Well, no matter where you go, the atmosphere is similar, with a kind of contemporary feel, but each market has its own characteristics or individuality, so no matter how many times I go, it's always interesting. The atmosphere is totally different depending on whether it's for tourists or locals , but basically if you're a tourist, you can't go wrong with Makoko . There are a lot of places that I want to go to when I go out , so if you're mainly looking for miscellaneous goods and souvenirs, I think this is the best place.Looking at it this way, it's completely different from Bangkok in terms of its trendy style.Bankoku has a flashy pop style. I feel like the current style is very natural here, and there are a lot of people here who have a style that matches that, so I guess people naturally come here.It's also completely different from Pattaya . Even if we do this, it doesn't seem like it will be well received.As a member, there are various shops around JJ Market, and there is also JJ Village here, so I would like to try it again next time.Ebisu Ramen has opened . Let's come again next time. So today I came to GJ Market for the first time, and even though I'm not generally interested in miscellaneous goods, it was an exciting space that I could enjoy just looking around.If I come again sometime with someone, I'll enjoy shopping even more. I think so.I'm going to get on my bike, stop by a temple, and then go to a quiet cafe to spend some time.Only the temple car.After this, I'll include a little extra . If you enjoyed the video even a little bit, please subscribe to the highly rated channel. Bye bye again. I'm currently at a temple called Wat Moon Gunkhon. There are countless temples in Chima, so I took the trouble to stay there. I try to go see them one by one when I have time.This is a very private temple, so there aren't many tourists.As the name suggests, this temple was built by a man named Moogkorn. The reviews say that the temple was built by a commoner, but I'm not sure if the word &quot;commoner&quot; is correct.It's a very quiet and relaxing space.Among the many temples in Chiang Mai, I don't think it's that well-known, but in Japan The temple seems to be fairly well-known among Japanese people as it was the setting for the movie ` `Wow, there is a big reclining Buddha, and there is also an old man sleeping comfortably and happily.'' If you sleep next to Buddha, this temple has many cute Kannon statues that look like dolls and are cute.The colors are not flashy, but pastel colors, giving a very girly impression.It was built in the late 14th century. It is said that if you visit the shrine , you will collect money and be blessed with financial luck.Yes, I will also worship properly so that I don't have to worry about money in the future.Now that I have improved my financial luck , I will relax for a while at a cafe. I want to do this.My neighbor at the temple is helping me right now, but they called the police.I have the key, but please tell me.ENG formygod no mysay 000seemcleyou say you CSMyDoand my police, please. I'm sorry MONMONIknowwith STATIONWITHMEANDMY do youin OTyouname I'm sorry for taking you to the car.Okay then, I was upset that day and couldn't take pictures properly so it might have looked like I was joking a bit, but here it is. So, let me explain the details in a bit more seriously.On this day, after visiting a temple, I went to a cafe near the resting temple and did some video editing work.The cafe was right there, so I parked my bike in front of the temple. I left it parked in the space and walked away. When I returned to the temple about 12 hours later, my bike, which had been parked there, was gone. Of course it was locked, but the handlebars weren't locked. Chiang Mai It's a peaceful place and the bikes are old, so it was my fault that I was completely relaxed and relaxed with a sense of security and confidence that no one would do anything bad at a temple, which is a sacred place. I didn't think it was the first time, and thought that someone had moved my bike because I was in the way, so I asked someone nearby if they knew my bike, and they said they hadn't seen a bike like that since a while ago. We started to think that it might have been stolen, but the neighbors were very kind in looking for it and also contacted the police.As Myanmar and Chiang Mai share a border, the bike was set up by a Myanmar national to take it out of the country. I was told that my bike was often taken away, and I was in despair.In this case, it was not my personal belongings, but a rental bike, so of course I was seriously depressed.Perhaps because I was so depressed, I was at the temple. My mother laughed at me and a mysterious photo session was held, and I felt a mixture of sad and funny feelings, so I went to the police station and started the process with emotions that I didn't understand.The police were scary, and foreigners were troublesome. I've heard rumors that they don't respond very well , but the police here were very kind.My lost bike was handled directly by my previous landlord , not by the rental bike company. It was lent to me at a fairly cheap price.I had to connect the owner with the police , so I contacted Dai-san on the spot.Of course, I would pay for it, so I would buy a new bike, and it would be something with memories. So I apologized and said I was really sorry if I could pay him any amount.I was prepared to get angry at him, but his response was unexpected and I said I was glad it wasn't an accident, so I gave him all the money. The story told me that there was no need for war , so there was no need to worry, and that it was late at night and it was already dark, so I should be careful before heading home.All the characters were so kind to each other that I was filled with a feeling of pity and pity. Tears filled my eyes as I lost my life. I was tormented by resignation and remorse that my bike would never come back, but when I saw the many people who had been involved in an accident lining up at the police station , I felt an incomprehensible fear and at the same time I was feeling alive. It made me think about what I can do to repay the favor.I'll check the hidden camera and then contact you tomorrow, so I'll be back tomorrow.I'm sorry for causing trouble to so many people. No, I'm really sorry. When I got home, I received a LINE message full of stamps from the mother at the temple. She kept telling me to smile when I met her, but she just sent me a message telling me to smile. If I go to bed with a smile on my face, something good will happen tomorrow, so I 'm sure I'll find my bike. I was told not to worry. Is this the so-called &quot;Mai Pen Rai&quot; spirit, or is it just someone who has come to terms with laughing? Either way, in my heart I thought it was such a stupid and careless thing to do, but as I watched the conversation screen, I naturally thought, I found myself smiling.In the end, I couldn't get any sleep, but somehow I felt like I was going to find something, so I got nervous, so early in the morning, when it was still dark, I searched around the temple by myself, expanding the area from the previous day.As I did so, I found God. It's a story that seems like a lie and a trick , but my bike was suddenly found on the side of the road.It was a little far from where it was originally parked, so who moved it and what were their intentions? I don't know if it was a mystery, but I'm really glad it was found.I did what the mother at the temple told me to do on LINE, and I thought that's what it means to have dark hair.I immediately contacted the temple and went to the police station. I also went there to report and say thank you. It seems that the police came to the temple because of a mistake, but the mother at the temple informed me that the bike had been found, and I even received a nice photo of her and the police saying how nice it was. As a quick thank you, I sent Shiroi Koibito from Japan because I heard that everyone likes people.Actually, I was leaving Chiang Mai soon after this, so I would like to go again to properly thank you.It 's my fault. I feel sorry for taking up everyone's time and causing any inconvenience, but I was saved by the unborn child's smile, and it was also an event that made me love Ta even more.This trip was an event that made me love Ta even more. Thank you so much to everyone in Chiang Mai who responded to my request. Not only this time, but I am always kept alive by the help of the people around me, and there are many temporary situations in various places, so I will never forget to repay that kindness. I would like to continue working as a merchant. Thank you for the trouble .