Hello and welcome back. If you follow the channel, you know that we hardware over the last few years. I you also know that I was in Seattle recently, former Boeing airfield. And you might even know that at the other another museum, the Museum of Flight. So today we're taking a lazy day off, not Apollo electronics, but instead going to see I mean, really big. This museum is an amazing place, with a superb items. One of the stars of the show is the sole remaining the early version of the SR-71 Blackbird. The M-21 had the unique ability to launch the back. You can also climb inside an SR-71 cockpit, And outside there is a whole bunch of stunning that you can climb into. But I quickly whizzed past the main aircraft known section of the museum, dedicated to a large participant. But boy, it sure deserves to be more well-known, ever seen of Apollo hardware. I started the visit admiring a display case It had all the US rockets from the first manned at the same scale. From the Redstone and Atlas rockets of the flights, to the Saturn IB for the low earth rocket which didn't even fit in the frame. Then it dawned on me that this entire evolution Compare that with the 17 years it has taken small budget. Clearly NASA isn't quite what it used to achievement of outlandish proportions. That's one tough engineering act to follow, perspective. That was going to be a good visit. I was then immediately drawn to the Apollo This is CM-007A. It started life as CM-007, the very first to NASA. After the being upgraded for the Block II It was used for further recovery testing and where astronauts Jim Lovell, Stu Roosa and in the open ocean in rough swells. It is beautifully restored, and very well And since it never flew, it is nice and shiny. The hatch has been removed, which is great, take a nice peak in there. As we walk around it, we can see the small There are also the forward facing ones. These are the rendez-vous windows, used for docking maneuvers. There is a large window in the hatch, which Let's go in for a quick look. On the top of the panel, you have all the The center dials are for environmental control I am trying to make it to the bottom right section. In this still, at the bottom left, you can the high-gain S-band antenna position. One for pitch, and one for yaw. Above them are three meters, the middle one one we wired up in our restored transponder. On either side of it are the S-band antenna Above them, the three vertical meters are indicators, and the CO2 partial pressure meter. Here is a better view of our high-gain antenna The comms section is obscured by a strut, the fuel cell and electrical control. It says Main bus A and main bus B on the voltmeter I'm trying my luck from a better angle to trying to reproduce right now. Unfortunately, the angle is a bit steep. I can see the squelch A and B thumbwheels, We end up in the number 5 side panel, with for Apollo 13, and the cabin lighting controls. There are panels all over the place, including Here is an overall view of that right section, I have not researched what they do, but these are strapped in their couches. Coming in from the other side, we have the referred as 8-balls, and our favorite computer II. Drifting to the alarm lights. The mission timer numbers are fake, it would Drifting back towards the RCS maneuvering It looks like the protective cap switches off, and were hastily epoxied back together. Now coming straight in, we go on a trip to and telescope optics. There is a little cheat sheet for the guidance The computer sits right underneath this section. There is another DSKY to the right, that's This entire area is used to align the inertial a process that is tightly orchestrated by The Block II unified crew hatch is displayed It's unified, because the heatshield part hatch, have been unified in one single outward It is a marvel of mechanical engineering. There are 15 latches operated by a long linkage The locking and unlocking is via the long It actuates a ratcheting gearbox located towards It takes about 5 pumps to lock or unlock. The golden selector on the gearbox selects or unlocking. There is also a golden safety pin on the side to pull before actuating the handle. However, it was design to shear in the event on the handle. The round thingy at the right of the window to manually depressurize the cabin. You'll notice that the center window has They are used to monitor roll on re-entry. During re-entry, the AGC rolls the entire or sideways as it actively targets the landing The astronaut in the center couch can monitor lines up with the marks. At initial re-entry, the horizon should be There are other markings for 55 degree and You can see some pretty good rolling action taken from the rendez-vous window, not the Now we turn around to see the mother of all These are of course the 5 ginormous engines I had never seen one up close. That engine is just, huge. It stands at 19 foot tall. For you, metric-centric rest of the world, is no equivalent metric dimension for it. The diameter of the bell is 11 ft 7 inches. Same thing, too large to convert to metric, As I was craning my neck for the better part upstairs, a friendly docent finally came to He was joking apparently. However, if you are a little bit familiar enough Scott Manley or Everyday Astronauts parts of this engine. The large pipe around the nozzle is for the It injects a curtain of gas to cool the nozzle It's still quite hot, but much less than black when it exits the nozzle. Same as the black spots on the sun, that aren't hot than the other parts of the sun. The thrust chamber, which is part combustion the big wrap-around pipe. It is entirely lined with cooling tubes. The F-1 engine is cooled by its own fuel, chamber, before being injected back at the Looking up at to the top section, you can which powers the turbo pump. The turbo pump itself is not easily visible, top, and the gas generator exhaust funnel However, you can easily see the output pipes RP-1 fuel from the turbo pump to the combustion They are the two large horizontal pipes with The oxygen one is at the very top, and the Here, I am zooming in on one of the attachment Only the 4 outer engines were gimbaled, while And if you are wishing to see more of the For this, you have to thank another local, He funded an expedition to look for the remnants bottom of the Atlantic. And finding them he did, at an incredible Which is much too large to be converted in Three miles below where I'm standing right Apollo program. It looks like a magic sculpture garden. All of these pieces from different missions, and in other cases twisted into these beautiful And here they are. So this is part of the thrust chamber of one Starting from the left, the liquid oxygen plate, the fuel inlet annulus, the combustion chamber expansion nozzle. You can see all the cooling tubes I was just Up there is the bottom part of the turbo pump. That's the gas exhaust, which first passes oxygen and create gas to pressurize the LOX The disc is part of the gas turbine providing And here is the real injector plate, with order to prevent the engine from destroying combustion instability. Here is a cross section showing how the injector the intakes we just saw. And next to it, is turbopump turbine stage You can see it in this cutaway of the turbopump, That's how it is supposed to look. Thank you very much for fishing this out Mr But enough of engines already. Let's make our way to the lunar rover. This is, of course, a donation of another Boeing is the contractor that developed the I am of course immediately attracted to its antenna, as we just got that bit working in system. Take note Elon, this is how a proper electric None of this flat screen button-less rubbish. This must be a film camera. The super light, foldable wire wheels were And I was surprised how small the foldable They must have made some improvements on the for color TV through an antenna this small. The camera is the later RCA color camera, be controlled from Houston. And there was so much more to see. There is a LM ascent stage, which is quite They also had an Apollo inertial measurement used by the Apollo guidance computer. And in a corner, the spare Mars Viking lander. But the museum was closing, and you get the a space nerd like me, pay a visit to the Museum