Ms. Sanders: Good afternoon. As you know, President an immigration reform proposal and provides the necessary Congress needs to fix To answer some of your I've invited Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, and Border Kevin McAleenan And, as always, I'll be to take questions Thanks. Secretary Nielsen: Well, It is my pleasure to be here because I would love to see if I can help explain and give you some of the facts. I know there have been but hopefully we can I just wanted to start the sheriffs I had the privilege at the National Sheriffs' We are so thankful for and all they do So, I thank them. So, I want to provide on the illegal on our southern border the efforts the administration and to stop the flood drugs, contraband, and crime So, let's just start with So, in the last three months, we have seen illegal immigration exceed 50,000 people each month. Multiples over Since this time last year, increase in unaccompanied and a 435 percent entering the country illegally. Over the last 10 years, increase in asylum claims, resulting in asylum on our country, Since 2013, the United more than half a million and family units most of whom today are at large At the same time, such as MS-13 have and gained a deadly foothold This entire crisis, It's been occurring and But currently, it is the in our federal immigration laws that prevent illegal and family members and removed In other words, a functionally open border. Apprehension without is not border security. We have repeatedly to close these loopholes. I, myself, have met have been willing I've testified seven times. I will continue to make that they work with us Yet the voices most loudly the enforcement are those whose policies and whose policies In particular, we need to reform Let me quickly walk First, we need Trafficking Victims Prevention which is much easier to say. This law encourages in the hands of smugglers on this dangerous And make no mistake, we've this trek is Second, we need to reform to end the systemic abuse of our Right now, our asylum system who legitimately need it. We are a country of compassion. We must fix the system asylum can, in fact, receive it. Third, we need to amend the Flores Settlement Agreement which currently allow for -- which would allow during the removal process. And we need Congress our ability to hold families together through Until these loopholes it is not possible, to detain and remove who arrive illegally Congress and the courts and Congress alone can fix it. Until then, we will enforce to defend the sovereignty and Those who criticize have offered only open borders; the quick release and the decision not This policy would be disastrous. Its prime beneficiaries would be the smuggling and the prime victims who would be plunged and get gang recruitment There's a lot of misinformation and is not doing as it relates and I want to Here are the facts. First, this administration of separating families We have a statutory that we take seriously from human smuggling, and other criminal actions while enforcing We have a long-existing policy. Multiple administrations when we may take action We will separate those who claim if we cannot or custodial For example, if there's the claimed relationship we do so if the parent public or safety risk, including when there are and it may not be appropriate in detention together. We also separate if the adult is suspected There have been cases and trafficked in an effort to avoid detention. And I'd stop here to say, we have a 314 percent increase arriving at the border, fraudulently claiming This is, obviously, of concern. And separation can occur is charged with human smuggling. Under those circumstances, in an appropriate secure separate from the child. What has changed is that we no of people who break the law. Everyone is subject When DHS refers a case or legal guardian the parent or legal guardian will be placed into the U.S. for pretrial determination, pursuant to an order And any accompanied child to the Department of Health and will be reclassified as That is in accordance a law that was passed and a following court order, neither which are actions the And let's be clear: If an anywhere in the United States, and they would be separated This is not Second, children in DHS and HHS custody are being well The Department of Health and Resettlement and educational services They are provided And HHS works hard to find or foster home Parents can still communicate through phone calls And a parent who is released and ask HHS to release Further, these minors and other protections under U.S. We take allegations of And I want to stress this point, We hold those accountable when, We have some of the highest in the country. Claiming these children are treated inhumanely is not true the hardworking men and women at the Office of Third, parents who entered by definition, criminals. Illegal entry is a crime By entering often in dangerous illegal immigrants have put Fourth, CBP and ICE officers to care for minors DHS and HHS treats all with dignity and respect and complies with This reinforces to consider the best and mandates adherence to protect at-risk populations, to include standards and treatment of minors in DHS and HHS custody. Additionally, all U.S. in the southwest border every last one of them. They are directed to clearly to apprehended individuals with written documentation that lays out the process and appropriate phone And finally, DHS is not legitimately seeking asylum If an adult enters at a port they will not face prosecution They have not committed a crime As I mentioned, DHS does have to protect minors. And in that case, as well, if we cannot determine there is if the child may be at risk with or if the parent is referred for prosecution. We have a duty to protect and it's one that Here is the bottom line: DHS is We are enforcing the laws As long as illegal entry DHS will not look DHS will faithfully execute as we are sworn to do. As I said earlier today, of the unraveling of democracy when the body instead of changing them, tells the enforcement body I ask Congress to act this week so that we can and uphold our These two missions should not If we close the loopholes, Before I take questions, in your reporting, please consider who are dedicated and who often put Let's remember their sacrifice And with that, Yes. The Press: Secretary Nielsen, what you talked about there -- DHS is no longer you're calling on Congress Secretary Nielsen: Yes. The Press: I mean, that is Members of Congress say that you're using to try to get them What do you say to that? Secretary Nielsen: I say that It's clearly within their power to make the laws They should do so. Yes. The Press: Have you seen Have you heard the audio clip that just came out today? Secretary Nielsen: I have as something that But I have been And again, I would reference I would reference you not just by the Department but by the Department when they get to HHS. The Press: But is that that you want out there -- Secretary Nielsen: The image is an immigration system and upholds Congress needs to fix it. Yes. The Press: Madam Secretary, to respond to Laura Bush. In an op-ed, She supports Even the current First Lady, has said we should be we should do so with heart. Do you have anything Do you believe they're Or do you believe there's which, as you've outlined, but you're using in a way and creates Secretary Nielsen: What is calling attention This is a very serious issue and years of Congress So, I would thank them I would thank them both I share their concerns. But Congress is the one The Press: And this policy in any way, cruel? Secretary Nielsen: It's not is to do what we're sworn to do, Yes. The Press: Following up on Former First Lady Laura Bush internment one of the darkest days Do you believe that so not the law -- but the effect of it from families in those is ethical, Secretary Nielsen: What we should exercise as Americans It's a problem; Yes. The Press: How is this Secretary Nielsen: Which? Be more specific, please. Enforcing the law? The Press: The images that and the sounds that we've seen the Walmarts, the other stores how is this not for these innocent children who are indeed being Secretary Nielsen: So, on a couple other things. The vast majority -- of children who are in 10,000 of the 12,000 -- were sent here alone That's when they were separated. So somehow, we've But there's two separate issues. Ten thousand of those were sent by their parents, to undertake a and deadly travel alone. We now care for them. We have high standards. We give them education. There's videos; there's TVs. I've visited the detention That would be my answer Yes. The Press: If I could For the hundreds that you said 10,000 -- but for the hundreds perhaps up to 2,000 -- are there any examples And how could this for the people who are Not the ones who are sent here, with their parents' blessing, but the people who are Secretary Nielsen: position to deal with hearsay stories. If someone has as I always do when I testify, I ask that they provide to the Department We will look into it. Of course, we do not where a child is not taken care of. Yes. The Press: A couple One, why is the government of the boys who are being held? Where are the girls? Where are the young toddlers? Secretary Nielsen: I am not familiar with The Press: You don't know Do you know where the girls are? Do you know where Secretary Nielsen: We have But as you know, after 72 hours, So, I don't know what but I'd have to The Press: We've seen but we just haven't seen or any of the young toddlers. And you're saying that So how can you make that claim if you don't know Secretary Nielsen: It's not that I'm saying that the vast Health and Human Services. I don't know what pictures but perhaps there are -- The Press: The pictures have they've been aired Secretary Nielsen: Okay. By DHS? Or by HHS? The Press: By DHS. Secretary Nielsen: Okay, so, I don't think there's these pictures. The Press: They were released I mean, they've been aired all throughout the day -- the kids We've only seen the boys. Secretary Nielsen: I will I'm not aware that there Yes. The Press: Secretary, let me because you continue to insist that this is something Secretary Nielsen: Yes. The Press: -- and yet this after the Attorney General announced This never happened the zero-tolerance policy. Secretary Nielsen: That's So, the last administration -- The Press: Well, we've never previous administrations. Secretary Nielsen: -- the Bush administration all The Press: We didn't see kids Secretary Nielsen: They their rate was less than ours, but they absolutely did do this, The Press: There were there's no doubt about that, Secretary Nielsen: They The Press: -- separating kids is something new and specific once the Attorney the zero-tolerance policy. So, why doesn't the President pick up the phone He said he hates it. Secretary Nielsen: I think what is find a long-term fix. So why don't we have Congress The Press: (Inaudible.) Secretary Nielsen: No, Congress Yes, I think you The Press: Yeah, President Trump has had a lot to say the last few days but he's offered no that are being separated Do you know why that is? And why won't he simply pause of this administration policy until Congress reaches so that these families Secretary Nielsen: He has been since he's been in office. He's made it very clear the laws of the United States as long as this As part of that, reached out to Congress And I think what you've seen him Is continue to tell Congress, The system is broken. The only people that benefit are the smugglers, those who are pedaling So, let's fix the system. Yes. The Press: That didn't And does he feel any compassion for the families He has talked about the parents He has blamed it on Democrats. He has offered Secretary Nielsen: I think that he would like to end the underlying laws that require the separation. The Press: Madam Secretary, it both the President that the main posture that this is not But it seems like, well, today -- that the message is to say, well, but it's our policy it's a deterrent we have the resources And I'm just wondering -- I want to make sure which of those is to describe how And given the blowback as well as Democrats, are you considering rethinking Or is this the administration's period, paragraph? Secretary Nielsen: The laws families while they go for illegally and while they go for immigration proceedings. If we close the loopholes, we can keep the families which is what they did until a court ruled After 20 days, we have children which means that we cannot The only option is to not Yes. The Press: Okay, so going back from Kristen and Margaret, you said that you want Congress With that, you also said Now, are these kids being used Many people are asking that. And Democrats are saying and there is no law that says can separate parents Secretary Nielsen: The kids by the smugglers Again, let's just pause to think 314 percent increase in adults showing up with kids that are not a family unit. Those are traffickers, That is MS-13. Those are criminals The Press: When did -- The Press: Just let her finish. Secretary Nielsen: So -- All I'm trying to say is, closing that loophole will enable us to detain throughout the proceeding as they've done in The Press: Madam Secretary, can you definitively say, are the children being used Yes or no? Can you say yes or no to that? Secretary Nielsen: The children We are trying to which is why I'm asking Yes. The Press: (Inaudible) as the legal framework that your administration What we're seeing -- the audio, the stories -- are they an intended consequence of the administration's or an unintended consequence? Secretary Nielsen: I think that who post such pictures The narratives we don't see of the opioids, of people who are killed of American children and then, when they lose the So, we don't have a balanced But what's happening is the border is being overrun by those who have As I said before, go to a port of entry. You do not need to break to seek asylum. The Press: People are being Madam Secretary. Secretary Nielsen: That We have limited resources. We have multiple And what we do is, based on if we do not have if we do not have enough if we do have enough then we will tell people they need to come back. We are not turning them away, we want to take care right now, we do not at this particular Come back. The Press: Thank you very much. Are you intending for this to Are you intending for parents to be separated Are you intending Secretary Nielsen: I find No, because why would that purposely does that? The Press: Perhaps Secretary Nielsen: No. The Press: AG Sessions says Secretary Nielsen: The way The Press: The Attorney General Secretary Nielsen: That's not But the answer is, it's a law passed by the Rather than fixing the law, who enforce the law and not enforce the law. It's not an answer, The Press: Will from its current policy if Congress were to that's close to what you want? Or will it continue to require the separation of parents until the President Secretary Nielsen: If Congress some of which -- many of which that we hope are taken up then they close the loopholes and the families throughout the proceedings. Thank you. Ms. Sanders: Thank you, I'll jump right in news of the day. Steve. The Press: The President said the North Korean Do you know if that happened? Ms. Sanders: I know with a number of that are working on the details following and we'll keep you posted But I'm not aware between the two leaders The Press: To follow up -- that the United States have agreed to suspend joint Is that real? Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry, I didn't hear The Press: That they've agreed military drills in August. Are you aware of this? Ms. Sanders: Those are ongoing at this point. As long as the North Koreans as we saw in Singapore, then we expect those things Bill. The Press: Yes, Sarah, the family separation policy with the First Lady, in light of her statement And does he have any plans and address the American people? Maybe take some questions is enforcing the policy. Ms. Sanders: The President did as I'm sure you're all aware, what he actually said what the First Lady said. He's called on Congress -- not he's called on Democrats let's fix this problem. The President isn't trying He's actually trying to get real solutions and that's what we're doing. Jeff. And I'll take your question since you and your network falsely accused me So, I'll be glad to pass The Press: Why did you decide answer questions Ms. Sanders: I'm here but I thought it was one of the primary experts and the things to come out here and have and for you guys to be able and the leaders But I'm standing here The Press: I have Would the President sign Ms. Sanders: I wondered if you The Press: Would the President that did not include if it did indeed that Secretary Nielsen Would he sign Or does he require with that $25 billion Ms. Sanders: We've laid out on a number of There are currently two bills that are in process The President supports both that we have voiced support The President doesn't just want He wants us to actually fix He's tired of administrations claiming that they want and then just kicking He wants to actually He wants to secure our border. This isn't just something We have to actually and he's committed The Press: He would require Ms. Sanders: Again, we've laid in legislation. The President wants and we're committed And we hope Congress Democrats have got to stop and actually come to the table and get real about John. The Press: Thanks, and the hearings in Congress with Mr. Horowitz The President tweeted several that the Mueller investigation He said on Friday that, it shows that there's His own FBI Director today said that Mueller and that the report to the special How is there that disconnect believes another branch of his administration is doing? Ms. Sanders: The President He was obviously very and he's laid out that there was no collusion, and he strongly feels The President has also said into question the and many other senior who have been involved and that report that he's made repeatedly. Dave. The Press: Thanks, Sarah. The governor of Massachusetts, today reversed course not to send assets or personnel because he said, in his words, actions of are resulting in the inhumane Would you comment on that? And have you seen any other from this whole situation? Ms. Sanders: I haven't seen but I would tell him that he should call particularly those and ask them to fix the laws. There's only one body here and it's Congress, and we would like That's why the President to work with him Deborah. The Press: Sarah, what was to Laura Bush's piece Ms. Sanders: I'm sorry, what was the last part The Press: What was to Laura Bush's piece Ms. Sanders: I didn't speak but I'm happy to address what Secretary Nielsen said. The President himself said that But once again, it's Congress' We're calling on them And frankly, this law into effect in 2008 under her husband's leadership, We're not the ones responsible We've inherited it. But we're actually stepping up John. The Press: Thank you, Sarah, from the German Ministry under Minister Seehofer, who says that crime has gone In fact, it's the lowest rate in violent crime down 2.4 percent, and theft down 11.8 percent. Where did the President that crime was way up in Germany under the Merkel plan Ms. Sanders: I'm not aware you're referencing, but I'd be happy to check The Press: It's from the German Ms. Sanders: I heard that part, But I'll be happy to check Jon. The Press: Thanks a lot, Sarah. I read the First Lady's and she seems very troubled Is there any daylight and the First Lady Ms. Sanders: I think that the daylight exists and their ability The President himself said he hates these images; And that's why he's asked I feel like we keep that the President isn't but it's Congress' job And the President has already a number of times, publicly, that fixes these loopholes and fixes I think that people should be the doors of Congress and asking them to join instead of fighting him. Instead of constantly why aren't they And you have people like who come out and It's because They have no solutions. We've laid out a solution and we'd like to see them work Steve. The Press: Also critical besides the people on the Democratic side, are a number of Republicans, and also some of some of the President's Do you know from those members of his base? Evangelicals, in particular -- had discussions about this particular policy? And can you sort of the President may have Ms. Sanders: I think or in any church that feels strongly, and help facilitate I think that's their calling, that's the mission and they should If they want to fix then they should call and ask them to join Steve. The Press: Thank you. The Press: Sarah, Ms. Sanders: Sorry, Steve, The Press: There's some that the President Did he actually sign anything? Does he believe without the approval The Air Force appears Where is the support for this coming from besides Ms. Sanders: The President has to start the process. We're in the beginning and we're going to work and the other relevant parties Francesca. The Press: Thank you, Sarah. If the administration is, not using the children then why not just have that narrowly deals with and sign it, and then deal of the immigration system that the President wants to Ms. Sanders: Once again, we We don't want to just The President is tired the road and not fix the problems The Press: I understand, that you would like to see change about But we're dealing with this Why not -- Ms. Sanders: We're dealing That's not the only one. We have people flooding Look, the President wants people but we want them to come legally And that's what we're asking. There have been a number that are permanently due to the illegal aliens that and murdered and killed Where is the outrage We want to fix the whole thing. We don't want to just tinker This is a broken system, and Just ignoring the rule and that's what is actually trying to do. I'm going to take Saagar. The Press: Thank you, Sarah. So, Secretary Pompeo in exchange for denuclearization on the Korean Peninsula, that the United States to updating that's currently in place. Can you confirm did make this commitment And what exactly does Does it put the future on the Korean Peninsula And just any more information you could update us Ms. Sanders: We're of what the process Certainly, would confirm And would refer you and the Department of Defense, who will be putting those Thanks so much, guys,