Hello everyone. I'm Olesya. I'm glad to welcome you to my channel and to my home! I use an automatic translator, so I apologize for possible errors. This morning I started by cleaning up the Forest House. The cold weather is rapidly approaching and all the summer plants have already withered. Murchik... you are my baby)) I really love our forest cat Murka. Guys, you write, why don't we take Murka home? This is Murka's home. Here she is Home!!! For her, everything here is familiar and native. She knows that we are building a house where she will live later. And she perceives this yard as her own. I'll put the samovar on now to drink some hot tea, which warms you up so much in cold weather. A samovar is an outdoor device for heating water. Something like a wood-burning water heater. For us it is simply an irreplaceable thing! Firstly, it is very atmospheric and cozy, secondly, there is hot water that heats up quite quickly. The main thing is not to forget to constantly add more wood. My goal today is to tidy up the area around our temporary kitchen. I love spending time in a forest house, it's a completely different atmosphere! There is no city bustle and road noise here. Sometimes you can hear the noise of a tractor, as there is a farmer in the neighboring village and he plows plots for summer residents and local residents, as well as fields. You can also hear the sound of the wind, birds singing, dogs barking, and a chainsaw. These are all the sounds of village life. They bring joy and some inner satisfaction, you feel harmony in everything. The sunflowers have also completely dried out, I think they also need to be removed. The root system turned out to be more powerful than I expected))) Sasha and Volodya are working on the roof sheathing. It's very cold outside, but when you work it gets too hot. So I'll wear something lighter. The samovar has boiled. We can set the table so that the men can have a snack and warm up with tea. I love to cook outdoors, but today I don't have time, so today I'm making sandwiches)) I need to sew some kind of teapot warmer to keep the heat longer. How wonderful! Where did you get the parsley? Charlotte and I went for a walk and picked some parsley in the garden. Mmm, we still have cucumbers! Uh-huh, where from? They just dug up our garden. Aaaah, you mean pickled... I thought you were talking about the garden)) Oh, hold on to the parsley, it's about to fall. Volodya, why don't you eat parsley? Do you eat that? Or do you not eat parsley either? Just like you don't eat ginger. Let me explain! I once put ginger in with the vegetables. It's very good to use in cold weather, it's a warming vegetable. Volodya tried ginger for the first time and it was too hot for him. Now we often joke about ginger. And Volodya said that he had never eaten ginger and never would again. And Sasha said that it was very tasty I grew this spherical thuja from a cutting. It's high time to replant it. Since the sheds will eventually have to be torn down, I did not plant anything around them on a permanent basis. But I wanted beauty so much that I decided that I would plant something anyway, even if I had to replant it later. And the thuja in the pot can then be placed anywhere. We have almost 1.3097 acres of land near the house where we can create a beautiful garden. I finally decided to plant a couple of pine trees near the barn. We should have planted maiden grapes near the barn last year. He would have already braided it with beautiful vines. Now I regret that I didn't do it. So if you want to do something today, do it without thinking, so that you don't regret it later. You need to live in the present moment. As the scripture says, live today, and tomorrow will take care of itself. Practice proves that there is nothing to add here))) As I went along, I decided to put the entire front side of the barn in order, but I continued the next day. So you will see the continuation in Sasha's video on the channel We are promised a storm wind and today we can already feel the change in the weather. After two days spent in the forest house, I need to get back to my household chores. There is a very strong wind today. I don't even want to go outside. In this weather I like to bake something. Hmmm...To keep my hair from getting into the dough, I had to wear a headscarf. Today we will make airy buns. Mix 240 ml. warm milk + 160 g sugar + 10 g fast-acting yeast. You can add a spoon of flour from the total volume in the recipe. Stir and leave to activate the yeast. Melt 120 grams of butter. Beat 4 medium eggs and combine with 120 grams of melted butter. I duplicated the entire recipe in the description below the video. Combine both liquid parts. Add 1 teaspoon of salt and vanilla. The extraneous noise that you hear is the operation of a gas boiler or the noise of a refrigerator. Add 900 grams of sifted flour. The recipe calls for 900 grams, but I only used 830 grams. So do it gradually. It depends on the quality of the flour. Do not over-flour the dough, but it should be elastic and not stick to your hands. Knead the dough. The dough should not be too stiff or too runny. Grease a bowl with oil and leave the dough to rise in a warm place for about 1 hour. I'll put the dough in a warm oven to rise. While the dough rises, I'll do other things. It was quite warm at home, and the cabbage quickly fermented. So, to prevent the cabbage from over-fermenting, I took it out onto the cold veranda. I will transfer some of the cabbage into jars for long-term storage. Sauerkraut can be stored for several months at a temperature of 0+2 C, for example, in a cold basement. When there are few natural vegetables in winter, sauerkraut is simply a necessary product for replenishing vitamins and maintaining health. I put some of the cabbage in jars and leave the rest for everyday eating. You can also use sauerkraut to prepare various dishes: cabbage soup, stew with meat, vinaigrette, etc. I'll leave this cabbage in the barrel. The cabbage turned out very tasty and crispy. I will also take all the cabbage out for storage in a cold room. The dough has already risen. Lower the dough and place it in a warm place again to rise for 1 hour. Finally got around to the apple cider vinegar. Let's pour it into a bottle. It has been ready for a long time. It has a very pleasant aroma and taste. But for some reason the vinegar mother has not formed on it. Maybe because I moved it a couple of times. And the recipe says not to disturb it under any circumstances. If you know the reason, please let me know in the comments. This is my first experience making apple cider vinegar at home. I'll leave this sediment for storage, in case the vinegar mother does grow. The dough has risen well. You can start baking. I divided the dough into equal pieces weighing about 80 grams. Then roll each piece into a ball, cover with film to prevent it from drying out and leave to rest for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes we can start forming buns of any shape. The dough is pliable and easy to work with. I will be making buns with apple jam that I made in the summer. Roll each ball of dough into a long flat cake, place the filling closer to the edge and close. Using a knife, make 4 cuts (not all the way through), roll the bun into a roll and shape it into a croissant. Place the buns on a baking sheet lined with baking paper, cover with cling film and let rise for about 25-30 minutes. If your home is hot, it may take less time. After the buns have risen, brush them with egg yolk mixed with milk. Bake in a preheated oven at 180 C until golden brown (about 30 minutes). Be guided by your oven. The buns are very airy and soft as fluff. Excellent dough. If you follow the recipe, it will work the first time. Very tasty! It's been quite some time since I left the rose hips to dry. And I think that it has already dried well, it's time to put it away for storage. A ceramic barrel is a great storage place where you can quickly access your rose hips. It is best to brew rose hips in a thermos and let it steep, so that it will give off its maximum benefits. In total, it was half a barrel. Next year, we need to collect more, so that it will last the whole winter. It's time to gradually change the textiles. It seems to me that I haven't changed the curtain in the kitchen for a long time)) I love plaid textiles - they are classic and never go out of style. They add coziness and style to any home. The red cage visually makes the house warmer. Plus, it looks more festive and really lifts the mood. The curtains in the flower pattern are perfect for the summer period. So I wash them and put them away until the summer. Unfortunately, I don't have anything to replace the large curtains in the background with yet. I sewed these curtains myself from 100% linen. Linen is a good durable material, perfect for home textiles. There is a video on the channel where I show how to sew such curtains. The forest house kitchen will have a window of the same size, so this textile will fit perfectly in the kitchen there. The pumpkin garland that many people love so much can also be removed and replaced, for example, with fly agarics. I think I need to make a garland similar to the pumpkin garland, but with miniature fly agarics. This is how easy it is to change the interior and make your home more comfortable with your own hands without much expense. Now, in a pleasant atmosphere, I can brew rose hips to enjoy a pleasant and healthy drink in the evening. To ensure that rose hips give up all their properties, it is better to crush them a little. Thank you very much for visiting my home and keeping me company! Thank you very much for all your warm words and wishes! It's amazing how many kind hearts gather in the comments from all over the world! Thank you SO MUCH my dears!!! I wish everyone peace, love and goodness! Until next time. P.S. Charlotte is growing so fast that she will soon grow from a puppy into a huge dog.