Back in 1999, Nintendo released a game called well known game, but take a listen to You might be surprised to know this song was So, in this video, I'll be going secrets and mysteries. I'll explain I'll talk about how Mario's signature did you spot every single Ocarina of Time Get ready for a tour through creepy and fascinating Nintendo music secrets! Number 1 First, let's talk about the Legend of Zelda: just four years after Ocarina of Time. "You can think of [Wind Waker] as taking of Time... There are references to things Aonuma was probably talking in a general sense, you can spot a huge number of references First is Outset Island, the theme of the theme bears a noticeable similarity The songs are similar throughout, with Outset Island directly quoting Then next we have Windfall Island, a fairly big a woodwind instrument which plays a very similar which actually originates from A Link to the But it's in Windfall Island's B-Section, where we again get a direct quote Next, we have Forest Haven, an who are said to have descended from the Now, this theme is essentially a of the Kokiri Forest theme Then there's Jabun, a character supposedly a descendent of Jabu Jabu from Ocarina. And then here's Jabu Jabu's And finally, a more subtle one: you learn in Wind Waker which And for the most part it's totally original, the melody from a song you learn in This one can be a little hard to There's plenty more musical Zelda games, but these are some of my favourite! Number 2 We've talked about Zelda, now let's move on Actually, both Mario and Luigi have official Paper Mario, there's a sidequest where the player so, we get a glimpse, albeit a very pixelated But to see Mario's signature, we have to Mario series - Mario Tennis Aces, from 2018. and watch the game's end credits right to the end, where Mario draws his signature on the But none of that has anything let me play you that 5 second cutscene If you listen closely to it actually plays the first 7 notes of the Number 3 Next, let's talk about a strange case of past about similarities between Nintendo songs and in some cases that Nintendo's composers may have, from those pieces of music. But this is totally So, the game in question is a fairly obscure which was exclusive to Japan - Mario Artist to draw art, create animations and more. And one of the songs that plays while Now, that won't sound familiar to you unless is a bizarre hybrid live action and animated film, offensive". Having watched snippets of this is not for me. But anyway, 12 minutes So, that song is called Cartoon and was written by composer Ed Bogas. identical to the Mario Artist song? So, like I said, this seems like a very clear-cut composers having pretty clearly copied the song the game's soundtrack was worked on by 4 Suddi Raval from the British developer Software I think it's pretty unlikely Totaka would have from the 70s, whereas the British developers had this game had a hugely complicated development development team to rework, change and adapt that it's totally possible that this plagiarism the track as a placeholder, and then later when in. I'm not here to throw around accusations, clear case of plagiarised music in a Nintendo Number 4 Now I want to talk about Zelda 2: The Adventure of by a completely different team of people from While Zelda 1's music and sound effects were this role was taken on by a somewhat less Nakatsuka's soundtrack for Zelda 2 pretty different from the previous game's plays when you die. Here's what happens when Ganon lets out this terrifying-sounding the game, this sound effect is a bit different. That laugh sound that Ganon and no doubt haunted the nightmares of But if you were an avid NES gamer, you somewhere completely different - in Punch Out! as he taunts anyone who dares challenge him... Sound familiar? It's actually a slightly chopped up and rearranged version of Now, this same laughing sound effect is actually Bald Bull, Mr. Sandman, and Super Macho Man... This use of Ganon's laugh seems pretty look at Punch Out's credits - see here, it's when Nakatsuka needed a laughing sound effect for which he'd worked on only a few months ago, Number 5 Almost every video game has unused and Luigi's Mansion is no exception. a wiki dedicated to uncovering all this unused is sitting on the Luigi's Mansion disc And one of the most bizarre and interesting It's just some woman's voice saying, "welcome from? Well, it turns out this clip comes released by the company Spectrasonics in the all kinds of sample CDs full of strange and composers used in their soundtracks. Distorted like Zelda: Majora's Mask and Twilight Princess, So the sound in question here is called But actually BAD ACID.wav is itself an from the disc called ACID So for some unknown reason, a member of the ACID.wav and further edited it to end up with the It's impossible to know what this but it's certainly a little unsettling! Number 6 Next, let's talk about Pikmin 4! This latest callbacks to older Pikmin games, but today I want Tale. This mode is unlocked after finishing and have only 15 days to rebuild your If that sounds similar to Pikmin 1 - yeah, you're feels like an homage to the very first Pikmin Take the area select theme, It's an uptempo arrangement of And once you enter an area, you'll notice this The first area you visit is Sun-Speckled And that lines up closely with parts of the Then we have Blossoming Arcadia, which sounds And finally, we have Serene Shores, which lines up with The Distant Spring from the first game. I think it's such a clever detail how this and the music also carries over the melodies It's just like the other musical secrets make or break the game, but they the experience. No-one does video But that's all from me! Thanks and a huge thanks to all of my Patrons for an extra shout out goes to my $10 members...