- Now, I don't want to brag or anything, but in general, I'm a Apples, peaches, pineapples, I've got a good track record for picking out the best specimens, but that's not how it goes with avocados. Sometimes, I think I'm getting only to find it littered with Or, I accidentally cut and I'm at a loss for what to do with it. Then there's the browning I mean, what's a guy to do? Well, if the guy works at a full of smart, talented people, he should go find the answers, and that's exactly what I've done. Today, we're gonna tackle four (soft music) Okay, so the four we've been working on are probably questions Number one, what is the Two, is there a way to There's a lot of talk about popping one in a low Does that work? Three, what do you do if and it's not ripe yet? Run for the hills? And finally, four, is it possible to stop a cut avocado from browning? This episode is months and many, many, many tests in the making. Ooh, I'm excited to share. Okay, number one, picking Anyone who has tried to sniff an avocado knows they have no aroma, so you can't trust your the way you can with other That's why the vast test for ripeness by pressing on the skin and seeing how much it gives, but here's why you shouldn't do that. Not at the store, anyway. Pressing an avocado isn't like squeezing one of those little stress balls that just springs back into position. If it's in any way ripe and you push it, you're leaving a bruise. So I leave a bruise when I test it, and you leave a bruise when you test it, and the guy Frank over there, he leaves a bruise when he tests it. And well, you can see what happens. All of us avocado lovers out there are inadvertently sabotaging riddling them with bruises. We've all been on the receiving end of overly tested avocado, and Pardon my French. Now, as much as I wish where I could stop everyone But I can arm you with a secret weapon, a non-invasive ripeness testing laser. I mean, this is obviously But it's not really what I meant. You can avoid bruised before they are fully So buy this, and not that. And that not quite ripe avocado will turn perfectly ripe at home. I first learned this tip a produce expert and content creator who many of you may know as And it has completely changed I never end up with a bruised avocado now. And you know what? I finally sleep well at night knowing I'm not screwing Okay, question number two. Can you make an avocado ripen faster, and does popping it in a I've seen that one all over the internet. So we decided to test it. We wrapped half a dozen avocados in foil and baked them, as We tested them at 15 minute The results, a bunch of It was such a bummer, but I'm really glad we footed the bill, so you don't have to. Avocados are climacteric they continue to ripen Here's how that works. Ethylene gas inside the to modify pectin and cellulose which makes the flesh As they ripen, they also develop delicious grassy, floral flavor volatiles. While heat does stimulate the there's a limit to both and the ripening reactions it produces. You can speed up the process only so much. For instance, an avocado on will ripen faster than But, placing an avocado doesn't actually produce more It really cooks it, which is rather than softened like So is there another way I hear some of you saying yes, toss it in a bag with The theory behind this is that the ethylene gas triggers ethylene in the avocado to hasten its enzymatic ripening process. Unfortunately, studies have shown that most supermarket avocados We've tested this a few We've erred on the side of because it can't hurt, but I've since concluded, That's because after an for a couple of weeks, as it's no longer susceptible to ethylene. The truth is, that it's how long it will take an avocado to ripen. That's because we don't exactly how ripe it what its storage and how long it's been sitting in that avocado pile at the grocery store. You and that avocado, and there's no telling how long it'll take the relationship to ripen. Sorry. Plan on letting an avocado for at least a day or two, You'll be rewarded with One other option, if you have talk to the folks in your grocery store's They and the whole avocado industry really want you to enjoy so it's in their interest and yours to make sure that you get a good one. Next up, burning question number three. If you've cut an avocado are you out of luck? So I've done this an I think my avocado is and it's still not ready. I'm just so excited to dig in. Usually, I just eat it but I've always wondered if you can just wrap it up So we gave it a try. We purposefully cut avocados and then let them sit, some on the counter And, I have exciting (drum rolls) We found that both sets Honestly, we were pretty So we reached out to a plant physiologist at the USDA, named Dr. David Obenland, as one does when they discover something interesting about avocados. And he confirmed that that makes an avocado ripen continues, even if you cut it open. As long as you store it properly and give it an extra day or so, it can turn just as creamy and rich as if you had opened it at peak ripeness. Now that is very cool. Speaking of storing avocados, If you want to keep a cut should you spritz it with lemon juice? Put it cut side down in water or oil? Seal it up in plastic wrap? Look, there are many, many to prevent browning on avocados. We were skeptical of a lot of them, so we tried 11 different storage methods. That's right, 11. One of them involved storing an avocado in homemade onion juice. Another involved a topical Yeah, we really went down Before we talk about how to let's just acknowledge that it can be scraped and that the fruit is safe to eat and its flavor is not impacted. The discoloration is It develops when the cut triggering the enzyme to catalyze reactions that eventually produce So to stop the browning, you have to stop the enzymatic Cook's Illustrated Deputy Food that there are three basic The first, is to cut off the by wrapping it up airtight, or storing it cut side Or, displacing the oxygen in a bag by pumping in CO2 from a soda maker. Second, you can denature so that it can't trigger Lan tried this by dipping and another in the onion She also tried blanching a cut avocado. The third method is to such as lemon or lime juice, or vitamin E oil to the cut with the browning reaction Most methods didn't work all well. Either they didn't really or they were fussy or Or in many cases, all of the above. Lemon and lime juice did a sort of meh job while making the avocado taste sour. No big surprise there. Putting the avocado face both methods were moderately effective. But oil made it greasy And that onion juice test, it But who on earth would make onion juice to keep an avocado looking nice? And I guess Lan would. So what worked best? By far, the most effective There wasn't a speck of and it's easy to do if But as much as I love avocados, I'm probably not gonna bust to stave off a little browning. For my money, the easiest is to tightly cover the and refrigerated it. Lan that it didn't stave but remember, none of them But the discoloration was minimal and there's zero flavor change. Wow, that was a lot of I don't know about you, but I'm starving. You think what I'm thinking? First, get your bread I love sourdough, but a thick slice of any You can mash the avocado, and does a great job gluing any other toppings you want to add to it. And you can actually mash That's helpful if you're and want to avoid tearing But, if you want to get a little fancier, you can drag a sharp knife through the avocado half, like this, to create that beautiful shingled look. And if you want to level-up to the absolute cutest grab a round cookie or biscuit cutter and punch out a circle of the I learned this trick from Carolina Gelen, author of the cookbook &quot;Pass the Plate.&quot; She's got so many great Either way, I like avocado toast toppings to pop against the rich, buttery fruit. So I've got some flake salt, some fresh herbs, and But you can't really go wrong, because this is definitely (soft music) Big thanks to Lan Lam and Annie Petito of all of their deep, weird I feel a lot better about and I hope you do too. Check out the links below to some of our favorite avocado recipes. Don't forget to hit that like button. And be sure to subscribe to Do you have any other that are keeping you up at night? Drop me a note in the comments Thanks so much for watching.