I remember that last day. The day I felt 'that's it' My life had ended. There was a lot of fighting. The day they now call 'the I had run away from the man He was 50 years old When you're 15, There was a woman She was very pregnant. She could give And the woman ahead of me, she kept on screaming, &quot;Don't look back! Don't look back.&quot; God forgive me, I I will never forget that woman Every which way I tried to There was no way So I tried to go back I wanted to see if my father It was the last day Ifrah! And the day my There was no light no electricity at all and I waited and waited but they never came back. All day I kept on hoping my father Or send a sign. But it wasn't them. That was when the military They had used me hard pushing and pushing My grandma called my uncle, My auntie had sent to pay my uncle, the doctor. Bye-bye. My grandma had to leave at the camp in Afgooye. But I was still I couldn't read and but he was sure we had her So we went to a place where you can make It was a lot and lot of money. They made the arrangements, she sent some money for us Ifrah. When we were half way there, we were stopped by the military. They threatened to rape all unless the bus Ifrah? I wasn't the only but I was probably the youngest. Maybe that was why When we get to Addis, a family comes to And the woman waiting for Ifrah? Ifrah? I stayed there maybe Then the man they call Hassan, he came to collect me. Then he took And he told me he would give I wasn't to talk to They brought food to eat The smell was so terrible. It made me want to vomit. Or maybe it was my nerves I didn't know Or that we were only there I had to make sure to and hide my face. I think that he because of the way But God was with me. We stayed a long For hours and hours we waited. I couldn't understand the food. I could drink the Orange Juice. It was sweet and at That's why I still love When you wear the how do they know it's your face? They don't. And they couldn't because this is my religion. How are you Ifrah? Welcome home, love. I'd heard of America, and Italy of course because But never Ireland. - Where are you off to? Near the American Embassy. I had no idea What asylum is. Nothing. 28 euros now. Here is your money. Thank you very much. What's your name, dear? Where are you from? Ni-o-wa-ti-o-lati, Nigeria? I think he knew And me when I hear Oh my God. So yes, she has Her name is Ifrah. Ifrah Ahmed. And she is alone. No, she's just feeling cold. Very cold. Tea, water, coffee, anybody? Somalian. Maybe 16. No question. Definitely a minor. She brings me water. Cold water. And I drink the water and Then I had lots of long, That's all the information. I just need a signature. I just need you to sign here. They kept asking me Why I was in Ireland? How I got here? Muhamad, would you ask Probably It's true. Her hand is shaking But she can't write. Because I was an unaccompanied they put me into care Give your hand. Ifrah. To this day I still wonder Thank you, Muhamad. We've got everything now. I wish I knew who it was that gave it me so I Hi Amala. Thanks for staying Do you know each other? No. We meet here. But still we are sisters. And when I couldn't sleep, she let me lie with The most obvious challenge was the language. Cornflakes? As well as the food. Make sure she's okay Out. Now. Please. Out. Come on. Amala. We do not resort to violence Amala, translate, would you? If we have a problem, we Amala, do you still Do you know, I have a feeling you don't Do you mind if we She wants you to We'll need Ifrah now for Amala, would you that in order to process she's required to have a Yeah. Okay, girls. Let's go back and My social worker made Ifrah, that's Muhamd. Who translated for First, they try to and medical exams. Can you explain that I have put myself down until she's 18. And we will need to do So now I have somebody translating what HIV is. And telling me that that if I have it I will be And Hepatitis. Don't worry if you there's medication and you'll The same for There were more diseases For girls, there's also a routine and a pregnancy test. She asks, &quot;Even if you are pregnant, is there a solution Great. So, it seems that Just the smear Smear test. Smear test. But there was one condition for which they had Let's get you changed. Can you explain? She means you put this on. You take off your clothes. Put your arms through here. Tie at the top. And pop up on the seat. We'll leave you to get The doctor will be in soon. He will do a quick examination Ready? Just pop yourself up here, okay? Don't worry. The doctor will be So, who do we have here now? Ifrah Ahmed all the If you can just get Ifrah Ifrah, we're going to just down below. Nothing to worry about. If you can just stand close to Ifrah, everything's Just relax now. We'll just do a little Don't worry. You're safe. Very good. Okay, Ifrah. Now Okay. We're not going Here's something Then they explain me and they keep apologizing how did you get injured Ifrah, I've asked Muhammad Muhammad, Ifrah has been Could you explain to her that we're sorry if she I'd follow the rest Muhammad, would you ask And I just kept &quot;I'm not injured. It is not an injury.&quot; And I have to go A woman doctor. Ifrah, this is a who is going to look after you. Would you ask her, My name is Ifrah Ahmed. I am citizen of Ireland. And a survivor of Female Adding my voice to the campaign for awareness and understanding, for legislative reform and has been the greatest The gift of survival. The gift of a voice where Silence may be the with which they threatened But it was not my So Ifrah would have had Yeah. That would be The procedure is carried out by a traditional practitioner. And they use a razor blade without an anesthetic Cut her how? Well, they cut off Oh, holy God. And then they sew it back up. Horrific. So now I'm thinking it must And from the looks I'm thinking they are going I have some other disease. Oh, no. No, Ifrah. There's nothing like But in my head I was thinking, that the way they did with the special tests for girls I knew it. If it happened to me, this FGM thing, then it must have So I ask them first. Because we speak And it's something I asked them if it So I say to her, look, we have to do something. To explain to Irish people So they understand our culture. And I say to myself, until girls like me the pain, the shame and medical I will not stop. I will not stop talking. I will not stop talking, But first, I had to So I went to all the Right, so this is Parts of the body, right? The first one is, eye. Eye. Eye. Very good. So this one here is ear. Ear. Ear. Very good. This one is nose. Nose. Come on, nose. Nose. Very good. This one is hand. Hand. See this one? Hand. That's it exactly, hand. What is this? What is it? What is this? That would be, that would be private parts. Private parts. Say it, yeah? Private parts. Yep. I-F-R-AH. Ifrah. Excellent work. I promise you. Well done, Ifrah. That's really impressive. How's it going here? Amazing. Great. Walk. Walk. Walking. Walking. Walked. Walked. Walk. Walk. Walked. Walked. Oh! Walk. Walking. Walked. Walk. Walking. Walked. Walk. Walking. Walked. Walk. Walking. Walked! Walk. Walking. Walked! 'The' the most common word. Be, the most common verb. &quot;Good&quot;. The most common adjective. But we're in Ireland, so grand. It's grand! Yeah, the weather is grand. Sure, that's grand! Grand. Grand! Va-gee-na. Vah-Ghuy-na. Vah-gi-nhu. Vagina. Vagina. Vagina. I needed to learn it fast first. So I could tell my story. Studying the language So I could start to talk about a thing I think we But a thing we don't talk about About the cutting. I remember when we they brought us all It was my grandma's hut. There were soft straw I was eight years old. And very excited. It was Eid Al Fitr. A little like Christmas. I remember the doctor, my uncle, he was in a smaller room. Hiding behind a But I could see him. And my grandmother organized it. And it was her who made his living They were close and they decided for the whole For Eid. Me, my sister Hanii, my father's two daughters You could hear the screaming from the other room and Every second or third girl, he was pouring boiling For to clean it. My grandma, she was holding the girls And my Father's other wife was carrying the and tying their legs together. They kept us tied for So we couldn't move. The worst thing is the pain. When you have to wee. With your legs that are tied. And you have to lie and you can't go to the toilet. It's hard to describe How much it hurt. One of the girls who was she just wouldn't wee. So she got an infection. And her stomach swelled way up. She was crying and And her blood Then, she went quiet. She died. I got my Type III, which is the worst They cut everything. I wasn't the first But I was somewhere DJ, cut to graphics! I remember my grandma very, very tight. Pulling me in. But what I didn't know then was what we all now know here today. That this cutting thing, this so-called cultural ritual. It is not some Muslim in the name of religion. It is mutilation. Female Genital Mutilation. She's fantastic. Christ, can she hold a crowd. I thought you'd be impressed. A human rights violation that detrimentally of 140 million women worldwide. It's still a bit too To position it front and center of the Presidential Campaign I'm processing her for Thank you Ifrah for sharing your story with us here today. FGM is torture. Nice to meet you. Joe Costello, TD here. If there's ever don't hesitate. Oh, me take picture? Sure. Sure. You look good. Nice to meet you. I could tell he was important. An Irish Labor Party Minister. Of course, I didn't hesitate, As we say in Ireland, 'I'm not backward So when we launched the campaign for FGM legislation in Ireland he was with us all the way. Hold it there. Hold it there. I'm here to meet Is he expecting you? Yes. He is. We should be inside Ifrah, before the Okay, Amala. Come on girls. No, no, no, no Ifrah, love, this is a President of the United States! I've only the one invite Oh, sorry. Me and my English. I'm always mixing up, you and when 'you' is 'all of you'. But sure, we're all here All right, I got Okay, girls. We can go in. But, they're part of the You're pulling my leg. I'll vouch for them. Let's take a picture. Smile. Well, it's more When you're splashed for turning away 20 from the first African to the Dail. It'll be more than The woman taking the I've seen her on She's huge on Did you get me? Which was true. We were getting a lot of A little more conventional press and we could push the FGM agenda to a whole other All right. Okay. Listen to me. Public Gallery, though. Your public conscience This way, Ifrah. We were thinking bit, but Of what we did. We had no idea what to expect. If we'd be thrown out Or even out of the country. But I knew we'd get attention and that's all that In dreams begin And embracing that overcoming the cynics and those who say &quot;you can't&quot; that's what makes dreams real. This little country, that your best days are still ahead. Our greatest triumph In Ireland, if anyone if anybody ever tells you or your challenges are too great just respond with 'Is feidir linn.' Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Is feidir linn. For all you've contributed to the character of the and the spirit of the world, thank you. And may God bless the between our two great nations. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you, Dublin. Thank you, Ireland. Yes we can! Yes we can! So now suddenly everybody To hear my story. It was an endless whirlwind of On the occasion of President I can't help but to recognize that whether black Women who share the same fears and are entitled the same human rights, no matter where we come from. Ifrah, are you ever in in Somalia at all? When I get my passport, I'd to look for my Father. And if ever I see her again, what was it all about. All this cutting. But that was the question I What is it you hope with this Irish The FGM Campaign is meant to be a positive All women of any ethnicity. Whatever their And is it appropriate, to mix FGM and a beauty pageant? It is not just about But about appreciating And celebrating all and beautiful in being female. Still no sign of him. Sorry, sorry. Oh fuck Emer! What? Big favor. You're free tonight, aren't you? Yes. Joe? We've started. Are you nearly here? Ifrah, would you if I didn't make it tonight? Emer says she'll go. Of course not, I said. Just heart-broken! So he sent a stand-in. The then Mayor of Dublin his wife Emer Costello. Please, everyone, be up-standing for the Mayor Thank you. So, with events like this, Ifrah, you are gaining from an electorate who believe that we must Tonight, we will be and her take on hijab chic. And even if I knew it before I really felt it now. We are all girls, Born perfect, just This week's, 'Who Would in the lead up to her Miss while on her journey to become one of Ireland's Here we were on national TV and we weren't Sometimes I worry, you know. Maybe somebody from our families will find out about all of this? I know, my grandma And me talking away on and everything that So after all the stress of I had to tell my story over and over again to the And explain very painful and personal experiences Who was a man. Now, here she is. And share intimate with the translator. Who was another man. Here's the bit here. But I do know has undertaken to present the Female Genital Mutilation to the Dail prior to the So that Ireland will have with provisions against Against traveling To support our social services responsible for refugees And to ensure that immigrant never happen here in Passing the legislation in We were recognized Well, well. You lot again. We're all official now! Very nice. We take picture. Yeah, sure. Very good. Good luck to you. It was just the beginning. Next stop Brussels, Emer said. Europe. Then the world. We even got the President to host an appreciation And it was the very into Irish law on I salute the efforts and others have made to have and I very much welcome the fact that the Female Genital has been passed into law. You're a credit to And within a week this entirely uneducated to be a Somali refugee and became a naturalized citizen I, Ifrah Ahmed Hereby solemnly declare. My fidelity to the Irish nation. My fidelity And my loyalty to the State. And my Two final words: Do not forget your own country. Your own people. Your own traditions. Such memories are Lastly: Remember that under all citizens are equal. Congratulations to you all. Thank you. I want go to Milan, first, and see Inter I should really go and to thank her, but Amala, Amala! Pazza Amala! I am citizen of Ireland! Oh my god, Amala I'd had hate mail before from some of the more radical reacting to my campaign. Shut it down. Just ignore it. But I am a good Muslim girl. But never anything Shut it down. We knew this was going to happen after all the media attention. How can people write Look. A message from your &quot;Dear, Ifrah.&quot; I am so pleased you And I'd love to see but I'm returning to Somalia to pick up the pieces Your sister is in Italy. Still no word of your brother. But through the UN I've found out that they think your at a refugee camp in Uganda. I don't want to But if it is your father, and is now on his way Ifrah, I read about and your campaign. Be careful. Not everybody in the &quot;Auntie Sar.&quot; It had never occurred to me that my Father might Let alone aware of I had to find a way to You know it'll be And if it's not all right? It's not the end! It's got to be There, on the corner. I'll go in and get us Somehow Emer got Turkish and UNICEF to pay me to I don't know what to say. That's not like you. Hassan Ifrah. I will not be silenced. Not now. Not ever. Not even for my family. Now, be a good girl. Or what? Or I'll fucking Ifrah! Who the heck was that guy? I said who the Nobody we want to know. Emer. Listen, you've got the envelope I know it's via Istanbul but As well as Emer had just been elected And you did remember Passport? Ifrah I'm only kidding. Okay. All right Listen, Emer, about the European No, we can talk about You need to find I'm sorry. I can't explain. It has to be somebody else. What's wrong? What's going on? It has to be somebody else. Madame, the door is closing! Sorry, I have to go. Boarding pass? Okay, have a good flight. And for the first I legally boarded an Back to Mogadishu. I was welcomed back The heat was welcome and But everything I'm sure you'd like Please. Have they found out Well, we've traced a man with the Your auntie was right. He was listed at a UN camp And? Well, we believe the at the IDP camp Tens of thousands of coming home after A great gathering, as But we've had such an that it's impossible to Couldn't I just go It's not that simple, The area is not clear Dangerous? Do you know where I come from? Where I was brought up? Came from. You're diaspora now. They'll smell that from Who's Miss Diaspora now? Okay. Let's go. Do the Minister for Women to meet with you That's good. Listen, you've been away You need to be careful I am a good listener too. That's how I find out How I report on what's really I talked to women who I spoke to kids whose families had been thrown I met old women and children all on their own. But I didn't find anyone Ifrah, we gotta go if we They were really They say, the little Because on Friday they I was silenced. I knew I couldn't let it happen. Beautiful, isn't it? That's the last thing I The sun setting over the Is it safe to go there? There's not much of it left. Can we check it out? You never know. Maybe he just went home. Oh my God. He's here. Ifrah! Ifrah! Ifrah! And that was it. That was my heart breaking because I really Even though I really wanted Her brother, he was a doctor. Why did he do it? And why didn't she Why didn't she explain? I just couldn't ask her. Now I knew, that the best way to focus on the future. And that I would go to the European Commission. Those three little girls are That's three days from now. What do I do? What do you wanna do? Whatever it takes to stop it. I can bring it up with the Who is a man. Or I could go back to the camp and try to convince Now that they call fieldwork! - But I still felt scared. and about to be cut Ah, Miss Diaspora! Welcome home. What can I do for you? I told the Minister everything I had been doing. And about the three little My dear Ifrah. There is very little other than moral support. Moral support! You have to of a diaspora dependent economy. Cultural resistance, for sure. Religious resistance, of course. But most of all, commercial. The pirates, he said They kept the when we were away But most of all, the diaspora. It was we who sent the money who were marrying the to whom we'd also sent money Moral support. Moral support. They say you went away to Yes, I was You know that the British who 'discovered' Somalia? 1852. He once described us as He probably didn't mean it But I can assure Let's go. Then she gave me she had hidden in and told me to put So I went right back to the before the families go I said, you know the issues. Think about it. All that suffering And the women, they We have to protect the And anyway, what's it to you?'. So I explain that That I am now an That I've studied the issues. And most of all, I understand And so they say, &quot;Okay, what's your deal?&quot; So I made a proposal They say, &quot;Yes, we're not going to cut.&quot; So I ask them to swear in the name of Allah. And I can hear them They think I'm crazy. And more people come back in and surround me So I start shouting. They say, &quot;Wait, okay, we're they say, but just to we're only going to make bleed. We just cut a tiny little So I say no, that's But I insist that they swear. And they say it's we're not going to circumcise. So they took the oath. Then I gave them the money. And for fear that other to threaten to cut God forgive me. I ran away. Far from a perfect or But if I hadn't done it I know I would always And forever feel that it that I could have done A tiny achievement when we think that there are 20 to at risk of FGM Please, protect their futures. So that stories like mine Thank you, Ifrah. We establish February 6th as International Zero We act to end FGM! Your Excellency, I would like to offer my of eradicating FGM in Somalia. Her name is Ifrah Ahmed. She is a citizen of Ireland But, Ifrah, you will always be But no one knows If I don't say something, Would I be that monster, If I let them hear I can't keep quiet, I can't keep quiet, A one woman riot, I can't keep quiet For anyone Not anymore 'Cause no one knows If I don't say something, They may see that But I have to do this I can't keep quiet, I can't keep quiet, A one woman riot, Oh, I can't keep quiet There'll be someone There'll be someone Must be someone Let it out, let it out Let it out now There'll be someone Let it out, let it out Let it out now I can't keep quiet, No, I can't keep I can't keep quiet, oh-no No, I won't keep quiet