Great men inspire even greater stories and Alexander, whose very epithet is "the Great", Such was Alexander's influence throughout East, Mongolia, and even in China there have As the main theatre of his conquests was West a significant role in the lives of the people oral and written traditions even centuries This video will cover the depictions of Alexander By that point, you probably have watched everything in need of more content. Well getting unfettered access to the world's can do for you. Geo-blocks are a thing of the past when you Tired of being stuck with your country's limited Log in from any country you want and watch But more than that, NordVPN protects your as it encrypts and routes your IP address around the globe. Big data companies, government bodies, everyone browsing data. NordVPN helps you navigate the internet safely It never logs your data and protects your data encryption! It's super easy to install and log-in to the you start web browsing... and you can get So, get yourself safe, unrestricted access Special Christmas Offer for our viewers - get a 2 year plan and Save 68% by going to nordvpn.com/KingsandGenerals Don't forget to use the coupon code KingsAndGenerals! Communication between the Islamic Middle East since the time of the first Crusades, however The interaction between the different cultures about some of the greatest advancements of Through these lines of communication and cultural was translated from historical reality to So the Jews and the Arabs of late antiquity incorporating him into their own legends. As Islam became the dominant religion in the the legend of Alexander the Great made its In the Islamic holy book, Alexander is thought hero who travelled the world and brought peace Dhul Qarnayn is considered to be a powerful, not only in his country but across the entire It is said that when Dhul Qarnayn reached a desperate people who told him of the perils The people offered him tribute in exchange Gog and Magog away. Dhul Qarnayn built a huge wall of iron, lead, penetrate until Allah lowers it and the end The identity of Gog and Magog has been a matter So obscure are the references to them that represent two distinct rulers or a ruler and Depending on the period, various nations and and Magog, the first of which were the ancient During the early days of Islam, it was most of the Caliphates that were considered to and, finally, the Mongols. For centuries, historians, theologians, and Qarnayn was and many notable rulers are have the Great of Macedon, Cyrus the Great, Darius pre-Islamic Arabian rulers. Alexander, being a brilliant ruler and conqueror established a kingdom spanning from East to scholars including Ibn Sina, al Razi, and A possible reference to Alexander may be in translates to "the two-horned one". The two-horns of Dhul Qarnayn could be an Great to the oracle of Zeus-Ammon in the Siwah The ram-horns of Zeus-Ammon were adopted in a symbol of his alleged direct descendance Pharaohs. The lifespan of Dhul Qarnayn is not mentioned quickly after his campaigns, similar to Alexander. The mythical barrier built by Dhul Qarnayn especially during medieval times. As the barrier is theorized to be located expeditions, it became known in history as Its exact location remains disputed by scholars. Though there are several possibilities, we ones. One option is the Great Wall of Gurgan - a South-Eastern coast of the Caspian Sea. It is one of the largest and most ambitious it was neither as functional nor as well-preserved Its purpose was most likely to defend Persia Another option is the Darial Gorge in the The name is derived from the Persian term It is known that the mountain pass was fortified and Sassanids, who used it to defend against Some historians consider Alexander as the there is no proof of that. The third and most popular choice would be stretched for tens of kilometers in between The fort was most likely built by the Sassanids of Khosrow Anushirvan. The Sassanids are most likely to be responsible however, Alexander was given the lion's One explanation could, once again, be the Romance in the Middle East and Persia during rise of Islam. Due to the fact that the Caliphate fought they were seen as enemies, it is possible an option with greater mass appeal. The earliest written texts that associate written by Wahb ibn Murahbih, who describes would, upon completing the Wall, learn to human nature. Al-Mubashir of Cairo later on explicitly identifies Darius, after being betrayed by his nobles, on how to be a good king. Others wrote that Alexander was a philosopher-king wisdom. In those versions, Alexander was accompanied He would engage the Brahmins in debates on humility and devotion to God. In other legends, Alexander is said to have instructed him to ask the sages for the location Alexander subsequently left for a fabled dark the Quran - al-Hisr. The immortal man told him of the exact location home by his own volition after failing to Seemingly, most medieval writers follow the In the first part of the stories he is always the entire world, while in the second part the emptiness of all human ambitions and endeavors, What gives the myth of Alexander as Dhul Qarnayn and translation of one 18th century manuscript Dhul Qarnayn's campaigns, the building of Besides the Quran and the hadiths, the manuscript one of the most popular texts of the middle Therefore it is safe to assume that its author, Qarnayn as well. Ferdowsi, whose Shahnameh is the greatest and describes Alexander the Great as a famous During one of his adventures in Abyssinia, the mercy of a nearby dragon. In exchange for not having their city burned their cattle to the dragon each night. Alexander tried to kill the dragon with his a cunning plan - his men would gut the cattle The dragon, unaware of the Trojan horse, or, and was killed by his own flaming insides. The successive transformations suffered by Persian, and Arabic Islamic literature have figure of a rightful Persian "King of kings", and Nizami. This image of Alexander as Iskandar Dhul Qarnayn most likely influenced by the Romance. This Arabic-Persian Alexander is integrated language into their Iranian history, as one By doing so, they deliberately choose to forget Persian image of Alexander. In Zoroastrian traditions, Alexander is perceived and of the true Kings and nobles of Iran. This image of the bad or accursed Alexander Zoroastrian religious principles - the true supreme creator God, the righteous and good sent by the Evil One. What is interesting is that the earliest surviving from the late Sassanid era, so it is quite on oral tradition. It also explains why in those works, Alexander Considering that Alexander is presented as little was written about him during the time, memoriae Alexandri Magni occurred - the In spite of this, we should not conclude that Pre-Islamic Iran, as in a letter by Artabanus in which the Parthian in fact reclaimed from ruled by the Great Achaemenid Kings of old This indicates that, at least the Parthians Achaemenids, but to Alexander as well. One very peculiar relationship is the one Considering how both the Jews and Ancient and writing, it is a surprise that they scarcely life. Perhaps this could be attributed to the fact bloodless. The first detailed mention of Alexander is 1st century AD. In Josephus' writings, there are three aspects The first aspect is of Alexander as the neutral The second aspect is one of Alexander as the Jews. This probably refers to the relationship between the reign of Antiochus IV. The third aspect is the most complex one, is blessed by Yahweh. It is said that when the Macedonians were but from the moment he met the High Priest, Jewish beliefs and customs to his fellow Macedonians. He also shares with the Jews three more important He is God's chosen ruler, he believes in to interpret the Jewish prophetic writings, Thus Alexander turns from the usurper and over the peoples and lands that were given the Great. This Jewish view of a God-sent rightful king of Dhul Qarnayn. According to Muslim accounts, the chapter when his tribe sent two men to discover whether the scriptures, could advise them on whether The rabbis told them to ask Muhammad about travelled and reached the east and the west Alexander the Great was a prolific conqueror one of the greatest empires of antiquity and the known world, even as far as India. Alexander's legacy cannot be understated, - some of the cities that he founded survive parts of the world became economically and Consequently, it is of no surprise that so probably even concocted by Alexander himself A man who connected the East and the West more than 2000 years after his death through We always have more stories to tell, so make button. Please, consider liking, commenting, and sharing Our videos would be impossible without our whose ranks you can join via the links in early access to our videos, access our discord, This is the Kings and Generals channel, and