Thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring today's Enceladus, perhaps one of the most intriguing And yet, it is only the sixth largest moon very unassuming. However, there's a lot more to Enceladus It's an active, icy world, with jets of hemisphere. Thanks to the remarkable Cassini mission, exquisite detail, and perhaps know more about moons. However, although we've seen a lot from that still holds so many mysteries. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching of the most fascinating details of Enceladus, of different missions, to find out almost special moon. So, stick with me on this journey of discovery! Let's first of all discuss where Enceladus Enceladus is currently Saturn's 14th closest I say currently, as Saturn has some tiny moonlets classified as moons in the future. It is the second closest major moon though, That means that its orbit takes it just outside Its orbit follows the plane of the rings very Saturn once. Interestingly, it is in a 2:1 orbital resonance In other words, it orbits twice around Saturn This orbital resonance is believed to prevent circular, which causes Enceladus to undergo This is significant, as these tidal forces You see, as far as we can tell, Enceladus' certainly with little to no rocks or much Because Saturn is situated so far away from on Enceladus has frozen over. Enceladus is essentially a frozen ocean world, Because it is free from other materials on objects in the solar system, with a bold albedo As such, it is one of the coldest satellites as the white colour of its surface reflects it back into space. However, about 30-40km down under the surface heat energy generated from the tidal deformation of the water ice to the point where water It could well be that there is an entire mantle, is resting upon, very much like the magma upon. At the very least, scientists expect there South Pole. How do we know this? Well, the most obvious indication are the in the crust, something referred to as water, These jets are really active, consistently every second, at speeds exceeding 2000km/h. This is powerful enough that most of the water gravity, and they end up in orbit around Saturn, This ring around Saturn is very diffuse, and by the Sun. From this angle, the light shining through blue, in fact, this ring is considered the so than Neptune, due to the ring's uniformity. The E ring is Saturn's second outermost Its shape is also heavily influenced by the Enceladus' plumes create tendril shapes it, however these sections of the ring tend along its orbit. During the course of Cassini's mission, to detect the substances being ejected from Cassini wasn't designed with this in mind; until Cassini got there, however, Cassini Cosmic Dust Analyser, designed to detect what are made of, and it was able to use it for As it wasn't specifically designed with full picture of what's in these particles, detected, amino acids, carbon dioxide, nitrogen Amino acids are significant as they are the thermal vents at the bottom of Earth's oceans. Does this mean Enceladus has thermal vents And if so, do they have ecosystems of life While evidence for an underground ocean is sure about Enceladus' internal structure. At some points in the past, scientists believed however data from Cassini suggests that Enceladus' meaning it must have some amounts of iron Scientists are starting to lean towards the meaning it's a celestial body with defined An object of this size really doesn't have at only about 500km across, that it is right equilibrium, or in other words, being rounded There are other objects out there of similar hydrostatic equilibrium, like Neptune's In any case, assuming it does have a differentiated rocky. This is important, as thermal vents in Enceladus' core. A rocky ocean floor would also provide nutrients life would need to form and evolve. Thermal activity clearly does exist, due to place, and the amino acids detected in the As Cassini passed over Enceladus, it also moon. It turned out that the jets line up with what stripes. These are large depressions, roughly 130 km It is believed that these are tectonic fractures What is really interesting about the surface no impact craters at all over the southern This implies that Enceladus' surface is made up from the ejected water from the plumes, before they hit the surface. Some water from the plumes obviously settles over time. This is another reason why Enceladus is so In fact, apart from the tectonic fractures variation is really quite minimal. There are no mountain ranges to speak of, terrain around the south pole if you zoom This is perhaps the highest resolution image it really does appear like a giant glacier. It's interesting to note that even in this of ice but also jagged regions. Over the North Pole, the clear difference While there are tectonic fractures here too, so the surface here is clearly a lot older has more of a cratered surface. As Cassini flew through the plumes around to image the surface closely around the tiger The surface here is pretty incredible, unlike It's like the surface has been folded, squashed, fracture lines and formations in the surface The fact that Cassini was able to get so close It's fantastic that we can have such a close Unfortunately though, since the Cassini mission around Saturn that can study Enceladus further. There have been plenty of mission proposals before they came to fruition. What would be incredible is a probe that could somehow, or at the very least search the plumes There is already a mission, called Dragonfly, this won't have anything to do with Enceladus. So, although a couple of mission proposals that means we are unfortunately still a couple Which is a shame! Because who knows what secrets still lie in So, there we have it, a look at the intriguing Thanks for watching! Enceladus may contain a lot of secrets, and keep secret from unscrupulous people in the and personal details. This is why NordVPN may be of interest to NordVPN is a service that encrypts your data you are sending it to, so that you can make a coffee shop while still being secure. NordVPN is also available throughout the world, the internet as if you were in any country. This means you can still access your Netflix with their unlimited bandwidth simply by connecting They allow up to 6 simultaneous connections, benefit from. Use the link https://nordvpn.org/astrum and and you can get 70% off their 3-year plan, If you want anymore info about NordVPN, check Thanks for watching! If you liked Enceladus, check out some other here. And thank you to my patrons and members for monthly support. If you want to support the channel too, be Liking, sharing and subscribing really go All the best and see you next time.