I want you to forget that made up, imaginary rule that eye make up over 50 If you love makeup, you can still wear it Today I'm going to show you how to do a And I'm going to give you some key tips that will help you master Let's go. Tip number one is to take the time This is extremely important when it comes You want the skin to be quite hydrated our skin tends to get drier. And it's that loss of plumpness Along with a great facial moisturizer, a really good eye cream that absorbs The eye cream that I really like to use is by City Beauty. It's called the lid lifting treatment. So it's specifically for eyelids skin there and also softens All I do is I tap it onto the eyelid to set for one minute before Under the eyes I applied an eye mask This helps de puff and smooth out You always, always, always any base makeup, because you're definitely No matter what shadow you use. This is super important. It's a mistake a lot of people make. And I think it's the reason the smoky eyes They really muddy up their foundation by Do the eyes first when you're using dark shadows. Tip number two is to prep your lids. The crease of the eye has a tendency and the oiliness will corrode the eye Your eyelid skin is also very thin, so the veins shine through them We always want to make sure before we do any shadow work. We want to even it all out. So it is flawless and it is ready. I prepped her lids by using Mac's and then I set it with my favorite translucent powder by Elf This powder layer will also allow the You took a cream, So now it's a nice smooth layer on top of that nice satiny smooth layer, Tip number three is to choose a soft color People often think that a smoky eye and it doesn't as smoky eye at the lash line and then diffuses It does not have to be black. It doesn't even have to be dark brown. The first step in creating a smokey eye, you choose to create, is putting a I started with my makeup by Mario Master Mattes Palette, With a fluffy crease brush, I apply that to the crease of the eye After you apply this transition color it's always a good idea to look straight that color with the eyes open as well you need to go to get the most flattering When it comes to smoking out the lid area, you want to go a few shades Remember that the lash line and it's slowly going to get lighter On my model today, I really wanted to because it was very complimentary that she was changing into later. So I decided to add a warm, dusty rose So you can see what I did here. I started with a lighter taupe on the crease So even though taupe is in the dusty rose is in the pink nude family. It doesn't matter. It just matters the level of color So you want to go a little bit lighter a little bit darker on the lid, We're going to get into that right now I shade it in a dark matte You'll notice that I tilted my brush ever little bit of an eye lift and then to add I then took a dark brown eyeliner and I shaded Lifting the skin up will help you tight line the area without getting the liner If you're doing this on yourself, just lift your brows up as high as possible So the skin gets really taut you can go over that line to soften if you want to soften it out even further, so you used your eyeliner it was a still You smoked it out. You can dip back into an eyeshadow, and it's going to diffuse and soften it immediately. Tip number four is to trust the process. This is a point in a smoky eye where It looks like a hot mess before it looks great You need to perfect under the eye so the darkness and the lids don't You need to make sure that the skin and you need to balance the blush If you don't if you don't balance including the brow, And you can see that here. I have a monitor where when I'm filming, and the model can see herself too. And I even noticed that my model was like Oh, I don't know about this. Like, this is not I don't like this. And every stage of the smoky eye because you just to the eyes, So it just looks so crazy. It looks so crazy until it looks great. So if you are trying this, if you're following and you're at the stage and you're like, It looks bad. Don't worry, girl. It looks bad for me too, until it doesn't. So let's keep going. What you need to do when you get to with moisturizer And trust me, there will be Lift up and sharpen The moisturizer on the Q-Tip and it will prep the skin for concealer Now that the fallout is gone, it's time In this video, and not on the base application overwhelming and too scary and too long. If you really want to see how I did her foundation, her contour and everything And I promise. I promise I will make a part two for you. Going through the base Tip number five is to do your best under eye circles. Plus a smoky eye is a recipe for disaster. It looks really, really bad. So we have to do our absolute best After your foundation is on, The concealer that I use today that I love for mature It is full coverage, and I don't find I strategically applied that to bring them forward, Now, if we don't set concealer with a But it's tricky and everyone who's an adult does, Okay, don't worry about it. Powder can sometimes It's the number one struggle that I hear mature women What I like to do is I bought this one from Amazon. I'll leave a link to it translucent powder like the one from ELF that I love. And I set the area In the hollow zone. I typically avoid too much, if any powder in the crow's feet area But in the inner tear duct to do it depending on the person But in here So if you have a lot of depth here, is not only going to keep it from it's also actually going to brighten it up. It's going to work Try it for yourself, see if it works for I find it's a really good technique After that, I dipped into a medium brown shadow Tip number six is to balance out When the eyes are dark, you need to Charlene has a natural ashy so I chose to use the Anastasia to complement her hair and her skin seamlessly. It was like the perfect color for her. So I was super, super happy with that. They have a whole ton of different colors. They literally have every color from like dark dark brown to light So if you're looking for a great brow The Anastasia Beverly Hills Finally, I layer the mascara on the top in any hollow areas of the lash line This really gives you looking fake or without it You know what I'm saying? If you can master kind of popping you'll get a beautiful fanned out effect very quickly If you guys are interested in a video I would be happy. Just let me know in the comments below. Tip number seven is to step back now Since I added that warm rose to her eyes. I know that I need to add that color to balance it all out. I chose to do that in the cheeks Every product, along with its specific color, will Here is our finished look. I absolutely love how it turns out. I know in the middle of this video you guys but I really hope that you like it too. I think it looks super polished. It looks stunning. As soon as we balanced out look that we created, it all came together she left the studio feeling And that is always, Now, before you go, and I want you to answer in the Do you feel comfortable wearing these more Why or why not? And what about it makes you feel that way? So if you don't feel comfortable, why do you think Is it because you don't know how to do it? Or is it something in society inappropriate or not, age appropriate I would really, really love to know I love reading the comments, understanding the psychology of aging, We are a tribe here on YouTube. This is our community. You are my people. You're my girlfriends. And reading your comments And then it really allows me to make content that better serves you, This video's over.