[arrows swish] Fire arrows, as a rule, These are a little more Hi, I'm Toby Capwell. I'm curator of arms and armor at The Wallace Collection Since I was a kid, I've been riding horses and fighting in armor. I've taken part in competitions, armored combat, all over the world. Today, we're going to be looking at the treatment of medieval Eomer: What business does an elf, a man, and a dwarf have in the Riddermark? Speak quickly! Toby: Yeah, this is a great You know, Tolkien imagined who fought like knights on horseback. Because the Anglo-Saxons didn't. They rode horses, but They didn't fight on their horses. The design of the helmet is derived from early medieval examples. He really should have The helmet is riding a The brow of the helmet, the horizontal edge there, should be right down on his eyebrows to really protect the front of the skull. You want to bring that and it can go right So, I'll stick this on. All right. This is one of my own, made for me. [helmet clatters] OK? Now, you see, that brow and it's sticking out So a weapon comes in, it can't get to me. The skull, it might get Gimli: Give me your name, horse-master. Toby: You know, things were even for practical fighting, than modern people often imagine. They're going for armor that Like, the dwarves build caves, and they work with rock, and that's under mountains and stuff. So they're looking for a It's starting to look a bit too much like polyurethane here, to me. There's something about metal that -- it has a weight, it has a rigidity that rubber and plastic and I gotta dock them a couple of points here for the fit and the chin strap, but it's still gotta be, What's he doing? I think his son was already I don't know why he feels This is a total mishmash of pretty good and pretty not so good. The mail that you're seeing and you can actually even see the rivets that are closing each of the links. It's not fitting him well, and it's not tailored to him. It's something that's been just hoicked out of a van A lot of film mail is just, like, plastic links butted together, sprayed silver. For a lot of uses it's fine, but they don't have the rivets. Real mail is, you know, I appreciate the fact that He's got padded textile under the mail, which you have to have, to do precisely nothing for you. A lot of exposed throats there. And they've stuck random over the mail shirt. This is Robert the Bruce They were starting to They're a long way from full They're a significant way away, really, from articulated constructions like that, that look a bit like the tail It's a later thing. And the shoulders were less If you're gonna put plates it should be on the elbows and the knees. And here you can see his is bagging around his throat. Just is bad. The key thing about a mail hood is that it has a piece called a ventail, which comes up and ties up to the chin. And it's sculpted to You know, this is armor because I can stab him This film is actively Heraldry is the system put onto shields as a form 'Cause when all these guys are in armor, it's hard to tell who's who. Heraldry was the answer. And it works very well. They got things wrong that they didn't have to get wrong, but they still did a Seven out of 10. [arrow hits] What? Nothing. Toby: I like this little scene because it shows that getting shot with arrows isn't immediately fatal. And Gilles de Rais here, who was, incidentally, a he was a pretty despicable anyway, he knows that he can take a hit. She's not wearing armor Shot for shot, a longbow arrow has very little chance You need the kind of mass volume that Henry V organized in his armies to put so many arrows downrange that somebody's gonna Charles: I asked for a and this is what you give this? Toby: He wouldn't do He'd wear his coronation robes, and all of his knights certainly wouldn't wear armor to a coronation. Certainly not rusty, Most of this is aluminum. This armor was made by Terry English, who's one of the most working in cinema. He's made armor for lots of things. He made Arnold Schwarzenegger's for the Batman movie, he's made space marines and he's done a fair The king here is putting on gold armor. It's gold colored. And this is actually good. This doesn't look like gold armor. But fully gilded armor, and then it's copper-plated and then it's fire-gilded, where you mix gold with mercury and you apply this mercury-gold mixture, if you then heat that mercury it leaves the gold chemically Normally, most people wouldn't I mean, really only kings can afford this. And not all kings, but the It was a distinctive thing, actually. It creates an image of a king as, like, the sun like a superhuman being. But it would have been nicer if they'd given Terry the I give it a four out of 10. Wolf: We've already been We both know you haven't got it in you! Toby: A sword is not a gun. Pointing a sword at someone out of range with your arms fully extended so you have nowhere to go with it doesn't achieve anything like you've never held You point your weapon out there like that, he's gonna take it away from you. There's often not enough color in medieval depictions in cinema. Medieval people loved color, bright color, richness. It didn't populate their OK. So, you've got your leader, your king, leading a cavalry charge. They're in wedge formation with the king at the point of the wedge, which is great. This is how it's done. The guy on the point of the wedge is steering the whole cavalry charge. He's like the guidance The wedge formation is one of the most effective formations for He's got his chin strap He's still got his because at this stage he's still far enough away from the enemy where he's got other A cavalry charge might 600 meters away from the enemy line, but you're not going to You need to start the He's got to look around and make sure his formation they're keeping their cohesion. If he starts running too fast, then they have to catch up, and then they start They've got to stay close. He's got to be watching that. Fine. But now the real test of the sequence, and the thing that Hollywood hates to do, is cover its famous actors' faces. But in a real cavalry charge, this guy, once he's got himself set up, he needs to close that visor, and let's see if they do it. He could close it right about now. Now would be good. Oh, he's closed it! I give it a seven. [swords clashing] If I could change one He's wearing his gorget on the A gorget is that neck plate. He should actually have The gorget has neck plates in here, and it comes down and has That chest plate should be The breastplate has a turned edge to stop things sliding up into your face. But if anything does get But in &quot;Game of Thrones,&quot; they habitually put them on the outside, and it's a howler that Fire! Toby: Fire arrows were a thing, especially in naval warfare, when you've got key pieces of equipment you want to set on fire, like sails and rigging and things. Fire arrows, as a rule, These are a little more There's something more You see, it's not just a lump of burning material stuck on an arrow. They've actually got some on these arrows that has a fuse. And this is actually much There are early incendiary manuals from the 15th and 16th centuries that give designs for different kinds of gunpowder bombs and to be put on arrows and crossbow bolts. [man groans] My Lord! [man groans] Toby: I love this, right here. That's armor doing its job, you know? An arrow, when it hits you in full armor, it'll probably glance off. That's what armor's designed to do. But if it hits you square it can start to bite into the steel. And if it hits you somewhere on the arm or the shoulder where it might even get through. Chances are most arrows are to do meaningful damage But they are going to get stuck, and seeing a knight fighting on the walls in a siege with arrows stuck in him is the best thing I've seen all day. 10 out of 10, absolutely. Just for that. One of the absolute best in any film ever, is in Laurence Olivier's But the film is set and the design is led by the reality of clothing and equipment and architecture and so forth of the early 15th century. One of his historical at The Wallace Collection, the keeper of arms and armor Sir James Mann. And Olivier went to and he saw the collection, another arms and armor and that film looks just like a 15th-century manuscript come to life. And it's real steel armor And it's one of the best ever.