- Today, I'm gonna show you how to make a classic lentil soup recipe that is hearty, healthy, with plant-based protein, and a warming on those While there are many you can't go wrong with a that is loaded with fire-roasted tomatoes, your mirepoix mix of a few minced garlic cloves, and spices like oregano, basil, and thyme. It's an easy one-pot recipe that's a satiating full meal I'm happy to partner with to bring you today's recipe. And if you're wondering, &quot;Wait, how is she using a Vitamix on a soup that has a chunky texture?&quot; Well, you're just gonna have to wait and see the sneaky surprise. So let's get started. Our lentil soup today and you can peel or not but if you don't peel them, just make sure to give them a good scrub. And after they're peeled, I always find it's easier Then slice those halves That gives you a nice flat and slice them into three or four strips. Then cut across for (upbeat music) Once all the carrots are diced up, just place them in a bowl. The goal with a mirepoix about the same size so that in the pot. So with two ribs of celery, slice them lengthwise then cut across for a dice to the carrots. Of course, soup recipes And if you'd like a little in the finished recipe, And the last veggie you're gonna saute up is a yellow onion. So peel that, and once If you guys have been following you know that my eyes are So what you don't see right now is the tears absolutely And, yes, I did remember to put this onion in the fridge before slicing, but my eyes, I tell ya, they The only thing I haven't done is wear goggles in the kitchen, though, I don't know if I can I think I'd just rather have the tears, but getting back to the recipe, after your onion is all diced up, if the chunks are a bit on the big side, feel free to go back over and then transfer all of that to your bowl with the other veggies. In a large pot, on medium heat, add a good amount of olive you wanna have enough oil to to help bring out their flavor. So once the oil is hot and you can just dump them all in at once and then give them a stir. You'll cook these for about five minutes or until they have softened and the onion becomes translucent. Add two tablespoons of tomato paste, which will add body to this soup. Three to four cloves of which includes two teaspoons of cumin, one teaspoon of dried oregano, one teaspoon of dried basil, and one teaspoon of dried thyme. You could also use three as a substitute for the And then, season with salt and pepper. Give that a stir and toast the spices for another one to two minutes to help release their natural aromas. (upbeat music continues) Now comes all of the including 28 ounces of You can use regular diced tomatoes, but if you can find fire-roasted tomatoes, it really does elevate the flavor. And then, pour in six cups I usually add four cups of vegetable broth and two cups of water, just so I don't have a half of a container of vegetable broth sitting in my fridge. Lastly, add one cup of green lentils that you've rinsed and cleaned. You could also use brown lentils, but steer clear of French for this particular recipe as Once everything's in the bring it back to a boil some of that scum that if you'd like, but you don't have to. Just loosely cover the pot, reduce the heat to low, and So while the soup is simmering, you can prepare the last And that includes juicing one lemon and slicing up about or three to four leaves. The lemon juice is really and the kale adds extra hardiness, in addition to a bunch of just remove the stem from the kale and slice it up into thin strips. I'll take these ingredients And then I can tell you about Vitamix's exciting new product. It's an immersion blender. And let me tell you, this little baby is pretty darn powerful Which should come as no surprise This is the perfect product And at the top of the immersion blender, you'll notice two buttons, the on-off button and the speed button, because there are five variable speeds. This means that you can choose how fast you'd like the four-pronged And what I always do is just so I don't accidentally then gradually increase the speed, and it's easy to do with one finger. (upbeat music continues) But what I really love is the handle, and how comfortable the fit is in my hand, it's very easy to hold. And while it does have than my previous plastic it's easy to use with one hand, and it just feels balanced. At the bottom, you'll see a bell guard, which will protect all your And cleaning is a breeze. You just twist it apart, clean the bottom with warm, and then twist it back together. (upbeat music continues) So it's now been about 25 minutes, and I'd say the soup looks done, and this is where the immersion It's perfect for recipes like today, where you want a slightly because you don't have to to your blender. You can just stick the and spot blend in a few areas until you have the exact And that's about how I like it All right, for the finishing add the kale that you've sliced and stir for another minute At this point, it's always a good idea to give the soup a quick taste to add any additional lemon And if the soup is too thick, and if you'd like it a bit thinner, you can always stir in a but if you're happy with it, This lentil soup is a and you can store any meal prep leftovers. I showed this on Instagram last week and used my Souper Cubes to but you could also use or other freezer-safe storage containers. Then it's as simple as reheating a batch when you're craving a meal that will warm and nourish you from the inside out. (upbeat music continues) I hope you guys enjoyed this recipe today. Definitely put the on your holiday wishlist, And I will see you (upbeat music continues)