Good evening. My name is Jenelle Riley. I'm so thrilled to welcome you Since his award winning breakthrough this is a performer who has continued to charm, entertain from films as varied as Cloud Atlas, And my personal favorite, About a Boy. And this month he can be seen in theaters very sweet movie Well, she's not here. So if you clap that hard for her, please Hello. Thank you for being here. It's such a thrill. I have been warned that you don't really Oh, on the contrary. I don't know if that's But you're okay with that? Yes. Yeah, I will, because I'll. Probably be a lot of it tonight. But if you want to start at the beginning, But you were raised in England like people from like the military And how did you. It says on the Wikipedia. Yes, the military bits, right? Yes. The aristocratic bits But I'm delighted it's that. I think Americans Yeah. Aristocracy in their background. But when did you develop an interest in performing? I just same old story pretty much most people here are actors - it would have been the same old thing silly voices, And at what point did you realize Well, that happened in a strange way, acting, school acting, university acting, And then and then when I left university, because I I had decided to go and do another degree at another university, And during that summer, as I was revving up for that, student film that I'd shot while I was And these And I said, Well, no, because I'm And and then I suddenly I thought, instead of writing essays, I'll act So I said yes. And and immediately I was cast in a film, actually, You were in that one? Well, no, because-- well, I wish I had been. No. I was a nice part and very exciting. You know, in that age, suddenly it was going to be 20 weeks it seemed like a fortune And and then in those days in England, if you weren't already a member of the do a film. You had to go and earn And so they wouldn't And so I thought, well, okay, So I went off to Nottingham Playhouse Tree in Wind and Third Shouting Peasant. Wait, weren't you furious? Well, I'm not going to say that in a room I'm just saying There is that when things are changing The irony is, of course, Sinclair one of the things he did Yeah, because he always played And he always felt that bit And so he found it. And that was that. That's amazing. Yeah. That's a whole other movie. You should talk to Steven about a sequel. And just focusing. Yeah, that would be interesting. You mentioned the movie Was that Privileged? Yeah. That was it was a guy called Wait-- the Michael Hoffman? Yes, yes, yes. You're so well-- I was going to say read, Well viewed. I also made Restoration with him later in life Yeah, he was there as a Rhodes Scholar because he was interested and then he said to me, It doesn't matter. and I said no. And then he said, So I said, okay because it's such a sexy name. Yeah. Oh, you didn't even know who she was? No, I did. Okay. So I did it. And you know, I'm but I'm not sure we made a brilliant film We've been trying to find it actually, or. Thank God it's for it's been burnt. Or any synopsis. Like who did you play? Well, and I played a sort of upper class who I think Victoria Stubbs was my girlfriend, and then she went off kind of blue collar, Even though this is set in 1982. And that's right. I had to march up to him, say, You know, it was a bit of a yeah, Well, I'm sorry to belabor, So did you win the duel? I think we can have a spoiler alert I think I get shot, but I kind of Those are two very different movies. I remember I think I probably shot myself. So when you decided to go out and get your equity card, Like I believe you were in 12th Night. Yeah, well, Oh, really? Yes. Playing the worst part, not only in What's he's called Fabian. Oh, Fabian. Quite often he gets cut completely He got terrible comedy lines it'll be as rank as a fox dead silence. Nobody has understood that joke And is it true you did Coriolanus? Yeah, that was at Nottingham I think one of one of the mob, Yeah. Yeah I did. And I was, I was frankly slightly So it was another young actor and we were bored together We were late for rehearsals and the head of the theater in those days called Richard Digby Day, who was very terrifying of his age, all very good looking, I've I've taken your password Carl was his very special favorite of. Sure. I just saw a little bit Yes, that is exactly my base. That really. Oh, my gosh. Did No, he was it was different shape, So what sort of Did you think you'd just keep doing Did you want to do always do film and TV? I didn't know But when I was doing those plays at Nottingham, and we wrote a comedy show and started and in the small studio theater there, And then when after that season and pubs and small theaters and that was a very happy time. Yeah, and it was quite a popular show but we were also writing stuff radio commercials, And then, yeah, and then Maurice happened out of the blue that sort of put me on into a sort of film world. And how did that come along? Well, literally, I my agent sent me a you know, And at that time, as I said, And I remember saying to my brother, sick. I said, I'm so bored And he said, No, you must go, you must go. And I went and yeah, so that was nice. It was nice. I squandered the opportunity afterwards I don't know about that. I mean there's some good movies in there, Call it good, can we? You know very. Well, maybe it's been a while since Yeah, if you're very high on drugs, You might have just nailed. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm curious, what was it like? When was the last time you were on stage? In 1990. In a play about skiing that was supposed to tour But it got stuck in Bromley and after about two weeks and died, But the play died. It might be my mustache. I grew a mustache, for example. it came Well, I don't know that we've ever seen You know that. I think about. It. Cloud Atlas--oh, well, sure - everything. Yeah, but you may be right. So I'm curious, how do you actually, wanted to know how did you first What it was? Actually, it was that screening at BAFTA it was a man called Steve Kenis from William Morris Agency. Yes. And I remember thinking I went, oh. And I finally said, You can represent me. I went I went to work, as you say. Yeah, you can. I didn't know you know, And I remember he was on the phone doing a deal for Sophia Loren. I remember thinking, that's pretty cool. Yeah. Random question. Did you ever see Mutiny on the Bounty Yeah. Bloody good. Yeah. Okay. So you weren't bitter. You could actually go and enjoy the movie. Yes. Yes. Tony Hopkins is so good in that film. Did. Yeah, yeah. I was the guy who took your part pathetic. Oh. So, I mean, coming out with a lead role in Maurice for Merchant Was it intimidating? Yeah, I mean, it was frightening, I think, to do the acting to begin with. Um, film acting. I mean, I don't know if people in America but certainly we don't in England I and I certainly So the first time you were on a film set, what what was happening. And it was a TV thing set in the North in the Northwest Territories of Canada, front of a camera that was -70 or something. And I had to come out of a tent and struggle towards the camera with fake snow blowing in my face And I did that for a while. So I got on a skidoo and went all the way I didn't even know of different angles. So there was the poor crew you know, after they brought back, Oh. I do want to talk about because even if you don't like them, You know, Yeah. What was that experience like? Well. It's such a wonderfully messed up movie. Yeah, exactly. And only Roman but it was apart from anything doing a Roman Polanski film in Paris, You start work, after an hour, you break for lunch, which lasts an hour or two. And there's a bottle of wine. Yeah. And then you film and then you will go home having dinner and then going to nightclubs so it was very easy for easy for me And then we had to contend with Roman, Seigner, in the lead role of them And yeah, and she wanted to provoke him So when she and I had to do kissing So, oh, Roman is putting oh, yeah. I feel like I should point out Are they? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So obviously in 1994, with four weddings and a funeral. I have heard, I hear that right before you made that movie, you were actually thinking It's a familiar pattern. Yeah, yeah, that's right. So because after Maurice, as I told you prizes and well-regarded, I then accepted I was just so excited to be offered, and I did these really dodgy mini series, and they got worse and worse and quality. And then finally they dried up completely. And at that stage, And then to my great surprise, through the letterbox and my agent And I rang, Oh, there must be a mistake. and and I, yeah, they didn't want me at all, especially the man, Richard Curtis, You're kidding? Not at all. He thought I was completely the opposite which was really him. And anyway, he was persuaded by Mike Newell I think it's You guys have made up. Yeah, yeah. Do you remember, Did you have any idea it was going No, on the contrary. I mean, I knew it was a funny script, when we went to watch a rough cut, all of us, me, Richard Curtis, all thought this is the worst film We're going to go and emigrate to Peru So no one can actually find us. And then they had a few cuts later. They took it to Santa monica and had And it was a great surprise. I would actually really like to see that Just the F word. Yes, yes, yes. And as an actor, how do you approach that? Do you like practice different ways? I just really. Yeah. I do. Because it was yeah, it was. I realized And so I practiced everything crazily. I remember taking my confidence, when there was an executive sitting next to me As I was reading the script, Hugh Dash More ironic question It's terrible And did you actually have to No, no, I auditioned. Oh, you did okay? Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Very much so. How were you at auditioning? Because it is such a strange skill. Yeah, well, it's horrible, isn't it? It's really horrible. And in the occasions since then, when I've actually been on the other side, Yeah, it's. It's a horrible thing. It's a horrible I don't know how anyone But you must have been pretty good. I mean, you were booking roles. Yeah, enough. I got enough. But the auditions horrible. And I hope they never come back. When was the last time you went? I think that was the last time Yeah, I suppose it But then there's a whole other world of insecurity because you think So that's going to be on day They may be thinking, Shit, yeah, And so there's a whole new world But I think every actor has been fired It's like it's part of the game. Yeah, well, Richard Digby Day I kind of remember that, but I agree. It's. It's it does happen. So obviously, four weddings in a major way. You won a BAFTA award, How did you deal with having Was just really nice. You know, after years of struggling around, really. And it was a huge trip. I was making another at the time that Four Weddings same director, even tiny budget in Dublin, and we'd get back from brutal days And the fax machines of those days without loo paper were coming out saying, five in America and it's number three And here's an offer, Hugh, $1 million because it was just Yeah. And and really nice. What was the first movie you chose to do Well, it's I don't talk about that film. Oh, really? It's probably one I love. No, it isn't, Jenelle. I might have been on a lot of drugs You would have had to be on drugs. They were really nice people, terrific I ruined it. Oh, I ruined it. You really. Believe that? Yeah, actually. I mean, they do. They've made brilliant, He made, you know, Home Alone and Mrs. Doubtfire and all that. And and he wanted to make this remake And I said, yes. And then I really ruined it. And it was entirely my fault. I panicked. I was it was such a big jump up from what I'd been paid And the scale was inhuman to my standards. The scale of the production, 20th Century And I just tried much too hard I forgot to do the basic acting things So I pulled faces and I overacted and it was a shocker move on. So you're going to think I'm like, But I actually do love that movie so much so that I could quote it to you Tom Arnold scenes. He was great, you can say. His first line is, Oh, shit, honey, That's me. Yeah, I genuinely love that. I'm not kidding. You're unbelievable. Around this time again, because I would really love this But I know not to trust You were also being talked about Did that ever that-- was that serious? That was not true. I've always thought I brought a natural menace to the screen. Well, you kind of got to do that Yeah, yeah, yeah. Kind of. And I know did you worry about being typecast Not only did I worry, I think. Yeah, I think that was some part of me Yeah. So I'll do a bit more of that. And that was a very bad mistake. I thought his advising me now I would say, don't do that. But having said that, that we see there were two films that came along written by the same guy, And they're just, you know, he's a really good writer And I realized the parts were a little bit similar because again, He saw himself Well, I think yes, a little bit. Yeah. He was head boy of his public school and and he have a marvelous prime minister. There was actually a question, this is the man who didn't want you in for Richard Curtis. I'm sorry. I can't find the person who wrote it, it was like working with Richard Curtis Oh, well, very nice, really. I have to say, Richard is very good That's he's brilliant. But he now admits that people who he worried about, who could write for, At the time, he used to call him And but he actually knew what knew what he was doing. Yeah. His theory was that the script was funny enough to take and his job is to stop it or disappear And so everything had to be managed. You got to really mean it. And and also, that actors keep it fresh freshness You know, even you would take 16. Yeah. And you know now the benefit of 20, 30 years of experience that is the only thing to do because the one thing and the one thing Richard Curtis is also kind of like you in So or or say he's retired. But I mean, have you guys talked about No, I think he might I think so. He's busy saving the world. You know, he's And when he wasn't making big hit he was doing comic relief in Britain, billions for kids around the world. And then he's brought it over here And you can't stop him. Yeah. Yeah. There are some movies that were kind of One that I actually really love is Extreme Yes. What attracted you to that story? Well. Did I No, I think I'm just trying to remember that movie. For people who haven't seen it. I mean, it's it's very chilling. Yeah. It was one of the things that came as a sort of benefit one of things you get offered or you did in those days, is you get offered an overhead, Oh, yeah, I have one of those. And I loved the people at Castle fantastic films, and all these things and Spinal Tap and And then what happens is, as time goes on and they're paying for all these overheads you think, I've got to make something. And extreme measures came along and but the pressure was such that we said, And so we did. And Gene Hackman agreed to be in it. And it's it's it's pretty good. Michael Apted directed it. And it was meant to be to go to a parking lot movie to talk about the dilemma I never heard that expression. I think I've got that right. And, you know, it's about a very famous surgeon, Gene Hackman, for spinal injury and paralysis taking homeless men off the streets And his argument being, homeless bums And I'm the intrepid young doctor You took an oath, you know. Until you get paralyzed. Yeah. Yeah, well, yes, I think I got paralyzed. I'll show you. Yeah. That is actually a scene Your character wakes up. I hope I'm not spoiling things for people, They're not going to watch Extreme You know, you you wake up and you believe Yeah. And you say you'll do anything. And am I making you uncomfortable? No, I'll try to remember it. But it is chilling. I mean, that is a scene And it's as far as you can get Really? Yes. Yeah. Well, I I thought, I'll show people I'm not just a I was. That's not quite fair. I was more of a one No one went to see the film so well. But you were doing other things Yeah, they went to see that. Yes. And was that a matter I know you have like Did she just basically offer you the role? I can't remember. It wasn't it wasn't in her gift that any And I think I can't remember. I suppose he wanted me. Yeah, I suppose so. I mean, it was a strange experience but at that time he spoke Really? No, no, not a word. I mean, I. Well, a few words enough to depress you because he comes from a Taiwanese. Yeah. Chinese filmmaking tradition and they don't bother to be nice to tell them what to do. And a man follows Chinese directors around with a chair Yeah. And anyway, so on, I think it was day two, walking across some lawn chit chat. Both I thought we were rather good, and So what you think Ang? And he paused for a very long time boring. Wow. Yes. I can't believe the man who made Lust, Yeah, I love Lust, Caution. Really, but it's like 4 hours long. Oh, yeah, but it's hot. Yeah. Oh, I actually want to talk about some of the the romantic comedy genre who say it is actually one of the toughest genres to do And to do it And you and you have a lot I mean, love actually. And of course, Bridget Jones diary. Although. I mean, do you feel the genre Everyone despises it. I snorted. And I'm not really in the business I mean, I never meant to be in I just that's what I ended up doing. I didn't I never thought But you're They're tricky in a post 1960s sexual revolution way, because it was easier when Bed scenes. Yeah, everything crackled very nicely. But the problem I think with romantic you know, you have the bed scene and then slightly There's no crackle left, so they're not easy. And I think the reason why I say well is because he's uniquely able He is genuinely funny, but he's also one Yeah, he's. If there was a disease often and too heavily, he has it. You also always have amazing chemistry which is something that, you know, Other people will say it can't. Is there a secret to that? No, I do. And I have to say it, and I think it very much And sometimes the times when you've perhaps had a more tense relationship looks great on film. And the times when you've got on It's very strange. Yeah, hate translates I have a couple of audience questions. Again, forgive me if I mispronounce wanted to know of course, it's a music and lyrics question, so I have to ask Did you have any performers that you sort Well, yes. I mean, I clearly Wham! comes into the equation. Yeah, I know. This is what-- I used to say that and I got-- I certainly enraged Really? Yeah, of Duran Duran. Yeah. Maybe it was Duran Duran Yeah, he got cross, but yeah, it was that sort of as well. I'm Duran Duran. Duran. Have you ever met George Michael? Yes, I have. I've met him with my friend Elton. Oh, Elton Smith. Yeah. Yeah, he's nice. Was he a fan of the movie? I think it was before And then Loretta has a question. Oh, back for the role of the British prime Actually, who was prime minister Phony Tony. It was. Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think that sounds right. Yeah. Well, the challenge there really was just to make him not be the guy So I tried to give him a little more gravitas. But it's difficult when you're saying to a picture of Margaret Thatcher, you saucy minx. Oh, yeah. I can't I can't remember what I did. Most of my prep time was dreading Oh fuck. All do just not like dancing or is it? I like a dance as much as the next man when I had a few drinks or just getting ready and I danced around in my panties But in the cold light of day To have to freak out without an alcoholic Because you do it again. And Florence Foster Jenkins. Well, it's easier there they didn't do it wasn't choreographed for-- No. That was the hell of it. I know. They kept saying, and I said, yeah, let's do that tomorrow. We never asked it at all Action. And I just started wiggling my ass. Yeah. Oh, no. By the way, for music and lyrics, which, by the way, was a an album, That actually charted on the Billboard It did very well, yes. Had you sang before? Did you have any kind of training? No, no. But nowadays, it turns out it doesn't matter You can bark like a dog and the computer It is extraordinary because we we used a proper studio in New York And once they've had a few drinks, can actually sing these. Really? Yeah. The rest are all off key. Way off key. And then you tune them up. Imagine if Florence I know. It would be perfect. Wednesday has a question. I love Notting Hill. Any chance you'll do another movie Well, you're nice to like it. And I would. Oh, yeah. I'd happily do a film with either of them. I'm not sure they'd do a film with me, Yeah. I'm still in touch with Bullock a bit. I was watching-- Yeah. So my little boy woke me up at 3:30 the other night, I couldn't. I couldn't shut him up. So I thought, okay, I'll put Minions. I'd never seen it and he can watch it But it was so good. Yeah, it's. And then Sandy comes on, her voice comes. Yeah. And so I took a picture of us both watching it at three in the morning, She was she was pleased. All your children are pretty young, right? Yes. Yes. So but I think like they're all under four, Yeah, somewhere. So have you seen any of your movies I've tried to show them to them, Set them down for extreme measures or. Well, no, Really. So bored. They wanted to go straight back Everyone's a critic. Yeah, but do they sort of understand They know that Daddy's but I think they think everyone's dad is. So one movie that I can talk about And I think this is a project They had heard that you would try Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. That's right. I didn't get them and a man called Robert And then I can't remember but it was set up with a different He didn't think I was right for the part. I won't mention his name, but- asshole. And then a year or two later, and the Whites Brothers came. And I loved the Whites Brothers and that was a very happy collaboration. What was it about that role Well, I mean, it was a little bit my life. A little bit, I suppose I was about 40 then and single and a bit spoiled and yeah, but but not exactly underemployed. But you know, I'd had long periods So all the things in Will's life your day into half hour segments Remember? And talk about chemistry with costars. You and Nicholas Hoult, first of all, No, I can't. I don't think it's him. You can see in the eyebrows. It's him. Yeah. Yeah. And that's amazing. What was the question? Oh, well, they say, you know, not to work but all your best movies Yeah, well, he was great and he's a really nice bloke. Couldn't be less irritating or, you know, And what he also had, it wasn't at all His mother was a little bit interested Yeah, yeah. And look how that turned out. What do you think has been Well, I overstretched myself That was going. To be my guess, actually. When the Wachowskis came villainous cameos in this strange project, I thought, that's exactly I love the Wachowskis. It'll show everyone, and I was okay in five of them. But the sixth one, it took about a day to put my make up on. Warpaint and everything, a rock somewhere in Germany at some guy who's fallen off a horse And I suddenly realize I was appalling, I think. Yeah. How do you prepare for that role? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just cut away from me, I think. I have a question from I think it's Laurie Laurie. Is there anything you wish you had known or things you would have done Yeah, almost everything. I mean, really true. Really true. I wish I'd known. Well, the big thing is I wish I'd known to invent it in the moment. I think American actors are much better Maybe it's our long theatrical tradition, Well, rehearse, We all know what we're doing. We know our lines we know how we're going to say our lines. And then when the camera's running, you know, whatever the circumstances. Whereas I've noticed with American actors, if there's any rehearsal at all which seldom is, but when there is, They do a mumble, mumble. All the English are thinking, Come on, speak up loud. We can't hear you. But actually the Americans have it They're saving themselves. And even when you're doing rehearsals for And then when it finally film in the camera, they come to life Whereas we're all fading by then-- I forget it's about keeping it fresh. Yeah. Question Yeah, once. Now, what's your process as an actor do you bring it down or just dove in Well, yeah, I break I break it right down. I mean, the honest truth is, if you sight read a script, If someone came along and had the cameras, that right Now we've got one minute to read it Actually, I think one would be pretty and you have the whole thing to pieces And that's what I do. Every last word especially with this Florence film, Why am I doing that? What is it you know, or how does that Where does it come from? And writing long, long, ever in expanding biographies of the character. And I don't know if that helps. It relaxes me a bit. And maybe, maybe it brings some kind of substance to it. But I don't know. I don't know. You mentioned that you never had any, Yeah, but have you ever worked with, like, a coach on a specific movie No, no, no. Not an acting coach. I mean, I've worked on accents And I just love this question from Carly you've received in your life or career? Oh, God. Well, uh, there's a barrage of bad advice after four weddings from agents Cash in. So I don't know. I don't know what otherwise. I would come back to that one. Well, that brings us actually to Florence Foster Jenkins, It kind of had to be true. Yeah. Did you know about Florence your first affiliation with her I'd heard of her. Someone had once sent me a cassette Is it as bad as. Have you not heard the real-- Oh well no. You go on YouTube Oh my. It's pretty great. And what was your reaction? Heard I thought I thought it was brilliant Yeah. And then much to my astonishment and I realized it was a bloody good script And that's always a strong place be in. And Stephen Frears, who's directed I mean, that's going to be amazing Work with you. Yes. Yes. I knew him a little bit through the And whenever we you know, he'd come to our rallies and Enough politics, let's make a film. And I always thought And then to my great surprise, I mean, the story of the the guy who wrote Well, it's charming. And he it's a TV writer writes Do you have them here? No, it's sort of just very English fare. People like it. We have Black Mirror. That's the one we're obsessed You haven't watched Black Mirror? No. Okay. The only other, the worst. Like if you want to see another prime minister on screen, And what this guy goes through Yeah. Trust me, it's amazing. I actually think you'd really like it screens, technology screens, sort of Twilight Zone Oh, sorry. I just turned into a commercial Charlie Brooker? I've heard of him. I can't Sorry. I can't remember. I get excited about about Black Mirror, Oh yeah. Just to say he was a TV writer well at that at this time. The work dried up completely and he thought, and he wrote this film about Florence you know, wasn't expecting much And literally three days later his agent said, Oh, well, and Meryl Streep's going to do it. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Amazing. So Meryl was attached when you signed on? Yeah. Had you ever met her before? No. I don't know if actors hang out not aware of, you know, whether Golden Globe winners No, I never met her. Yeah. I mean, obviously, Yes, terrifying. Terrifying. When did you first meet her? There was a dinner party a few weeks before we started shooting. And everyone was terrified of her. Oh, but, you know, You've probably met her. She's probably sat here, but, incredibly learned. It's like talking to a kind of Yale. I think she was at Yale. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So it's all easy peasy. But even then, bloody Oscar nominations is intimidating. And also because she had this, you know, before who've done stage where they're really, really heavily into acting, you know, it's becomes almost a sort of quasi And that in itself to the standard English lovey, because our basic philosophy is learn your lines, turn up and try not to and, you know, these And I knew she was going to be like that. And that's why in this film I listened to, you know, listen that, you know, moods and emotions I'm curious I mean, maybe it was just working an interesting character and actor but not great, you know, and then has this There's so many levels there. It's. It's such an intriguing role. Yeah, well, it was always And then I came to New York and read his diaries and letters he's such a such a tragic case, really, illegitimate grandson of an earl He traveled the world. He never really had and then suddenly at the age of 30 fell in with Florence Foster Jenkins. And it was a in many ways she gets a rather suave, aristocratic Englishman as her consort, and he got money and a living And so what I liked about the film it sort of talked about the fact for a relationship to be both completely And ultimately there was real love. It developed into real love as well, And again, talking about chemistry, you don't you don't just hold your own with Meryl for an actor to do, but Was that was that chemistry instantaneous I don't know how much We had no rehearsal. It was scheduled, I said to Stephen, It's Meryl Streep. Let's have some rehearsal time. So some was scheduled Studios, and on each occasion, We just chatted about other films and politics You know, people often want to talk passionately about character But I have found that the greater Polanski said nothing. Woody Allen and said absolutely nothing. I don't think to this day-- I don't think he's spoken to me yet. And Frears is the same. I'm not going for a cup of tea with him after the film and I had ten or 20 very I said right here on page five, you know, And he says, I don't know. I have no idea. I thought, okay, he doesn't know that. Well, what about this one? You know, when Bayfield says this, I mean, Don't ask me. And that says why. He he he does it by complete trust. He thinks you're the right person This is how you do it. And just very occasionally with a long stick, but very, very, And again, I think he's he's got the through process of learning through lots and lots of films that they It's got to be something that it will never be And the best thing you can do the cast and crew, And I think that's absolutely right. You can't micromanage this thing. Forgive me for but have you played a real person That came out wrong? No. Yeah, yeah. They've all been pretty fake historically. Yeah, I have. I have. I'm in the old days, pre four weddings. I, I played Frederic Chopin, of course. I mean I did lots of mini series about champagne barons. Yes. Big market for champagne there was. At the time. Yeah. I mean, do you like having research to draw on Because you're you know, when you are slightly pulled Yeah. Yeah. Because you have the script of trying to create a character and then you've got which is the real person and, And so you are slightly torn, because I realized He was nothing without her. Yeah. And so he that's a huge part of how and why because he otherwise his back to being I read in the letters after she died, top actors of the day saying, from Chichester I wondered if you might have a small part, And yeah, so that was he's a bit tragic what also happened after her death, is that he married Kathleen Their long marriage. They felt that Oh, no, no. Yeah. Because technically I'm not sure But that's right. And that was a whole other subplot to because they never got officially married. They had a sort of trendy hippie marriage that wasn't legal when she died. The money didn't come to Bayfield, She had she had written it in her will, And her evil cousins, during her lifetime, came What? And so poor And he this is all the true drama. I mean, two historical facts. So he had to go to court And he was treated And that our film has to start after her death with them saying, Bayfield, you were just a servant. You were a gold digger, were you not? And I'm saying, no, no, And the whole idea of all that was that it would set up this interesting dilemma Is he a good person or a bad person? Is he is he in fact, the gold digger? We've just he's just been accused of And it didn't quite work. And instead of making it think, well, maybe he is a gold digger. That's why I don't like him. Therefore, Therefore I don't care about the film When we snipped it out. At the end of the day to the end up Yeah, he got some. Not much. Yeah. Once again, You could cover all. This. In Florence Foster Jenkins 2. Yeah. What is it like. It's again I Stephen and I know so often when you make movies, you expected. Yeah, What is it like to see a movie like this? And like, I assume because you should be You're very nice. I'm really pleased with the film. I suppose I'm sure the same as everyone. You look at something Film and you hate it. I've it's you just always do machine message you know and I see only faults really. But I am also aware that you know, it's the film works What do you what's a fault in this movie, I'm really curious. I decided to have one of my panic attacks This is one of the reasons is because about ten years ago panic attacks out of the blue some easy peasy scene, you know? And you're just everything stays going and then suddenly, bang, I am pouring and I don't know where they come from. And there's one scene where I got one of those. And so I asked a week later, And they said, yes. So I had one again. And I said, Oh, can we shoot it All right, And, you know, Excruciating. So I had another panic attack and I still see I still see panic It's only like would. You be willing to tell us which scene or. No, no. Oh. Yeah. Yeah, such an accomplished performance Yeah, nice, nice. But it's, it's there, it's that. You have worked with so many amazing You mentioned Woody Allen, Ang Lee, What is it you hope for from a director Praise. Praise. And the good ones know that. Yeah, they really do. I know. I mean, I'm it's never done an actor any good at all Oh, I had that once. I had. Yeah, I remember a director so we're on week four and everyone else is How was I supposed to get better Wow. Yeah, yeah. It's amazing. What's it like to. I work with Meryl Streep. We cover that. Tony Grant, maybe a relative once is curious. What do you like most about the process of filmmaking Oh well, I like I, I just I only really like that when I think the rest of it's just riddled with anxiety, particularly since I had the power post for weddings with pre-production as well and post-production, it's The script comes up, you say yes, then you're into script You know, should we change this? Then there's worry about casting. Then there's worry about, And then all I take on all these worries and then then through editing, I mean, Frears very inclusive and said, You can tell us about the comedy scenes. You're good on that. And and and so, you know, And none of it's it's all so busy. And, you know, I remember in the theater, if you had a good night, you really felt And I was out there and I got good Well done. Me And with film, you're so in the hands of so many other factors You can never really pat yourself At the end of the day even days where I mean, as it said in the script, I don't know. I think, Christ, I can't do that. And I really dreaded it. And and then on the day I surprised myself I did on Take One, I absolutely howled and it was all amazing, amazing. And like cut into the film. It was just wonderful. And then gradually as the film the decision was taken that it was better So that was that was cut out. So the that was, you know, that was a day at I cried. But, you know, it's Yeah, yeah. I think the worst thing You know? That's what makes me crazy. Yeah, I guess the fact is, you know, Yeah. In a hundred over a hundred years. And, you know, it's absurd. It's absurd. I would do many more films Do you like being on the other side of Well, a producing is like trying and frustrating for that reason I did once managed to actually take the helm or four days of reshoots on a film And I loved that power trip. Really? Yeah. I mean, are you interested in directing? Yeah, I would. I would love to direct. I, I, but I'm getting a bit But that's Yeah, maybe. A question from Saharr. Oh, oh, thank you. For the years of wonderful entertainment. I'm curious, which one of your films Well, I very much enjoyed because it was just They for a few weeks in Australia and yeah, we'd all get drunk at night And it seemed to and in those days you thought, If it doesn't, I don't really mind. I'm getting paid anyway. It was lower, much lower pressure. Yeah, yeah. That's a great movie. Actually, Portia de Rossi is in that Yes. Yes, she was. It was a first role. And Elle MacPherson and yeah. That reminds me Privileged. Yeah. You were credited as Hughie? Hughie Grant. Yeah. I was Hughie until I was about 21. Oh, really? I still am to a lot of people, although even more people call me Mungo, Really? Is it a family name? It's just a stupid name. I didn't want to say Hugh John Mungo Grant now. Do they call you that affectionately or. It began as playground. Okay. Brutality. It was stuck. A question from I think it's Mirais. Oh great. What are the main differences of, you know, being kind of talked Yeah, business wise. Business wise, obviously in the film industry, I think. I mean, I couldn't believe it and suddenly they were costing in America 60, $70 million and there were kind of higher production few more crane shots, more extras. But I always thought you know, for films where basically people talking to each other, you don't need to spend That's that's what I always felt. And I think actually Hollywood Yeah, they they And do any advice for sort of surviving this business, you know, it is kind of rough on people or maybe you're serious about times What brings you back? What was what was the first part of your. Advice on sort of surviving. This one? Well, I don't I don't know. I wouldn't presume to give anyone advice. I just think it's I was going to say don't sell out. But in fact, I did sell out horribly before Four Weddings. Yeah, I- permanently. I did any work that came my way. I didn't care if it was crap, you know, but I'm quite proud of the fact I've never deliberately never gone into it but it was a big payday. Yeah, I do feel smug about that. I feel smug about not doing commercials but it's probably foolish. I. I just have fun. Whenever you do something for the money, You've never done a commercial? Well, not since I used to write That's actually kind of shocking. I thought everybody did them I. I was snobby. I'm, I, i quite like the idea of old fashioned glamor in cinema and film stars didn't used to do that. And it but in the same way I you know I regret the loss of celluloid cinemas turning into TV I quite like the old glamor of, you know, turning up to a massive movie theater, you know, hundreds watching a film all at the same time. Something a little sad. About 40 people in a in a multiplex watching a DVD. A question for my benefit, don't you think I mean, clearly it didn't work out. You've seen the trailers I've seen the film, actually. Oh, yeah. So, yeah, of course it has. Yeah. Was it-- well, you probably can't reveal. I'm wondering if there is if you have any involvement I know- well, they do. They do, they do. They do. It's, there's a long and tortured history Yeah, but no it's funny than you. Yeah. Oh great. I'm so glad to hear that. And obviously in recent years and you have described yourself So what is next? Well, I am still doing all that politics. I have something I meant it to take five weeks, We've got we've come so far, Four young And um, but you know, sometimes a lovely projects one today Florence Foster Jenkins You didn't, you didn't really mean You kind of got dragged into it. I wouldn't say dragged. Yeah, I wouldn't say dragged. Yeah. In the end, Really? Yeah, I think I was. She was guest editing a political paper in called The New Statesman, and she So write a book review or something, And I thought, I've got a better idea. And I'd met this guy who'd once told me they get, criminal stuff And I thought, I'm going to go and see him and publish that. And I did. And it created a bit of a stir. Yeah, to say the least. Yeah. And how things sort of changed. Like I see you're on Twitter now. I hate Twitter. You hate Twitter. Oh, I resist. But my political comrades And that's why I only tweet things about press I've got about four followers. I don't think that part's true, but. So you don't. But you use it to promote No, I don't refuse to do that, really. You know, Paramount's here Well, tough tits. So it's strictly for the political. Yeah. Oh, okay, cool. But it has changed so much. I mean, you know, you know, And if you made that movie today, Well Yeah, here. But people misunderstand what the campaign is. It's not at all about the plight I'm not really interested in celebrities. It's it was about two other much more One is the a few big media owners really run Britain. They choose our prime minister. They choose our policy. When phony Tony went to war in Iraq, to Rupert Murdoch for something like And I I'm one of the people You know, we should be run by the people So it's really about that. And and the fact that therefore, these such as their power, And so we had a situation where soldiers, families they'd have their phones hacked to get or people who'd been blown up And some of the July that was happening to them. There was a young girl who was abducted and subsequently murdered And the result of hacking her phone her family were calling her all the time, And because her phone was hacked, because the messages had been deleted. And this is an obscenity and and so we felt it was time to make a fuss. And it's a fight still going on. Well, we got It lasted a year. It was a big deal. And the law was changed, And we thought that was a victory. And now this government again, they're terrified So our job is to hold their feet I hate to sound opportunistic, Well, George Clooney is making it. Oh, you're kidding. Well, the guy who really exposed the whole hacking scandal- Nick Davis, a book and Clooney has bought But I don't know what will happen because No one knows how. This will all transpire. Well, and then they got an ending Yes, that's right, Well, they. They caught bin Laden. Yeah, that's spoiler. Alert again. Sorry. Yeah. So who would you like to see play you Yes, I feel uncomfortable about it. I'm a great fan of Clooney, the fact that I had to live The melding makes me feel queasy. And I have. The perfect suggestion was that He's had plenty of research. Yeah, well, I do want to remind people that Florence I can't say enough about movie, But it is a because I was smiling during particularly speak to artists. Thank you so much for being here. You're really nice