Everywhere I go, there are crowds of people. hello friends, I am Brother Hu San. Today I came to Xi'an, China, to take my friends to visit a very special market. This market only happens once a year and lasts only about three days. It is Baqiao, Xi'an. The Liangyongbao Temple Fair in the district is held every year in mid-February of the lunar calendar. This market is not so much a temple fair as a large exhibition of Xi'an delicacies because it contains almost all the local snacks in Xi'an as well as special delicacies from all over the country. Follow now Let's take a look at my lens. The Chinese folk art of sugar blowing. The twelve zodiac buckwheat noodles. The noodles cost 5 yuan per pound. They are delicious and beautiful. How are they selling? Is this the same ingredient as this one? This is cornmeal noodles. How much does this bag cost? Three yuan per catty. Where are the chestnuts from Yunnan? How can they be sold for 15 yuan? Two catties per catty is 7.5 yuan and 7.5 yuan. You can't do a loss-making business and make a little profit. Haha, it looks pretty good. It's fresh and beautiful. There's an old man here. How much does grandpa and grandma sell this cake? 5 yuan. Will you live a long life this year? 73 years old, how long have I been making pancakes? I have been making green onion pancakes all my life. There are so many people. I have an elder brother. How much does this bag of egg rolls cost? 10 yuan . What are the main ingredients of this egg roll? Flour and eggs. This is a piece of equipment that specializes in making egg rolls . What is this made of ? How much does this Jiangmi cost? It's 10 yuan. What you're mixing now is honey. Honey and rose sauce. Handsome guy. How much does it cost for two? Two yuan . Hey , boss, what kind of snack is this? The fruit filling is red date filling and the five kernel filling. The Shaanxi fruit filling snack has red dates and five kernels. A bag costs 20 yuan. Each costs 4 yuan . A rolling pin, chopping board , and small bamboo. Basket This is a treasure market. It's so beautiful. 12 pieces of rice cakes for hospitality. How much is one piece of rice cake? Five pea yellows for 10 yuan. 3 boxes of pea cakes for 10 yuan. 3 boxes of Huxian's big meaty spicy dumplings. How much is another bowl? How much is the money? 20 yuan for a bowl of freshly made meat buns. How much does this bun cost? It costs 10 yuan. Is this potato glutinous rice cake ready ? It hasn't been smashed yet. Can it be drawn ? The potato glutinous rice cake is very beautiful. How much does this glutinous rice cake cost? 10 yuan is delicious, not expensive, economical and very chewy. This is the special snack of Xi'an. This is a delicious food that is surrounded by water. White sugar, black sesame and WeChat accept 10 yuan. What is the ingredient? Green and red silk. This one enhances the taste. Here is another one. This is How do you sell four or five of them? How much does it cost 9 yuan a piece? 8 yuan. Various kinds of rice krispie treats cost 15 yuan a pound . This seasoning is very expensive and is a special seasoning. They sell snacks on a cart. Bamboo tube rice dumplings. How come they sell them for 4 yuan a piece ? It's not bad. I've been selling it here for three days. The pot is quite unique. There are more such pots in Shandong. Is this a plum vegetable pancake? Yes . Is there a spicy beef patty on top? Are the stones used to keep it warm ? How much does this pancake cost? 7 yuan in Puyang, Henan Province. This strong bun has several kilograms , eight kilograms of meat, five kilograms of noodles, three kilograms of noodles with thin skin and thick meat. Welcome to try the persimmons. Now you can eat the authentic Changsha stinky tofu without going to Changsha. Welcome everyone to come and taste the traditional buckwheat noodles with WeChat payment of 15 yuan. Wow, sit down and press the noodles . Is this buckwheat noodle? The freshly squeezed juice. Oh, I am happy to drink it. The children drink it to supplement vitamin C. Freshly squeezed orange juice costs 12 yuan per cup. How many oranges are needed for 8 pieces ? Is it the same ? Is this mustard? It's mustard. It 's ten yuan, two and a half kilograms. How much is this big? 10 yuan. The biggest one is 80 yuan. A bowl of noodles is 10 yuan. It's 10 yuan. It 's fully handmade . If any additives are used to fake the taste of my childhood, I will compensate you 10 yuan. 3 WeChat payment methods. 10 yuan . How much is a pound? Two yuan, 5 various toys, flutes and cucurbits. This sugar cane is sold by the root, right? How much does it cost per root? This 15, this 20 Henan Puyang puff pastry steamed buns are crispy on the outside, tender on the outside, thin on the inside and thick in the meat . Welcome to join us in the goose trapping game . Pucheng crispy pears are very sweet. It costs 10 yuan for two kilograms of new millet from northern Shaanxi. What 's wrong with this? Selling for 7 yuan per catty. Potato vermicelli noodles from northern Shaanxi. Where are the dates? Xinjiang Hotan jujubes. These are small gray dates. Pineapple sweet king watermelon. 1 catty. 2 yuan. 5 kiwi fruit. 10 yuan. 3 catties . Oh my God. There are so many people Whole grains, crispy adzuki beans, ears with pus and water, professional cleaning of ear canal secretions, fruits and persimmons are also on display here. Prices are 3.5 yuan, 10 yuan. Try them first and then sell them. Yunnan Alpine Crispy Dates, various raisins, Guandi Temple hot squid, 20 yuan, 9 pieces. Come on. Let's roast chicken legs for 10 yuan. 3 donkey meat roasts are also placed here. Add oil to the pot and set the shape . Then put them in the stove to roast. How much does each one cost? Apples sell for 9 yuan a bag and cost 25 yuan.