This is an empty LEGO wasteland, and today I'm thriving ecosystem filled with LEGO plants, To start, the only plants that are able to survive up using a bunch of green arched pieces. These and I also got this super cool "tiny plants" set... so excited how completely different this ecosystem else see what I'm seeing? That one cactus is This is Mushelle, the first of 12 figures from to this desolate wasteland to find and protect 25-Ville in the process. But before anyone we gotta do something about all this until she hit water deep underground. It bubbled shades of blue plates in this gradient to make how it looks, and it can sustain new animals of tiny little segments, and this FANCY now the first of 15 LEGO baseplates has been and it looks like the first mushroom spores have But Mushelle is going to need a base so I started building up the walls for a poetic. The very first house in my very first such a long way since then thanks to everyone I'd really appreciate it if you considered!) The so amanita give this one a bigger interior with a second floor inside the cap later on. Even still very square, like this Minecraft mushroom that. *crash* I do want to take at least some birch forest with mushrooms on the sides of trees studs on the sides to attach rounded panels with gaps for some windows and the front door, round now--rolling it like this is really so let's try adding some leaves on the outside oasis are way too big, I think I need to build I set a timer to see what kinds of trees I and 1 hour, and I'm actually pretty proud of all These premolded LEGO trees are originally from They remind me of some old school LEGO video games incorporate some slopes and arches into the trunk, at the end. Not too shabby. It isn't perfect, but to really experiment with some weird pieces. I've of each other for the trunk and a brown tentacle, branches, all covered in leaves I was slightly beautiful, look at the difference 9 minutes makes. out how on earth to make a rounded trunk, just (no), and building up this weird skeleton with a piece that I could make work, with bars for off with an upside down barrel, generously adorn and you got yourself my favorite tree I've ever Sadly, none of these ones can talk, but we can to Mushelle's house, helping it blend in better and more green! With a bit more vegetation, into the wild after the zoo they were in ceased of my simulation on the wildlife in Yellowstone be an absolute menace. Since I haven't added any and they're eating all my beautiful plants Mushelle technically being part plant, she's a river in hopes that it could slow the elk riverbanks and making the water super cloudy. guess this is it. The city Mushelle envisioned Someone higher on the foodchain arrives, like sigma male, wolf pup, and this one from Minecraft. their numbers to a point where plants could massive domino effect on the ecosystem fixing all rabbits were once again able to hide in the tall from a LEGO Creator set. It's definitely but you know what they say. With fresh food harder the wolves leave behind, along with eagles, help decompose dead plants and animals, spreading to continue ignoring that and do some interior I laid out a checkered floor pattern with these then added some natural-looking and a bed Mushelle can sleep in underneath cap. There will be one soon though. This vase and with the elk no longer mowing everything bloom in this meadow. But that's not happy flower flower pieces on all these stems in every color so to take a break from them, I bought one of relaxing-- you gotta be kidding me. But I actually aren't flowers) here, like these pirate hats, boat another set. It's inspired me to build my own yeah I think the elk are good to eat this one. But bees and Mushelle's pet butterflies to feed on, I actually got this insect set for free* that and a dung beetle starting its collection. They long as we continue to ignore scale they look of aviation to take any nectar they find back to layers of that round panel technique from earlier, This of course attracts bears--no not that as well as bearies, mammals, and fish--if the river it. But they eat all that so they can store up up a giant mountainside cave for the bear to Big Ugly Rock Pieces to make a formation much last city. This time I'm actually detailing which took forever by the way... there's a reason the grind it took, especially with all these the old pink frog technique. It's such a peaceful and wild mountain goats. *Mehhhhhh* Mushelle into a waterfall gushing down the cliff face connects with the river down below. It's Well that was a weird side quest but now with the first floor done we can finally with this tan platform with a hole punched out for that Smurf houses always have. Circular shapes are but using a combination of some rounded corner together with clips, hinges, and these super progress. It was annoying progress--"ugghh" "noo-" slowly figured out how to make it work. Now it mushroom--whoops! One of the flowers turned into real life carnivorous plants, like the venus in truffle. This is way worse than getting brother Elwood got there just in time with day! What champignons. Now we've got a fungi um, puns. Let's actually use these pieces to make Even. More. Mushrooms. I chanterelle if different sizes of spots and a crimini on this just gonna crash up here for now, except he Luckily, with the elk numbers back to normal, than ever, allowing a bunch of critters to build an anthill to terrorize any picnicgoers, these among the branches to catch food, and this giant for her babies... and these squirrels. It looks But the tree roots reinforced the river banks beavers to thrive in. These guys are actually made chopping down a bunch of the new trees to build a cool things without even using instructions."Oh blocked off, it created a pond with even more not-to-scale kingfisher bird, who all have their ecosystem. It's incredible just how interconnected now my simulation of it is complete! I can finally grass all week! And Mushelle and Elwood can rest knowing that regardless of whoever moves in next