Budget airlines have been The airline industry is robot that uses ultraviolet Not to be outdone, Spirit stick to a Roomba. Spirit Airlines, the cargo But some companies, like Ryanair, have embraced this brand. Let me explain something to I set the rules and you Yeah. Still, the business of these laughing matter. Low-cost a third of all global Over the past 25 years, budget airlines like Frontier, gain about a share. Shares of low-cost European this morning. The company annual profit for the first Ryanair said earnings were previous record. This is a model that has the world. So it's not just the US. Low-cost airlines America. They've sprung up trying to stimulate a population that didn't fly To find out more about how airlines in Europe are able than their US counterparts, Europe's largest low-cost So we're now on board. There's a couple Low-cost airlines are So you'll see on some of they don't have the paper the safety card on the back Like this. Low-cost airlines what a lot is that they're getting a cost has a lot more to do it's run, and their special cost. The low-cost business model Pacific Southwest Airlines Southwest Airlines in the Back then, Southwest between several cities in Today, Southwest service resemble a hybrid between airlines. In the US, include Spirit Airlines, among others. Budget Easyjet, Ryanair and Wizz players such as AirAsia and Some of South America's Jetsmart, GOL and Wingo. One way that these airlines limiting their amenities to Think no internet or They tend to entice fares and then charge for selection, food and frequently add up to more It's a practice known in 'unbundling.' In the US, benefits for the airlines. There is a federal excise have to pay on all flights. What that 7.5% excise tax optional add-on fees. So when you purchase a $100 checked bags, it includes the airline still has to $100. But instead, if you then have to pay $50 to seats to buy a drink, the excise tax on the $50 not the $50 in add-on fees. In more recent years, started to compete directly This idea that you can Delta or United or fewer privileges. You know, it doesn't let It doesn't include seat It doesn't include a This idea of basic economy but it's how the kind of settled on airlines. Key to a budget airline's eye on its operational spent in the air and Most US airlines ultra-low-cost carriers, carry-on bag than a checked carry-on bag it takes around, so it's more cost luggage for them than if Load factor is kind of the many people on those planes These are single class These are not planes that They pack them with seats. Along with having a single low-budget airlines operate of airplane, which and plane maintenance. Budget airlines also tend airports with less traffic, better rates for using the Still, by far the largest You typically see pilot pay and Frontier and some of to the full-service labor expenses. We just finished up a big since we're in Europe, we biggest low-cost carriers, Our goal was to get to the airline, we decided to The first flight was from Airport, about 40 miles So we are on a very short I did try to order a They did not have the they had in the app. Instead, I got a coffee From there, we flew into Where budget airlines really competitive advantage are So the fact that Europe has cities packed close environment for budget Looking at the data of the for Ryanair as compared to Allegiant and Spirit, you been consistently cheaper. Experts attribute this to a First, there are many more compared to the US, and going to be less convenient Oftentimes they're further cheaper for the airlines to from. So you can see those travelers. How much do you usually pay? Wow, that's pretty cheap. There are typically more Europe compared to the US. You know, the US aviation whittled down over the past Many airlines have either end, whereas European more robust, in addition to competition with trains. The base fare for the first but that would have allowed I ended up going with the $146.30, which included a carry-on suitcase and a I paid an extra $24 for a was given the option to services, such as a fast insurance. After adding in came to $175.63. For my second flight to at $36.58, but I ended up add-ons and fees. On the day of our trip, ran into a snag pretty Unlike the US, you have to counter. You can't check the same counter, so check in counter where we So we came over to the very long. There are all right here, which I would doesn't seem to have any. I did try to check in on wouldn't accept my here. Thank you. After walked over to another before heading through we hit another road bump. So we are in line to board The lady out front told me what I already paid for, so notice. They might weigh We'll see what happens. Hey, I need to take a look. Yeah. Hello. Can you just put your Sure. An inch over. You cannot take that one on It's all camera gear. Like, board. They said I could It doesn't matter paying hand luggage size. Just take it with you in the Okay. Bags can be seen. They're not letting us take So we had to unpack all of and cameras, and we're hand of in the very safe bag Checking the camera bag at $55.44, which brought the to $231.07. So we are in-flight on our and London. So far smoothly. We took off on The overhead bins are don't know that our bag because it's an older 737. The seat is just as other airlines that I've We're actually sitting in little bit more room. But feels like any normal So we just landed in London. Let's go see if our bag Despite just kind of the able to get our bag on the We checked it. It's here. Nothing is broken. We still I'm going to try to get already paid, but, the bags Then it was onto Milan. We decided to check the bag cheaper to pay for it out the hassle that we went So we just got off our from London to Milan. And overall I'd say flying easy. Both of our flights They're really efficient at We got on quickly, we got The biggest hang up was morning from Oslo. It was just too big and we it on the aircraft. But you know, if you're not bring a lot of stuff, for travelers. couple of months have been airlines. In the US, Allegiant all reported of 2023, typically the airlines since it includes months. As a result, many offering deeply discounted The US ultra-low-cost and Spirit have had a Demand after the pandemic especially for some of the You know people are going also facing higher costs, that they want to keep control when they're labor, and that's not the Meanwhile, across the airlines seemed to thrive, reporting record numbers We think more and more down from these very high in Europe to flying We're the number one European markets across We carry 184 odd million And we expect to hit 200 year. So why are European budget ones are struggling? It may basic of economic drivers This summer was really ultra-low-cost carriers in It was as you headed into started to slow down. And part of it is the The capacity in the US was over the summer, but as you kind of, you know, 7, 8% in Europe it's still below Capacity across Europe is I mean, Europe at this 92, 93% of pre-COVID Without Ryanair's growth, 90%. And so people are We've seen this summer our 24% increase on a much of airfares that Lufthansa are charging. And we think from that, even if the pinched. Perhaps somewhat airlines are also not bottom lines as low-budget Fares for premium products coming out of this pandemic basic economy fares, so carriers. And then beyond the transatlantic has been really also helped legacy Still, there are some all airlines, regardless of Some of the challenges they potential recession. They also face higher have been going up. And can be very congested. So there are certain hard for them to grow. Other factors like supply of Ryanair and technical are also making it companies to grow. Meanwhile, in Europe, designed to tackle airline industry's operational likely to be passed on, at consumer. But Keyes says he airline model will live on. Almost every new airline airline model, trying to budget-conscious traveler, the industry. That's what and they understand that amount of add-on fees that stomach in order to get with.