Bitch, our Ye family has raised you for more than 20 years. You have occupied our Wan'er's identity for more than 20 years. You don't know how to be grateful. You still bully our real daughter? Why don't you kneel down and apologize to me? Rich Lady Without my words Where do you get so much money? What do you mean, little bitch? Mom and Dad, look at him. Okay, okay. It's okay. It's okay. His poor parents are on their way. From now on, you are the only daughter in our Ye family. I said the third What are you posting? You tear it off early. It's just you. Designated to scare my sister You can consider me as a fan. What is this thing of yours? Hot Star really wants to light a fire What's about to be torn? You know a hammer? Love needs to be expressed Can you guys hurry up? Must be able to speed up accelerate Hurry up and take my sister home To speed up Rush over to speed up Master and Madam Master, our car rear-ended Go deal with it quickly Good parents I'm going to my sister's house now. The car can't be driven When I think of your sister over the years I should have lived a carefree life. The life of the eldest daughter of the Shen family But I couldn't get enough food at Ye's house. How could I have picked them up by mistake? Now we have finally found your sister. I crashed again. What should we do? Although your home is not as good as ours But it won't let us down. You can't drive this broken car to see our Rose. I have a solution I heard your biological parents are poor. No job, that's all. There are three unmarried brothers in the family. I bought some dry food for you. Ten thousand dollars a bag You're hungry on the way. By the way, give it to your poor parents Boss, the money from selling those things Do I still need to transfer the money to the Ye family account? Isn't he a mean person? Do you know how to drive without looking at the road? How much do you want? Who cares about your money, stinky man? I have plenty of money. Hey sister We're here to take you home. Sister, I'm the eldest brother This is your second brother. And your third brother We are here to take you home. These are my three poor brothers. younger sister Aren't you supposed to be at the Ye family? Why are you here? Don't think your mother is ugly The son does not dislike the family Let's go home Aren't you going to take me home? Walk go home Wait a moment Ah, aren't those my sister's adoptive parents? The second and third brothers called the driver Bring the gift over Can you drive? Yo, I thought who it was I can smell this poor smell from a distance. Shut your stinky mouth I thought you were a good family. I didn't expect you to be so cruel to my sister. The second and third brothers called the driver No need to send gifts. Hahaha 10 trucks You poor bastards. I just like to pretend to be fat, haha We are the Shen family, the richest family in your eyes. The richest family I thought everyone with the surname Shen was the richest. I am still Lou Jinxiao's fiancee. Lou Jingxiao has been engaged to Shen since childhood Are you going to be a mistress? You dare to hit my sister? Don't die! Why Don't hit my daughter! You've raised my sister for more than 20 years. Let's go today. Sister, your parents raised you for 20 years. You just let these little bastards bully them. You have no conscience. that is Oh stop Am I okay? I've called you mom for more than 20 years. I have no right to hit you. But I am more qualified Mom, let me go. You wait for me A bunch of barbarians younger sister You were so handsome just now Next time someone bullies you, fight back like you did just now. Let's go Hey sister Sister, this is heat stroke, please disperse Hey water shade Send me a helicopter. Now immediately How's that, baby? You are a rose my darling It's all mom's fault You have suffered these years. Rose I am a father What about the room at home? All packed for you. I'm waiting for you to get well and be discharged from the hospital. We'll take you home Mom has asked someone to take away all the clothes for the changing season. Already taken home Wait for you to go home and choose slowly No, I don't need clothes or jewelry. Must have And this one There are 300 million in this You can spend it as you like Isn't it enough? Dad will give you And my mine Isn't it said that our family is very poor? What does our family do? Rose Baby You don't know Our family is the richest Your dad and I are retiring this year Hand over the company to your elder brother So now all the money is in your brother's hands We are a little poor. This is your elder brother Shen Qingyun Our successor to the Shen family This is your second brother Shen Chen Oh I know Top Star Won the Huaxia Golden Watch Award at the age of 12 Hahaha What about me? Did you know Who are you Hahaha Don't bother your third brother. He is a famous surgeon. Learn from the best master in China From now on, we will protect my sister. This damn girl What a lucky guy Our sudden wealth is a bargain for him. What to see Come work for me Rose is your daughter. Do you still have a conscience? You old thing What's the matter? Why do you treat me like this? Is it something I did wrong? Rose, why are you crying? It's ok, mom. I just remembered the time when I was at Ye's house. Grandma is the only one who treats me well My grandmother is also hospitalized in this hospital. I want to go see him. Let's go with you. We should feel the past Thank you, old man. No, wait, I'll go see grandma first. I'll take you to see him. Good good good Rose You have suffered in the Ye family these years. Fortunately Your biological parents found your grandmother. Even if I die, I will be at peace Grandma, don't say that. You will live a hundred years. Wait until you are well again I'll take you to see them. well No rules How can you be better than us on a broken tricycle? Okay, I know you don't want to leave our home. I tell you You have no relationship with our family anymore. From now on, don't bother our old lady anymore. Rose, where is our Ye family? There are things But you are not our biological daughter after all. Just give up on this idea. Sister Rose, people say that dogs don't mind a poor family. You're worse than a dog. you Don't worry, I'm just here to see grandma. And your property. I won't take it seriously at all You poor thing How can you brag so much? I tell you If you dare to come again I'm not rude to you Why are you staring? I hope you remember what you said today. Don't wait for a sign of consciousness Come and beg me We come back to ask you I think you're crazy. I'm in a hurry Hahahahahahaha Since you are back to your biological parents Then our Fenghua Group So I don't have to give it to those idiots of the Ye family anymore. Wipe your ass Of course I'm that mean. Haha. OK. Then you just wait for my good news. Don't bankrupt the Ye family My name is written Who made them bully you so much before? Rose Rose You don't have that patient. Please help me find out that Yuxianji is my business. Go ahead It turned out to be Uncle Lou's grandmother's bone glue. Give this to Grandpa Lou first. He can't have surgery in his current condition. I will come back after I cure my grandma's illness. Come help You've been keeping Grandma Ye alive with drugs all these years. Ye Jiangbo rolled his eyes They are not even willing to give the elderly a VIP ward. It's totally unscrupulous. I'll do it What are you doing It turns out that Uncle Rob is your grandfather. How could Uncle Luo have a grandson like you? What's wrong with me What are you feeding my grandpa? Grandpa is fine for now. As for the back Go ask Lin Sen. Do I let you go? Why Mr. Long, please calm down. This lady will never harm the old man His grandmother and the old man are old friends And the medicine this lady brought It can alleviate the old man's condition. His grandmother and my grandfather don't know each other. What does it have to do with this lady? stop Do you have any extra of this medicine? I can buy it at a high price No Mr. Luo's drug is sold for more than 10 million yuan per pill on the market. And only 10 pieces are sold per month. Look at this medicine money Boss, I'll check it out right away. How is the divorce with Shen Jia going? Boss, your engagement with the Shen family After all, it was decided by our ancestors. You really thought it through If the old man knew I'm afraid I can't stand the stimulation Then kill first and ask for permission later I can't marry someone I don't love. You go first Hey mom Isn't that a rose? Oh, it's really him. We can't even afford this car. How does he know such a rich man? Rose Tower Could it be that she is being kept by some rich man? The bitch mouth is just a bitch Oh, he has already left our Ye family. Never mind, let's go Let's go Hello What The auditor withdrew his investment End of cooperation with us Mr. Shen, are you willing to see me? Excuse me Mr. Shen doesn't have time today. When is Mr. Shen free? I don't know about this. Or you can leave a reservation message We will contact you when Mr. Shen has time. Oh, this won't work. Hey sister, look at you Can you give Mr. Shen a call? Tell him I'm in a hurry I'm very anxious This is a multi-million dollar project. We at Shenshi have more than a dozen projects worth hundreds of millions every day Mr. Shen I really don't have time to take care of this 100 million business. Please go back Hey Mr. Shen Brother, you really don't need to buy me jewelry. I've bought them all. Shen's sister Just accept what Big Brother gives you. I just happened to see Mr. Shen, I am the director of the Night Market Group. For Chen Fu Hey hey hey It's me, it's me, it's me No problem, bro. Let's deal with a dirty thing first Get to know Let's get to know each other Dealing with Dirty Things A grown man likes cleanliness so much Kind of interesting Mr. Shen I didn't even look for you How dare you come to me? Haha Mr. Shen Have we met somewhere? Don't get close to me. Master, I I don't know how I've offended you. Please give me a chance. Rose knows? Of course Rose knows. I heard she wasn't your sacrifice. You beat her without scolding her She has been bullied for many years. I was wrong. Oh my Hey, hey, hey, Mr. Shen What's the matter? Fenghua Group also withdrew its investment I'll be right there I remember that Ye wanted to get close to the Shen family. Fenghua Group invested 1 billion to promote the project Now the Shen family and Fenghua Group are withdrawing their investment together They have a good time Rose is coming down for soup. Mom made it especially for you. Here comes mom Mr. Ye Please leave now Otherwise I'll call security. How dare you do this to me? Every time I came You all bowed to me. Who do you think you are? If I don't see Mr. Wu today I won't leave Security Security Hey hey hey Hey, let me go Let me go, what are you doing? I want to see Mr. Wu I want to see Mr. Wu Let me go Mr. Wu Mr. Wu, it's me. What are you doing here? We are Yeh Group and Fenghua Group Isn't it a good cooperation? Why did you suddenly withdraw your investment? cooperate Do you know how much money you've caused me to lose over the years? Hundreds of billions Get out of here right now Roll as far as you can Just return all the money you lost to Mr. Lu. Hey Lu, get out of here Why Mom, this is a bottle of wine my friend gave me today. Rich wine aroma Chinese medicine nourishment We'll open it for dad when he comes back. Okay, let me take a look. What a good bottle of wine yes Wait for your dad to come back I did it tonight. Bye bye sir Look, bring me back a bottle of good wine. Oh, wine, wine, wine You know how to drink Our family is finished. Tian Jiabo, are you crazy? I gave you face I am, Dad. What happened? It's a withdrawal of investment Shen's richest man in China Shen Group will no longer cooperate with us Just withdraw How much money did Shen's invest? Isn't there still Fenghua? Fenghua is the real money sponsor Ministry of Finance also withdrew its investment Not only that Even the one with the surname Hu A Fenghua watchdog dared to ban us What What's going on? Yeah, what happened to dad? Rose Pair Because of roses They all divested. Rose It was Rose who asked Shen to withdraw his investment. How is that possible? Rose sister can also be a crazy boss for free What a shit boss I don't know either I don't know what happened either. These people are top figures. How do they know my sister? Because of the old man in the luxury car that day Yes, yes, definitely. This little bitch He must be having some affair outside. We Night Market People People outside the family still think we are still a family Doesn't this implicate our night market? Oh, what a sin. Little bitch Why is it all hatred? I'm telling you this That's it Rose I discussed it with your father. I plan to announce your identity to the public after some time. During this time We just want to accompany you quietly Is it okay? I can do anything, mom. Hello Rose Get back here right now Did you hear that? Otherwise, don't even think about seeing that old lady anymore. What's up baby? It's ok, mom I have something to do I want to go back to Ye's house Hello Boss, hurry up! Go to Ye's house Your sister was rescued by the Ye family's phone call. hurry up How come this is preparation for a three-court trial? Sister Rose, have some tea first. I really didn't expect this. The Ye family is now not even as good as this tea tree. It seems that the Ye family is really not evil. Hello Does Shen's withdrawal of investment and Fenghua's loss have anything to do with you? What do you think? I know it's you, little bitch How many old people did you seduce? Your scandal has spread to the Shen family. Rose Sister How can you do it for money? Doing such a disgraceful thing Do you know that because of these things you My father suffered heavy losses. You said you should die? Second speed up We must get to Ye's house within three minutes Three minutes is enough. Rose I warn you Get out of here and go to Shen's right now Go and accompany Mr. Shen to apologize Please don't withdraw your investment, Mr. Shen Fenghua Group also has to make apologies Is that enough to make amends? Must kowtow Kneel down to apologize And since he hooked up with a few old men I don't care how long it takes Let him sleep with Mr. Shen What did you say What did you say I asked you to sleep with Mr. Shen Let me tell you the truth The thigh you always want to hug is my brother You guys should just waste your time here. Why not take some time to think about how to save yourself? Hahahahahaha You damn girl Why don't you say you are the president of Fenghua? I think you are crazy about money. No hope Hahahahahaha Aren't you capable, little girl? Give me more patience Look at me and I know you are smart We've all taken the antidote. Hahahahahaha I'll send you to Mr. Shen's bed. Our Ye family will rise to prominence Ha ha ha ha Ouch Hahahaha Come I want their lives tonight. Hey, don't move. My sister hasn't woken up yet. Brother, I just want to see my sister's hair falling off What are you doing? Don't touch it. Your hands are so rough You three, stop arguing. My poor child you mine Rose, I hope you're okay. Scared my mother to death Don't worry, mom. I'm fine now I can metabolize this medicine quickly. Sister, you will comfort people The medicine you planted can knock down two cows. How is it possible to recover so quickly? ah Rose, you are really well now. Oops How could I forget about my special physique? Ah that I still feel like I have no strength I just said it My sister's condition is normal. It takes time for the body to metabolize toxins About three or four days Hey sister I'll be taking good care of you in the hospital these days. I'll get you out of the hospital early. As for the armpits I'll make a decision after my sister recovers. It seems that the Ye family needs to settle the accounts Blue Rose just woke up, what happened? Maybe it's a flashback. Shut your stinky mouth OK It turns out that home feels so good Boss The Shen family seems to be dealing with something important recently. You can't even schedule an appointment with the other party for the date you want to cancel the engagement. I've asked this question several times. Oh, Boss. I found the woman that the old man wanted in the hospital last time. Her name is Rose She is Ye Xiangbo's daughter This rose has been unloved since childhood. And he was adopted. Later, the Shen family found their biological daughter I kicked her out. Where is she now What a coincidence Her adoptive parents Often bully her Now he is in our group flag Go to the hospital to recuperate? What happened to the boss? Am I being impatient? No Definitely not After all, it was Miss Rose who saved the old man. You are anxious to see him and thank him. you say A woman with valuable medicine in her hand gave it to me Should I investigate this? What's wrong with her? That's the truth, right? Yeah That's right hehehehe Uh huh Pretending to be sick every day is too boring Otherwise I'll find a chance Explain my identity to them. Oh, forget it. This world Where is pure love? Something happened to Mr. Liu What happened to Mr. Luo? Hey, the old man was fine just now. I'm afraid that my heart may suddenly fail due to arrhythmia. Oops ah My great aunt What are you doing? Give me the clothes quickly Take me to the operating room. stop Who is this Lin Sen, what's wrong with you? Any cat or dog dares to stay in the operating room Mr. Yue is I found him. Only he can save Mr. Luo Please let us in. What are you talking about? You ask him to rescue Mr. Lou. He is just a yellow-haired girl Lin Sen you I think you're really crazy Mr. Lou's disease is only treatable by me Please let me in. Hum, what a joke Look at you, you are so unknown. I'll let you in. Mr. Lou If there is a three long and two short Your life is not enough to compensate stop Mr. Loulou, you are here. How is my grandpa now? Not so good We don't have any good solution at the moment. Mr. Luo really doesn't have much time left. Surgery is necessary now Otherwise, later Even the gods can't save him. What is the king of heaven? No suitable heart for matching Even I don't dare to have surgery. Just because you are a yellow-haired girl What a big tone! It was him Let him in Boss, you really let that little The girl is performing surgery on the master. A woman who carries such expensive medicine with her Still confident to do such a big surgery Don't you think she's not simple? Grandpa Lou's surgery was successful You can be discharged from the hospital as long as you rest. I've already said it Our roses are amazing What else do you have to say now? Now it's your turn to fulfill your promise Even if you, little girl, are lucky enough to catch a dead mouse I am a dean. There's no reason to apologize to you. Excuse me Little girl I'm sorry Sit still I didn't recognize the real Taishan. I'm sorry That's pretty good. Remember to keep a happy mood, Grandpa Luo Take him out for a walk more often after he recovers and is discharged from the hospital. ah Sorry, I have to go out first. You put on your clothes first Who gave you the courage? What did you do to my sister? Tell the truth I didn't do anything Don't be impulsive, brother. This seems to be Lu Jinxiao What happened to Lu Jinxiao? No one can bully my sister Brother, don't be impulsive. He really didn't do anything. Did he see it all? I didn't see anything Not You Hey, brother, be gentle. You have to look carefully He made sure he saw nothing. Really not What are you doing here, old man? You saved my grandpa last time I'm here to thank you. A little help Don't take it to heart If you have nothing to do Just go back quickly A little thought Unlimited amount No password Mr. Luo is very polite. But I don't need this Take it. I never owe anyone a favor. No quota Just swipe it and it will be sent to you. We are not rare Mr. Luo appreciates your kindness. But I really don't need this good This is my business card Call me anytime if you need anything This can be collected, right? Okay, I'll come find you when I need you. younger sister Just now he said you saved his grandfather Yes, sister I heard that Mr. Lou is dying. Even if gods come, it won't work. How did you save him? Brother, I am your sister. Not a god Because of a friend of mine The medicine I brought to Mr. Lou last time He thanked me for this. It really is like this Don't you guys believe me? Sister sister Brothers don't ask. The Third I younger sister How did you deal with your adoptive parents' affairs? Don't be afraid, sister. We three will support you. Be good to your sister The people from the Ye family are going too far. Brothers will definitely support you. I knew you were smart. We've all taken the antidote. Hahahahahaha Twenty years of nurturing grace That's it. If there is a next time I will never be soft-hearted. Forget it, let's not talk about this. younger sister Look what gifts the three of us have brought you. right Rose, look husband Do you think this Rose is really Mr. Shen's sister? This was not the case when we first investigated. Anyway We'd rather believe it. Unbelievable It's just right that you come to see the roses today. Find out the truth Yeah, sister is really How could you beat your dad like this? I'll settle accounts with them when I see him later oops Okay, let's go. snort Ha ha ha ha I was almost caught by this little bitch. That's right, you guys are really My sister hasn't learned any other skills in all these years. I also learned to be a master at pretending to be awesome, haha Dad, Wan'er didn't mean that. Wan'er means My sister has lived up to the kindness of my parents in raising me. No, he's not. Your parents I'm sorry I'm so worried It's all because of my sister. Who is a corruption group? That's why they won't cooperate with us. Good good good Since this bitch is responsible for this Of course he has to clean it up. To me I don't believe this bitch Since we can find the Shen family to play a role I can play it twice This is for my sister. I spent a long time queuing up to get it. Brother, who is he? Why do you call him sister? Shasha, why are you here? I came back early from my trip I heard that you three are in the hospital. I'll ask my mother to bring me here. This is Sasha You are here just in time to introduce yourself This is Rose Your sister elder sister A distant relative's sister? Um Hello sister, my name is Shen Shasha You can call me Shasha Hello Then Sasha and her friends went shopping first. I'm going home tonight You all have to come back Go quickly, go quickly Shasha is the child our parents took away by mistake. His biological parents died long ago. My parents are worried that he will be too sad if they know about it. So I never told him the truth. If you mind We do not It's okay. I won't mind. Sister, if you are well Brothers take you home from the hospital Mom and Dad have been waiting for you at home for a long time There are surprises waiting for you Hehe Does it look good, sister? Is it louder than the third brother's fart and has more colors? Is this a surprise for me? Ha ha Rose Baby Do you like this gift? Mom, I like it very much Dad I've prepared a gift for you. You prefer Design your own house Bought it as a surprise for myself This feeling is really Rose like Daddy Sasha likes mommy Are these all prepared for Sasha? Sasha likes Bro, you guys are really Why did I tell my parents about my return? I want to give my parents a surprise Parents Did you prepare all this specially for Sasha? Salsa This is a rose. From now on, she will be your real sister. Hello Isn't my sister a distant relative? Sasha, let me introduce you again. Let me introduce her. Her name is Shen Meigui. He is your father and I's own flesh and blood who were stranded outside. What So what am I? Shasha, I am your daughter. Sasha, calm down. Listen to Dad Here's what's going on Your father and I went out to investigate. Sudden premature birth So we came to a township health center There are no single rooms there. Only triple room There are two other pregnant women in Tongmu But in the middle of the night Fire breaks out in the health center It's too big and I can't see clearly. In a panic, I took a child away I thought it was a rose In fact, you are another mother's child. Not my and Yao Yuan's biological child I got it wrong. You have suffered over the years. Rose was taken away by the Ye family to be raised when she was young The Ye family's child was killed by a cleaner. I took the wrong person to raise. And you came to the Shen family As a result, some time ago The Ye family is searching for Rose's relatives online. What if I don't find him a relative? We really don't know These three children were taken away by mistake. Shasha, your biological mother gave birth not long ago The body has not recovered well Died What But don't worry, Sasha I discussed it with Rose. You can still live in this house. He is the sister You are my sister You two get along well. Even though you are not my biological child As long as you two get along well When you get married We will still give you a good dowry Let you marry in style So that's how it is This is so sudden I'm so sad Parents Would you like me to stay in this house? I appreciate it Very contented rest assured I will definitely get along well with my sister well That's good Mom, I feel a little uncomfortable I'm going back to rest first. Why Ouch Ouch Oh, Grandpa. You've been calling for so long. Not tired snort Who told you to marry? I'm going to quit you. Find my savior now. grandfather I must cancel this marriage. I can't be with someone I don't like. As for your lifesaver We are not familiar Why are you looking for him? I've inquired about it. That little girl is good looking. And the medical skills are good I don't believe you have no feelings for him. You hurry up and make an appointment Contact us now I don't have his contact information You're going to piss me off to death Luo Jingxiao Is there a phone number you can't find? You Go get it quickly Grandpa, I forgot to tell you I have raised this guardrail. Hurry up, um Gaochuan Go check his contact information. oops Grandpa In fact, the boss has been waiting for Miss Shen's call. But what is the result? It's totally useless But I have a solution. Hey, I see you want to go to Africa No, no, no Stop yelling. Shut up. I'm looking at you Do you want to go to Africa? Keep talking Don't be afraid, I'll make the decision for you. hey-hey Actually, Mr. Miss Shen's grandmother I'm staying in the same hospital as you were before. Isn't it easy to meet the young master? Hahahaha, hurry up. You go quickly Otherwise I'll break your legs I'll go, I'll go, okay? Son, I really can't eat it. Rose Did you hear that? Haven't heard your grandma's voice for a long time? She misses you. Come over here What if you dare to do something to grandma? I will never let you go You'll know what I'm going to do. Otherwise, I can't say it. Drink, you old thing. Give me a drink and he won't die. Why Hey Don't bully grandma You dead girl You dare to do something to me? You are worthy of being a father. What did you do to grandma? rest assured I'm not yet a mother. As long as you listen obediently otherwise That's the old stuff. Suffer a little Go fast Tell me what you want. Well, Rose is the one who understands things. My request is actually very simple You go and ask the Shen family and Fenghua Group Just think of it as helping your father again. yes Don't you always think I'm a waste? Why do I feel I have this ability now? You are indeed a waste But you have a good figure. Go ask Mr. Shen to sell it. I don't care what method you use. If my company can't be revived You all don't want to live anymore. Rose Child You beast! Ahhh, are you okay? Who are you? Don't mind your own business. You don't deserve to know my name Get out of here if you know what's best for you Let's not confront them head-on. Let's go first Oh, forget it. Don't worry about your injury. Grandma, don't get excited. It's not worth it for someone like that From now on you have roses to take care of you grandmother Would you like to Moved to the ward next to my grandpa That's our Lou family. No one will bully you Would you like to Thank you. Thank you. Gaochuan Follow me Come Painted Remember to apply it on time after returning home Just like I just did Thank you. You don't have to worry about such trivial matters. I can do it myself Feed the Rose Important Message The thousand-year-old Ganoderma lucidum you always wanted There is an auction tomorrow I heard it's there. Really? That's great. Then grandma's illness can be cured. Then help me get an invitation to the auction. Oh, that auction was held in a very secretive way. I can't get that ticket. Why not try it in the name of Fenghua Group? But I don't want to expose Fenghua Group yet I'll think of a way. that Didn't you say before that you never like to owe favors to others? Now's your chance to help. There's a very big auction tomorrow. Can you help me with it? An invitation to an auction. It's a VIP ticket Okay, stop talking. I don't like being rejected. Just consider it as a favor to me. rest assured I don't need you to repay me for this favor. Next time, just come and see grandpa with me. You also know that he doesn't have much time left. Lou Jinxiao Do you believe that my grandfather will be fine? Huh, I believe Rose Is it because of me that you care so much about my grandfather? Forgot to ask Lou Jingxiao Where is the VIP area? How to fix it so big? This auction But it's the biggest one in years. It's not easy for us to catch up. Rose Um Miss Rose, why are you here? Does it matter where I am? stop You dead girl What attitude You don't take your father seriously, do you? He is indeed an ungrateful person. Laozi You've cut ties with me. What kind of old man is this? Don't get involved. Sister Rose, don't talk to your parents like that. They also feel sorry for you How did you get here? Could it be that he has hooked up with some rich man again? Haha, sugar daddy He is just a second-hand product that has been played with. Rose Did you sneak in here pretending to be a waiter today? Rose, if you really have no money Give us a soft Kneel down and apologize After all, we raised you. I wouldn't let you work in a place like this. I will have no money Don't look at people with your narrow-minded perspective. You bitch You are my foster Don't I know what you are like? My identity is not what you can imagine A Beautiful Woman Non-interference I won't care Hahahahahahaha this is so funny You don't care Just you I think you sneaked in to eat and drink for free. This is the auction Not just any cat or dog can come in. It's you Is there an invitation letter? Is it related to you? Rose Sister Are you in a hurry to leave? You didn't really sneak in, did you? What time is it, little bitch? You are still embarrassing me here. If everyone knew you were my daughter I've lost all my face. If your old face is correct This is the Lou family's auction. Where did you get the face to come here? you snort Anyway, we all have invitations. Do you have one? Wan'er, what are you still standing there for? Call someone quickly He has no invitation manager Hey Miss Ye He just came in without an invitation to eat and drink for free. This lady Tell us about your invitation letter. In our I didn't invite you but I still want to get in and eat and drink for free They must be severely punished. How can I not take it out? I today Just for Mr. and Ms. Ye's sake. Don't argue with you Get out of here! good The night market is closing down. And face? What nonsense are you talking about, little girl? If I have an invitation Does it prove that I am a VIP? What do you do? If you have an invitation I kneel down to apologize to you I don't want you to kneel down to me I think it's unlucky Mom, no. Now I have to call you auntie When I was at Ye's house You always make me kneel down to mop the floor It's not too much for you to kneel down to me today, right? My wife is fine. He didn't have an invitation. What are you afraid of? Ahem Dead girl gives you face You have no shame, right? Manager, hurry up Get him out Go Go Go Sorry everyone I do have the invitation letter. This This is really an invitation letter Let me see You go away I tell you You don't even have the qualifications to watch Look at what you did. In this deceiving I almost offended my VIP. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry, I didn't recognize Taishan. People do not remember the mistakes of villains You go down first There are other urgent matters. Oh, good, good This aunt You should now What to do You dead girl I have raised you in vain. You're kneeling like this. No way The wife of the chairman of the Ye Group That's just untrustworthy. Oops Wife For the honor of our Ye family Just kneel down. Hey, what are you saying? You really make me kneel down oops You forgot what we are here for today Dead girl Today, there are outsiders watching me and I will deal with you in the future Enough I can't bear it Forget it this time Wife, wife If there is a next time Don't regret it, everyone. Why Stinky girl, bitch Even if you are a VIP, so what? Who knows where it came from? Honey, calm down. Walk, walk, walk, walk Where is the VIP area? Our rooms are randomly assigned. Please come inside Hey sir, your invitation letter Uh, we are together. I'm glad you all came to the auction tonight. All the proceeds from tonight's auction All will be donated to children in mountainous areas Auction Bidding Just enter your VIP code on your phone VIPs in the box only need to say your VIP code You can participate in the auction The auction is now open The first lot is Boss, we are late because of the traffic jam. It seems that Miss Rose has gone to the box. Who said I was looking for her? Didn't he get the invitation? I know you miss him. But now I can't check it If you keep talking to me, I'll send you to Africa. Believe it or not, don't Boss, I'm kidding. I want to buy something The most expensive one Keep an eye on him. Boss, next is the finale, Qianli Lingzhi I'll take a picture of it today at any cost. Grandma's disease can be cured. The one you said was Fenghua was in these boxes. He must be the one who sends down the thousand-year-old Ganoderma lucidum. Can our Ye family come back to life this time? All depends on him Parents Rose Sister Isn't there an invitation? Why didn't you see it? he I knew that damn girl didn't have that ability. We were deceived by him again. Oh, this time he got a bargain. We'll settle the score with him after we finish our business. Next lot Millennium Living Lingzhi Live Lingzhi I actually saw it in my lifetime. I heard that I ate it. The dead can go If only I could have a taste Don't say a word. Even if it's Lingzhi root, I'm satisfied We can't count on this thing. I heard that the guy from Fenghua Group is here today too. I came here just for this Lingzhi. The one with elegance Then I have to see Why didn't you say so earlier? No. 33 20 million No. 25 30 million No. 2 50 million It seems that this is most likely the one from Fenghua As expected, this move is so luxurious No. 1 60 million 60 million may be this No. 2 70 million Oh my god, 70 million. Add No. 1 80 million Add and keep adding No matter how much money Must take pictures This Lingzhi Can save grandma's life I have to get it. No. 2 100 million A righteous sect Next Lingzhi So proud There must be a brilliant person inside. It seems that it doesn't matter who is inside. The two people sitting inside They don't look like they're easy to mess with. There's a lot of fun today. Boss, do we still want to follow? Although we don't get along with Fenghua But there's no point in taking pictures of these things. Give me more time. Kill Fenghua severely They usually rob me of victory Boss, you are too abnormal today. What's going on? Excessive is simply too much Who is on the other side? I'm arguing over this price for a Lingzhi Better not let me catch him. Boss, do you want to add more? Add 150 million I don't believe it yet One hundred and fifty million once One hundred and fifty million twice Three transactions Sit down as if like Previous No. 2 Great, Boss. I took the photo. I took the photo. This is it I am Ye Jiangbo We have worked together before You also said that you are very interested in our night market. I wonder if you could come out and meet me. Let's have a meal. this Haha This gentleman I don't know how I have offended you before. Can you give me a chance to apologize to you? Oh I have a daughter Looks like a fairy I can give it to you first. He really has no conscience at all. My biggest mistake was not being soft-hearted. Rose Why are you here? Hey, what are you? He actually came out of this box. Don't delay my work. Oh, you are Mr. Lin, right? Oh, I didn't expect that the head of Fenghua Group She looks so young A talented person. Haha Ouch I am Ye Jiangbo Hahaha Your previous investment of billions in our Ye I hope you give me Hey Easy or Not Can you let go of my hand first? Parents Red Guard Mr. Lin seems to know Rose It's not that kind of relationship, is it? Can't you see we're busy, little bitch? Do you know Mr. Lin? Just say two words. Didn't you see Rose? My parents have been worrying about the family these days. You know Mr. Lin, but you don't say a word for us. That's too heartless. Your crappy company Even gods can't save me Or I advise you to wake up. Hey you You ungrateful wolf Hey hey wife, wife, wife Hahahaha Mr. Lin This is my adopted daughter. We originally wanted to teach her a lesson. But if she is your woman Then we are a family, hahahaha Who is your family? Rose is not my woman Don't talk nonsense Oh no Mr. Lin, look Ouch Sister, I thought you were such a great person. It turns out she is just a kept slut. What did you say Say it again What are you talking about? I saw it with both eyes Today in front of everyone Just be honest. Tell me how many men you served. How many luxury cars are there? How many times in total Tired of living? Mr. Lin You bitch Dare to slander me Boss Say one more word Say it again. Stop hitting me. Stop hitting me. Let's talk it over. You put this here today. If you bully Rose again I'll beat you up every time I see you. Oh, Mom and Dad Look at him Okay, okay, uh Why is Lao Jingxiao here? Hundred Worlds III Don't let him find out my identity. The Fenghua people are gone Mr. Lin, hey You beat my daughter too. Can we sit down and have a good chat? If you want compensation, go to Fenghua Group and find me. Hey, I'm not blackmailing you. Hey, what's so great? When our Ye family becomes the richest I don't even want him to lick my shoes. snort Hey hey hey Lao Wang Look at that person That person Is it the one in the hospital that day? Just now they all called him Mr. Lou Could he be the world's richest man, Long Jingxiao? Oh, how could it be him? The flood really washed away the Dragon King Temple A family doesn't know a family If our Ye family gets his help Our Ye family is saved! Hurry up and chase after him Hurry up and chase after him! Oh, not him. Where are the people? Where did the people go? Brat Didn't you say you would bring that little girl to see me? Where are the people? Grandpa is a bit busy recently. snort So busy that I don't even have time to look at my old bones Ahhh good Then my old bones will get sick again This little girl feels sorry for me Will come to see me too Grandpa I will bring her to see you in the next few days. You should take good care of yourself first Haha, that's pretty close. oops My grandfather is not in good health recently. There is time Come see grandpa Pick me up here tomorrow. Miss Rose Do you live in this villa? I guess so. This couldn't be the Shen family. How do you drive? Boss, I'm paying attention. Boss, you're here. Keep quiet I just saw something in your eye So I thought I'd help you clean your eyes. But didn't I close my eyes just now? I'll serve tea first. I'm here too oops You are a rose My old man's savior Hello, Grandpa Lou Oh, silly child What's your name? Grandpa Lou Too unfamiliar You are just like Jing Xiao Just call me grandpa Grandpa, good, good Call me grandpa Call me grandpa You saved my life twice Don't worry, Lou family will... Just cover you Who dares to bully you? That means you are making things difficult for my Lou family. Silly boy, did you hear me? Got it Got it Grandpa, just take good care of yourself. Don't worry about my affairs. Oops, this is useless stuff How can I chase a girl like this? Hahaha Girl, look. This is what Grandma Xiaojing left behind. His grandmother said As long as Xiaojing one day Take the initiative to bring the girl to meet the family Just give this to him. No Grandpa, this gift is too expensive. I can't collect My old man wants to express his gratitude You're rejecting this too. You are saving my life. It's much more important than this. Hey What are you still standing there for? Bring Miss Wu with you quick hurry up Hello Grandpa, I'm going out for a while. Take a call oh Hey, go and have a look I really admire you. I I don't blame you Where did you take grandma? You have become more capable, right? How dare you transfer grandma to another hospital without telling us? Grandma has been away for so long. You just discovered it now I haven't seen you guys being so filial. Are you thinking about grandma again? The shares in hand What does it have to do with you? I tell you You are no longer a member of our Ye family. Please tell us your grandmother's address immediately. Believe it or not, I will call the police to arrest you OK Then I'll wait for you to call the police to arrest me It depends on whether you can find me. Also, I warn you Better not to bother grandma. Otherwise If anything happens to grandma I will never let you go Why Damn, this little bitch actually hung up on me How come you are here? Grandpa, I see you haven't come back yet. Let me come out to find you It's okay. I can handle it myself. I'm going to say hello to Grandpa Lou I'm going back first Hey, are you and Rose in the same group? Where did you take the old lady? Tell the truth Otherwise I have you. Ye Jiangbo, you really think this is your ability, right? If it weren't for the rose The old lady died a long time ago. What Hahaha Just because Rose, that little bitch, has such ability snort I'll settle the score with you next time. He can't be really that simple. No no Maybe he's just a poor country boy. What do you want for dinner? Chinese, Western or Japanese food I don't really want to eat Why don't you take me home? Mr. Luo, this gift is too valuable. I'll give it back to you. I said This thing is given to you, it's yours. Tianjin What to do How can I do this? You can have a meal with me What kind of fetish is this? As long as you have dinner with me tonight I can agree to any condition. Really? If I want 100 million You promised me too. What's not allowed? I just spent so much money on medicine for my grandma. It can make Lou Jinxiao OK For the sake of 100 million I can promise But you have to pay in advance. Same old thing Anything Can you go to dinner with me now? ah The manager took me there Your most expensive and luxurious box Excuse me The best box has been booked by a distinguished guest today The remaining boxes are not available. What does it mean? It's not like I don't have money I'm really sorry Do you think this scattered stage is ok? I can give you half price Half Price Then I will go over there reluctantly. Rose, why is she here? Rose Why are you here? This is the place you can come to. That's true. This is a place where even cats and dogs can be put in. I won't come again next time Sister, how about I find you a job? And you have to accompany an old man and be a waiter. It's so hard. I feel so sorry for you It's better to worry about your own life. It's not your place to judge my life. But I remember Didn't you dislike the rubbish I didn't want before? But why are you so close lately? Is it because the Ye family is about to collapse? Are you in a hurry to find a backer? What are you? You are also qualified to say me It's you who has usurped my identity as the eldest lady. More than 20 years Miss identity If it weren't for me The Ye family is still in that poor mountain valley. What are you dreaming about? Wake up. You are greedy for fame What's so great about you, a lousy waiter? Believe it or not, I can make you unemployed with just one sentence What does Ms. Manager have? This woman has been with many old men. She's still here and making a fuss about my dirty appetite I'm going to fire her. What are you? You dare to hit me Don't you know that passers-by are God? God, you are worthy Miss, I'm really sorry to let a casual customer disturb you. We'll handle this Hum, how is it possible? How is it possible? Help him What kind of guest is he? If he is a VIP, I will be the king. Who said that? I'm late, is that okay? fine Who just said Miss Rose is not a VIP customer? Mr. Lou Even if he is a VIP customer, so what? Isn't it just relying on freeloading to get old? What the hell Who are you? Don't let them dirty your eyes How come? Is Rose's identity different? Come in and sit down Uncle and Aunt Jing Xiao came suddenly today Just brought some glass I hope you like it Xiao Jing, how come you have time to come here today? I brought so many things. You are too outspoken. Jing Xiao made a hasty visit today Mainly for the marriage with Miss Shen Xiaojing, this matter came a little suddenly According to the ancestral teachings The engagement between the Shen family and the Lou family It was decided by their ancestors. That must be our ex-husband. Uncle and Aunt Excuse me I came this time I'm here to cancel my marriage. What Did you hear some rumors outside? I don't like my daughter anymore. In this case This marriage is so simple Just quit. You really don't deserve our daughter. Walk Changsha Just call off this marriage. You are the adopted daughter of the Shen family. Still worried about not finding the right one? Actually, this is about Lou's marriage. Rose is back According to the ancestral teachings This marriage contract It should be rose It's Lou Jingxiao This kid doesn't know what's good for him. Let him be So that's how it is I know, Dad. Brother Jinxiao Wait a minute Brother Jinxiao I heard you want to break off your engagement with Shen Jia Is it because The real rich girl Shen Jia came back You don't want to marry her, do you? Rich Lady That's actually the case. Ms. Shen The reason why I divorced Because I have someone I like. But that person is not you Brother Jinxiao How could you What did my sister do today? Are you bored staying at home recently? How about my brothers take you out to relax? This is pretty good. baby What have you been thinking about recently? Tell mom and dad what you want Mom and Dad will satisfy you. Or has anyone bullied you? Tell my brother Big brother will teach his parents a lesson for you elder brother Is it because of my breaking off the engagement with the Luo family? You know all this. Baby Girl Don't worry, Lou Jingxiao is blind. From now on, our Shen family The Lou family is an irreconcilable enemy. Dad, I will definitely let you vent your anger. Need not I'm really fine. Wasn't it just that the marriage was broken off? What's the big deal? Anyway, I am not familiar with the Lou family. That's it. Let your elder brother manage your company Save you from thinking about those unhappy things Yes, if you make money, it's your sister's. The loss is the eldest brother's. Yeah Come sister Is the jewelry company okay? My brother picked it especially for you. Don't you girls like this? Fenghua Group It seems that the only thing missing is the jewelry store. Why not try it? Okay, I'll go to the company tomorrow. good Ahahahaha I'm not a biological child. I will never let you have an easy time. Miss Sasha will be here soon. Show me a good performance Who are you? Standing here to register? If you don't have it, come in. Go aside Don't delay our eldest lady from taking over the company today. You're a science major, right? I'm the one who takes over the company. You take over the company Do you know whose business this is? This is what Mr. Shen prepared for his sister. What are you? Open your dog eyes and see clearly I am Mr. Shen's sister. I just gouged out my eyeballs. Mr. Shen only has one sister. That's Miss Sasha You are definitely not Our eldest daughter is a peerless beauty. How could it be that you are like this? I wonder why the company is in such a state now. It turns out that you scum are an eyesore. You are making fun of us, right? Satire Wait till I take over the company The first one after that will let you go A good dog doesn't block the road Get out of the way You dare to scold us I look at him Can you speak? You are the first one who dares to talk to me like this You wait for me Get him out right away. How long are you waiting here? Hurry up. Unclear See who dares Hello I met two blind people here. Come here quickly Give you a minute Called someone. Hum, put it on him. Hey, let me tell you You still have time to leave now You won't be able to leave later. This is so pure and clear Allen Chu, that's Mr. Shen's secretary. How could he get here? Miss, you are here. Sorry I'm late Missy That's not right. Isn't Sasha the eldest daughter? She also said she would come today. Chuchu experienced this person She is the eldest lady You guys are stopping her here, do you want to die? He is the eldest lady Impossible You mean I'm lying? No no no This lady is here. You are blind Hey Miss I didn't recognize the real Taishan. Hey, please forgive me this time. Rao The company is so poor You have an unshirkable responsibility How can I forgive you? Hey Zhou Tezhu You're here, what's going on? Oh, okay, okay The eldest lady said she doesn't have time to come these days. You don't have to greet me here. Go do what you need to do. Why You said the young lady wouldn't come today. Who is she? Okay you little bitch I'll just say it He pretended to be a lady You're pretty brave. What is your purpose in colluding with him? Believe it or not, I'll tell you Do you dare to pretend to be a lady? I know it's Datong pretending You guys figure it out Who is the real Miss? Of course it's Miss Sasha You two are in cahoots. Pretending to be a young lady to enter the company I'm afraid there is no purpose Wait for the young lady to free up her hands You must take good care of her. Oh, you guys are looking for death. Ha, I started jumping over the wall. Hahaha, let me see how we die. Hahahahahahahahahahaha You wait for me ah Hahahahahahahahahaha It's just a small interest. If you mess with me, you will suffer in the future Brother, why are you here? Your first day at the company Of course I'm worried that you'll be bullied. I didn't expect my sister to be a rose with thorns I don't need to worry about it. It's too early for them to bully me. Let me take you to see it. Here we are, come and sit down Sister, this is the company's information I've had it sorted out for you. Whatever you want to do, do it tonight. Brother, I can handle this little thing myself. You don't have to worry about it. Why are you rushing me to leave? It's a pity that I came here in such a hurry to support you. You are a heartless little bastard. Okay, okay. Brother, I still need to reorganize the company. I received your appliance. Okay, okay, I'm going. Pick you up after get off work Notify all executives to hold a meeting in the conference room Huh, who am I talking about? It's you This fake Shut up, this is the company's new general manager General manager Who said that? Do you recognize this general manager? Of course not. Hahaha, I don't know where this cat or dog came from She also said she was some kind of lady. Just daydreaming you Are you questioning me? Open your eyes wide and see clearly. Is this okay now? Anything else to say? 50 years since the company was founded The most glorious time was 5 years ago Today's sales are declining year by year. Can anyone explain to me the reason? Manager, now is the cold winter period for jewelry Sales will pick up after this period. There's no need to make such a fuss. It's like this every year Business has been good in the past few years. The sales volume will naturally go up, manager. If you don't understand, don't talk nonsense Lest you smile generously Is this your reason? As a sales manager Have you ever looked closely at the sales report? And you, as the head of the raw materials department Have you noticed all the raw materials in the past five years? Are they all scraps? Let me tell you Where did all the good ingredients go? And you Rose What did you call me? In this case Do you have any good method That's natural Everyone, see clearly Start now The company focuses on these products Fully rushed production Must be within two days Rush out a batch of new products Come to the new product launch Remember I demand full effort from the entire company We are working hard to produce this batch of new products This is the company's only chance 10 pieces of jewelry in two days How is it possible? And you see All of the workmanship is complicated Raw materials are rare You are simply forcing others to do what you want. this This is simply impossible to accomplish Why This is the only chance for the company to rise Want the company to return to the throne of the jewelry industry You have to listen to me Manager, did I hear you right? Just based on your 10 drawings Our company will return to its peak Hum, I advise you. Don't waste your time Although our company is not as good as others But at least it's better than the next With your reckless behavior The company might even go bankrupt. I'm afraid you won't be able to take responsibility when the time comes. I said Three days later is the only chance for the company to rise If I can't bring the company back to its peak Then I am willing to resign voluntarily. On the contrary You bunch of losers Get out of here! good Since the manager has this confidence Then we'll wait and see. If your designs It really brought the company back to life. Back to the top Then I, Zhou Yu, will not just pack up and leave. I will kneel down and kowtow to you immediately Well, it's a deal. The company was delayed. Sister, I'll be there soon. Good brother Get in the car and I'll take you there Rose, what's wrong with you? I sent you a message but you ignored me Mr. Luo, we are just ordinary friends. I'm not obliged to reply to your message. Rose on the bus Someone is here to pick me up. I'm leaving first Boss, I have to check. What to check Didn't he say that? Ordinary friends What did I do? How come a woman changes her face so quickly? Hey sister You and Lou Jingxiao I have nothing to do with him. Okay, it's okay. I don't think Lou Jingxiao is worthy of my sister. Look, the data is out. The return of the top jewellery king So far Designer jewelry has sold hundreds of millions of orders Billions of netizens have expressed their desire to have You lose, Zhou Yu Rose, what do you mean? What's wrong with me Stop pretending to be stupid. I didn't expect you to be so vicious. Break Zhou Yu's legs Zhou Yu's leg was broken What a waste. His leg was broken, it wasn't me who broke it You still don't admit it Zhou Yu is still in the hospital He can prove that I was the one who beat him in the hospital. how Do you want your parents to know about this? Then you think I'm evil-hearted. Is it my sister? Who do you think I am? Even if you are your parents' biological daughter, so what? They raised me for more than 20 years. You can't compare this feeling What do you want to do? elder sister You know Zhou Yu is mine Because you don't like me So you're taking your anger out on Zhou Yu, right? I know you don't like me. I can let you beat and scold me as you please But don't take your anger out on other people. Zhou Yu is a bit quick-witted. But he really has good intentions. Just forgive him, okay? My sister is outspoken and rude. Besides, who is Zhou Yu? Is it worth your while to come to me? What do you want to do? Rose, you A bitch One day I will make you get out of this house Ah, sister Don't hit me Sister, you are here Don't go too far Rose, what qualifications do you have to say that about me? Zhou Yu, have you ever thought about If it's me today I'm afraid you'll go even further. Kneel down, Mr. Zhou Don't delay the celebration party. Or you want to kneel at the celebration party I won't kneel today. What can you do to me? You dare to be a rogue Zhou Yu is an adult now You don't care about your face anymore, right? Who can prove that I am a rogue? You are still you Since no one has proved Then I'll go back and help prepare for the celebration banquet. ah Oh, Special Assistant Zhou I just asked you to kneel down. You wouldn't do such a big gift. Go to the hospital quickly I can't seem to move my legs. Missy Zhou Yu has really embarrassed himself this time. I guess I will lose face in the company from now on. He's just a clown. Next Steps You want to pay attention to all sales records of other products This is just the beginning The company will only get better. Miss, you are so amazing. Rose, what do you mean? younger sister You are My brother, don't blame me. I'm too excited. I said my sister broke Zhou Yu's leg He is Shasha You get up from the ground first. What's going on? Brother, don't you pull Shasha for a bit? Start by yourself How old are you? Brother, I know my sister just came back. I'm also trying to be nice to my sister. But you can't be too pampering to her. Zhou Yu is mine after all. I just asked My sister hit me. You hit someone My sister Are you injured? What did you use to fight? Does your hand hurt? elder brother Didn't Sasha's parents say this before? My sister is suffering so much outside We should let her go. Be nice to her Why are you still as ignorant as before? I see Don't blame my sister. I don't feel any pain anymore I really don't feel any pain Shasha, stop acting. You disappoint me so much. I discovered this a long time ago But considering our 20-year relationship We didn't want to say I didn't expect you to frame Rose We can't stand this. Shen Group has several companies under its umbrella It's all because of your poor management that the company went bankrupt. Our Shen family really doesn't lack this little money. But I can't accept deception. You transferred all this money to your foreign account. Shen Shasha, let's stop here. You'll know what to do next. People spread Standing by and watching good My baby girl Make the company flourish Great, you have the style of your father. This is half of our Shen family's shares. Your three brothers and I have already discussed this. I want you to inherit it sooner. No, no, no Hey sister This is what you deserve. You are our little princess. This must be held My sister earned the money in a month More than what my big brother earns in a year Sister, just hold it. He holds our shares. Let the Shen family reach a higher level Yeah, yeah. Wait until later I let my sister raise me. Why This child, Shasha, really disappoints me. We raised him for 20 years. I didn't expect that we would educate him like this. Honey, I've discussed this with your dad. Let Sasha move out You are my only daughter. Let's drink Come Come Cheers baby Let's drink Old Leaf Old leaves You come here to celebrate my birthday. The people who come here are all big shots. We can't afford it now. How about we go back? Just pass one. What birthday is it? You know birthdays. I tell you I spent a lot of money to find out about this. You can't go wrong This is our Yejiaqi Last chance to come back to life Do you understand? Just come here Find those big guys to help us We will surely be able to rise to prominence by then. Don't talk about your little birthday. I'll buy you 100 diamond rings. It seems to be right there. Walk, walk, walk It seems to be here Hey, what do you do? Who are you and what are you doing here sneaking around? It seems to be here What are you doing? Who are you and what are you doing sneaking around there? If something happens to the people here Yes, yes, yes Understand Understand Uh, that's it. We have a very good project in the night market I want to discuss business with your boss. See if you can be flexible. roll Look, Old Ye Even a little waiter dares to treat us like this Okay, okay, okay, stop talking. Rose Why are you here? Why Why are you everywhere? What is your identity? Can appear here What is my identity? You still don't know my identity? Cut you bitch What identity can you have? Don't forget who raised you. I don't even know how much you weigh. Follow me here You are not qualified to enter our Ye family now. Oh yeah No money left? So I came to work in a place like this. Did you sleep with that old man again? Do you think you can be in any drama? Too much bullying you Humph, this is too much Hum Rose When we were your father and mother You don't dare treat us like this. Do you think you are still a phoenix after leaving us? What the hell Phoenix It's a pheasant If it weren't for our Ye family protecting you back then You are a complete pheasant. Who is so bold as to bully my daughter? Baby, it's ok, mommy is here Mr. Shen, why are you here? Of course we are protecting my sister Ye Xiangbo Rose was once your daughter too Have you fed your conscience to the dogs? dog Even dogs don't eat his heart. This kind of person is not worthy of being a parent. Hey, not Lao Wang Mr. Shen is here. Then the two of them Is he Mr. Shen's father? Mr. Shen Yaoyuan Huh, you're pretty smart. Rose's father is the world's richest man, Shen Yaoyuan. Hehe No, wife. We searched everywhere for Rose's home. It is obvious that we are the parents and we have several children. Want to retire early Enjoy a world for two And the three of us brothers are indeed not married I wonder if this is what Mr. Ye found? Hahaha Rose, Mom is wrong. Please forgive my mother. Enough I don't want to see you guys pretending to be good here anymore. At the beginning You said I have severed ties with the Ye family Just now You also said that I am not qualified to enter the Ye family Because you two raised Rose. I'll spare you this time. If there is a next time We in the Shen family will never tolerate or forgive you. We had people give you hundreds of millions in cash. Various shops besides We at Shen's have given you a cooperation project worth tens of billions. You treat my daughter like this. Rose From now on You can't take it from our baby Take away half of the project Walk Not that Mr. Shen. Wait a minute. oops oops How could I be like this? Wife, oh oh I'm sorry. Hahahaha My wife is finished Don't be sad Later You have parents and brothers who love you. I won't let you get hurt at all, dear. Come oops Feeding quantity? There's no other solution. Ahem Look at your dead look I'm ignoring you. So, what can you do, old man? Ouch Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Ouch! Grandpa Grandpa What's wrong with you? What's wrong? Oh my, get up! Open your phone and call Gao Chuan Call that damn girl to me. I'm in so much pain. Ouch How are you feeling? Don't scare me grandfather Call Rose! Otherwise I'll send you to Africa Really clueless. Grandpa Luo It seems that there is nothing wrong with your body. Where exactly do you feel uncomfortable? I My heart aches. Show me now See what's going on Girl I feel very uncomfortable I can't tell. When are you going to see your grandma? You must stay tonight to observe my condition Grandpa Lou, what are you talking about? You will surely live a hundred years. But if I stay here tonight and observe My parents might be worried about me. Grandpa Lou, please lie down and take a rest Good good good I will stay here and observe you for another night. You're staying here tonight. Close to grandpa's room Next to it is my study room Um Mr. Luo, do you have anything else to do? Rose Can you tell me where I did it? Any questions? Can I? Uh, maybe there's a power outage. I'll take a look Don't Don't go, I'm afraid of the dark Don't be afraid, I'm here I'll let Gao Chuan handle it. There is a power outage in Gaochuan Solve it quickly You take a rest first I'll go see what's going on. What's going on? Why Boss It was a short circuit caused by a power outage. All the door locks in our villa All short-circuited You and Miss Rose please wait a moment. Don't worry about that. I can't leave either. Otherwise we'll wait here. Don't worry There are two rooms. I won't do anything to you. I'm going to take a break anyway. Mr. Luo, please go ahead. Lou Jingxiao Lou Jingxiao, you are simply a hooligan Don't watch it anymore ah What happened to kneeling? I'm going to sleep. Good night. install I want to have a good chat with you Why have you ignored me recently? I heard you have A fiancee. I'm with him Already divorced Because I don't want to marry someone I don't love Who is he? Who else could it be? The daughter of the Shen family, Shen Shasha It turns out that he didn't know I was back at the Shen family. I misunderstood him. Okay, I'm going to sleep. You should rest early too. Goodnight Rose She's just jealous. Jealous Luo Jingxiang, what are you doing? Let me go Listen to me Rose I have something very important to tell you. What's important to you? Let me go first. I can't let you go If I let you go, I won't have the courage to say you Rose I like you Will you stay with me? Old Jingxiao Do you know what you are talking about? I know I'm sure I like you Why don't you forget He personally called off your marriage. This can't be done Please let him succeed. What kind of like does Mr. Lao mean? I swear I have nothing to do with Shen Shasha The only person I like is you so You are jealous Right Prove that you like me too, right? love to I've passed by but never met you. I want you to die Why Why What's up Hahahaha Uh uh rose Why don't you answer your parents' calls? Are you still angry with your parents? Mom and Dad miss you so much Haha, come and see us, please Aren't you disgusted when you say this? I have already repaid your kindness in raising me. Make you rich overnight Give you night vision This is my greatest reward. Our father-daughter relationship has come to an end. Hey this This unfilial woman Since it's so awesome Why didn't you say it earlier? What should I do with my husband? No more roses Are we going to continue to live in hardship? What else can I do? What to do? Mom and Dad I just moved into this house. Please let me pass Hard times? Ah, what should I do? My life is so hard. What should I do? Shut up It's because of you. I won't come back early or late. Lao Yi, what are you doing? snort Let me go The coach is right, right? That's right, brothers. Who are you? I'm the one who caught you Don't come over here, don't come over here New Year's Goods It's him, right? It is indeed the best Brothers are blessed He just remembered to record your process. If you do well, I will reward you handsomely. Hahahahahahahaha Rose how are you feeling Are you injured? Don't worry, I'm here. You are here Don't worry, I'll save you. I feel so bad Help me Lu Jinxiu Do you know who I am? If the poison doesn't balance the yin and yang I'm afraid it will be painful I do Why do you eat clean? I don't want to be responsible. Shouldn't you be responsible for me? You are a man Why should I be responsible for you? OK Then I will be responsible for you How about going to your house to propose marriage? Propose marriage Okay, are you sure you want to go? There's no flood monster in your house. Why can't I go? Okay, I'll take you back to my house. But Whether my parents agree or not depends on you. I have such a rich son-in-law Why don't your parents agree? Baby Girl What's wrong with you? Parents, Brothers Let me introduce you This is my boyfriend Lou Jingxiao Say hello to everyone No, why didn't you tell me earlier? You are from the Shen family Honey, you didn't ask me. I Uncle and aunt Three Brothers I came here this time to tell you that I like roses very much I want to marry Rose Let her marry me What the hell The three of us haven't agreed yet. I just want to ask my sister Daydreaming Daydreaming Not You Didn't I call off your marriage with my sister? ah Good retreat Hum, work snort