Do you have to rotate the whole time? Hello, this is Katharina. We loaded the material cable car with our stuff. Okay, we've got it covered. Whether good... Not that a bird shits on it. We are on the way to the Neue Bamberger Hutte. I can work there for a week and help. There are strenuous, busy days ahead for me. The special thing about the hut is that it is the hut of the Bamberg section, I come from Bamberg, and me and my little sister Verena almost rented this hut. I've always dreamed of having my own cabin in the mountains. But I also know that this life and work are extremely hard. That's why I want to find out for myself whether this is just a romantic idea or whether I could really do it. Good bye. - Good bye. Hi, I'm Kaddi. - Hello, I'm Martin. Since I'm from Bamberg and it's the Neue Bamberger Hutte, I bring Bamberger beer with me. I hope you drink beer. I don't drink beer. - None?! The most important thing in service is the table numbers. 61, 62, 63, 64, 65. 31, 32, 33. 51, 52, 53. 41 to 48. 36, 37. - Phew, okay. I'm going to try out what it's like to live and work in the mountains. Once on a small alp in the Swiss mountains. Look, it's really beautiful over there. No, not back there. And I don't know anything about cows. Do you have cow dung here? And then I'm in a large hiking hut from the Alpine Club. I've never worked in the restaurant industry. I know that I'm probably not very talented at this. No, you grip with your thumb at the top and your hand at the bottom. If you only have two, take it like this. Attention, attention, attention. It gives me options for the future. It shows me: Would this be a possibility for me to live like this? Assuming it's good for me and I don't act completely stupid. We have a brief misunderstanding. Hello, hello. I am the Kaddi. Nice, Kaddi. Hi, greetings. - Good. Hello Albert. Now do you dare? - Yes. Good, nice. Let's see how it turns out. - Exactly. In any case, it's nice. Okay, so. So, thank you. Okay, that's the kitchen. This is ours, but it is also storage. Because we don't have that much space and then things are stored everywhere. Down into the stable. That's where the cows come in. Then we go milking. There is a very large bedroom above the cowshed where Agnes accommodated me and the camera team. Nice, right? Super. We'll go to the stables later. Would you like some overpants from me? I have long pants with me. Otherwise you'll get an overgown from me, like a pair of dungarees. - I like to wear that too. Let's see if I fit into Agnes' pants. Actually, I'm not afraid of cows. But they're just big animals. I have also experienced situations where cows are or were no longer quite as relaxed. We have to do this a little longer. Okay, kids. Whoa, whoa, come! Okay, wow. It wasn't so clear to me that you could call cows. I milked by hand once. A little something came out. But I don't know whether this is suitable as a concept for milking 12 dairy cows every day, my milking skills. You can come to me sometime. I'll show you. You can do it like this here. Exactly. Does L work too? - Probably works too. Bigger is always possible, perfect. - Yes. Have you ever waited tables? - No, not at all. This will be fun. - Yes, just. Always very relaxed. If you're stressed, it doesn't get any faster. Completely relaxed, one thing after the next. Because when you get hectic, you throw something down. Completely relaxed. I'm not a klutz. I'm someone who always does 3,000 things at once and gets confused. "I can take that with me, just give me that," and then it was one too many. Okay , now I'm properly dressed. I'll follow along. Today we only have 50 guests. - Okay. It gets crowded on weekends. - At the weekend we are completely full. Ah, okay. - So really full. The biggest challenge at the Alpine Club hut will be the many people and not being able to be by yourself. That there is always someone around you and that you have no space for yourself. I hope that I can be of help to you. What do you expect? That you are a little help and not just work. This is always more difficult in the beginning. - Yes. The boys and Nina work between 40-48 hours a week. Ah yes, okay. - So, a day off. Edith and I work between 14-16 hours a day. If you take a tray... I don't think about it anymore, I just take it. How you put it is the same. It's logical that you don't put the heavy things at the front and that it doesn't tip over: logical. But you always take it that way? - I always take it like that. Some people wear it that way too. I think that's stupid because then I don't have one hand free. If I needed my hand to hold the door, it would tip. But if you have three of the bottles on it, then it's a different matter. But if you put it on your arm and not here in front. That's... More to the body overall, right? - Exactly. Then it stops. This is a time when it either turns out that everyone says: &quot;What does she want in a hut? She doesn't even check it.&quot; Here, too, I don't mean: She doesn't know how to pour a beer, but rather: Even if I explained it five times, she doesn't understand it. She's not the type for that. Here you go, table 52. Take it in your hand, it's easier. If you only have two, take it like this. Oh, you mean the ... - ... glasses. You're right. - Is considerably lighter. So, ski water and cyclists, probably. Do you want something else? - We'll let you know. Exactly, thank you. Elderberry line, soda lemon, table three. Table three is back there. I'll take another look. But I think so. - Yes. Exactly. It all started with me carrying out things that Martin had picked up, pouring them out, and I'm carrying them out. Here's to the 33rd. Yes, thank you very much. If you can't be friendly to the guests, that's an absolute no-go. You have to approach guests in a friendly manner. You have to laugh at jokes they make, even if they aren't good. Let a poop guest be there and tell me for the third time, that the beer is poorly poured. I have a short fuse there. So, is that for you? - Yes. I am the new intern. Hello, Kaddi. Lemon water and this is the regular water. And that's soda water. Please. Let's see if I can do this. No, you grip with your thumb at the top and your hand at the bottom. And where the drink is? - Yes. Thank you very much. Where are they sitting? Look, now I made a mistake. Ah, they're back there. Now I've found her again. Thanks. - Gladly. You have to keep turning it off because otherwise you'll be ordering out of your back pocket. I can take orders now when I can. I'll see what's going on. Look what I have. I didn't think he would give it to me so quickly. The tables. Articles ... dessert and cake. Pumpkin seed cake. It's actually not that difficult. What do you want on the first day? Please. No, she tries very hard. She's in a good mood. Those are the most important things. Clean the teats nicely. - But they don't get clean. Now you notice that it has become firmer. Now she has something in her. - Yes. That's the milk. Just up and then down. I can't do that. I'll do this for the first time. That's a bit complicated. - Okay. Look. - Ah yes, okay. Now the milk is coming nicely. - Exactly. Or if you do that, there will be milk in it. Now we're hanging on. That's where the pin comes in. Then you have a vacuum. Then you take it that way. OK. You see, now comes the milk. Sometimes it's super easy and sometimes it's really difficult. I don't check that. When you start milking, you think to yourself, how is milk going to come out? You're messing around with each other's udders and you already feel like a bungler. But something is coming. I can't get it right here. Here comes... Exactly. Ah yes, okay. That doesn't matter. This is still a bit wrong here. Next. Good. Let it hang. Exactly, great. It's tiring, warm. - Yes, yes. It's just in the stable, you know? - Yes. You either love it or you don't. The work is simply intense. You won't do that if you don't put your heart and soul into it. This is how I imagined milking. I find it interesting how suddenly you don't care about standing behind the asses of cows and not thinking: If the animal kicks out, then I have a problem. You get used to it super quickly. To struggle through there too and to tie her up here at the front. I don't think that's so bad. I don't like you shitting on me, thanks. Do you have cow dung here? - Yes, apparently. There is water. Come over here. Is it that bad? - Hair, all full. This is definitely good for the skin. - Do you think? Who knows. Is it closing time now? - No. But I'll spare her a little. She doesn't have to do the night shift. She can get up early with me tomorrow. No more room for improvement? Will you leave her alone in the stable tomorrow? No. We have a very strict boss. No. But if he's not there, it's not so bad. Exactly, he hears it and doesn't see it. Now it's just after 10. I'm glad I can sleep. At 5:30 a.m. we make butter. Ie, I'll set the alarm for 5 or something. Do you already know? - The cheese dumplings. I've already been told that it's also a bestseller. OK. I'll see if I can find it. Would be good, right? And now I press balance. Perfect. Thanks. - You were my test subject. I hope everything works. I had the feeling that I had become a more complete employee thanks to the Orderman. Has it arrived? - I don't know. This comes out in the kitchen. - Ah, arrives in the kitchen. Yes. I have an order. I'm a little proud. Kasspatzen. Balance. Running. It's running. What did you do before? Did you have another hut? No, we are career changers. - Okay. I was a dairy farmer. - Ah, okay. Edith worked in tile wholesale and retail. Our farm burned down three years ago. Oh. And Edith lost her job at the same time. So we have... ...suddenly... - Completely new beginnings. ... both had time. I think it's cool to get involved in such an adventure and start something . So I think it's cool at that age. As someone who had nothing to do with the area, I think it's cool. I find it extremely brave. My sister and I once applied for the hut. I have my application with me. Look. This is my sister. It's me. The photo is simply amazing. - Yes. The perfect picture for it. You might think it was just for this application. It was at a time when I was considering whether I would at least work in a hut for a season. Then I said: "We'll apply." My comment was probably: We can do it, they won't take us anyway. We were pretty creative. Our hut experience is limited to Jausenbrettl and Kaiserschmarrn tests from the Salzburger Land to Vorarlberg. I never drink an estimated 27 pine schnapps stamps per year. I'm about to cry. That's really sweet. We have no idea about material cableways, small sewage treatment plants or water turbines. Nevertheless, we believe that we fit in with the Neue Bamberger Hutte, like Bamberg and its tradition in the Kitzbuhel Alps. How we drove to Bamberg for the interview. I was really nervous. More or less the next day the confirmation was there. I sat there and cried because I was so unsure about many things. Being responsible for a team, being financially responsible. Then I was in a relationship at the time. What does this mean for this relationship? I lacked the courage to say that I would give it a try. But that's why it's exciting for me to see how you do it. I think it's cool that you're also career changers. For example, when should I be ready tomorrow morning? Not in the morning at all, but count on one. Can I go hiking? You can go hiking, you can go up to Wildalmsee. That almost surprised me a bit. You already have this idea: you actually work day in and day out. I've already established that, that's not the case. The day after tomorrow you could make breakfast. You will see our breakfast tomorrow. This usually doesn't leave much to be desired. Then I got up early, walked out of my pigsty and you look to the right and then you see this mountain range. The first sun shines on it and you think to yourself: Yes, exactly. Do you like a coffee? - Absolutely, thank you very much. There's still room here. We have butter that is too warm. That's a bit... And normally it's nice and smooth, but because it's just too soft now... I'll let you have a go. Is it okay? - Yes. Good thing we're not wider. I'll start with how I think you did it, if I remember correctly. That can't be that wrong. You have to take a little more. And in there with the balls. Just from back to front. - That's how you did it, right. Exactly, and now it's good. Now like this. - Cancel. Exactly, rotate. - Look. That's not possible. - Come on. So again. I just can't do it that well. No master has ever fallen from heaven. You always think it's easy. Yes, it looks easy too. So. Can you do it? Then it works. Milking is easier, right? I wouldn't say that now. I don't know if I've ever seen such a good hut breakfast. I have to prepare this tomorrow. I'm curious how much work that is. Probably a lot. I know that this breakfast has a special place in this hut, that it is extremely important that everything is good or perfect. My tactic is... I don't know exactly what I need to do tomorrow, but if I need to put it up here, I have photos now. Then I'll do everything right. I've already taken my socks off. My plan is to walk to this lake. I wouldn't go any further. He did say: "Be prepared for one thing." It may start earlier. For me, mountains are definitely a kind of playground where I can do sports and let off steam. Something I enjoy, but where I can also spend a good time with friends. So a meeting place where you can have deeper experiences together that connect you. Mountains are a space to grow, to grow together, to grow in community or personally, alone. Mountains are a place where you can find peace. Yes. The break isn't quite over yet. I don't have to be down until one, but I'd like a bit of a buffer. Dude, that's really hard. The nice thing about the Alp is that you get to do so many different things. My body battery is on... Wait. She keeps telling me: recovery time delayed to five due to high stress . What I think could be really challenging, long term, is that you just never have time for yourself. Not three minutes to yourself. Or super rare. You have to be the type of person for that. I'm probably not that person, in the long run. The chance of actually having free time is greater in a large hut than in an alp. Alright, miss. Can we please make this work? So I can't do it with that one. Then you can put on the second one, so clean. It was now super easy. That's wildly different. It's nice when you realize: I can do it better now than I did yesterday. I think it will take a third time. All good things come in threes. We just have to be boss. - Yes. And if they were boss, then we would be second. And how am I a boss? Think ahead and always see how the cattle react. Then let's see. - Let's start. Gladly. You can go through at the top. Push forward. I make sure it goes down nicely. OK. - If that's good. For me it was just exciting to see, will the cattle come with me? And how are they keeping up with me? How much do I have to do to get them to come along? Just because Albert and Agnes can just call them doesn't mean they'll come with me. Wrong direction. Very good. Do you have to go any further now? Now it fits. Now we have to check the fence. Should I take some of it? Now they come up with the cattle in the morning. Yes. We're now putting a fence through the wooden post on the right so that they can't go up there. I have a dead end at the back. That I can bring them home safe and sound and give them back. And that is responsibility. Now you can run up there with that. That's the worst thing if you can't bring all the animals down. Drive the animals to this higher alp. They never do it alone, they always do it together. Because it's so difficult to keep track of things. They then all have to go through this bottleneck. You can't be everywhere at the same time. That's it? - Yes, that's it. Thank you very much. Do you want to order something too? - Naturally. Look, okay. And what? - Half a half. For me too. - For me too. I think you're 37. Yesterday I didn't throw anything down and didn't make any major mistakes. That's a good thing. It would be nice if it continued like this. Yummy. Cheers. Many of the guests today seem to only arrive after work. Does everything come at once? - Yes. Bam. Let's go. Off goes the mail. I was really nervous because I was afraid that it wouldn't work at all. Table 3. So. Attention, attention, attention. Hot and greasy. And you bring out the food with several people. As someone who has never been through it, you're afraid it's chaos. Do you all have meat? - Yes. We have a brief misunderstanding here. I think it works quite well because it just happens somehow. Three plates for the second time, by the way. And it's a bit cool when it's going really well. That would be nice, right? Yes, well. It's a bit cool. Imagine saying, "This is my cabin." That would be cool. It's now 5:45 a.m. And I have to go downstairs and help make breakfast. I looked at the photos again of how breakfast was arranged yesterday. Because I took a photo of it so I could put it up like that. Good morning 70 eggs, you can find them down here. They are added here and, if possible, without messing with them. OK. I love currants. These eggs are so difficult to peel, it's a disaster. I watched as Edith took an egg out of this sideboard that I had peeled and cut into pieces . Maybe it was my peeling and halving skills that made it less than perfect. This was somewhere here, I think. And this here, right? And then of course put everything the way it belongs. There is an order there. I would have felt a bit stupid saying, &quot;I have a photo from yesterday. Let's take a quick look and see if it fits.&quot; Here? -Yes. Good. How does it look? I did everything quite well, at least Cosmin said: &quot;Good job.&quot; Now I'm a little proud. Then you can have a coffee yourself and relax. Then it starts again. Why are you doing this? - Earn money. Short time, a lot of money. Of course you can earn a lot more money in the valley, even with a normal office job, but you also spend more money. Here you have no apartment, no food, no drinks, nothing. This means you can earn a lot in a short period of time. Then I drive it in India for five months in the winter and spend my money there. And that's how I always do it. Work, earn money, save, spend it all again... Cappuccino is already on the way. This is a strong weekend. You have weekends like this once or twice a year. Can I assemble the milking machine yet? Yes, you can start there. This is the right thing to do. I find it fascinating how smooth everything looks on Agnes. And she said: "Then watch Albert." That works quickly, quickly. I have a bit of respect for it because I don't want to act stupid. I just wanted to do it right and I knew I had to know. And that down there? Fits. Shall we start? - Yes. Good. Check again whether I did everything correctly. Yes, yes. Have you done this often? So once, twice? So I watched it once and did it once. Very good. - All respect. Come on Samantha, come on. Martha. -Samantha. Oh, that's a nice name. Thanks Elsa. You can go to Gloria. - Yes, hello Gloria. She was calm, she talked to the animals so that they had attention. That they don't get scared. I can't say anything isn't good. Very nice. Now you already know what her name is. That was the... - ...Samantha. Sorry, I forgot your name. When you work so closely with animals and notice how you can interact with them, that's great. And if I had been there longer, I would have had a favorite cow. Clemens and Kaddi, you can now take all the cattle to the back on the left side and then simply move a few pieces forward and upwards. I go to the right side with Gin and take everyone to the back on the right. You bring up the rear. In terms of the number of pieces, these animals are worth around 300,000 francs. You have the responsibility. Today I'm getting a visit from my colleague and friend Toni Schlosser. And I hope I have some time for her too. Let's see how bad things are today. So I was hoping that I would be needed a little bit, that it would be really good that I was there. That was it for now? Okay, that's fine. Kaddi, stop! For the lady, both together. - Very good, thank you very much. Clatter, clatter, clatter. Here he comes. There is the Almdudler. Is Toni coming soon? - Yes. In a quarter of an hour, I think. I'm looking forward to. I'm really most excited to see what she's like. So whether I get there now and she's happy to see me or she doesn't have time to notice me at all. Or she starts crying when she sees me. We are the three MOUNTAIN FRIENDS: Kaddi, Lisa and me, Toni. MOUNTAIN FRIENDS: The podcast for your life with the mountains. We always have adventures together, but this time the Kaddi is completely on her own. Neither does Kaddi. The Kaddi is in there? - Probably. Kaddi? Kaddi! Ms. Schlosser, I already saw your name on the overnight list. And do you have the best bed... Hello. ...reserved? 52? 52, yes. That was actually a big one. - Now I'm already in the way. White splash 0.5? Yes, I thought to myself, I ordered it differently. Should I wait for you outside? - Yes, sit down. OK. So how long is the hot food available? - Until 4 p.m. Perfect, thank you. Look, here comes your soup. - Thank you. Enjoy your meal. Oh, here she comes. Or not? Is she finally coming now? Well, Ms. Schlosser? Hello, Ms. Kessler. I would like to order something. Also something to eat? Then I'll bring the card. Also eat something. How are you doing? I'm doing well. - You look totally fresh. Real? It doesn't feel quite like that, but... You're already moving through the tables with total confidence. It's actually fun, especially when there's a bit of alarm. And it works. Then I take the roasted bread dumplings. The roasted bread dumplings on table 53. Do you now have to work non-stop until the evening? I have another hour break at 5 a.m. Then you have to go back to work? - Until 10.30 p.m. When can you spend time with me? At 5 o'clock. I'm glad you're here. Are you paying cash? - Yes. Then I can get 83 euros from you please. 90. - Thank you. I just thought to myself, it fits in here. A hut like that would suit her. Cheers. That they always stay together and just stay relatively quiet. When stress comes in, we are the ones who don't like it anymore. They like longer. - Probably. They just have real power. And if someone freaks out, it's not cool. I always say that fear is a bad advisor. You have to have respect. You always need that. But fear is not good. Hopefully everything is going well now and hopefully no cow gets hurt. We collect them. Come on, come on. No, not that way. About it. Look, it's really beautiful over there. No, not back there. Are you going over there now? Oh, I'm about to fall down too. There's a small stream and that's exactly where the difficult part starts. Because this gravel field is quite steep. This is the bottleneck that everyone has to go through. That there is no rush, that no one is pushed off when the path becomes narrow, when it is dangerous. This is how you can prevent injuries. If you can do everything calmly. And then you're basically through the eye of the needle, then suddenly calm returns. Then you sit at the top and have this view down into the valley and the beautiful light and the cows stand around you and graze and give you such a sense of serenity. The Alp promises me more variety and diversity, even if it probably promises me less free time at the end of the day. But then the tasks are closer to what I'm looking for in the mountains. I go out, check the fence, move, sweat. I look at the view. You don't need a lot of experience. Because you can learn anything if you want. Someone needs the will to persevere. And are you taking your break? I hope so, honestly. That would be nice. Is there still lasagne? Then I eat another one. Cool, enjoy. As of now I have already walked 13,196 steps. How many hours do you have left? - Four. The same thing again. I can't remember the last time I didn't look at my phone for so long. But cool, that's what you wanted. - Yes. You can see that you like it. It suits me too. You can see how demanding that is. I think it's cool how they do it. Between the ages of 50 and 60 they simply gave up their old lives, came here and took over this hut. I find that extremely brave. I really like it and I can still imagine both working there and leasing something like that at some point. Really, could you really imagine being employed? Yes. - I find that interesting. A seasonal job in a cool team, in a cool hut, can be really good. It's not like you just work from morning to night, but you also have free time and time for yourself and you earn an okay amount of money. Of course it's hard. I mean, I didn't go to the bathroom. I haven't eaten anything. You just have to want to work. Okay, I'm going back to work, but we'll see each other. I have goosebumps. I didn't even dare. Both the tasks that I did in the hut and those on the alp are absolutely doable as a career changer. But when I think about what do I do if I quit this apartment and my job, it's the cabin. Because I can't live on the Alp. I hope I was able to help you a little. Especially on Saturday. - Yes. You were a big help. - I'm pleased. Thank you, take care. - Puddle you. I already know that I can do that. I can also put something on my resume like: I've milked a cow 15 times. I can serve an orderman. If you're ever looking for someone, next season. Subtitling: BR 2024