How are they? It occurred to us here, talking to the kids, to continue doing these tutorials, more like mini tutorials that we are doing that are to practice for the courses that we are recording at the same time. Also add up what the entire project would be like, that is, from the time the email arrives until the final image comes out, that's what I'm going to do, I just started a project recently, 3 days and for that I'm going to follow the project doing maybe four or five entire videos from when the email arrives until the final image comes out, and I record it in the process that things happen . We started this project, as I said, just three days ago, so well, what you're going to see now is from when the email arrives to the camera part, I think I'm recording this one back that's why I don't remember. Anyway, I hope that This is useful to you, I imagine that I would have liked to see what it was like in a studio from the moment an image arrives until it leaves. I hope it helps you. I have everything ready as you see here. Well, the first thing that arrives is the email where they ask us for the cameras in this case there are five, they ask us for an exterior front exterior and two interiors. Almost all studios nowadays send us their files and their 3D model, there are times we use it, there are times we don't. The truth is that this is fine, the model of the school is this is a school in the capital, I don't know exactly where and a little bit about the environment, what we ask for is always Google, to review the environment and model everything as precisely as possible. around, we already did that. So we receive this, and we also receive a proposal for the cameras that they want, in this case they send us this one, it would be one from the front, one half from the side at night, this one that also appears from the front and this aerial one, which in this case to make this camera we always ask for a photo of a drone, and in this case they cannot take it so we have to propose one that does not require a photo of a drone, following this what do we do? ... well, go here some, as I said, just review the environment, start evaluating if it is going to be an image with a lot of light, if there are many trees, if the reflections, if the street is very wide, if there is traffic..., I don't know various things they can put together and do. The image in this case is a street that is not very wide, we have a huge building here in front, and many trees. This can be good and it can be bad, since the trees are always good because they give good reflections, good shadows and it gives the image an atmosphere. nice but they also don't let you see the building anymore when the client is asking for a camera from here looking this way and there is this huge tree, well the easiest thing is to peel it right?.. obviously, but sometimes it can look good sometimes it can look good kind of sad, anyway, so the lot is this, the building is going to be here and this this this old building is part of the school, that is, it is also important for this particular project, and we have all this here what we already did here Gabo did, who recently started working in the studio and is doing very well, already modeling the environment a little. Let's see, I'm going to walk around the building a little bit here, the place that was next to it is already textured so I see some parts and these two places that you see here, since they are a little further away, they have less definition, the original school is also modeled , The old one, which is this one here, And what else and in front as it will never be seen, but it will affect the reflections, a Box modeling was made, which is good, the Google map is used, a quite model is made Quickly let's see how it is, nothing. This is only used for reflections and for shadows, it's not going to be more than that. So we have this and the first thing we do is set up the cameras, which I'm not going to show here because we already have them set up. We put together a Miro for this project and uploaded it. They are the different camera options. This is one at night because they had requested it. I really don't like this one. Well, here the client has already approved. This is the one I like the most and the one we are going to do, luckily, and it is quite pretty, I imagine a powerful future for this one, we have this proposal too and then for the one on the side we have these two proposals that we sent you, which is this one that is a little easier for us to be honest, because we see less surroundings but it's in me opinion has a better future, that this part has already been modeled or what I saw just in the file I am the camera there still to see There.... goes next for the aerial proposal without a drone we proposed this one, this one and this one, and He asks us here and this is a second step with the client to see if the building is not cut out and he did not respond today, I just uploaded this, it is Okay and for the other cameras Okay okay, this is a very in the First, raise the eye height a little, Ok, now we are going to make this easy, we still do not have specifications for the materials. and this is not going to be a tutorial. Maybe in a second episode I will quickly record how to progress with the materials, but we are not going to be explaining how to make each one. The idea is &gt; How do you start it? How do you continue? and how does it end...? So I hope you like it and we get to make a finale of good images of this. greetings