Socrates lived between 469 and 399 B.C.E. in the entire history of humankind. He is sometimes considered as the founder the philosophy of Skepticism, which has as through systematic doubt and continual testing. Although Socrates hasn't written anything, Most of the things we know today about his Xenophon whose writings are in the form of These writings gave birth to a new literary Unfortunately, he is also famous for his tragic In 399 BCE, he was accused of corrupting the the city's official gods. After a trial that lasted just a single day, He spent his last day in prison, refusing The way his life ended can be considered as For one to really practice philosophy, they everything even at the risk of their own peril. Everything about Socrates was impressive: as well as in his views and methods. And this made many of the people around him It is unfortunate that Socrates did not write Also, it is said that each age produces a core fundamental teachings of the original to help you better understand his teachings in this video we bring you 9 life lessons 1. Open yourself to the truth in knowing you know nothing..." This quote is one of the most famous quotes It is also called the Socratic paradox. It was called a paradox because such a statement This quote is a reply of Socrates to the Oracle the wisest" and Socrates replied to this he knows nothing. He simply considered that he didn't know Truth is that which is in accordance with for developing a mental model for seeking the Socratic method, consisting in analyzing the hypotheses on which the argument is constructed, and if they are valid. Thus, according to Socrates, we can pursue others and digging deeper into problems and His teachings are extremely valuable even critical thinking in how we analyze our life If we just eat, sleep, work and procreate, In Socrates's view, such a life would not It is important to never stop learning new and to never assume that once you know something, You need to always question what you know knowledge constantly. For example, imagine that you are working that you have to follow a certain design methodology, Instead of just working by following orders, ask your boss as many questions as possible it is, who proved that it is really the best If you find the explanation unsatisfactory, and you can increase the quality of the design Don't just follow orders and pretend that Only through acknowledging that you do not others questions to find out more, thereby by extension, improve your career. 2. Be courageous who does not run away, but remains at his Socrates was a contrarian and a polarising Not only through his looks and behaviour, people around him, and because he did not Due to this, in 399 BCE he was arrested for which lasted just a single day. In the end, he was sentenced to death. In spite of being offered the possibility before his tragic death. He died by drinking poison hemlock. Certainly, Socrates was a man of great courage During his life, he was never afraid to go was seeking the real truths behind the common he refused to be part of the political arena. No matter the cost, we need to stand up for For example, when your boss at work asks you refuse it even at the risk of getting fired; an old relative saying something racist or tough conversation with the people involved. Remaining silent when you have to speak up with the abuser or with the criminal and causing Courage is not only a desirable trait we need being. 3. Be authentic live with honour in this world is to be what Socrates never shied away from proclaiming He did not take sides in politics, he was in political and social status. Ultimately, his stubbornness to be who he death. But, due to the fact that he had the courage he lived honourably and his fame has lasted Socrates was also bold enough to proclaim He did not hesitate to ask others questions Even in regards to physical appearance, he he was. Most of us do not have the courage that Socrates straightforward, more honest, to better align This means to stop seeking the approval of to impress others in order to be seen as we It is much better instead to work more in others in regard to who we truly are. If you are not happy about how you look, work of buying clothes to try and fake it. Stop pretending to be who you are not and addressing the main sources of the problems, of yourself. 4. Be humble humility joins them." It is said that Socrates had an unpleasant with rough facial features, bulging eyes, He was extremely mocked due to his looks, He continued to use the same cloak every day, his hygiene or for eating and drinking well. However, also because of his humble appearance, walks of life, whomever he was finding in or female, young or old, slave or free, rich His humility gave him a special freedom and types of people. Although only a few of us would want to look we can still adopt some aspects of his humility experience life more fully. Humility means first of all freedom from pride The bigger your status in society, the more If, for example, you are a manager in a factory, employees working under you and listen to If you adopt an arrogant and demanding attitude, from your subordinates. If you want your staff to respect you, you They are the creators, the ones actually performing them unique, valuable insight you can't If your staff feel like they are truly valued return that respect with delivering to their Only when you have created such a connection, feedback which you can use to improve the The more humble we are, the more approachable with others, leading to more, better opportunities. 5. Beware the busyness of life In the words of Socrates: "Beware the barrenness In the late fifth century B.C.E., when Socrates fame, wealth, honors, and political power They always seemed to have a busy life, but By contrast, Socrates neither laboured to in affairs of state. Rather, in spite of his popularity, he chose He was not even interested in being considered He believed it was more important to teach their memories with new things that they may Doing things just for money or for fame was that living a life without a real purpose Following Socrates' example, we should all but rather a meaningful life. Nowadays, there are so many activities we If we don't know how to limit our desires risk the possibility that we completely fill to stop and process, to digest everything and make better, considered decisions going Running after money and fame won't give All it does is cost time and energy - both that actually fulfil you - things you really You don't have to try to do everything you Just start by figuring out what is really accordingly. Life can only become meaningful when you do 6. Be a citizen of the world a Greek, but a citizen of the world.&quot; We should not be defined by artificial borders People should not be just citizens of their Now more than ever there are many more things Unfortunately, we humans typically think of our town, our county or state, our country... If the internet has taught us nothing else, common with someone thousands of miles away We are all human beings. No more, no less. And making judgements about a fellow human colour, gender or in fact anything other than Socrates understood this very well, even though Greece was divided into many smaller states wars between them. But Socrates was not a fan of politics, he he was more interested in finding an objective himself with a certain group of people. In the same way, we should be interested more us than in the apparent differences between If you meet someone from another country, different they dress from you, or how they physical and psychological needs you have over your head, to feel you are part of a your family and so on. All humans on this planet have the same basic we should engage with one another. We are all citizens of this world. 7. Be happy with less you see, is not found in seeking more, but Happiness is by definition an end goal of Happiness is not a given, it requires a certain And the fewer desires we have, the easier Socrates believed that the real secret to By being so, you can be more peaceful, more fewer possessions. Thus, happiness is not a result of having the ability to enjoy the small things in life. We need to work more on our inner state of things as possible, like money, property, An easy way to introduce more happiness into day. You can start by practicing meditation, taking taking part in sport, writing a diary, connecting as simple as watching your favourite comedy Over time you can introduce more new habits, of happiness. Do not expect a new apartment, a new car or Real happiness requires less effort than you small habits you can follow and build on every By being a moral person and focusing on practicing with surprisingly little effort. 8. Don't seek vengeance do wrong in return, nor mistreat any man, For Socrates, vengeance is by definition unjust it. This philosophy on vengeance is expressed debates Polemarchus, who believes that if so to it is just to do good for a good friend Socrates made Polemarchus realize that when not more. So while it may be cathartic to 'balance 'an eye for an eye', the net result is immorality. Harming someone makes neither you nor them Thus, vengeance is never justified. No matter how bad someone hurts you, you need It can be your best friend who betrayed you, about you in public, your partner who cheated you. No matter what, you need to calmly evaluate hurt feelings in a polite way, demand a correction your bags and walk away. Do not do the same thing to the other person, Instead, maintain your humanity, defend yourself, 9. Have a sense of humour video, he says: "By all means marry; if if you get a bad one, you'll become a philosopher." Socrates was well known for his sense of humour. He was often making jokes about his wife Xanthippe, that she had a bad temper and a difficult due to this issue and that the marriage with situations. They even had an argument when she visited She was crying, saying that he was condemned you think this situation was less regrettable Perhaps we can all implement a bit of Socratic No matter the situation, good or bad, making Laughter is a powerful tool which can bring malevolence or bad intentions. Laughter releases stress, and makes us more life. Studies have shown a relationship is more things funny. To make your relationships long-lasting, to have to find the funnies", whether that's enjoy or seeing the same humour in life's intentions, can light up the spirits and create If you enjoyed this video, please make sure playlist and for more videos to help you find wisdom, don't forget to subscribe. Thanks so much for watching.