Everything you need to know about the new Porsche 911 hybrid here in the 911 GTS T Hybrid. so on? Does it make sense? We'll find out with full length. Let's go! Here, this Porsche 911 you can see the lower part has been redesigned. aerodynamic also from this lower design. So the is this vehicle color here. Then the lamps are you get HD Matrix LED. So for even more high-beam the length is 4 meters 55 or 179 inches. So the looks long, but it's not actually that long in interesting, isn't it? And of course, the very, actually draw a vehicle with these really, first of all, you see, standard for the GTS is wheels in the rear. Optionally, we have here the yellow brake color plus as the contrast there. on the suspension technology. The GTS gets the technology and also gets rear-axle steering opposite direction than the front wheels. You can the PDCC. And then connected to that, if you have So you can get two different lift systems for basement garage ramp or something that it doesn't, either you get the standard one, which takes some this extended hydraulic system and then the front to know. Towards the rear, we can see, also I feel, actually. Then we also have that here, here with the you know black chrome tips. But you Exhaust Police. So the outside tips are basically through. And then the light strip goes all the way cooler, of course, when, for example, the brake when you activate the turning indicators, there's the engine, this is, of course, the main the service plug. That's what we can do. That's that's cute. So here you can do like oil and it basically. You can see the coolers here. It's base 911 also gets an upgrade. The base Carrera engine with around 400 horsepower and roughly is the German figure. That's already an upgrade. this new GTS gets a 3.6 liter 6-cylinder flat one turbo less. But why? Well, this turbo is actually have two electric motors in this one here powering the turbo actually, that single turbo. the whole system, the wheels. However, together, on. So the electric power and the combustion bring down like emissions and you comply the new performance. So this one here, as it stands right That's a previous figure of a 911 Turbo. That's, is no turbo lag at all. Of course, when driving it of course, there's been like the huge discussion. system only adds 50 kilograms of weight. That was to. And of course, you know, that's just like we should not feel that. Of course, we are going recuperation possible, for example, but they the brakes, you should not feel anything from the come when we drive it. That battery size, by the board net. And interesting is that the engine voltage system. However, you still have a low to start the high voltage system. That's also to 32 kilowatts, so you can also gain some energy you can see the typical frunk. You can actually That's pretty cool. And, you know, you might not luggage. And this is like 70 centimeters in width is 55 centimeters or 22 inches. So 540 horsepower might have seen here, it says 911 Carrera 4 GTS. with the rear-wheel bias. However, you can get the the interesting thing now is that the acceleration both for rear-drive and all-wheel drive. So it's version can bring the same traction on the ground. and then you tell me in the comments, what do you the lower part, they are indeed active. That's wonder, wait a minute, we are stationary and So by law, for some safety regulations, they have really slow speeds. For whatever reason, that is And then at slow speeds, but not super slow, they then when you drive really high-speed performance, Interesting, isn't it? Yeah, and then you might does it always have the same full power? Hmm, yes when you're driving normally like a customer on a power difference or loss. But then it depends on certain battery level. Yeah, that's, of course, there won't be any difference between the lap hot lap, then actually, the battery is depleted They trimmed it to that one. And then the second little bit less performance. So this is like for customers will never feel that difference. It's with the Sport+ mode and want to do this one hot where it was 8.7 seconds quicker than the it works for the performance. But basically, with the constant power. But in this very case, most feel that because the battery won't be depleted the racetrack, you won't probably feel that at off when you extend the spoiler also when being looks cool. And you can also retract it again. In to retract for safety reasons. And when you want Of course, this happens then automatically when it driving slower again, it goes down. Interior, the door handles, they come towards you like this then just this haptic feedback here is fields. isn't it? Then door closing sound. That's very frameless doors, of course, but still, the door can see here also, it's dual insulation glass. It fits to the exterior color very well. And then doors. And this looks... It depends on how you but it also could be a small seat symbol. triangle symbol. I don't know. Like, it depends on hasn't heard that. Yeah, but it really depends on see a different pattern like in every second you though, the microfiber quality here at the inside I don't know, but maybe it's different on the pockets as we used also from 911, but it's also That's actually nice. Then here, you can open the but you can also do it on the key fob, of course, steering wheel here in the GTS. You also get the really lovely for the best grip, best grazing steering wheel. You can already see these are new come to life. And then the seats here, these have the microfiber in GTS. That's typical for the in this upper part. It feels a little bit less but maybe it's also good that it stays cooler. from the interior trim, pick the GTS because possible yet to get the 9113, sadly. Then here, and also towards me. Then you can see now here really crisp. So the resolution of these you can still argue, if I want a 911, I also view. Definitely. So I would find it cool as well These here offer you more flexibility. Yeah, it 6'2&quot;, blue eyes. And then here I still have well, you can't be fooled. Most Porsche customers reason for that because a lot of people do feel not bad, but it's definitely not the best comfort kilometers, say 600 miles with my 911, I have you take a test seat first, drive maybe like do are fitting for you. But you can't be fooled that comparable to a very luxurious comfort car. You race vehicle. And the seating position itself is, sit down and say like, I want to start driving. really horizontal clean stress, like the carbon there's always this hidden cup holder here on the slim. I always love the analog clock. We still then there's also this red background then here in 10.9 inch. So we can just say 11-inch to make upgrades here. This new manufacturer, we know it can see, it could definitely be quicker overall best infotainment systems, the most reliable ones. it to other manufacturers how quick and, you know, functions quite quickly here from the overview. You can also hear extend the spoiler in the rear. off also when driving static. And of course, if wheel, then also the, yeah, is it extracted? So in that. For example, the sport exhaust system goes is also here, driver POV, very important for the the manual jogs here on the steering wheel. This view. And this is, of course, then here, you also have the rider map view, for example, like this, So like the visualizations are super impressive, also on the left side. So everything you control as I said, analog RPM meter is great, but the the shifting pedals, this feedback they give you, That is really, really good. And we have more keys the exhaust note here. You can have a favorite you can also then, yeah, for example, pick what for example, send it to the Apple CarPlay Android here, the CarPlay integration has been extended control the car vents. First time, you can access really that useful? I'm not so sure about that. So we just use CarPlay like for all the infotainment sounds below. And this here the PDCC, partial anti-tilt function. In the lower part, also really one of my favorite features, this metal knurling can directly access the climate unit. You don't That's the most lovely thing. And of course, you can also do it with the shifting lever. This feedback it gives. That's pretty cool. Then you like stamped in this new, however, is how high clicking feedback. So this is all high quality. but yeah, probably best to just leave it in place It's also adaptive. So this is like the driver cup armrest. Fold it open. You now also have inductive there's less chance of overheating and two USB-C details, they have now modernized the interior. I go without a bench, or you can... This looks it looks weird that my microphone is hanging down something. Yeah, but it's a good placement for the right? So you can either go. Shouldn't it slide know. Or maybe not. Or does it? I'm not sure why but maybe then we have to do it like this. So bench delete or go for a bench like this. And then GTS version. And you can see here behind my seat, sit here. But what we could try is if Lea sits fit on the seat behind that, because then you you have ISO fix here on the outsides each. And microfiber. But then if you think about, yeah, people, but rather for luggage, then you can bag on here, then it's also better than for the just put it here on the back part. And of course, always like with securing the luggage and so on. thing is just to put it down, put the back here of the seat. So like this, Lia could sit in the still work space-wise. Yeah, but then the question You lost something? Yeah. Oh, you like the ankle Does it feel cozy? No. Does it work headroom-wise? and then let's put that one. Does it work? Knee couple of minutes, but yeah, but nothing more. And by the way, when you fold down both rear bench even area. And you might have wondered about yes. But then, here, you have to remove that. And to show you a different color and a different so I really love it. And this is the convertible. the target available with this facelift and also always go for the classic convertible. Not only key fob. That's actually pretty cool. It goes the classic convertible? Here also raises this better wind features. So it has less wind noise, is down than the Targa. You might think that the other way around. And what's also pretty cool large wind deflector. This is a very good solution additional passengers in the rear or not. Well, lack of space in the rear, that's just the fact. increase visibility quickly again if you don't love that system. And yeah, open top in the Yeah. Okay. That happened. Whew. AC, AC? this driving part. Starting here on a little bit higher speed. That was a proper control with the 911 Turbo S or something. That the Lia meter. But you first could very well hear shocked before she could even scream. Wow, that hybrid. I'm really interested to check the video we took actually in that acceleration. Wow. At modes. It is a wide span between the comfort and to do here with this new facelift, that there is modes. So here, the adaptive suspension is also mode and stiffer in the sport mode. However, since standard GTS, 20 inch in the front, 21 inch in some point at the price. Here, the waves and so Just like, you know, when there's some potholes or of course, that you have large wheels and you Wow, this doesn't get old. I mean, is the GTS hybrid. Yeah, performance-wise fulfills Sport+ mode, super sporty need. What a great as well. And of course, you can always shift down turbo lag. Yeah. What is a turbo lag? It's like it is really different. Not sure if you can pick use my right ear, you know naturally the engine is coming from the engine indeed. Like when you this is very interesting. And on the other hand, you are not at high RPMs, then use the throttle sounds from the engines. I wouldn't exactly say the handling. I mean, name change here is just no doubt about that. So I'll also do some labs for real world customer experience here. So this awesome handling. Yeah, just the sound. I the 911 doesn't have the best sports car sounds. as we call them in Germany. They are just not the actually. This does also have a cruise control, You can also set it here up and down with this it's deactivated. And talking about the brakes, although you have recuperation here. And you when you hit the brake, then you see this green then you see the blue. So there you see that the green, it's getting back some energy. And another sport and sport plus? It's like quickly on Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You feel it. Yes, yes, there is plus mode, they use the maximum boost also from from the battery as possible for one lap. And is a larger gap even between sport and sport goals to really have a large difference between turbo lag at all. Then you have great performance The only thing sound-wise, yeah, I mean, this but it wasn't also like the crucial thing before, kilograms extra of weight, yeah, I don't feel definitely live with that. And when it also has also about the consumption or economy. We'll end of our long drive, so we can talk about that. advantages. But is it also the same case on the mode. Let's go. We have a Turbo S in front of us, Let's see if we can catch him here with his GTS. really close to the Turbo S now definitely. Holy using the very same car here from the road. And this is a special thing about the 911. with the same setup, especially here with the GTS Look at that. Great input here from that steering I'm doing. Great control. And of course, here I that really gets you out of the corner really, very balanced. That's great. And look at that this. I just asked the engineer about this. So the throttle, then the pressure is being released, reuse it and have all the time, you know, like it's very interesting. So the thing that you hear much pressure actually. And then the air is being very interesting. Wow. Yeah, seats are is really the steering about the vehicle. Maybe from the interior. It's very different than Wow, and it's super smooth. Also, good tarmac on Let's now switch back to sport. Let's just listen actually. Ah, a little bit on the curves here, bit less extreme. Definitely. Interesting that sport mode now. It's not in sports, but still I have a little bit more performance just from I have this more electric support there. There we but feels really much in control. Love that. car. And yeah, that we also hear some more like on. This is the reason that the GTS is like dampening. So a normal 911 Carrera would be more from everything you hear and also less dampening. works. And what about driving the convertible? prefer. It's very interesting that depending on share. But overall, in comparison to other cars on convertible share because it is a fun vehicle. place. Then you might as well also go for the the Coupe, yes. Although the convertible also if you can drive open top in a nice atmosphere, great, enjoyable feeling, definitely. Also, when Of course, you can also hear a little bit more Yeah, that's just more present, definitely, That could be another reason to go for the itself, if you drive on the racetrack. Then, of there from the chassis and so on. And it's a beside the racetrack, you won't notice a big soft tops are meanwhile so well insulated that rather feel at very, very, very high speeds. Other a difference. But then again, you could just hear what about you? Convertible vocabulary? Sorry. the day. Convertible or camouflage what would you but I want to ask Coupe or convertible. Yeah, it's for us definitely better. Although the Coupe smooth to drive. And yeah, of course, usually but I always find it a little bit disturbing Oh, we have 911 caps. Look at that. There we go. convertible driver with the 911 cabin. Then I definitely really cool here with the convertible. quicker now. So up to which speed can we drive nice, nice, nice. Here I would say at 90 I would think like a speed you can. But there's let me tell you, I said earlier, with the Yeah, I mean, so above 100 kilometers an hour, actually picking up. So it's more comparable to let's say, for example, Audi A5 convertible, BMW 4 something like that. These, let's say mid-size kilometers an hour, like 70, 80 miles an hour, it's already that the windows are picking up. I wouldn't drive these 120 kilometers an hour like that. Do you hear that when I'm rolling I'm scrubbing the ground with the vehicle, and I directly checked with the engineers. What is just basically rolling? Especially after being, rolling. It is actually the Massenschwungrad. the German engineering term for that. So that's engine and this is creating that sound. It's sounds weirdo. For our consumption test, we the same way back, 100 kilometers downhill. recuperation effects. And the one way up was the and the way back was 7 liters on 100 kilometers. kilometers. So it's a little bit less than 30 MPG I think quite acceptable as for the consumption due to this recuperation effects. When we talk to warn you because the base 911 starts at now price. And the GTS Hybrid actually starts stands here right now with also equipment and are 10,000 euros extra. So the overall car, as all-wheel drive spec, 218,000 euros. And it is also works very well to eradicate this turbo lag. that this is also ridiculously overpriced. Yes, but the prices have gone so skyrocket on the meanwhile, just insane. You just have to admit no doubt about that. And of course, we have