In the years after World War changed due to new Families in the 1950s to be convenient and filling. And some of the dishes in American diets reflected So, today, we're at what nuclear families in the United States. But before we get started, to the Weird History channel. After that, please and let us know what other you would like to hear about. OK, let's peel the foil back and see what we got. [MUSIC PLAYING] To a certain generation, there than meatloaf. The food, not the guy by the Dashboard Light.&quot; Although the dish actually dates meatloaf was introduced as a breakfast From there, it took before it gained a foothold as industrial scale meatpacking During the Depression the meal allowed to make the most of by mixing in breadcrumbs After World War II, meatloaf across the country-- so much so that there for the dish in Doyne to Cook Hamburger. American moms to stretch the And families enjoyed the Today, some restaurants as a nostalgia trip for established comfort food. [MUSIC PLAYING] Ever heard someone the greatest thing Well, in point of, fact sliced And the first commercially was Wonder Bread. The Taggart Baking Company as an economical and nutritious And they started By the 1950s, this bleached, became the best selling on supermarket shelves. It was so hugely during the 1950s and consumed a loaf per of their daily caloric In the '80s, Wonder Bread's was challenged as consumers But it didn't Wonder Bread is still even if it isn't nearly as has since become the [MUSIC PLAYING] If you grew up in chances were high that you sandwiches pretty regularly. While the combination since the dawn of the sandwich became increasingly when it was featured When servicemen came they brought the and passed it down From there, its In its heyday, the in the home, the workplace, and campgrounds. Peanut butter and were perfect for a post-World were entering the workforce. PB and Js were easy to prepare [MUSIC PLAYING] In 1911, Proctor and Gamble as a healthy And by the 1950s, it was in America. Crisco was made from partially which made pastries flakier During the middle Crisco became increasingly to other fats. By around 1950, warning of the dangers And concerned for their switched to Crisco. A shortening that was as good as seemed almost too And it was. In the 1990s, studies showed found in products like Crisco than other fats. And then the trend It didn't kill the Crisco is still on but has a different formula [MUSIC PLAYING] In 1949, brothers Albert created the company and began serving full trays in the Pittsburgh area. These quick meals Within a year, the company frozen dinners. Within five years, changed the name to the Quaker State and had sold more than It wasn't until Swanson began selling its own prepackaged dinners, known as the TV dinner defining meals of the 1950s. Swanson sold a TV dinners in 1954 alone. The meals appealed to families cheap, and not too bad. Of course, it didn't was becoming the next big And TV dinners allowed their favorite shows. [MUSIC PLAYING] Casseroles were that showcased the ingenuity American society. They were easy to for everyone in the family. Gone with the days of With advancements homemakers could now and additions like tuna and bake it for to make that evening's dinner. In the 1950s, the casserole of popularity as brands by offering easy recipes those without superior or could make. [MUSIC PLAYING] In the 1950s, packaged for most families. Breakfast cereal was first around the turn of However, by around found they could by including a By the 1950s, TV ads focused on children. Animated mascots like Tony the the Trix Rabbit, and the Sugar and Candy, convinced kids to After World War II, cereals so mothers no longer sugaring their Parents found the and kids were The popularity of cereal However, many of the like Frosted Flakes, Rice are still with us in [MUSIC PLAYING] In modern times, the associated with But in the 1950s, it was meat. Spam, which takes its hit store shelves in 1937 with consumers. Made with pork shoulder, ham, nitrate, the Hormel was meat that didn't Hormel's marketing resonated as the product did, and interactive campaigns including and submit to a Spam was also easy to eat on the front lines. And they introduced it to new After World War II, Spam came and was even more A musical group of called the Hormel Girls touted with their hit radio show. During those years, Spam Hormel has since sold over in 44 countries. [MUSIC PLAYING] Ovomaltine was and quickly became popular However, a misspelling led it to be called Ovaltine Contrary to popular odd-tasting chocolate milk, made with malt extract, It's still around today but in the middle of Ovaltine saw increased when advertisements depicted The company also sponsored many including Captain was a wildly popular adventure Army pilot who flew dangerous always returned at midnight. [MUSIC PLAYING] If you've seen any you've likely seen encased in gelatin and aspic. Aspic is made with meat When gelatinized, it of meat and vegetables. In the 1950s, aspic molded into impressive shapes. Aspic and gelatin dishes were due to the introduction of At the beginning of the could afford refrigerators. So, any dishes made with gelatin as they needed to be One such recipe, the consisted of a lemon with cabbage, celery, carrots, Despite their associations however, the dishes themselves to prepare. [MUSIC PLAYING] Post-World War II in the popularity Chop suey, or chop suey, roughly This Chinese dish is said to Francisco during the Gold Rush. And it was popular in by the 1920s. But it wasn't until the took off as a cheap, filling Chop suey, which is made with water chestnuts, bamboo remained popular But it generally fell as more authentic Chinese [MUSIC PLAYING] Artificially-flavored foods have but sugar-free sodas until a product called shelves in the early 1950s. No Cal was a ginger ale created president of New York's Jewish Kirsch invented the for patients at the from heart disease and diabetes. The drink quickly especially among housewives Kirsch expanded to include 11 different flavors. The company used Hollywood stars in their print ads. And it even had his the No Cal genie. Business was good. Too good. After No Cal created the major soda producers created their own diet brands out of the market. The final nail in came when calcium cyclamate, in No Cal, was determined It has since been And No Cal pretty So what do you think? Which of these foods Let us know in the And while you're at it, check from our Weird History. [MUSIC PLAYING]