- Nearly two centuries ago colonized, Native Americans began to settle in Isle de Jean edge of Louisiana. Now extreme weather and coastal erosion forced them to make an impossible or to relocate. Is this it? - Yeah, that's what, - This is your home. - Yep. Nobody actually wanted in their own situation. They had no other choice but to leave. - Hurricane Ida is rapidly intensifying and is headed right towards Louisiana. - In 2023, the United States had a and climate disasters - I'm Maiya May and I'm fascinated our weather, and our climate. What began as a career in mission to figure out And where we're going stable climate period and In this episode, we'll learn about how modern hurricanes are storms and what that might In the face of a new climate reality, people all over the country to adapt or to leave. So join me in the field as I learn about the cutting edge research that's making our homes safer and find out what happens truly unlivable. - Well, I have neighbors now. I have friends that just not They just hoping and praying that their home be spared. - Yeah. - The Weathered team and I made a TV show. You can watch the rest Extremes on the PBS app. All six episodes are available We put so much into this new series and we can't wait for you to watch it. This is so cool. Hi. Hi, Nice to meet you. Likewise. I'm here because I wanna to fly into a hurricane and why it's necessary and remote sensing. Danielle and Noah's hurricane and directly into hurricanes to help create real time forecasts and to help us learn how Tell me a little bit about what you - Guys do here with these planes. We have two different types. We have our two P-3 Orions, of a kind Gulfstream G4 - One do you fly? - So I fly Gonzo. This So what's neat about our planes especially, you know, retrofitted like we don't It's more about situational But our plane is unique in that we have a really powerful And then we also have And then on board we have a suite of really awesome crew that help us navigate through the storm. - A vital part of the crew These are in-flight meteorologists and create realtime I got to meet flight and he flies on a P3 eye of hurricanes. - The eyewall is the most - It is. - So I'm sure like - You think of your Probably at that time it's 10 or around. - Really but for us, we're kind of used to it. There is a very small subset of storms where we'll actually do a pass We, we just can't continue to fly. It's just so bumpy. Surprisingly, that we fly are actually the weakest ones. The tropical storms, the Cat ones. And the reason that they're doing is that 'cause they're actually to get their act together. And when they're doing that, So there's maybe a little more wind shear, or the thunderstorms a And that's actually tied - Rapid strengthening of of the most important and scary changes that As the climate warms and accurate forecasting inside the storm as it intensifies. And that information can only be obtained by dropping an instrument This is our dropwindsonde. So it's like a little - Yes, it absolutely is. So this goes right in here and then they'll pull this handle here and the pressure differential of the aircraft and it'll fall out. And it's really, really quick. But we can hear kind of the whoosh as it goes out in the front. Yes. Immediately. I mean, it's real time. All the data, temperature, pressure, wind and humidity, it's populating on a graph right in front of them. So if all looks good, they package it up and send it down to the National Hurricane That's so cool. And this goes on over and over again about 30 to 35 times in one flight. - In one flight. - It seems clear that this is instrument on this plane because when you drop it, through the entire column of the storm and it's getting information that you can't get anywhere else. Absolutely. Because our where we're releasing these. - And creating accurate because it turns out hurricanes are changing. - Scientists are still debating precisely how climate change will affect hurricanes, but many scientists are in to see a higher fraction of the strongest hurricanes. Category five hurricanes are We used to go several years without a category five hurricane. In the recent record, we're almost every season. We expect to see the sea level to rise. That means there is more water available for the hurricanes to push inland. And if on top of that we and we have the compound more water due to sea level - But the list doesn't stop there. In 2023, residents of with tropical storm Otis off the coast. The next day they were hit Hurricane Otis residents Do you feel that these - It does feel like we're flying more rapid strengthening events. A storm like Michael, Otis, Ian, and then they just took off. We're talking 60, 70, 80 - As the climate warms, that may provide more fuel for hurricanes to intensify very rapidly. Another factor that may of water vapor that The essential ingredients that fuel rapid intensification a future warmer climate. - So to forecast that, plane fly into the storm? Absolutely. Models, they love data. We talk, they always love data. They love data, they love to rapidly strengthen storm is What the aircraft allows us to do is to get data every single second. Right. As we're going across the eyewall. Satellite can never give us - I mean, these missions are critical for getting an accurate forecast. Yeah. Of a hurricane. Until recently, climate models didn't include hurricanes because the resolution was too low. Now as super computers advance, of future storms and the So I called a scientist to find out what she's been learning. Hi Rosimar. I'm really excited - I'm doing some simulations increasing the ocean temperatures And those simulations are starting to show some stark changes in hurricanes, including a ninefold increase That's insane. Ninefold So nine times more That's That's kind of scary. The Gulf Coast, the Florida Peninsula, all the islands in the Caribbean, my own family in Puerto to be thinking about what the the future and how they may be impacting them. - And it's not just hurricanes So-called billion dollar round and they're on the rise - In the spring. We have severe storm And as we move to the summer to wildfire drought and hurricane season. We have many people that are building in harm's interface out west to the coasts and the river basins that Much of our built environment, bridges, homes they were during the 20th century, but now they exist in - And this combination of and an aging built environment of our housing market. The insurance industry has states like Louisiana, But the crisis has now In 2023, insurers lost money on third of the country - Is changing the marketplace and changing the bottom or their vehicle or All signs point to a lot and becoming more challenging - Wow. Look at this. We're in Louisiana and if you think about it, for climate impacts and we're actually gonna meet up with someone who's experienced Hi, how are you doing? I'm I'm Jessica. Nice to meet Where are we right now? - We are in front of the - Why did you sell it? after Hurricane Ida in 2021 saw their insurance premiums double. I know folks who saw them triple and know people who just do not have homeowner's insurance anymore. So they're self-insuring - What, wait, hold on. What does, what does It means that if a hurricane comes and you need to fix your your house, you, you pay for it yourself. - Yeah. I'm just trying if another storm blows through of people who are that do to this neighborhood? - People would be forced to, - I met one of Jessica's former neighbors who seen the lasting that hit Louisiana 20 years ago. - People that lived on because they didn't have the They didn't have insurance, they didn't have government assistance. And then the property was I lived in the 9th Ward. I went to the area where I grew up. I think 50% of the houses was gone. It looked like a forest because people didn't have insurance. And I'm afraid that And it's going to push poor people out of the city to God knows where. - When you see the devastation or wildfire, it's easy to that could have been done. But that's far from the truth. Using cutting edge research for Business and Home Safety much of the extreme weather I actually had the to learn about their work. So we're gonna be talking to a couple experts who've research lab that will to severe weather. Hello Ian. How are you? - I am good. You can really feel, you know, - That's right. This building - Up here. It is huge. What weather events are - So here in this chamber we We can do wildfire, ember attack scenarios and we can also do a full scale hailstorm. So we can take pretty that we're looking at in Put it in here and turn the knobs on it. - So we know that weather and climate shifting, it's changing. How important is the work - The work we do at really is right now designed to one figure out the first to the weather we face today. The second is to understand as it changes, what are new things we need to learn? Are there new building to explore new materials that may hold up better And that's what we do here. - So we're in the main chamber, right? - Yeah. - This is the only place on this planet that we can test full-scale buildings. - And this is how you generate the wind. - Correct. We have 105 fans here. - Wow. to generate a real hurricane. - Just how fast can these winds blow? - So we can go up to hundred, Yeah. You don't wanna be in the chamber when the fans are on. - Let's go back to billion IBHS is working on nearly that are contributing to that are pushing insurance I went to Anaheim to see to keep home safe and All right, so we're here in experiment and these two homes One home is prepared, And we're gonna see what happens. - IBHS developed a system of provide a a meaningful events, specifically embers. - So let me ask you, Am I gonna really see we get the experiment started? - Well, we'll have to wait - Okay. I think you're probably gonna - One of these model homes was prepared with non-combustible siding and five foot perimeter while chips and wood fencing Researchers lit fire in the and waited to see what would happen. - Sometimes we see these concrete bunkers, even these concrete mansions. Those are durable. I'm not But it's not reasonable. There are ways to construct and even retrofit our stick structures so that they can withstand what - And homes can be fortified Back in Louisiana, I - Knockout inspections. - Hello? Hello Maiya. I'm Maiya. - I'm Nathan. Amazing truck. - Thank you. - There's three levels If you have a gold fortified home, you have all three levels. So on the roof we're trying All these windows are impact rated and an engineer documents having the rafters all the way down to the floor. - Is this something that I The actual structure - And we'll begin to look at different components of the home. We tie from the bottom plate foundation up to the first floor and then we tie that strap all the way up here, So then it makes it one solid home that can withstand the winds. - So does every home have to have these stainless steel studs? - No. There's multiple Most people are doing wood studs. And to have that gold fortified home, you must have an engineer involved and you gotta tie from the trusses all the way down to the foundation. You know, in the next five or 10 years, I think every state is to fortify your roof. 'cause it saves them if we can keep the water out of your home. We just saved ourselves a that the insurance company - There's a lot we can do to fortify homes against But of course we can't of all our problems. So when do we stay and when do we leave? We met Chris Brunet, who until 2022 lived in Isle the edge of Louisiana. - So now we're on the And then this mound that to the Gulf Hurricane It follows this ridge right here that they, that they made. - Does this protect de Jean Charles? - No. No. 'cause we are on the we are not in this. And the decision not to include us in the hurricane 2000 or 2001 in that Because of the cost, it was just too expensive, too expensive. - Louisiana loses a football field's worth of land every 90 minutes due to erosion and land subsidence in part and gas development. Much of New Orleans lies below sea level and with rising seas Well, Louisiana is left especially Isle de Jean Charles, - Whenever you have a, a major storm or anything that comes in, we were just left out in the open. - I was hired to walk Island Road and talk to the Islanders in moving if they wanted to move. - Yeah, this is Island road that we're on - Right You walked down there - And you knocked on people's doors. - Flood insurance is federally subsidized, so it's often cheaper to buy out homes or even relocate a community after repeated floods. Since outside the levee system, a relocation grant made sense financially. But that doesn't mean it So this community got this grant. Was everyone in the community on board? - We didn't, we didn't know for sure if everyone was on board, but we did know that there to offer relocation in the past. And what was different in that a hundred percent So knowing that nobody if you didn't want to. And there was a, a long or so where folks could, could make the decision whether they they wanted to move or not. - And Chris was one of those that impossible decision. Is this it? - Yeah, that's what, - This is your home. Can you describe to me the - It's what happened that impacted Isle de Jean Charles and why it changed. &lt;y dad, he's a child of the thirties, right? Well, as a kid, he used to walk to this lake called Lake Tambour and his feet would never get muddy or wet. But yet, by the time I came along and went with him in a boat as a kid, well he was to go to that lake. Within them 25 years, something took place that he and that he was able, he that lake anymore. - There was a lot of talk about where can the new community be? What do you want your houses to look like? Who do you wanna live next to? - So these are all choices the community members, - Chris was the last island resident to, to make a decision to move. He turned in his application - Oh my gosh. He was, of those holdouts. 2016 to 2022. There was this kind of slow burn of you just this processing and it culminated in you and move in 2022. - I'm glad it went that way. I'm glad it wasn't by a, or people living in tornado alley where in seconds they lose - That's traumatic. - They, they probably can't go back. I was lucky to be able to of it being something instant. - Chris and his neighbors were fortunate that there was a decision to make at all. Many communities are and climate threats or forethought to relocate. In 2021, Hurricane Ida slammed into and outside of the levee. But soon after the homes in the new community were move-in ready. This is amazing. Where, where are we? - We're at the New Isle and that would put us de Jean Charles. - The new community was chosen and relative safety from because it's still close that residents can go Unlike other relocation or buyout projects, the and community members still own their property on the island. So Chris, how's the transition going? - It's slowly but surely. You know what's helping out you know, the people One of the goals in the relocation, it was to preserve the community So like that we are not where Isle de Jean Charles So that number one goal, This community is preserved. - What does home mean to you? - Me being surrounded by the people I've known my that right there, that I'm relatives. That's what's helping me to - A lot of time and care of Isle de Jean Charles, but Insurance rates in Louisiana And many residents of the new homes might be And we know from talking that living without stability of a community. - When I was a kid, if something happened, if a fire happened, you you had the people in the If a kid just wandered off, where that kid lived, lived at. Right now, I don't even know half, I don't know half of the people. I don't even know their That's what happens when - Our infrastructure and our communities were but that isn't what we're living in today. And the future brings Every community needs to take a hard look at adapt and win. And if they need to retreat and when, especially difficult which is getting worse And on a hot day, there I just can imagine how hard that would be. And that's exactly what we'll be exploring in the next episode. - I would walk to work in this. - Oh yeah. this would be a great place to get around. - So stay tuned. As we where we tour a city that's come up with a remarkably simple solution to the rising temperatures.