Transcriber: Frank Cao What's the first thing that comes to mind when you hear the word "schizophrenia"? Psychosis? Recreational drug use? Danger, perhaps? These are commonly the focus when we think due to both fact and myth. And although our dialogue is much more severe mental illnesses As a behavioral neuroscientist, I spent most of my adult life how the brain ends up manifesting the behavioral syndromes Our brain, this little thing up here has as many neurons as Each neuron has thousands of synapses, the little mouths used Somewhere near 100 trillion in our brain. If you took one second to count each one, you'd be there for over 30 million years. So understanding how the brain functions But it's really important if we're going the problems associated one of the most severe mental illnesses So let's talk some facts One: Psychosis is a key feature Fact. Psychosis is actually and they tend to surface when trying to figure out Hallucinations are common, These can be narrative, "James is putting Or they can be more disturbing, "What are Delusions are another symptom. Believing in something And this is unshakable, regardless These are often laced "The government's put a chip But psychosis affects including psychotic bipolar disorder Or you can experience psychosis after Two: Psychosis makes people Myth, the classic Hollywood trope is that This somehow explains all their Now, views of psychotic disorders But more likely, you could and have no idea they've been One thing I love about my job and talk to a lot of people Anything from chatting about music the lived experience they have. It's a real privilege. Around 1% of the general population will be diagnosed with So let's just unpack that a little. Here in Queensland, the average public high school Statistically speaking, from each high school will suffer from That's not a trivial number, but it just shows how common Three: People with schizophrenia Myth. A psychotic episode represents the most and it's a terrible event But the severity of these symptoms With treatment and interventions, most people with schizophrenia go through their daily lives confident So we've cleared up a few common You'll notice I focused But what if I told you that even though it's the most obvious behavioral it's not the biggest problem? Many people think that if we can stop Unfortunately, cognitive problems memory and decision making the biggest burden for these individuals. And to be clear, It's the little things that most of us The calculations our brains that we use to progress through the days, What does this mean when their psychotic To explore this, I'm going to take you So cognition and decision making and maintain a successful life Think of all the decisions If you're like me, I had toast for breakfast, (Chuckles) I caught a late bus home. Three decisions. Now, we all know Throughout each day, our brain if not millions, of small calculations and Many of these decisions because the outcomes are really clear. I've experienced them Take looking before you cross the road. You don't think about it but you're aiming That would be a bad outcome. Now our brain navigates this Different areas acting in collaboration, using our past experiences But sometimes outcomes aren't as clear. Say you're driving to an appointment and you get stuck in traffic. You have two lanes and you're First, you have to consider Is one traveling faster? Now, some people will switch trying to save every last Other people are content in their lane, thinking that overall the difference It's the situation that determines which The switching strategy is best You get into the faster lane earlier. But we've all seen someone change up ahead (Laughter) The key is to avoid the noise and figure out which lane And as easy as that can be "Ah,I should've in real time, that can be quite difficult. In Behavioral Neuroscience, we design tasks to see Rather than traffic, we use pictures, rewards for good choices Now we're not mean, So we'll throw in and maybe change the rules But it's all in the name of trying So let's make some decisions together. And don't worry, I'm not going On the screen, you'll see two shapes: I want you all to choose one. Okay, so who chose the triangle? And who chose the circle? Okay. So we expect about 50-50, right? We don't know anything about this. So for those of you who "Good job! You've earned 50 cents." Okay. Now, I want you to make Who here chooses the triangle this time? So you see, some people They want some money. So they chose the triangle again. Now, I'm really interested as my research have shown that people with schizophrenia are less likely to choose than someone without schizophrenia. So in this example, someone with to choose the circle after Let's up the ante a little. We still know very little Maybe the circle won a dollar. Let's say I offer you a bonus 20 dollars if you can tell me which of the two shapes the way I've coded it to be. But the catch, if you choose the Who here is confident (Laughter) Not many takers. It's a real shame, What if I let you peek into the future? I'll show you what you'll get So for the triangle, you can see but then lost the next four. And the circle, Ahh, the circle. You won four times and only lost once. I'm feeling generous, so I'm going to Who here would now pick the circle? Okay, so we've got some more takers. See, that's not good for me, but I think it shows how our past what a future choice Research has shown that people with to make these same choices And we call this "jumping to conclusions". It's really interesting as this could also shape some the formation of inaccurate associations. When some of us walk into a room, We think nothing of it. It's a fire alarm But someone with schizophrenia that it's actually a video tracking following their whereabouts. My research is interested in how and psychotic symptoms intertwine. Can we reduce psychotic symptoms in people with schizophrenia? I think we can, but it's going to take So these are just a few examples. And it's important to know that I could not tell if you had schizophrenia. Many people with schizophrenia and many people without schizophrenia When we look at the group differences, towards different decision making Our brains are constantly comparing to try and predict what a future choice And when you're making millions small differences add up. They make things like maintaining for people with schizophrenia. Even the simple traffic Poor planning for delays or more being late to work. These cognitive changes in schizophrenia currently have no treatments, so they are ever present That's the end of our short I hope you've learned a few things. Psychosis is only and maybe not the most problematic. But also our brain is amazing without us even realizing it. So next time you get a chance, I ask you to slow down and focus on all the little decisions Next time you're getting ready for work take stock of each and all the outcomes that are possible. When you realize you're running late, you'll appreciate how seamlessly and you'll understand how difficult and make the advantageous choice We should all appreciate that and other severe mental illnesses that make their daily lives By understanding and how that's affected I trust the neuroscience community can and And I look forward to working towards But in the meantime, we can all and supportive of the We can all help to reduce the stigma (Applause)